





<doctype type="text"><article title="Annual Meeting of the R.C.A." author="">Annual Meeting of the R.C.A.THE eighteenth annual meeting of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts was opened in Ottawa on the 9th inst., by Their Excellencies the Governor General and Counties of Aberdeen. In the unavoidable absence of the president, Mr. R. P. Harris, the chair was occupied by the vice-president, Mr. A. C. Hutchison, of Montreal, who referred in his address to the advance which had been made in art in Canada within the last few years. This progress was indicated by the many fine specimens which adorned the walls of the gallery. Mr. Hutchison introduced His Excellency, the Earl of Aberdeen, who expressed his appreciation of the artists' work and the good the Academy was doing.

The exhibit this year was much larger and of greater variety than that shown at the Exhibition in Ottawa three years ago, and consisted of 50 oils and 66 water colors. In addition, there were seven architectural sketches and paintings and one sculpture by Mr. Hamilton MacCarthy, of Toronto, consisting of a medallion terra cotta representation of the head of Rev. Henry Scadding.

The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows President, Mr. Robert Harris, Montreal vice-president, Mr. A. C. Hutchison; secretary-treasurer, Mr. James Smith. Mr. Pinhey, of Hudson, was elected an associate member ; Prof. Capper, of Montreal, associate architect and Miss Lawrence Carlyle and Miss Howden, associate artists.



<article title=" A REVOLVING PALACE " author="">A REVOLVING PALACE.

ONE of the most wonder-exciting features yet proposed for the Paris Exposition of 1900, Is an immense illuminated revolving tower. This tower will be hexagonal in form, constructed of steel, ornamented with nickel, aluminum, decorated with faience ware, crystal, mirrors, etc. It will reach a height of 115 meters. There are four grand divisions, each of which is subdivided into floors or galleries. The first and second parts will comprise five floors each, the third six, all accessible to the public. The upper portion will comprise eight galleries, of which the first three will be open to the public. Throughout the structure will be found cafes, restaurants, theatres, shows, etc., in extravagant profusion.

All of the ornaments, columns, capitals, statues, etc., are to be of colored glass, and comprise all the tints of the rainbow, the various pieces being strengthened and held by delicate iron framework. By day the effect will be marvelous, while at night the statues, the garlands and the transparent balconies will glow with the light of thousands of internal electric fires. The colossal system of illumination will comprise about 20,000 incandescent and 2,000 arc lamps which will outline all the borders of the decorative effects, and, aided by the crystal reflectors, perfectly show every design.

In the upper regions of the structure will be placed huge organs operated by air, steam or electricity, while a chime of 64 hells operated similarly will accompany the wind instruments.



<article title=" To REMOVE SCRATCHES ON PLATE GLASS " author="">To REMOVE SCRATCHES ON PLATE GLASS.--- To remove slight scratches on plate glass, first clean the surface with a pad of cotton wool, then cover the pad with cotton velvet charged with fine rouge. This will not only remove the scratches, but will also impart a great brilliancy to the glass, which should be the object whenever the cleaning process is pursued. Glass should be not only clear, but brilliant as well, and this comes of polishing.



<article title="Correspondence- Montreal" author="">Montreal (Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder) The Quebec Association of ArchitectsThe Council of this Association have arranged a course of lectures for 1897, to be held, by the kind permission of the Art Association, its their galleries Phillips Square, Montreal.



With a view to promote cordial relations and good fellowship amongst the members, the Council have also arranged for two dinners to be held during the session in the Queen's Hotel.



The first of the above-mentioned series of lectures was delivered by Prof. Capper on the 22nd of Jan., the subject being The Egyptian Pyramids and Their Builders." By courtesy of the author, an abstract of this lecture was printed in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for February. Owing to inability on the part of Mr. A. C. Hutchison to deliver his lecture on '' The Gothic of Northern Italy according to arrangement, Prof. Peterson's lecture on The Monuments of Athens was substituted.



Lectures by Mr. Hutchison on the subject named, and by Mr. A. T. Taylor, on The Story of An Illustrious Abbey, will conclude this interesting series.



At the first of the dinners, held on the 26th of January last, there was a good attendance, and the occasion proved to be a pleasant and profitable one. Mr. A. T. Taylor, the president, occupied the chair.

Several toasts were proposed. Mr. A. T. Taylor in a most pleasing speech described the principal libraries of the United States, such as Boston, Columbia and Washington and Prof.



Capper, of McGill University, spoke of the necessity of having a School of Architecture, and hoped that in time McGill would be placed on the same footing with all other schools of this kind in the United States and foreign countries. He stated that he would probably make a visit to the principal university schools of architecture in the United States.



During the evening Messrs. Wright and Davis entertained the company with well rendered songs.

The evening was a most enjoyable one, and praise is due to the committee in charge, as well as to the presiding officer.

a late hour the dinner was brought to a close.







<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.

Messrs. A. Hall & Son have commenced business as plumbers at Sherbrooke, Que.

Mr. John Guest, who formerly conducted a plumbing business in Toronto, died in New York last month.

Lieutenant Paul Weatherbee, of Halifax, has received the appointment from the Dominion government of architect of the

Militia Department, to replace Lieutenant Fred. White. Mr.



Weatherbee is a son of Judge Weatherbee and a graduate of the

Royal Military	College, Kingston.







Colors that are produced by heat will change under the influence of heat of a different character or temperature; they all generally deepen. Pigment colors produced by the dyeing process, fixed by a mordant upon some base, bleach out and expose the whitish base upon which the dye was applied. These are the reasons that some colors fade light and others fade darker.

