



<doctype type="text"><article title=" ELECTRO-CHROMATIC REVOLVING

FOUNTAIN.

" author="">ELECTRO-CHROMATIC REVOLVING

FOUNTAIN.

WE illustrate herewith an Electra-chromatic fountain, designed and patented by Mr. Chas. Baillarge, architect and C.E., Quebec.

Everyone has seen the beautiful laboratory experiment of Electro-lighting a jet of water issuing from a fountain, where the light, instead of passing through the jet into the surrounding air, is, on account of its parallelism to the initial portion of the parabola described by the jet, reflected from point to point along its upper surface and follows the jet down to the very reservoir, cistern or basin into which it falls, thus illuminating the jet and also for several inches the water in the basin itself around the point where the jet impinges on its surface. The jet, by the interposition between it and the light of a colored lens in the inner skin of the fountain, may be made to assume any hue, as that of ruby, emerald, topaz, etc., or that of a jet of molten silver, gold, or any other liquid or fluid substance. Or the lens may be white or uncolored, and the same effect produced by the interposition of a piece of colored or stained glass between it and the light.

Now, if there be a series of plates of van-colored glass made to move by clockwork opposite the lens, the jet will change its hue or tint accordingly and produce an almost magic effect. This, during Mr. Baillarge"s lessons in physics at the Laval University, was most beautifully illustrated

by Professor Laflamme during one of his lectures on the reflection of light. And that light can be made to follow such a curved path is also illustrated in the laryngoscope

—a small tube having on its upper surface a series of tiny mirrors, by which, when the tube is introduced through the mouth into the stomach, and a ray of light thrown into it, the interior of the same may be lighted up and reflected back by means of the same mirrors to the operator's eye.

Suppose now, as in the design here given in photogravure, that, around a cylindrical fountain with an electric arc light in the centre, there be a series of such jets issuing from its outer skin, with a lens opposite each jet, all on exactly the same level, and van-colored glasses opposite each lens, it is evident that every one of the jets will be simultaneously illuminated and colored, and if by clock machinery a little tramway carrying the

stained glasses be made to revolve, the effect will be charming indeed.

But to render the illusion more fairy-like, the inventor proposes, as seen by the illustration, that there be three such horizontal series of jets. Let there be, for instance, as in the model, three series of 12 jets each, spaced so as to divide the circuit into 36 angular spaces of 10 each, and opposite each series a separate central arc light, aluminum, oxy-hydrogen, acetylene, or any other brilliant source of light—three tiers of lenses, three tiers of tiny coloring tramways and while the central tier remains a fixture, let one of the tramways be made to revolve to the right, the other to the left. It will thus be seen that the continuous change of colors in the jets must and will give them the appearance of playing

at leap-frog, the one

with the other.

The effect would be most enchanting, and the inventor hopes that, pending the time when poor old Quebec will be able to devote a few thousand dollars to the consummation of so desirable an object of ornamentation and attraction in one or more of its public squares, or parks, or gardens, some other city or well-to-do individual will take hold of Mr. Baillarge"s idea and carry it out, either with only one jet, or more on the same level, lit by one light for economy, or with two, three or more than three series of jets and as many lights as series, and on any scale whatever ; for it is evident that instead of one light at the centre, if the interior of the fountain be of

such diameter as to allow of it, there may be, where expense is no object, a separate light opposite each jet, with a reflector behind it, thus producing a more brilliantly illuminated fountain.

Nothing could well be conceived more admirably suited to give eclat to the forthcoming illuminations and pyrotechnics in honor of the Victoria jubilee.



The highest human habitation in the world is said to be the railroad station at Galera, in Peru, lying 15,635 feet above the sea.

At an open session of the Toronto Art Students' League held last month there was a large attendance of the members and their friends. An interesting address was delivered by the president, Mr. Holmes, on Symbols as they Appear in Art and Architecture,'' followed by luncheon served by the ladies of the League.

