<doctype type="text;ad">speech when so many points of interest were to be seen, was to him infamous, a hasty adjournment was made. The members of the Entertainment Committee formed little parties, so as to be better enabled to see all that was to be seen in the short time at our disposal. I was fortunate in being invited to join the party of Mr. Adam Taylor, of the Toronto Radiator Co., who had twenty-six under his guidance. The first point of interest visited was the Incline Railway, by means of which we descended to the river below, to embark on the steamer " Maid of the Mist." Mayor Cole introduced us to the captain, who, having been a plumber in the past, did his best to make our stay with him as pleasant as possible, and gave us what is not considered on the programme, a trip up to the very verge of the falling waters. Many were the points of interest visited, after which most of the party returned to Toronto on the steamer " Chippewa."



NOTES OF THE CONVENTION.



The eastern contingent are said to have come to. the convention well provided with overcoats and mits. The weather, as well as their reception, was sufficiently warm to render these unnecessary.

We are requested to mention that through inadvertence the name of a member of the joint committee on entertainment, Mr. M. P. Huffman, was omitted from the invitations to the banquet and excursion.

After Mr. Hughes had delivered a somewhat lengthy speech in French, much to the amusement of the delegates, Mr. Burroughes suggested that they have it phonographed; in order to give the members an opportunity of studying it.

Many enquiries were heard regarding the welfare of the Hamilton association. Strange as it may seem, a representative was not present at the convention. Probably the new president will be successful in inspiring new life into the members.

It speaks volumes for the energy of the maritime province representatives that they should travel over 1,000 miles to attend the convention. However, the eastern plumbers have the enviable reputation of possessing a fair share of this world's goods.

Mr. H. W. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Co., was an enthusiastic entertainer. He had the pleasure of introducing the New York delegate, in the person of a yellow kid on card-board pinned on his back, on which was the inscription " I'se de New York delegate of this convention. See I

The Reception Committee, upon whom devolved the work of arranging for the entertainment of the delegates, was composed of Messrs. H. W. Anthes, chair-man, A. G. Booth, secretary, A. A. McMichael, W. J. Burroughes, A. S. Purdy, Adam Taylor, Jos. Wright,

M.	P. Huffman, J. B. Fitzsimmons, and J. H. Wilson. Mr. Mansell, the new secretary, will of course be

expected to maintain the high literary tone imparted to the correspondence of the office by his able predecessor, Mr. Hughes. Mr. Mansell's acquaintance with the classics will doubtless enable him to do this, while no one will question his ability to perform in an equally satisfactory manner the various and arduous duties of the position.

At the banquet probably the speech of the evening

was made by Mr. Edward Gurney. Among other good things he said "We have had a peculiar experience during the past five or six years. If you go down in the Southern States and throw down a nickel among the darkies, what a beautiful fight you will see. Well, that is just the way with the plumbers. There has been one dollar upon the ground and forty persons struggling for it, and the one who can make the longest and strongest fight secures it. Such has been the extent of competition. In Canada we have scarcely known whether we had a destiny or not. We scarcely knew whether to look to the east or the south, but as the result of late experiences we have ceased to look south and are turning our attention to the Motherland."

Mr. J. H. Doody relates with much relish one of the features of the recent Jubilee celebration in St. John. The city authorities there have had untold trouble with harbor improvements now in course of construction, a collapse occurring after the work was well under way. It was arranged that in the procession there would appear a large dredge drawn by twelve horses and operated by steam. Every time the bucket went down it would contain an alderman on the return trip, an intimation that he had been picked up from the bottom of the harbor, where he was supposed to have been working on the improvements. This was continued throughout the entire procession, and is said to have been thoroughly enjoyed by the spectators who were acquainted with the inwardness of the situation.





<article title=" WORDS OF APPRECIATION " author="">WORDS OF APPRECIATION.

Mr.W. S. Williams, Dundas, Ont., in renewing his subscription to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, states that he derives much benefit from the journal.





The Metallic Wire & Roofing Co., of Milton, Ont., have their factory in running order for the production of metallic shingles, sidings and tin stampings.

Messrs. F. B. Dakin & Co., Iberville, Que., announce that they have transferred the sales of their sanitary goods to the Sanitary Supply Co., 62 Victoria St., Montreal.

Mr. J. E. Bate, Scotch Block, Ont., reports a very successful season's business in building stone, curbings, etc., shipping to all parts of Ontario from his quarries at above place.

The Mexican Consul-General, Mr. D. A. Ansell, is desirous that Canadian architects should respond to the invitation of the government of Mexico to submit plans for new legislative buildings in the city of Mexico, to cost $2,000,000 in gold.

The Master Plumbers' Association of St. John, N. B., have elected the following officers Thomas Campbell, president; Henry Dunbrack, first vice-president; Hamilton Kitchen, Fredericton, second vice-president; Wm. Kiley, secretary-treasurer.

By means of an iron rubbing wheel, tests were recently made in Philadelphia of the wearing qualities of various kinds of flooring materials. India rubber tiling stood the test to the best advantage, showing only 1-64 of an inch wear after an hour's rubbing. English encaustic tile and granolithic were next in point of durability. White and yellow pine were equal in quality, both being superior to oak.



Notice to Contractors

A new and thoroughly revised edition of the

Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book, consisting

of 150 pages of the most carefully selected material, is now ready, and will be sent past-paid to any address in Canada on receipt of price. This book should be in the bands of every architect builder and contractor who desires to have readily accessible and properly authenticated information on a wide variety of subjects adapted to his daily requirements.



C.	H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

Confederation Life Building, TORONTO.