

<doctype type="text">

Average Cost of Buildings.

gauge. A proper plaster box should also be on the scaffold, made to hold a sack of plaster, and having a lid made in two halves hinged from the centre. This prevents the plaster from getting dirty by falling stuff, and from getting damp by absorption from the atmosphere. Where there is a large quantity, a continuous gauging, the box should be placed on a stand to prevent unnecessary exertion and loss of time by stooping for each handful. When gauging coarse stuff for large surfaces which require several gauges to complete the work in hand, size water should be used in proper proportions with the neat water used for gauging, so as to allow sufficient time to properly manipulate the material. In the event of gauged stuff setting before the work is laid and ruled off, it is difficult to make the surface strong and fair. This also allows the various gauges to be laid on or against the previous ones while they are in a soft state, thus forming stronger joints and better cohesion between the various gauges. The use of size water in gauged setting stuff and putty enables the work to be freely trowelled and finished. Gauged stuff should not be hand floated, as excessive working destroys the setting powers of the plaster." We stop here with these few quotations from the book, but it would not be doing justice to those of our readers who work in mortars and plasters if we dropped the work altogether. It contains so many good things that it is but right our readers should know more of it, and with this end in view, we will refer to it from time to time.



THERE has been much figuring and more guessing as to the cost of buildings per cubic foot. Architects and

builders who have kept a strict account of the cost of their work and of the work of others, have varied so much in their figures that no sensible contractor would trust any of them. Frame buildings are put down all the way from 3 1/2 cents per cubic foot to 30 cents per foot, depending, of course, on the character of the building, style of finish, and whether of hard or soft wood. For brick buildings, figures have been given from 7 cents to one dollar per cubic foot, and for some public buildings even more than that. In stone work where much carving has been done the cost in some instances has run up to $1.75 per cubic foot, but in plain stone buildings it has been as low as I 2 cents per foot. There never was, nor will there ever be, a constant figure that can be used in all cases of wood buildings, or of brick or stone. There are so many conditions in building that a rule to estimate by cubing- --correctly----can never be devised unless human intellect acquires power now not known. A quick method of cubing a building should be within the reach of every builder, which he may use in order to obtain an approximate estimate of a proposed building. Architects and builders are often asked the question " How much would it cost to build a house so and so, with so many rooms and so and so?" and it frequently happens that on the answer to such a query the erection or not of the house depends. A rapid cubing of the proposed house would at once enable the questioned to answer with some degree of correctness ; and while he can make his answer, it will be but just and fair to the questioner that he be informed that the answer given is only approximate. It should be borne in mind that frames for windows and doors cost about the same in wood, bricks or stone, the same style of finish and trimmings being

How to Build a Chimney.

used in each case. The same may be said of all other wood finish, for after the walls are up and the roof on, the difference between a stone or brick building and a frame one ends almost entirely, all things, of course, being equal. It is generally supposed, however, that the woodwork made for the interior of a brick or stone house should be more elaborate and more costly than the same class of work in a frame house. Perhaps this idea springs from the notion that a frame house is a temporary affair at best ; though, as a matter of fact, a well built frame house, placed on a good solid stone foundation, will last as long as the average brick house.



THERE are floating through building literature a thousand and one remedies for curing smoky chimneys, but very

few methods suggested of "how to build a chimney that will not smoke." This of course is a pretty difficult task, particularly if the chimney is placed in a multi-gabled house, or near other buildings, trees, or hills. Yet fairly good results can be obtained by the scientific builder if he follows certain given rules. If a chimney is intended to carry smoke from an open fireplace it is a good plan to make the throat not less than four inches wide and sixteen inches long, which will give an area at that point of sixty-four inches —of course something will depend on the size of grate then the flue should be abruptly enlarged so as to nearly double the area and so continue for a foot or more ; then it may be tapered off gradually until the desired area is obtained. The inside of the chimney should be "parged " or plastered throughout its entire length and made as smooth as a trowel can make it, and the mortar used should be the very best so that it will harden with age. No flue should contain less area than sixty square inches. The best shape for a chimney flue is circular, or many sided, as giving less friction. Brick is the best material for the purpose, as it is a non-conductor. The higher above the roof a chimney rises the better. When expense is no object, eight-inch drain tile (glazed), built in the chimney, makes the best flue known, if properly jointed.



IN estimating it is always best to take the items in a certain order and to preserve that line of order throughout the

whole estimate. It is impossible to exaggerate the good effects of a system which enables the contractor to know day by day how he stands. Every contractor has an interest in his competitors' knowing how to estimate correctly. It does not need many under-estimators to ruin the building business of a town. Carpenters are far too apt to imagine that all that is wanted to make a successful contractor is to be a good mechanic. This is a great mistake. The country contractor should be as good a business man as he is mechanic, and he should have a constant clear insight into his business. The business of contracting is not like that of a merchant, who is constantly selling the same articles in small quantities to the same customers at a steady profit. With a contractor each new contract is on a new basis, with a new customer, in one large amount, composed of various quantities and prices, and it is evident that it must require vastly more care and foresight to conduct his business successfully than one that is steadier. He is also entitled to a profit on the labor he employs and pays for. He should also estimate the risk of damage

Hints on Estimating.

