	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	11



the same as in 1895, viz., <person>Prof. Galbraith </person>(Chairman), Messrs. <person>C. H. C. Wright</person>, <person>M. B. Aylsworth</person>, <person>R. J. Edwards</person>, <person>W. R. Gregg</person>, <person>Grant Helliwell</person>, <person>W. L. Symons </person><person>S H Townsend </person>and <person>A. F.

Wickson</person>. There were six candidates for examination :—For the first intermediate, 2 candidates, of whom iI passed for the second intermediate, 3 candidates, of whom I passed for the final, I candidate, who did not pass. There were also 4 candidates for examination supplementary to the examinations of the previous year. These, except that were successful

LEGISLATION COMMITTEE.—The Bill to amend the Act of Incorporation was introduced again in the Legislature. Copies of the Bill, with notes explaining the emendations, and in particular, pointing out the essential amendment in the section in which occurs the title Registered Architect which it is proposed to change to "Architect," were sent to all members of the Legislature Personal interviews were obtained with the bodies forming the different parties in the House, The Cabinet expressed themselves in favor of the amendment the leaders of the Conservative party at a meeting of the party, and with the apparent intention of speaking for the party, expressed themselves in favor of it the Patrons went into the matter very carefully, particularly in the question of fees, and when these were fixed as part of the amendment they expressed themselves in favor of it. <person>Mr. Garrow</person>, a member of the Liberal party whose opinion is respected on both sides of the House, agreed to move the amendment, and with the exception of a few of the more prominent men in that party it was not thought necessary to canvas opinion further on the Liberal side of the House. The Bill passed the second reading without opposition, and was referred to a special committee appointed by the Speaker. The Speaker was himself strongly opposed to the Bill, and as we were informed both by members of the committee and by the Speaker himself, took pains to personally impress his view upon members of the commit tee. Whether from this reason or not, a majority of the committee proved to be hostile, and it was considered necessary by Mr. Garrow to make a compromise, the Hill being passed by the committee on condition that it should be subsequently withdrawn in the I House The adoption of this method of rejection as the least injurious to the reputation on the Bill if it should be brought up again, may perhaps be taken as an encouragement to believe that the members of committee who joined in rejecting the Bill would be willing to consider the arguments in its Favor if it should come up again when the country was ready for it. There is no doubt that a great deal of misconception exists in the country as to the effect the amendment would have upon the business of builders and there is reason to believe that members of the special committee received protests against the Bill from the country, and that they came from persons of this class. The Council having in view the general favor shown to the Bill in the House, and the special circumstances connected with the opposition which caused its withdrawal, see no reason why the Bill should not be introduced again this session.



STANDING committee ON BUILDING BY-LAWS.——This committee met for the purpose of further establishing its work and will present a report to the Convention.

the library--the following books have been added kerr's English Gentleman's House, Architecture for General Readers by <person>T. Heathcote Statham</person>, A History of Architecture by Prof. <person>Banister Fletcher</person> and Banister <person>F. Fletcher</person>, A History of Architecture by <person>A. D. F. Hamlin</person>, and a second copy of Mitchell's Building Construction, Part I Presentations have been received of a volume of sundry works by Mr. <person>Charles. Baillairge</person>, of Quebec, and of the Proceedings of the American Institute of Architects since Consolidation in 1889. There have been 102 lendings from the Library.



On motion of Mr. Henry, seconded by Mr. Gregg, this report was also adopted.



REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BUILDING BY-LAWS.



The President next read the report of the Committee on Building By-Laws:

GENTLEMEN :—Your committee met and considered the best methods of advancing the inauguration of suitable building bylaws in municipalities in Ontario, and securing amendments to existing building enactments.

We first endeavored to secure all the useful information available concerning existing building laws in the leading cities of the world. We wrote to a number of cities in America, Europe and Australia, asking for copies of their building by-laws, and in reply have received copies of a number of building enactments. A study of these, together with the report of the former committee in regard to Toronto building by-laws, places your committee in possession of a great deal of valuable information that may be available in counseling municipal officers and others concerning building enactments.

We resolved to ask the convention to appoint a standing committee on the question of building by-laws and to instruct such committee to communicate with the various municipal officials throughout the province, apprising them of the existence of such a committee, and suggesting the desirability of consulting with its members for the compilation or amendment of building laws suitable to the respective localities.

We think it desirable that such standing committee should have a corresponding member in all cities and towns where there are members of this Association and thus through their local number stimulate municipal officials to action in the matter of suitable building laws.

We also think that such a committee should obtain through its corresponding members or otherwise, correct information as to

the present condition of building by-laws in thc various towns and cities of Ontario, and if possible secure copies of all such existing laws 

We are of opinion that a standing committee of this convention possessed of such knowledge and experience, would be consulted by those who are contemplating either new by-laws or amendments to existing ones.

Such consultations would probably result in much better building enactments being passed than otherwise would be possible, and as a consequence improvements in methods of building.

While the assistance proposed to be offered by such a committee might entail considerable labor upon its members, we believe that the ultimate benefits to the profession would be such as to justify the self sacrifice.

We also think that if this scheme is approved by the convention, the standing committee should seek the co-operation of the Association of Fire Underwriters, and also that of the various Boards of Health in furthering the enactment of better building laws.

Submitted on behalf of the Committee.

<person>H.B. GORDON</person>, Convener.



The following is a suggested form of circular letter to be addressed to the municipal officials

SIR, —The convention of the Ontario Association of Architects being impressed with the desirability of securing more definite and suitable building enactments in the various municipalities of Ontario, have appointed us a standing committee of that body for the furtherance of this object

We have secured copies of the building by-laws of a number of American and European cities, and have instituted a study and comparison of the same. We have obtained information regarding the present unsatisfactory condition of existing building bylaws in the various Ontario municipalities and have noted the many desirable matters for enactment suitable to places of varying population and situation.

Our object is to improve the standard of building in Ontario by such enactments as shall conserve the stability of structures, the healthiness of dwellings, the safety of buildings for public assembly and the minimum of fire risk. These desirable ends we believe can be secured without hampering the operations of any skilled constructor or entailing additional cost that would prove burdensome to capital.

The information we possess we are willing to place at your disposal for the purpose of inaugurating or amending a system of building by-laws suitable for your locality.

You will of course, understand that this offer is limited to such counsel and advice as the committee can give you by correspondence



It was moved by Mr. <person>A. E. Paull</person>, seconded by <person>Mr. Gray</person>, that the report be adopted.

Mr. Paul remarked that the matter dealt with in the report was one that demanded a great deal of consideration. When the President was reading it he (Mr. Paull) thought that it was rather limited in its scope, being apparently confined only to the matter of the erection of buildings. It left out a number of very important matters which he (Mr. Paul) thought should be dealt with in a building by-law—matters which might be considered municipal. For instance, in the City of Toronto, take our streets. In Toronto there are many streets which are very narrow, and the principle has been adopted of building houses on such narrow places that sanitary arrangements cannot be properly carried out the result being, although it may not always be made apparent that the longevity of the people living on them is very much less than it would be if the streets were carried through at a good width. There were many parts of the city of Toronto now— notably up in Yorkville -where you w2ill find there is no more than just enough room in front of the houses for a donkey cart to pass through and those houses are now all unoccupied. In a report of this kind the question of the provision of proper parks and playgrounds ought also to be dealt with.

'[he President There is a Standing Committee of this body on the question of the improvement of cities, appointed at the last convention. I suppose the remarks of Mr. Paull would bear upon that topic.

The motion was then put and adopted.

It was moved by Mr. Gregg, seconded by Mr. Gray, that the Committee on Building Laws be continued as at present constituted, but with power to add to their number corresponding members in various places. Carried.

Mr. Gregg remarked that he believed there was no report from that other Standing Committee ; but he moved that it also be continued. He thought there was scope for it all in the line in which Mr. Paull had spoken as well as in a good many other lines; but of course its work was quite a different thing from that of

