

<doctype type="text">

	<article title="Principles of Design" author="Langton, W.A.">PRINCIPLES	OF DESIGN.*

By W. A. LANGTON.



THERE is a class of principles in design which approach to moral qualities such as honest construction, truth to material, etc. I would turn naturally to these in the first place, for I believe there is no such short cut to interest in design, and to that character which is beyond beauty as it is also an essential part of it -~ as honest construction ; and no source of good design like truth to material. But we are familiar with these ideas. They have been in the air for a generation, and as

norance of them or disregard of them ought to be unusual, I think we may assume them for the present company, and I should like to enter more into details of handling in search of rules or principles which may be a guide to help the eye in matter of taste, just as an elementary knowledge of perspective is often a guide to the eye in drawing an object where it is difficult to decide by the eye alone whether a line is horizontal or sloping, or which way it slopes.

It is possible to view the proportion between capitals and columns, or between capitals and piers—which are more often used by us than columns — as having some sort of law of fitness in their combination which may form a rough guide to their design.

The capital is a useful feature, but the points upon which we expend thought in designing a capital are not intended to increase its use so much as to express It



this clearly from the fact that it has no usefulness at all. Its whole function is to express security.

A column is a supporting wall gathered up into a small cylinder, and the use of the capital is to enable us to concentrate a large load upon the small cylinder. A block would do this, but it is more pleasing to the eye to cut away the useless part of the stone and leave the portion which does

the work and which is thus shaped in the most expressive way by the actual lines of energy. (Fig. 1). If the block is low in proportion to its, width safety demands a deep abacus (Fig. 3); if high, the abacus may be narrower. (Fig. 2).





























The form of capital and relation between capital and column may be varied in numberless ways, but the eye demands and is only pleased by forms and relations which express the structural facts. More than this, it likes to have them emphasized ; and where there is small super-incumbent weight it is more pleasing to have the column small and even fantastic. For instance, in the Lombardic fronts of Pisa and Lucca, where the columns stand over one another for ornament and support nothing, it would cease to be ornamental and be merely dull if they were sober, business—like columns, instead of being as they are, small, inlaid, twisted, knotted, composed of a pile of animal forms, or even with the upper and lower parts looped together as if in tension. The capital, however, as stone is not strong in the transverse direction, cannot project far without having also a deep bell, so that for small columns we get this shape of capital, which you will recognize as be— Paper read at the annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects,

January 12th, 1897.

 common in one-storer cloisters. And if we take this as a type of the small column, we can get from it the proper relation between capitals and columns of all thicknesses simply by drawing lines centred on the same axis, defining the width of the column we require.

It will thus appear that when the column assumes the

















































proportions of a pier the capital disappears, leaving only the abacus (Fig. 4)—and this seems to be right.

The heavy caps which we so often see on piers are a mistake, and have no expression. (Fig. 5). The designer seems sometimes to have considered himself forced into this































form of cap on the pier so as to keep in line with the depth of cap on columns between the piers. Hut that is not necessary. The Italian method is simply to let the abacus do duty for a cap to the pier. (Fig. 6).*







































As regards arches I think we may take as the bottom principle of the effect of arches in design, the saying, " the arch never sleeps."

That this is the effect of the line to the eye, rather than an impression upon the mind of the conditions of thrust and resistance which we know to exist where an

Insert in this sketch a pier cap such as in Fig. and the life will be gone from the design.

