

<doctype type="text">where the gutters are wanted sunk a couple of inches lower than their neighbors, the whole should be coated with a layer of hot tar and sand. If properly done the floor will last a lifetime, and remain sweet and clean.



WHEN walls and ceilings are to be Plaster for Mouldings. heavily moulded some extra provision

should be made for carrying- the additional weight. This is sometimes done by driving spikes in the wood-work in a line with the projecting mouldings, allowing them to stand out far enough from the wall to carry the weight of all the "coarse stuff" and yet permit their heads to be covered entirely with the " fine stuff." Besides taking this precaution, some decorators use a "fibrous plaster, with the object of securing greater firmness and tenacity. Longer hair is employed in making this mortar than is ordinarily used in making common mortar. In England and France, and to a limited extent in Germany, plasterers sometimes apply a coat of coarse mortar where the mouldings are to project, then let it dry ; then lay over this a fine wire netting, which is secured to the wall or ceiling with nails or other appliances ; then the work is finished over this. In some first-class residences the picture frame moulding is formed of plaster, and when properly done such a moulding is superior in many ways to the gilded or finished wood moulding. The rough mortar used as a foundation for moulded work should be superior to that used on the wall or ceiling for straight plastering, and to insure this it should be well mixed and re-mixed, for it is impossible to mix mortar too much. A good proportion is to use one portion of lime and two and a half of clean, sharp sand and a proper quantity of hair, to which sufficient water should be added to make it workable. The mass should stand at least ten days before being used. It is better, if time will permit, to allow the mass to stand fourteen days before applying to the walls. The cracking of plaster, when not attributable to settlement or shrinkage, is often due to the fact that the mortar has not been properly mixed or has been applied in too " green " a state.



IN hanging paper where the room has

	Hints to Paper- been	for some time it is lessen

	Hangers.	occupied

 if good work is desired, that the room be cleaned out, floor washed, and the walls washed down or well brushed ; not a fly-speck should be left to be covered by the paper. The old adage "Clean out the sides and corners, and the middle will take care of itself," holds good in the matter of preparing walls for papering. Perhaps in the whole art of decoration there is no department where cleanliness is so imperative as in hanging paper, and when work is commenced the workman should have at hand pumice-stone, a basin of clean water, a clean towel and a sponge, all of which should be in a position where they may be used whenever required. The best paper-hangers use a large round paste-brush, and eschew the flat brush used by men who are not well up in the business. It is claimed

-	and justly, too-----that the round brush takes up the paste much more cleanly than the flat one, and that it can be turned by the hand when spreading the paste and thus prevent the paste from soiling the printed side of the paper. It also has other advantages, as it can be used in any shape it may be taken up, and can be worked dryer than the flat brush. It is conceded by all paper-hangers that all attempts to make paste from

anything but the best wheat flour have resulted in failure ; but it does not follow that all paste made from the best of flour is alike or adapted to all kinds of paperhanging-. A good paste for general purposes may be prepared as follows For a room which will require about eight or nine rolls of paper, beat up four pounds of flour with cold water, but no more water at first than is sufficient to make a stiff batter ; beat it a little, and small knots will not be formed ; then add more cold water to bring it to pudding batter as used in cooking; add from one to two ounces of well-pounded alum. This amount of material, when mixed, will make paste enough to fill a patent pail about three-quarters full. Be sure to have more boiling water ready than that measure. Take it boiling hot from the fire and pour it gently but quickly over the batter, stirring it at the same time ; and when it is observed to swell, and the white color of the batter is changed, no more water is required. This method, if closely followed, will give a paste that will be fine and smooth and very adhesive. For heavy embossed paper the paste should be made a trifle stronger by putting in it a little more flour, according to the weight of the paper to be hung. For cheap light paper of inferior grades a thinner paste may be used, though we would not recommend the use of inferior paste even if inferior paper is employed. If the walls to be papered are broken or uneven, the cracks or uneven spots can be made in the same plane as the walls by applying plaster of Paris to the defective places. Sometimes the projections, if not too prominent, may be rubbed down with the pumice-stone the paper-hanger always has on hand.





THE best door to resist fire is the

Fire Doors and

	Shutters,	simplest. It should be made of pine

		and should be made of two or more

thicknesses of matched stuff nailed across each other at right angles or at an angle of forty-five degrees. If the doorway be more than seven feet by four feet, it would be better to use three thicknesses of stuff; in other words, the door should be a thickness proportional to its area. Such a door should always be made to shut into a rebate, or made flush with the wall when practicable ; or if it is a sliding door, then it should be made to shut into or behind a jamb, which should press it closely to the wall. The door and its jambs if of wood, should then be sheathed with tin, the plates being locked at the joints and securely nailed under the locking with nails at least one inch long. No air spaces should be left in a door of this kind by paneling or otherwise, as the door will resist fire best that has the most solid material in it. In most situations it is much better to fit the door upon metal slides rather than upon hinges. This sort of a door may be fitted with automatic appliances, so that it will close of itself when subjected to the heat of a fire, but these appliances need not interfere with the ordinary methods of opening and shutting the door. They only constitute a safeguard against negligence, The construction of shutters varies from that of doors only in the use of thinner wood. All the other conditions are the same. Doors and shutters built after the manner described resist fire a dozen times better than the ordinary iron door, whether sheet, plate, cast or rolled, single, double or hollow, plain or corrugated. The wooden door covered with tin only serves its purpose when the wood is fully encased in tin, put on in such a way that no air, or a minimum of air, can

