<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	147



fled for further government employment ; that all subcontracting without the leave of the department concerned should be prohibited ; that sub-contracting should only be permitted where such sub-contracting is customary in the trade, and for work which the contractor in question does not himself perform in the ordinary course of his trade ; that where a sub-contractor is allowed, the principal contractor should, as regards the fair wages clause be held responsible for his agent; that a money penalty for breach should be attached to the fair wages clause ; that (where practicable) the text of the fair wages clause should be conspicuously affixed to the work in progress under the contract; that all cases of dispute in reference to the '' current rate," and conditions of employment and whether a particular contractor was or was not carrying out the terms of the fair wages clause in spirit and in letter, should be referred to the Labour Department of the Board of Trade for inquiry and for report to the Department concerned; and that a list of Government contractors, together with the nature and amount of their contracts, should be from time to time laid before Parliament and published. ______________________







<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS." author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

TERRACE OF DWELLING HOUSES AT PETERBOROUGH, ONT.,



FOR SIR SANDFORD FLEMING.—BOND & SMITH,



ARCHITECTS, MONTREAL.



These houses are to be built on the new street that Sir Sandford Fleming is opening up through his Peter-borough property. Each house will contain eight rooms irrespective of the attic. The first storey in front will be built with dark red common brick ; above this will be shingles stained a light red in gables and elsewhere a yellowish buff. The woodwork will all be painted white.

The houses will be heated by warm air, lighted by electricity and gas, and have thorough sanitary arrangements ; all pipes exposed and in bath-rooms nickel-plated.

THE DINEEN BUILDING, CORNER YONGE AND TEMPERANCE



STREETS, TORONTO. ----F. H. HERBERT, ARCHITECT.



The size of this building, which is being erected on one of the most important commercial street corners in Toronto, is 28 ft. 2 in. by 100 ft., four stories and basement. It is built of cream pressed brick with Ohio stone trimmings. Messrs. Dineen will occupy all

Temperance street frontage,

	Yonge a	including high

basement, with two-story showroom and workshops in the rear. The upper three stories of main building will be sub-divided into twenty convenient offices. The building will be steam heated throughout and wired for incandescent lighting. The entrance to offices will be on the Temperance street side, and means of access will be provided by a modern electric elevator built by the Sprague Elevator Co., of New York. The entrances, halls, doorways, etc., will be laid with Venetian mosaic in suitable designs, and the sidewalks on both streets out to curbs, and all fanlights, will be glazed with Luxfer prisms. The finish throughout will be in natural hardwood.

CHURCH OF THE MOHAWKS, BRANTFORD, ONT., ERECTED

	1874, AND	COMMUNION SERVICE PRESENTED



BY QUEEN ANNE.



 This is claimed to be the oldest church in the province of Ontario, and is therefore a subject of archaeological interest. It is situated two miles from the city

of Brantford, and is built of wood, with the exception of a recently constructed brick chimney. The body of the church is covered on the outside with clapboards an inch thick, which accounts for its excellent preservation. The entrance is through a square tower, on one side of which is the vestry and on the other a vacant room of equal dimensions. Above this tower rises a graceful shingled spire with iron finial. The inside of the structure is very plain and is seated with high backed benches.

The communion plate, which appears in thc illustration, bears on its rim the following inscription '' The gift of Her Majesty, Anne, by the grace of God of Great Britain, France and Ireland, and of her plantations in North America, Queen, to Her Indian Chapel of the Mohawks."

THE HISCOX	BUILDING LONDON, ONT.—MCBRIDE & FARNCOMBE, ARCHITECTS.



The building has a stone foundation up to ground level the basement containing the steam and hot water heating apparatus, lavatories, store rooms, &c. The ground floor is built of Berea stone and contains the Bank of Toronto offices, with entrance at corner. The banking rooms and manager's office are finished with birch fittings and paneled wainscot, furnished by the Canadian Office and School Furniture Co., of Preston, Ont., tile floor, laid on terra cotta arches and steel girders. The ceiling on this floor is executed in staff, being paneled with moulded and paneled beams, dividing the panelling. The mouldings, corbels, &c., are enriched, and the whole decorated to give an old ivory effect. The walls are also finished in colors to correspond with the other finish. The other portion of this floor is divided into two offices, main entrance, staircase and elevator space to upper floors. The first, second and third floors are divided in offices, with vault accommodation for each floor. These floors are also finished in birch and the outside walls constructed of Beamsville pressed brick with terra cotta trimmings; a copper cornice completes the top portion of the building. The third floor contains, besides offices, lavatories for ladies and gentlemen, and all offices are reached by an electric passenger elevator, built by Leitch & Turnbull, of Hamilton.



The ceiling-s throughout are of embossed steel from the Metallic Roofing Company's works, Toronto.

The Bank of Toronto portion is heated by hot water, and the remainder of building by steam, the contractors being the John Ritchie Heating Co., of Toronto. The other contractors were Martyn & Hammell, brickwork ; A. Burnett & Son, cut stone ; Wm. Tyller, carpenter work ; Pritchell & Calhoun, plastering ; H. & C. Colerick, painting and glazing; Wm. Stevely & Son, copper work ; James Greenaway, plumbing-.



The Roenigen rays have been employed with success in Germany to prove the authenticity of a painting attributed to Albrecht Duerer. It was a head of Christ painted on the wood, and supposed to have been executed in 1521 ; very dingy with age and probably "restored" more or less. After several efforts a photograph was successfully taken by means of the Roentgen rays, which revealed the features of the thorn-crowned Jesus, and the drapery about. the shoulders, and the hands which grasped the latter, more distinctly than in the painting. There also came to light a Latin inscription in quaint Gothic characters, the monogram of some grand duke (for whom, perhaps, the picture was painted), the artists initials and the date "1524," which date was accepted as the correct one. The photograph reveals the grain of the wood and the fibre of a silk handkerchief stretched on it.

