<doctype type="text">202	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



line of doors to take the hook of the pulley for the hoisting rope in handling the ice in and out of the house.

A couple of coats of a good, light-colored, zinc paint should be applied to the outside of the house.







<article title="MANUFACTURES AND MATERIAL" author="">MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS



The Sackville Machine & Foundry Co., Ltd., has recently been incorporated at Sackville, N. B., to make water works supplies,

hardware, etc.



Negotiations are in progress with the object of consolidating the various potteries at St. Johns, Que., and to carry on the business as one concern on a large scale.

The Winnipeg Heater Company, of Toronto, Limited, has lately been granted incorporation with a capital stock of $24,000, to manufacture heaters, fuel burners, radiators, etc.

The Dominion Granite Co., owners of black and red granite at Welsford, N. B., and Shelburne, Nova Scotia, are shipping large quantities of this material to Scotland, where a large demand has developed.

The Toronto Paving Brick Company, Limited, has recently been granted a charter. Its capital stock is $90,000. The promoters are: Messrs. A. E. Ames, Joseph Kilgour, A. A. McMichael, Win. Crawford and J. B. Noble.

A deposit of black granite is reported to have been found at Welsford, Nova Scotia. A Bridgwater firm is said to have acquired the property, and will erect polishing works, for the operation of which there exists an excellent water power.

The Owen Sound Portland Cement Co. are installing in their works at Shallow Lake an electric lighting plant, that they may he enabled to operate both day and night. This is a gratifying evidence of the growth of the demand for the company's product.

Mr. Bartholomew, president of the British syndicate which purchased the asbestos mine at Danville, Que., recently paid a visit of inspection to the property, and is reported to be extremely well satisfied with the investment. Upwards of half a million dollars have been expended in plant and machinery during the past four months. Asbestic, the new building material obtained from these mines, is arousing considerable interest and favorable comment in Great Britain and the United States, as well as in Canada.

Messrs. Gibson, Stuart & Hanson, owners of the Bocabec black granite quarries at St. George, N. B., are said to have given an option of purchase to an American company, of New Britain, Conn. A representative of this firm, Mr. II. Oldershaw, recently visited the quarry and expressed himself favorably regarding the adaptability of the stone for polishing and manufacture into slabs for the interior decoration of buildings as well as monumental work. If the sale should be consummated the purchasers will erect polishing works.



F. Hilliard, Renfrew, Ont., is erecting a tile kiln in connection with his brickyard.

The master plumbers of St. Thomas, Ont., have recently organized an association, the officers of which are as follows President, J. Flaherty ; vice-president, J. Williams secretary treasurer, J. Stacey.

In graining doors, when knotted oak is required, which is generally done on the panels, the knots are put in with a fitch or tool, and sweeps of light shades encircling and running from the clusters of knots then a finer kind of veining and growth is put in. This style makes a very handsome door when properly done, and gives a good deal of license to the fancy of the grainer in producing varied effects.

Paper pulp can be used very advantageously in stopping cracks. It should be kept in a close stoppered bottle, in order that die moisture may not evaporate. When required for use make it of the consistency of thin gruel, with hot water; add plaster of Paris to make it slightly pasty, and use at once. Mixed with glue, and either plaster of Paris or Portland cement, paper pulp is the best thing to stop cracks and breaks in wood. Paper pulp and fine sawdust, boiled together for hours and mixed with glue dissolved in linseed oil, makes a perfect filling for cracks in floors. It may be put on and left until partly dry, then covered with paraffin and smoothed with a hot iron.

<article title=" THE TECHNICAL TRADE JOURNAL AS AN

EDUCATOR.

" author="">THE TECHNICAL TRADE JOURNAL AS AN

EDUCATOR.

THE value of a well-conducted trade journal in a man when is engaged in the industry represented by that publication cannot be over-rated) writes Mr. Thos. P. Pemberton in the Master Steam Fitter. Nearly all trade papers, as the term is understood, are more or less technical in character, giving information not only of the general condition of special industries, but also of the changes and improvements made by manufacturers in design, process and construction. When these can be presented to readers by means of outline drawings and finished engravings the usefulness of the trade paper is still further increased. The daily newspapers pay little attention to the multitudinous details which are of interest in manufacturers. They may announce new inventions, the erection of large works, peculiarities in mechanism and operation, or great scientific discoveries, and these, undoubtedly interest general readers and satisfy the public mind in its eagerness to know, at least, something of all current developments and events. But when the manufacturer desires minute information regarding his own special industry, he has recourse to technical and trade journals, which give him information of what others are doing and how they are doing it. The industrial press, when it performs its functions properly, does precisely that which the daily press leaves undone. In saying this we do not forget the wonderful enterprise of some of our large American dailies in giving illustrated descriptions of many new inventions and discoveries, but these, however satisfactory for general readers, are incomplete for manufacturers when may be particularly interested in all the details of design, construction and operation.

But how is the technical trade paper an educator? Its mission and purpose are, in its successive issues, to cover the whole ground and in confine its information to the particular field in which it operates. It reports and explains many new processes, whether they be developed at home or abroad ; it illustrates arid describes important new machines and apparatus; it records the progress of invention and improvement in different branches of industrial art and applied science; it announces what is being made and sold the organization of new firms; the award of contracts the construction and operation of large plants and gives special information on special subjects for manufacturers of specific articles. All this and much more is in the routine and absolute requirements of business education.

The advertising pages in such a journal are not a mere dreary and uninviting series of puffs and boastings. They are an illustrated catalogue and chronicle of the supplies which are required in particular branches of industry. They indicate the most advanced state of ingenuity they present to the eye and the mind qualities and forms ; they tempt the manufacturer and the consumer, as a matter of self interest, to examine them. Those who do not examine them exclude themselves from information for which, if they comprehended their own interests, they would be willing to pay handsomely.

Trade journalism in this country has acquired dignity and importance; and in this field, as in all others, popularity, success and rapid growth are the portion of journals which prove their possession of brains, enterprise and sincere devotion to the interests of which they are representatives. They are educating mediums for the advancement of civilization, the progress of commercial enterprise, manufacturing industry and mechanical ingenuity. They are the exponents of taste, design and utility, and an inestimable benefit to producers and consumers, to both employer and the employed.





A new bridge over the Danube at Czernavoda is now the longest in the world, its length being 13,325 feet to 10,725 feet of the Tay bridge. The widest span is 620 feet wide, and there are two others of 455 feet.

VARNISH TO PROTECT POLISHED METALS FROM RUSTING.---Dr.



C.	Puscher recommends the use of a solution of paraffin in petroleum (1 part by weight of in petroleum), as a varnish which may be usefully applied to polished metals, especially as after having brushed this liquid over the surface of this metal It may be gently wiped clean with a soft piece of flannel, so as to leave only a very thin film of the varnish, yet sufficient for the protection of the polish.

