

<doctype type="text">no other reason for their use. In fact there are many features of which one can say that the form in which they are presented is expressive rather than constructional. Of these are the whole family of vaulting shafts free as well as attached. They are only mouldings in the stone pier which, as a matter of fact, loses a little of its substance to make them, or else, if free, are an ornamental addition to the piers which is sufficient without them. Nor can it be said that they represent the true line of pressure of the vaults ; but to the eye they bring the weight of the roof down to the ground, and remove the appearance of a sideways thrust, which if it caught the eye, would appear too great for the slender piers when the external buttressing cannot be seen.

or to take an example that comes nearer home to us who see no vaulting, nor are ever likely to do any. A favorite feature in Venetian buildings is an angle column. They built in brick and reinforced their corners with deep quoins, their foundations being not so good

that they could dispense with precautions against bad effects from settlement. But they did not leave the quoins without a finish, and of all the many ways in which they might be finished they chose the expressive and stuck to it.

The Venetian angle is always finished by a column-- an attached column I think always and usually finished with a cap and base. One gets not only a well defined angle, but a vertically defined angle giving the idea of props at the angles, which is the very reason for which we insert quoins deeper than the building courses.

It occurs at once to us in looking into these matters that for the majority

of our building there is little opportunity of using features oft his kind. We can usually afford only plain building. That is true to a certain extent, and a repugnance to decorating with

architectural features simple buildings which ought to be plain is just as much the impulse of an artist as the desire to elaborate important work. But there are two things to be said on the other side.

In the first place much use of features is seldom a good thing, it is only in the exceptional building that much elaboration of ornament is in order. It is expression we are aiming at we shall find, I think, that there is always something to express not often much ; and that in all cases minor things must be subordinated and the principal expression given to those which are important. It is just like any other work of art a picture, a story---a judicious reticence about minor points is the safest way to give due emphasis to those which are important. So that it ought not to require many features to make good work.

In the second place there is no doubt that the man whose habit of mind tends to pure design is in the best position to (10 a good thing at small expense. I feel no inclination to criticize usage without taking a long second look at it. Usage has for the most part practical

 reasons for what it does, but I think one can safely say that it often adopts features that are not expressive and which are expensive ; and the designer who is accustomed to straightforward thinking will be most likely to see his way to a better thing that will cost less.

There is also a class of features which seem to suggest an economy of material which would, if on any considerable scale, go far to make up for the expense of a more ornamental way of accomplishing the same construction. 

As the line of thrust of a roof runs down a buttress to its outer limit near the ground, there is a portion of the lower part of the buttress which may be removed if only there is a prop inserted to hold the wall above. This fact has been made use of in churches to gain space for the central portion by making a passage through the inner side of the bottom of the buttresses. In this case the necessary columns may fairly be said to· pay for themselves.

To return, however, from speculating upon the effect of studying principles to the principles themselves.

A very important factor in architectural design, for those who like it, is colour. The scientific discoveries respecting the nature of colour perceptions are so exact that one would be led to believe and some persons have been led to believe, unfortunately for their work

that it would be possible to form sound scientific theories about the use of colour. Such appears, however, not to be the case.

The gist of the discoveries appears to be that colour is a sensation, like sound. People like harmonious combinations of colour without knowing that the harmony is caused by a relation between the undulations of light from them, which causes every fourth undulation from one colour to coincide with every fifth undulation from the other. Proportion of form is different. It is a matter in which the mind is concerned as well as the eye. Questions of material and construction enter in as well as the mere outline. Proportion cannot be said to affect the eye. One may look for hours at an ugly object and be able to turn at once to a beautiful vase and draw its outline correctly ; but if one looks too long at a bright red object the next thing one looks at will be over-cast with the complementary of red.

From this reason that colour is a sensation and independent of the reason it probably comes that the eye is a safer guide than theory. But one may get general hints from nature. One is that though in nature masses of the same colour are the rule and are not monotonous, if we consider them, to see why, we see that the monotony is made up of incessant slight variations. We recognize the same charm in old buildings, where time and the weather have produced a variegation of tint in the stones or tiles. It only remains for us to take the hint and see that the pains usually taken by builders, and sometimes specified, to secure uniformity of tint in walling, are labor thrown away.

Ruskin enunciates the principle of indefiniteness of boundary to colour, deducing it from the example of parti-colored animals, shells, etc. The examples in nature are certainly abundant, and one illustration of it in building is certainly successful----the patterns of black brick which one so often sees in old English brick buildings. These patterns have no regular beginning or ending, and are worked so consistently in this way that the cause must have been intention, rather than, as it seems to be, an irregular supply of the black brick.

1 have heard a proposal to abandon the use of a different-colored stone for the jambs of doors and windows, as being too much definition in the boundaries of the colored stone, and giving the idea that the jambs are not part of the wall. It is, however, so natural to use a different material for this purpose that it would be better to turn our attention to blending them with the wall, and this is obviously to be done by avoided regularity in the size and shape of the stones which form the jambs, and perhaps also in the voussoirs of the arches. (Fig. 10). This, as well as the irregularity of the brick pattern, is to be seen at Hampton Court. The irregularity of the stone would be considered extravagant if drawn.

The use of brick walling with bands of colored marble

