<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Correspondence" author="">CORRESPONDENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to hit building interests. To secure insertion, communications must he accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]







<article title="Granite as a building and paving material" author="">GRANITE AS A BUILDING AND PAVING

MATERIAL.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,-----There are indications in many of our large cities to-day that we are soon to see granite more in use for both building and paving purposes than it has been for some time past. A granite house—be it mansion or cottage is the desire of most hearts ; and were the means of acquisition as plentiful as the desire is common we should soon see in our towns and cities a large increase in the number of residences built of this handsome stone. No other class of buildings gives the same impression of solid, abiding, civic health and of faith in the future as the stone residences of all classes of the population.. Indeed, the greater proportion of stone buildings in a city the greater is the assurance of that city's stability, for they are but the evidences of the faith of those most deeply interested in its welfare. But stone buildings are costly in the first place compared with buildings of a more transient nature, and this first cost often forbids their erection, to the great loss of the community both in civic and moral health. This forbidding item of first cost does not, however, operate to the same extent in the matter of paving our streets when granite is compared with other and less enduring materials. The difference in cost between granite blocks and asphalt is not to be considered beside the great difference in wear in favor of the granite. A little more than a decade ago asphalt was being spoken of so highly by parties interested in its sale and others interested in experimenting that it succeeded in gaining a hold in most of the large cities of Britain and Europe. But its hold was brief. In Berlin during the heat of summer it was no uncommon sight to see an officer stuck in its deceitful crust. In consequence of this undue adhesiveness, it was voted a nuisance, and Berlin went back to the use of granite blocks for many of her most important streets. In London and other great British cities the failure of asphalt has been equally apparent, and the granite block is now more in demand than at any previous time. In America, from New York to Denver, a similar experience has followed the use of asphalt, and it is giving way before the enduring stone. Now, in some cities another fad is being exploited. Brick is the cry ; and the support of the cycling public is asked because it is said to make a dainty road for cycling. Still, cyclists have to consider the question of expense, and the dainty brick track and civic economy do not go hand in hand. Only the other day two Toronto aldermen found it necessary to refer to the bricks of Egypt and Babylonia to strengthen their case in support of their hobby, but it is not recorded that they brought to notice the preservative conditions which saved these bricks, and in this connection it might be mentioned that the same record of endurance follows the Egyptian granite under much more trying conditions ; and even human bodies of the same date have come down to us in an excellent state of preservation. But such references are aside from the question. Experience in the cities of Europe has given granite paving blocks the highest award as an enduring and economical street pavement, and as already said, indications are not wanting that experience in American cities is following in the same direction, though perhaps with a tardier step.



EXPERIENCE.





<article title=" GROWTH OF CRYSTALLINE BODIES " author="">GROWTH OF CRYSTALLINE BODIES.

QUEBEC, May 12, 1897.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,--- In the issue of the New York World of the 6th inst., under the heading ——" Wonderful Discovery of Prof. Von "Schroen, Scientist, Naples !—Baby Crystals Fatal Fights

"A New Truth which will revolutionize Philosophy and influence "all Science —Is all Matter Organic ?—Dr. Von Hoist tells of "Photographs showing the Birth and the Growth of Stones."—I read that Dr. Von Hoist, of the Chicago University, has returned

from Naples with the startling news that Von Schroen has discovered life in crystals.

I may not be sufficient of a scientist to enter into a consideration or discussion of this alleged vitality, this pretension that stones are of organic origin, neither do I believe anything of the kind. Still, the mode of formation of all crystalline substances may be considered a species of vitality ; nor is the microscope indispensable in establishing this, for it can be abundantly witnessed by the naked eye in the formation of maple or loaf sugar from the syrup when sufficiently boiled, in that of rock candy around a string for the crystals to adhere to, in the formation of ice on the surface of water, where, under the influence of cold, needle-like crystals shoot out in all directions at the surface, until a film of ice, at first no thicker than paper, thus spreads over the surface and becomes gradually thicker by the addition to it of other crystals from below.

Nor can snow be called organic, though made tip of crystals which arrange themselves symmetrically in hexagonal forms around a central nucleus, this being, apart from squares, the only area-filling figure, as with basalt in the Giants' Causeway and elsewhere, as also in the cell of honey bee and wasp, where the economic processes of nature are so intelligently thrust on man's attention since the circular form would just as well have suited the size and shape of the insect's body, but would have left a useless space between the contiguous circles and have requited 50 per cent. more wax or other material for the same number of cells.

Again, I say, the shooting out of crystals, the formation of the hexagonal column of "trap' from the fixed material thrown up by eruptive action, may he considered a species of vitality, as with protoplasmic cells while budding or rending off new cells from the parent nucleus or stem, and as imitated in the process by the cactus, which throws out its unaesthetic leaves, not only from the main stein or stalk, but the one leaf from the other, and as also exemplified in the animal world by polyps and other forms of animal life. Yet there is this essential difference between the own processes, that while the cells, the leaves, the poypi buds actually and gradually grow and increase in size by assimilating from the earth, the atmosphere, the water, the nutritive elements which go to make up their increase in size, which is actual vegetation, or an organic vegetable or animal process, the crystals, on the contrary, only grow by aggregate or by a mechanical addition to them tinder the influence of electric action and by the attraction of cohesion.

But while snow and stone crystals grow from central nuclei equally and symmetrically in planes all around, and even in spheres and polyhedra, it appears more difficult to explain the unsymmetrical process alluded to by Schroen, where the truly organic-like mode of vegetable growth or life is the more thoroughly exemplified, as in the formation of the exquisitely beautiful leaf-like, branch-like, tree-like tracery which everyone must have witnessed, and which may be detect d in the process by the naked eye when, during frosty weather, the humidity or water from an overcharged or saturated inner or outer atmosphere, deposited or as condensed by window glass, is seen to crystallize and shoot out, riot as in snow or basalt in equal and symmetrical radiation around a common centre, but in one or nearly one direction, and this, whether upward, downward or sideward, with the main stock or trunk originating from a sash bar or some portion of the surrounding framework as a starting point or base, and in absolute imitation of the growth of vegetable, fern-like forms, though different in this respect, that while vegetable life grows upwards or seeks the sun, the ice crystals grow or shoot out indifferently in all directions.

This is the tendency I would like to see explained, and where crystallizing seems actually to partake of organic life, as exemplified to Schroen's astounded vision by the use of his microscope, and the fights and struggles lie alluded to between baby-crystals from different parental stocks, and the death or destruction of one of them by the other, illustrating, mayhap, Darwin's theory of "the survival of the fittest "—though in all this I cannot detect any absolutely vegetable, animal or organic life, but merely a most life-like process.

C.	BA1LLAIRGE.





Mr. T. Wooster, of Aylmer, states that he finds the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER very interesting and instructive reading.

Mr. James Lydiatt, formerly of the Wallaceburg Glass Company, will probably establish glass works at London, Ont.

About 1,200 plumbers went on strike in Chicago recently. The main point of difference was over the employment of helpers, the union insisting that not more than one helper be employed in each shop.

Messrs. Cadman & Williams, plumbers, of St. Thomas, report that prospects for a good season's business are very bright. As an up-to-date business firm, they believe that the plumbers' association now forming in St. Thomas will be beneficial to all.



Messrs. M. & N. K. Connolly, who are now at work on a large dredging contract at Philadelphia, have secured a vast contract from the government of Uruguay for the construction of a canal sixteen miles in length. The contract price is said to he over $10,000,000. They will start work almost at once, and the probability is that some Canadian workmen will be employed by them.

