<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	189



each drawing, plan, specification, etc., submitted by him and will preserve unopened the envelope containing such name and address until final selection shall be made.

13.	The commission shall place out of competition any set of drawings as to which the conditions of these regulations have not been observed, and examine those remaining, giving to each the rank to which in their judgment—its merits entitle it, and submit their findings to the Secretary and Treasurer.

14.	The selection of one of the designs by the Secretary of the Treasury, and its subsequent approval by him, the Postmaster— General and tile Secretary or Interior shall be final and conclusive.

15.	In the event that the architect to whom the commission is awarded should prove to be an incompetent and improper person, the Secretary of the Treasury expressly reserves the right to remove him, to revoke tile commission awarded only and to annul lie contract entered into with him but such architect shall receive equitable compensation for the work properly performed by him up to the time of his removal, to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

16.	The architect to whom the commission is awarded shall revise his competitive drawings to meet the further requirements of the Secretary of the Treasury, and upon the basis of these revised preliminary drawings shall prepare full detailed working drawings and specifications for said building and shall thereafter, from time to time, make such changes in the plans, drawings and specifications as may be directed by the Secretary of the Treasury, for which just compensation shall he allowed hut 110 changes in tile plains, drawings and specifications shall be made without written authority from the Secretary of tile Treasury.

17.	The architect to whom the contract is awarded shall, at his own cost and expense, when required to do so by the Secretary of the Treasury, make such revision and alteration in the working drawings and specifications or said building as may be necessary to insure its proper construction and completion within the limit of cost as furnished by the office of the Supervising Architect.

18.	The sum upon which the Architect's commission is to be computed shall be the sum of money expended for the actual construction cost of the building, as ascertained by contracts awarded, not including furniture, gas and electric light fixtures and electric light plants

19.	The compensation herein stipulated to be paid to said architect shall be in full payment of all charges for his full services, inclusive of all travelling and other expenses.

20.	The architect's commission shall be paid as tile work progresses, in the following order:

One-fifth of fee when preliminary drawings are completed and approved in the manner herein provided ; three-tenths of fee when general working drawings and specifications are completed and copies delivered to tile Supervising Architect, and balance of percentage monthly, upon the basis of vouchers issued in payments for work performed.

21.	Until the actual cost or t lie building can be determined the fee of the architect will be based upon the proposed cost of the work, as above indicated, and will be paid as installments of the entire fee, which will be finally based upon the actual construction cost or the building when completed.

22.	The Department will provide a competent superintendent of construction, whose qualifications shall be passed upon by the architect, but a selection must be made from a list of not exceeding six names proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

23.	The architect is to provide for the use of the Treasury Department one set of tracings of all working drawings and of revised competitive drawings, two copies of specifications and one copy of detailed estimate of cost of entire building, all of which will remain ill the custody of the Department, and to be and remain tile property or the United States and not of the architect, but such drawings and specifications shall not be used for any other building, and the office of the Supervising Architect will furnish for the use of intending bidders all necessary photographic duplications of plans and copies of specifications.

24.	Upon the award of the contract to the architect, all designs of unsuccessful competitors will he returned to them, and no use will be made of any of the drawings not accepted or any part that may be original, without consent of the author thereof.

25.	Payments upon the work of construction under contract will be made monthly. at a rate of 90 per cent. of the value of the work actually executed and in place, upon vouchers certified by the architect in charge and countersigned by the superintendent of construction representing the United States government which

will be paid by a disbursing officer appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.



26.	The Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department will receive tile proposals for contracts to be awarded, and shall likewise (let ermine the manner in which the various branches of the work are to be contracted for.

27. All contracts, except for exigency purposes, shall be properly advertised for thirty days, and shall he awarded by the Supervising Architect, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the lowest responsible bidder.



28. All further details necessary properly to carry out these regulations may be arranged by the Supervising Architect, from time to time, provided they do not conflict herewith.



29. The foregoing regulations shall be subject to modification and change at the pleasure of the Secretary of the Treasury.







<article title="Chips" author="">CHIPS.

The death is reported of John Hartigan, contractor, Montreal.



Mr. Walter Mills, manager of the Silica Barytic Stone Co., of Ingersoll, Ont., has been made an honorary member of the New York Hoard of Trade and Transportation.



It is stated that A. Bradzeau, of Pakenham, Ont., intends utilizing his water power at Portage du Fort by putting in a plant for sawing stone, and that he will open his green serpentine stone quarry.



Mr. Forthingham, superintendent for Mr. J. E. Askwith, contractor for the Dominion Government Armoury at Halifax, N.S., fell from tile walls of the building a few (lays ago, sustaining serious injuries. It is thought he will recover.



Salmon red or pale green grey walls look well with woodwork of cream, a frieze of cream, green gray or pink, having a cornice of cream, salmon, copper, and greenish grey, ceiling of light cream, with the upholsterings and draperies of greenish gray.



Mr. Arthur McGuire, Consul General to Canada for the Argentine Republic, sailed from Montreal for Buenos Ayres 00 the 14th inst. Mr. McGuire has organized a syndicate of Canadian and American capitalists to undertake the construction of public works in the Argentine Republic.



The Builder says that the custom of inscribing the naille of the architect on new buildings has become practically universal in Belgium, and that not only the profession but tile public regards the signature of the artist as being as desirable on a building as on a painting or a piece of sculpture; and it has even been suggested that it should be made compulsory.



The American Asbestos Company's mine at Black Lake, Que., was sold by the liquidators of the estate, Messrs. J. j. Penhale amid R. R. Burrage, at Sherbrooke, recently. The purchasers were Messrs. L. & E. Wertheim, of Frankfort, Germany, the price being $14,900. This selling Price only represents a fraction of die actual cost and value of the property.



To COLOR IRON BLUE.—One hundred and forty grams of hyposulphite of soda are dissolved in a liter or water (423 ounces to

quart); 35 grams of acetate of lead are dissolved in another liter (1 1/6 ounce to quart); the two solutions are mixed, are made to boil, and the iron is immersed therein. The metal takes a blue color, such as is obtained by heating it.



Extensive alterations have been made to the registry office at Guelph, Ont., under the superintendence of Mr. Benalick, contractor. The boxes for keeping the deeds, etc., are of steel, with nickel handles, and were furnished by the Lang Document File Co. The desks and office furniture are of quartered oak, furnished by the Newmarket Specialty Co., who are Canadian agents for the manufacturers at Rochester.



Judgment has been rendered by Mr. Justice Burbidge in an action brought by the government of Canada against Messrs. Puopore & Fraser, contractors for the Morrisburg canal. Some years ago the steamer Acadia, while passing through the canal, foundered upon a rock and sustained serious damage. Action was brought against the government by the owners of the steamboat and cargo, and judgment was recovered for about $45,000. Subsequently the government commenced an action against the contractors who were engaged in widening the canal, claiming that through their negligence a large stone had been deposited and left in the bottom of the canal, upon which the steamer struck. The judgment just rendered is in favor of the contractor and includes costs against the government.

