

<doctype type="text"><article title=" STUDENT'S DEPARTMENT " author="">STUDENT'S DEPARTMENT. _____



"Begin at the bottom and work to the top,



Is splendid advice to be giving,



And yet it is not the best hint we can drop



To men who dig wells for a living.







<article title=" REPRODUCTION OF PLANS AND

DRAWINGS.

" author="">REPRODUCTION OF PLANS AND

DRAWINGS.

IN Ombres et Lumiere the following process is described by A. Carteron A well-sized paper is selected and cut rather larger than the drawing to be copied. An ink is prepared by dissolving 8 to 10 grammes of gum Arabic in 100 parts of water, and adding thereto a few drops of aniline blue or other suitable dye. The drawing is traced upon the paper with this ink and allowed to dry. The entire surface of the paper is then covered with printers' ink, by means of a roller or stiff brush, and well equalized. After a short interval the entire sheet of paper is immersed in water, and by means of a roller, or brush, passed delicately over the surface, the ink is disengaged from the traced lines. This is facilitated by the solution of the gum. The lines are thus represented by bare white paper, and the tracing may be used as a negative. If a very opaque ground is wanted, the background of printers' ink may be intensified by brushing on bronze powder with a badger's-hair brush.





<article title=" DURABILITY OF DRAWING PAPER " author="">DURABILITY OF DRAWING PAPER.

A CANTOR lecture by Mr. C. F. Cross shows that many modern varieties of the material that is called paper are almost fleeting. He describes a valuable set of actuaries' tables which after a year or two of office work was in such a condition that it had to be mounted with varnish, leaf by leaf, upon cloth, at a cost of L3 JOS. Apparently the transactions of societies have the least chance of any printed matter of a survival, for the paper employed is selected on account of its showy appearance, which is merely superficial, and when it loses its luster, what is printed on it vanishes. The Germans, who are giving attention to the subject, lately analyzed ninety- seven standard publications from various countries. Only four were found to have less than per cent. mineral stuff, and sixty-two were composed of inferior stuff and mechanical wood. It is known that drawing papers have become liable to attacks of microorganisms. One of the causes is the employment of gelatin as a sizing agent. When the papers become moist, as happens when color is applied, bacterial life is stimulated and rapid growth follows. It is proposed as a remedy to add antiseptics to the size, but they bring disadvantages of another sort. It may be assumed that the deterioration of water-color drawings is as often produced by the use of paper containing unsafe materials as by inferior colors.





<article title=" HOW INDIAN INK IS MADE " author="">HOW INDIAN INK IS MADE.

AN interesting account of the manufacture of the so-called Indian ink, extensively used by architects, and made in the Anhui province of China, is given by Mr. Fraser, United States consul at Wuhu, on the Yangtsze, in his last trade report. It is more correctly called China ink encre de Chine and from Anhui it goes to every part of China and all over the world.

The materials with which this beautiful black ink is

made are sesamum or colza oil, or the oil expressed from the poisonous seeds of a tree extensively cultivated in the Yang-tsze valley, and also well-known in Japan. To this varnish and pork are added. The lampblack made by the combustion of these substances is classed according to the materials and the grade of fineness, and also according to the time taken over the process of combustion. The paste made of this lampblack has some glue added, and is beaten on wooden anvils with steel hammers. Two good hammerers can prepare in a day eighty pieces, each weighing half a pound. A certain quantity of musk of the musk-deer, or of Baroos camphor, for scenting, and gold leaves, are added to give a metallic luster.

The materials thus prepared are molded in molds of carved wood, dried, which takes about twenty days in fine weather, and adorned with Chinese characters in gilding. About thirty-two average-sized sticks of ink go to the pound. The price varies from 50 cents or less per pound to as much as $35, there being over a dozen different grades.





<article title=" CURVED AND STRAIGHT LINES " author="">CURVED AND STRAIGHT LINES.

THE great horizontal lines formed by regular layers of worked stone, as in the huge temples of Egypt, give an impression of solidity, of duration to eternity. Nothing, on the other hand, can be gayer than the pagodas of the Chinese, with their roots curled up at the extremities a graceful combination of curve and the oblique. This form is to be found also in the shape of their shoes and of their head-dresses, and, stranger still, in the features of their faces. Again, nothing can be more doleful than the immense roofs of the countries of snow and ice, whose sides descend nearly to the ground by two dull and rigid lines, forming an acute angle, and stretching out from the side walls as if to enclose and smother the houses which they protect. This mode of construction still prevails in northern climes. A century ago no other was employed in the villages. The houses, which were nothing but a ground floor, disappeared beneath the thick and heavy thatched roofs, the projection of which kept out the day, and gave them the appearance of being covered by an extinguisher. It is easily understood how the deliberate and clearly meant predominance of one or the other of these lines can determine, with great precision, what impression a work of art shall produce, while their skilful combination can soften or modify it to the taste of the artist. But there is as much danger in exaggeration in the one direction as in the other. If the too frequent representation of similar lines repels by its monotony, the abuse of contrasting lines ends in a neutralization of one impression by another, that is to say, in a total want of meaning.





The floating stone is one of the wonders of Corea that travelers have spoken much and often about. The stone is of great bulk and shaped like an irregular cube. To all appearance it is resting on the ground, and is perfectly free from support on any side. If two men, standing at opposite ends of it, hold each the opposite ends of a thread, they will be able to pass the thread under the stone without encountering any obstacle. The natives consider it one of the greatest wonders of their land, and have erected a temple in its honor, known as the Fon Shih Miao.

