<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



ficial to them from an artistic point of view in toning down the difference between the two different varieties of stones.

Mr. Darling Speaking of that tower at Verona, do you not think there must have been a very violent contrast ?

Mr. Langton said there was still a violent contrast, but agreed that in buildings which had been scraped, as was sometimes done, there was a loss of colour and of harmony. 

Mr. Helliwell asked Mr. Langton if in the buildings he had referred to he had noticed any difference as to color between the base and points higher up?

Mr. Langton replied that he had not.

Mr. Pearson said that the reason why the arch never sleeps was that it is continually exerting a thrust. It was not because there was no repose about an arch. He should imagine that there was as much repose about a curved line as about a straight line.

Mr. Langton said he might be entirely wrong in his statement of the principle, but it is true that an arch which has a different spring from the arch alongside of it is unpleasant to see, and he thought the principle was that the arch is a restless line, and must be composed with straight lines

Mr. Darling: I think there is no question that you are right.

Mr. Gregg said he would like to get an expression of opinion on the use of white marble in buildings. In Ontario we have a great deal of marble, which was used, of course, for monuments, but not to any extent for buildings. In Toronto they seemed to avoid white marble---as a reminder of cemeteries or for some other reason that he did not know of. Now, would white marble he a good thing to introduce into our buildings?

Mr. Darling said if the question were asked, should it be used generally, he would say no. He believed that if a man understood his work it was possible to use white marble quite satisfactorily.

Mr. Gregg We hear of white marble being used in Italy.

A member We have not the same climate.

Mr. Paull remarked that there was one building in Wellington street where white marble was used to some extent, but at a distance it gave one the idea of whitewash.

Mr. Belcher said that in the south of Ireland there were buildings in which white marble was used in combination with a reddish trap rock they had there, and the effect was marvelously beautiful. The marble was, however distributed in such a way that it was toned down.

Mr. Gregg said that there was some marble found in Ontario that he believed could be combined and used with great effect in some sorts of buildings. Though they might not be suitable for the smoky parts of the city, he really believed that grand effects might be got by the use of some of our light marbles in suitable situations —effects which had never been attempted by the principal architects. He thought the subject was one worth investigating.

Mr. Dick said that a great deal of white marble was used in Philadelphia in connection with brick, both for window-sifts and steps, and the effect was that of being clean and tidy but rather glaring. He thought that white marble always had a blank appearance, like that

a newly whitewashed house. The marble palace in New York which was built by the late A. T. Stewart vas most unsatisfactory as regards the effect. It never looked as well as a sandstone building.

Mr. Belcher said that the white marble used in combination with limestone in the manner he had spoken of had not the glaring effect the white marble used as in Philadelphia was said to have. The stone with which t was used was nearly red, a purplish or bluish shade through it. In the way in which they had been combined there was nothing glaring or offensive in any way; on the contrary, the two stones blended most harmoniously.

Mr. Gregg said he certainly thought that some very bad use had been made of this material. For instance,

in Chicago he had seen building-s that were veneered with white marble an inch thick. A person who does that would not produce a very handsome design ; but he (Mr. Gregg) thought that for situations where there was no smoke or dirt to spoil the effect there was a chance, in the use of white marble, for the erection of very pleasing buildings.

Mr. Darling said he thought that if there was one material they ought to frown down the use of more than another it was pressed brick. He had never seen a building constructed of it that would not have looked many times better if common rough brick had been used. He thought that one of the charms of English and continental buildings was that the latter material was used in them.

Mr. Langton said that that was one of the things he had noticed. (The marble in the buildings he had referred to was not white, by the way, but yellowish). The brick which was used in combination with it was of the roughest kind. Speaking of pressed brick, once when he was ordering some common brick at the kiln the kiln—owner said that three years be fore, in order to compare with his own a brick from one of the pressed brick works, he had exposed a specimen of each brick on a fence. He showed him (Mr. Langton) a brick on the fence which he said was his own. It was as hard as ever it had been. The other, he said, he had to put under glass ; and showed it inside the porch going all to pieces.

Mr. Darling repeated that he thought the architects of this country ought to set their faces against the use of pressed brick. They could not get a pretty wall out of it. The beauty of a wall constructed of the old brick was that when the sun struck it there were no two places in it that looked alike.



<article title="Works of Construction" author="">WORKS OF CONSTRUCTION.

A new Baptist church has been completed in New Glasgow, N. S., from the plans of Mr. H. H. Mott, St. John, N. B.

The new biscuit factory being erected in St. John, N. B., by the Queen Biscuit Co. is nearing completion, and will be ready for occupancy by the end of the month.

Mr. Kivas Tulley, C. E., has prepared plans of a scheme to connect the Toronto Island with the main land by means of a tunnel instead of the proposed swing bridge. The crown of this tunnel will be eight feet below the level of the rock, and that portion of it lying immediately tinder the gap will be on the level. Those sections leading down from Bathurst street and up to the sandbar will be on a grade slightly steeper than five pet- cent. The tunnel will be lined throughout, and will be twenty feet in width, 16 feet in height capable of carrying two lines of street cars. It is also suggested that a water main, with convenient manholes, be built below the floor of the tunnel.



A large opera house is to be erected in Ottawa at a cost of $100,000, the contract for which has been given to Mr. E. E.

Horn of New York, The architects are Messrs. B. McElfatrick & Son, of New York, specialists in theatre building. The structure will have a frontage of 186 feet and will accommodate 1,500 persons. The stage will be 32 feet across, and the same in height. The drop curtain will be made of asbestos, so as to be fire proof, and the divisions between the theatre and the stage on each side of the drop curtain, clear out to the walls of the building, will be of solid brick and also fire proof. From front to rear the stage will be feet 8 inches deep.

Extensive buildings have been erected at Niagara Falls, Ont., for the Niagara Falls Metal Works Company. The buildings are brick and stone, and were erected by Messrs. Newman of St. Catharines, who built and finished everything complete. There is a main building, two stories high and 40 feet wide. The front is 120 ft., one wing 40 ft., and the other 20 ft., all floors 5 1/4 in. thick. There are six detached buildings, a boiler and engine building, a wood working building, for making wood hames and turning handles, a building for tinning and japanning, and one for storing steel, a malleable iron foundry, and a building for the annealing ovens.

A new addition to the School for the Blind, Halifax, N. S., has been completed It is 72 by 46 feet, built of brick, with freestone finishings and granite foundation. On the main floor are the offices of the board of managers and superintendent, the male teachers' sitting room, three sitting rooms for boys of different ages and a commonplace band room. On the second floor are seven small dormitories, four larger ones and a lavatory. The basement contains the tuning and electric rooms, boys lavatories, laundry, checking room and furnace room. The entire building contains in all one hundred rooms. A beautiful corridor runs behind the main building and connects the east and west wings. The general contractor for the new wing was Mr. Samuel Marshall, and the sub-contractors as follows: Messrs. Harris & Son, carpenter; Longard Bros., plumbers, and Martin & Moore, painters and glaziers. The heating apparatus was supplied by MacDonald & Co.

