<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	75



The James Smart Manufacturing Co., of Brockville, introduced in the Canadian market last year, the "Kelsey" warm air generator, which is said to embrace a number of special and advantageous features, such as large radiating surface, sectional fire pot, and a patent attachment designed to prevent the short pipes from robbing the long ones. This furnace is said to have met with a satisfactory sale.

It is the writer's opinion that if the same degree of thought and care that have been devoted to the invention and construction of heating apparatus were to be exercised by the persons entrusted with the work of installing the same, the operative results would be more satisfactory than they now are.

In pace with the development of hot water and steam heating boilers has come improvements in radiators. The Toronto Radiator Manufacturing Company and the Gurney Foundry Company of Toronto, who are



































































the pioneers in this line have recently been joined by the Gurney-Tilden Co., of Hamilton, one of whose radiators is shown on the preceding page, and a third company is in process of organization in Toronto for the purpose of engaging in this branch of manufacture. Radiators are now made in Canada in such a large variety of styles as to be adapted to almost every conceivable situation, from my lady's boudoir to the deck of a war ship one of Her Majesty's ironclads having been fitted by the Toronto Radiator Co. last winter, while lying in Halifax harbor. The accompanying illustrations show the perfection to which this branch of a modern heating system has been brought. The Florence radiator is the latest product of the Toronto Radiator Company's skill, and is herewith illustrated for the first time. The illustration on this page shows an

Oxford ventilating flue box base radiator, recently placed on the market by the Gurney Foundry Co. By means of a register damper shown in the engraving, cold air can be taken in at the bottom of the radiator, either from the room or from outside, conducted up between the coils of the radiator, becoming warmed thereby, and discharged into the atmosphere of the room from the top of the radiator. By this method the objection sometimes raised to hot water heating that it makes no provision for ventilation, is removed. This is a feature which is likely to commend Canadian radiators to European buyers, who are possessed of very advanced ideas on the subject of ventilation.

A Toronto company has made an entirely new departure in this line by manufacturing radiators for heating by electricity. These radiators are made of Canada Plate, and are about 3 inches in diameter. They are arranged horizontally like steam coils, and are intended to be supplied with current from the electric light company's mains. So tar as we are aware none of these radiators have as yet been installed. The possibility that the cost of heating by this method can be reduced to present standards is extremely doubtful, for which reason, as well as the fact that the method is to a large extent an untried one, the company who are seeking to introduce it are likely to meet with great difficulty.



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

[Correspondence of	the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AN!) BUILDER.]



P.	Q. A. A. DINNER.



THE Quebec Association of Architects held their second and last dinner for the season on the 16th of March. The attendance was good, and the occasion proved both interesting and instructive. The president, Mr. A. T. Taylor, occupied the chair. The association will, it is hoped, continue these dinners next y ear, as the benefits derived therefrom in the promotion of cordial relations between the members are quite apparent. Much of the success which these gatherings have attained in the past may be said to be due to the efforts of thc presiding officer and the committee in charge.



ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY EXHIBITION.



THE seventeenth annual spring exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy opened on April 1st at the Art Gallery, Phillips Square. A large assembly of members filled the galleries, refreshments were served and an excellent programme carried out.



As a whole the exhibition, although perhaps not quite so good as its predecessors, possessed much work of good quality.



Among the best exhibits may be mentioned those of Messrs. R.

Harris, Alp. Jongers, E. Dyonnet, Maurice Cullen, M. Robertson

Mr. Frairchere, Mr. Brymner, A. Patterson, J. Hammond, J.

Pinlsey, Suzor Cole, and others having their respective merits.

The portrait of "A Lady" also that of Colonel Jeffrey Burland, by Alp. Jongers are worthy of mention. Mr. Dickson Patterson exhibited a well rendered portrait of Prof. Chapman, and Mr. Dyonnet showed some landscape studies which are very good.

Mr. Pinhey's "La Penserosa" is well treated. Mr. Robert

Harris exhibited some splendid portraits Mr. Brymner's "Gray

Girl ". is certainly one of the best pictures in water color. The

Canadian landscape studies, by Mr. Maurice Cullen, are much

admired.

The sculpture department is small, but of good quality. Mr. Hill's portrait and bas relief are treated in a very decorative way.

Mr. Hebert's portraits in bronze are splendid. The group "Convoitise" is a fine piece of art.



STRIKE OF BRICKLAYERS.



A strike of short duration was commenced last week by the bricklayers of the city. The members of the Bricklayers' Union have been receiving 30 cents an hour for ten hours per day, but demanded that the scale of wages should be increased to 35 cents an hour, and that nine hours should constitute a day's work. At first neither side showed any inclination to yield, but through negotiations conducted in an amicable spirit, an agreement has been reached, fixing the rate of wages at 35 cents an hour for nine hours a day, and providing that union bricklayers shall be given employment in preference to others. The agreement dates from April 1st, and is for one year, four months before the expiration of which a conference is to be held to consider future relations. It is a matter of congratulation that an early settlement of the trouble has been effected.

