



<doctype type="text">It cannot be predicated with certainty that there will ever again be a new style. But there are certain principles on which the existing styles should be used, and it may be confidently asserted that if these principles are not followed there will assuredly never be a new style. Blind copying will never produce one. It would be a long task fully to analyze and formulate these principles, but for the present purpose they may be summed up into two propositions:

1st. That construction must be absolutely truthful, and must be expressed in forms appropriate to the purposes of the building; and 2nd, That no moulding OR r feature of any sort must ever be used merely from habit, or without careful analysis to discover why it is pleasing to the eye, and what it means, and even then it should be used only after long and careful consideration whether it should be used at all, what function it is to perform, and whether nothing better can be devised to perform that function.

The following out of these principles may never result in the formation of a new style. Certainly no one man will ever invent one; but it may be that the efforts of some of those who try faithfully to carry out these principles may start an influence that will increase as it rolls onward, until in course of time it will be found that unconsciously a new style has grown up. But assuredly the only efforts that will be of any avail will be inspired by an earnest striving after what is true and beautiful, and an honest love for art for its own sake. and only when these are vivified by at least some spark of that divine creative imagination which must be born in a man, and without which he may be a builder, but never an architect.



<person>Mr. Henry </person>said he had been wondering how an architect who confined himself to one style, and practised in that style only, was to live. Of course he could no doubt spend with advantage far more time than most of them did in studying one style ; still, necessity would compel him to branch out from it occasionally.

<person>Mr. Gibson </person>said that all the examples of distinct style had been exhibited in public buildings; but was not there a style developing in regard to private buildings, particularly in respect to those of the better class and of later dates?

<person>Mr. Darling</person>, in moving a vote of thanks to <person>Mr. Dick </person>for his paper, said that he thought that gentlemen had fully exhausted the subject. Speaking of a person following one style and still making a living, he (Mr. Darling) thought one of the best examples of that was <person>Norman Shaw</person>. The spirit of his work is Gothic, but he impresses upon it his own individuality. In following the old styles and old theories, he had not simply adapted the details from old work, but he had analyzed and found the principles underlying them, and then had done work himself that was as nearly original as it possibly could be. The trouble with most men in a country like this was that they had to adapt from old works certain features and embody them in new buildings. The Americans, to his mind, copied things straight. They had got a tremendous number of photographs, and they simply reproduced from them. He had noticed in the States a mantle-piece by <person>Mr. Richardson </person>which had been simply copied and put into a private house. It seemed to him that that was a mistake. The architects might have taken the general principles underlying the design of that mantle-piece and then adapted

it.	Norman Shaw had done this as far as the origin of his work was concerned, but by the time he had finished with the details the work was his own. If the younger men in the profession would devote themselves more to analysis the result of their work would be very much more satisfactory than if they simply copied ; and that there was a strong tendency to copying all over this continent was very manifest. He had great pleasure in proposing a vote of thanks to <person>Mr. Dick</person> for his able paper.

The motion was seconded by <person>Mr. Belcher</person>.

<person>Mr. Paull </person>observed that Mr. Dick, in tracing up the history of architecture, had shown that the art was governed in early times to a very large extent by the amount of stone that was within reach and subsequently alterations had resulted from other conditions of a similar kind. Mr. Dick had said that there did not seem to be any chance at all of another order of architecture springing up. He thought, however, a new order might arise, if one looked forward far enough---say a hundred years. That would be too late for this generation. Take the history of the lighthouses built within the generation. Take the Bishop's lighthouse at the Scilly Isles. Some years ago one was built there of iron, and it blew down a few years afterwards. Then a lighthouse was built there with a base of forty feet

built up almost solid, and carried about one hundred and twenty feet high. After a few years storms came and shook the lighthouse to its foundations, and blew off a portion of the lantern. Then engineers were called in again, and they found it was necessary to put a casing of stone on the outside of the lighthouse seven feet wide at the bottom and two feet wide at the top ; and now, he supposed, it is so strong that if an earthquake was to take place that lighthouse would not likely be shaken down. So that we see that these things are experimental, and done by progressive steps by superior men, and Mr. Dick's new style may arrive by and bye.

<person>Mr. Gibson </person>said that he thought an element in a new style would be the use of iron as a tie-rod, which had only been employed in the old styles incidentally. He could explain perhaps by reference to a cart-wheel. In the old style of wheel the spokes formed struts or braces; in the new style they formed a tie- quite an opposite force.

The President I have heard the bicycle was revolutionizing things ; I did not know it was going to revolutionize architecture.

Mr. Gibson said that if the principle was good in the bicycle which it was - there was no reason why it should not be good in architecture.

Mr. Simpson asked what would constitute a new style. It had often struck him that the architectural work in Chicago, for instance, was characteristic. He supposed many of those present were familiar with the work of <firm>Adler & Sullivan</firm>. He had not himself seen any other examples of the style they had brought out.

A member: It seems to be an adaptation of the Moorish. It is very largely decorative.

<person>Mr. Gregg </person>remarked that the definition in the paper pretty well answered the question whether a new style was possible. If the style must show the period and the character of the locality he did not think a new style was possible, because such conditions as those under which the old styles arose could never occur again. The large number of examples we have before us, and the facilities for travelling that now exist, make a very different set of conditions from those under which mediaeval builders worked.

Mr. Gibson Why is a new style desirable?

Mr. Darling: There is no outcry for a new style.

The President observed that he felt sure they had all been very much pleased by Mr. Dick's paper; and perhaps some thoughts that had been vaguely floating through their minds had been concentrated, and some thoughts added to them, by the paper.

The motion was then put and carried.

Mr. Dick thanked the Convention for their patient attention to rather a long paper. The subject, he had found after he had begun to get fairly into it, was really too big to he handed in a paper. It was a subject that would require a book, and a great deal of the matter of which he had notes which he had intended to use

which would have softened down, perhaps, by a further explanation, some of the points which seemed to have been rather crudely and baldly stated—he had found it necessary to drop out altogether simply for want of space. If he had attempted to go into all of the points which the subject had presented, he would have occupied their time for the whole of the afternoon and exhausted their patience as well. In reply to Mr. Henry's question as to how a young architect could make a living it he practised only in one style, Mr. Dick said that it was not always possible to pursue the course that was theoretically the best, and pointed out that most great architects had worked only in one style.

Mr. Paull rose to sax' that they had had a very valuable lecture or address on the previous day from the President. There had been very many valuable points in it which had been presented with a sequence that he thought they all admired. There had been no vote of thanks to their respected presiding officer proposed at the time, and he did not think it was out of order to propose one now. He therefore moved now a vote of thanks to <person>Mr. Gordon </person>for his very valuable address.

The Convention signified their approval of the motion by applauding heartily.

