<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	215

from the west) are also of masonry, and are each

feet long; the width of the roadway from Front street to the approaches on Lake street is 37 ft. 6 in., with a sidewalk on each side of 7 1/2 feet clear. The approaches on Lake street have a roadway of 31 ft. 6 in., and a sidewalk on the north side only of 7 1/2 ft. wide, making a total length of roadway, including the east and west approaches, of 1,580 ft.

The piling for the piers and abutments was done



































































































the C. P. Railway Co.; the contract for masonry was awarded to the Owen Sound Stone Company, and the iron and steel work was furnished by the Central Bridge Co., of Peterboro', Ont. The Bridge Company commenced their erection on the 23rd of October, 1896. The deck and sidewalks were laid by the C. P. Railway Co., and consist of 4-inch crested southern pine, upon which was laid rectangular pine blocks, all interstices being filled with paving pitch.

The sidewalks are of 2-inch tamarack planks. The parapet railing and the terminal posts are of a substantial character, but neat in design.



Probably, as the result of the petition of the P. Q. A. A. to the City Council of Montreal, the suggestion has been made in the Council of the suburban municipality of Westmount, that a committee be appointed to regulate the erection of public monuments and memorials, and pass upon the design of public buildings.

MASTIC.---A French engineer recently discovered a new kind of





















































































































mastic, which is already largely employed throughout France, and which has even begun to be exported in considerable quantities, especially to eastern countries. The product, which, it is asserted, is indestructible, is composed of linseed oil mixed with ninety-three parts of powdered brick and seven parts of litharge, the brick and the litharge being pulverized separately, then well mixed and reduced to a paste by means of the oil. The object to which the mastic has to be applied should first be dampened with a sponge. After application, in say about three or four days, the coating becomes perfectly hard, and will effectually prevent the filtration of water in terraces, basins and masonry in general.

