

<doctype type="text">probable that the price of heating apparatus, especially furnaces, will be lowered. The competition in this line has been so keen of late years as to produce very inadequate returns for the capital invested, and the public are now purchasing furnaces at the lowest possible cost of production consistent with efficient apparatus. One effect of the revised duty on pig iron will probably be to enable Great Britain to supply a greater quantity, as under the preferential clause she will be given an advantage over the United States. It is well known that, where in earlier years Great Britain supplied the bulk of the iron used in Canada, to-day the United States practically controls the market, as will be seen by reference to the figures of imports given above. The cost of production has evidently been greatly reduced in the latter country, while the cost of shipping is also in favor of the United States.





<article title=" CANADIAN HEATING APPARATUS AND

METHODS.

" author="">CANADIAN HEATING APPARATUS AND

METHODS.

In connection with the article which appeared under the above caption in the April ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, the following particulars reached us too late to be embodied in the review:



Messrs. H. R. Ives & Co., of Montreal have undertaken some changes looking in the direction of making the patterns and plant more perfect, so as to give the





















































greatest uniformity in thickness of metal, and in perfect fitting of all the parts. Their " Buffalo" boiler has met with a favorable reception, as indicated by the fact that a shipment was recently made to South Africa.

Practical experience is continually suggesting improvements in the furnace manufacturers' plant, and each year some steps in this ·direction become necessary. As manufacturers of coal and wood furnaces the McClary Mfg, Co., of London, are among the leaders. They advise us that their " Famous Magnet" wood furnace was first introduced four years ago, and that their sales each year have been nearly doubled. For the coming season they are now making two new sizes, Nos. 12 and 112, of a cheaper and lighter line, and without ash pit. They also now make furnaces with tour radiators taking 38 1/2 and 50 inch wood. For their two larger sizes they have just completed a set of patterns for the burning of soft coal in addition to wood, to be used in territories where both fuels abound.

The " Famous Florida" coal furnace for this year, shown in the above cut, is so arranged that either flat or triangular grates can be fitted, as required, but in all cases they advise the use of flat grates.

The Clare Bros. Co., of Preston, Ont., are about to introduce a new hot water boiler and also a new steel radiator. The company have been experimenting for some time past with these new heating appliances, and have now brought them to what they regard as being a satisfactory standard of perfection. As already stated,

this new radiator, which is about 16 inches in height, is constructed of steel, having cast directly to it an ornamental cast iron top and base. The manufacturers claim that this steel radiator will radiate much more quickly than if made of cast iron, and as a proof that they are working on right lines, point to the fact that the tendency in the manufacture of hot air furnaces, cooking ranges, etc., of late years, has been in the direction of steel.



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.]



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



THE competition of the P. Q. A. A. for a "Letter Heading and Seal," open to architects and draughtsmen, has been decided by the committee of architects appointed for that purpose, as follows:

The design marked with the motto of "Velos" was awarded first position, thus winning the premium prize of $20.00. The author of this suitable design, Mr. C. B. Patterson, has well handled the subject. Mr. Andrew Lindsay was awarded second place, and will receive $5.00.

It is to be hoped that if similar competitions should be inaugurated in the future, students will see it to be to their interest to respond more generously.

The course of lectures delivered during the last four months in the Art Gallery under the auspices of the P. Q. A. A. terminated on the 20th ult. with the lecture on "The Story of an Illustrious Abbey," by Mr. A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., president of the Association. The lecture, which is published elsewhere in this number, was illustrated by stereopticon views, and proved to be most interesting and instructive.

The Association are to be congratulated on the success which has attended this series of lectures. Should another series be arranged next year, they would be certain to attract a larger attendance and deeper interest.

At a special general meeting of the Association held on the 14th April last, in Montreal, the following resolutions were passed unanimously

The Province of Quebec Association of Architects have learned with gratitude that His Excellency Lord Aberdeen, Governor General of Canada had consented to be nominated as patron of the Association.

Resolved "That His Excellency Lord Abrdeen, Governor General of Canada, be Patron of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, and that the said Association offer to His Excellency their hearty thanks for the honor thus conferred." On proposition of Mr. A. C. Hutchison, seconded by Mr. A. Raza it was also resolved: "That considering the generosity manifested of Mr. William C. McDonald by the creation, donation and equipment of a Chair of Architecture at the McGill University, the Association desires to express its approbation and gratitude for the benefaction bestowed upon the whole profession throughout the Dominion, and think that they cannot in a better manner convey their thankfulness than by electing him an honorary member of the Association."



<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

The Review of Reviews for May devotes its entire department of "Current History in Caricature" to the reproduction of cartoons illustrating various phases of the Turkish question.



The Canadian Manufacturer will shortly publish a special edition which will contain the new Canadian and American tariffs as well as the present British tariff and British Merchandise Act.



The proceedings of the Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science for the academic year 1896-97, a copy of which we acknowledge receipt of, contains many interesting and valuable papers on engineering subjects. Among those of interest to architects and builders are the following: "The High Building Problem," by W. B. Mundie; "Concrete on Trent Valley Canal," by H. F. Greenwood, C. E.; Foundations for a Twenty-one Story Building," by T. K. Thomson, C. E., and "Crushing Strength of White Pine," by A. H. Harkness.



A useful book has just made its appearance from the press of Messrs. John Wiley & Sons, New York and London, entitled "Hydraulic Cement, its Properties, Testing and Use." The author is Mr. Frederick P. Spalding, M. Am. Soc. C. E., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, Cornell University. This book contains the results of a careful study by the author of the nature and properties of hydraulic cement, methods of testing, and the limitations within which they may be accepted as reliable indications of value. A chapter is devoted to the use of cement in concrete, and mortar. The price of the book is $2.00.



One of the neatest productions of the printer's art which has reached our desk is catalogue "M" of the Metallic Roofing Company, of Canada, which contains numerous half-lone illustrations of artistic designs of ceiling and side-wall plates, wainscoting, borders and friezes, cornices, mouldings and other like manufactures. Some striking effects are shown in the full-page illustrations of ceilings composed of several designs, with mouldings, crosses, etc., to match. A partial list of buildings in which.

Hayes" patent lathing, Eastlake shingles and embossed ceilings have been used is given, and show a wide distribution of these goods.

