<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	91



<article title=" THE LATE MR. ALAN MACDOUGALL " author="">THE LATE MR. ALAN MACDOUGALL

IN the death of Mr. Alan Macdougall the well-known



civil engineer of Toronto, the city has lost an honored citizen and the engineering profession one of its most valued and popular members. It was generally known that for some time past Mr. Macdougall's health had been failing, and last year he visited Europe in the hope of gaining renewed strength. At one time he was thought to be on the road to recovery, but a few weeks ago the report was received in Toronto of his death, which occurred on the 23rd of April, at Exmouth, Devon, in the south of England.

Deceased was born in the year 1842, and was the third son of the late Col. Macdougall, of Edinburgh, Scotland, in which city he received an education of a high standard. In the year 1859, when seventeen years of age, he was articled to Mr. Charles Jopp, consulting engineer of the North British Railway Company, Edinburgh, finishing his term in 1863. Two years later found him resident engineer for the Monctonhall, Ormiston and Dalkeith branches of the above railway, which position he retained until coming to Canada in 1868. He was first employed in this country in making preliminary and location surveys and as chief assistant on construction of the Toronto, Grey and Bruce railway, under Mr. Wragge, then as resident engineer for the North Grey branch of the Northern Railway of Canada. For four years following 1873 he was employed on the staff of the Department of public Works, Ottawa, having charge of construction of improvements on the upper lakes and lower St. Lawrence.

In 1877 Mr. Macdougall returned to his native land, and was placed in charge of the head office of the North British Railway Company, as chief draughtsman, a position which he held for five years, after which he returned to Canada. For one season he was divisional engineer for the Canadian Pacific Railway Company on their South Western branch, and during the following four years practiced as consulting engineer at Toronto, being for two years in partnership with Mr. Gray under the firm name of Macdougall & Gray.

Early in the year 1887 Mr. Macdougall received the appointment of assistant city engineer of Toronto, under Mr. Sproatt, in which capacity he rendered valuable service to the city, including some experiments to determine the direction and velocity of the currents in Lake Ontario, He also made the first surveys, in accordance with the report of Messrs. McAlpine & Tulley, in connection with the proposal to obtain water from the Ridges and Lake Simcoe. Owing to failing health, Mr. Macdougall obtained leave of absence from the city in 1888 to visit Great Britain. Shortly after his return his resignation was presented to the City Council, since which time he has been engaged in consulting practice in Toronto, devoting much of his time to sanitary science. Having given careful study to the subject of sanitary engineering, his services have been sought by municipalities in different parts of the Dominion. He was engaged by the city of Toronto to report on the sanitary condition of Ashbridge's Bay, and prepared plans for sewerage systems at St. Catharines, Stratford, Peterboro', Belleville, Vancouver, B. C., Brandon, Man., and other places. The valuable assistance rendered during an outbreak of diphtheria at St. Johns, Newfoundland, was such that he was solicited by the authorities of that city to accept the position of city engineer, which, however, he declined.

The late Mr. Macdougall was honored, in 1887, by being elected a member of the British Institute of Civil Engineers. He was also a Fellow of the Royal Society, Edinburgh, and the Royal Scottish Society of Arts, and in 1880 received the last named society's honorary silver medal for his paper on " Canadian Light Rays." He was prominently connected with the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, and largely through his persistent efforts the organization of the Society was effected in 1887. For many years he served as a member of the Council, and in 1894 was chosen vice-president. From the time of the organization of the association until his death he labored faithfully to obtain such legislation as would make the society a close corporation, not with the object of personal advantage, but in the hope that by this means the professional status of engineering would be elevated. He was without doubt the most enthusiastic and earnest advocate of professional ethics in the society, and a perusal of the transactions of that body will show the time and attention which he devoted to the cause. An interesting paper on the subject, entitled " The Professional Status, a Plea for a Close Corporation," was read at the annual meeting in 1892,



Mr. Macdougall took an active interest in the Canadian Institute in this city, was elected secretary in the year 1886, and held the position until his death. The portrait which appears on this page was taken from a painting by Mr. W. Sherwood in the possession of the Institute. As secretary of the committee Mr. Macdougall took the first steps to secure the approaching visit to the city of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Deceased was elected a member of the St. Andrews Society in 1869 and appointed secretary in 1894. He was also a member of the Gaelic Society, and for two terms served as examiner at Toronto University.

Mr. Macdougall married a daughter of the late Dr. McFaul, of Toronto, and leaves a widow and four daughters. Personally, it may be said of him that all who knew him were his friends. A striking feature of his character was

his consideration for others, and the kindly interest which he always evinced in the welfare of young men secured for him a host of friends. He was a great student, and might ever be found adding to his wealth of knowledge.





It is reported that the firm of J. & C. Hodgson will shortly reassume operations at their pipe foundry at St. Henri, Que.

A valuable deposit of asbestos is said to have been discovered at Fish Creek, about twenty-five miles from Calgary,

N.	W. T.

It is reported that Haigh, Son & Co., the large Liverpool glass manufacturers, are about to establish extensive glass works at River du Loup, Que.

The plant of the Safe Lock, Metal, Shingle and Siding Company, of Srnithville, Ont., has been purchased by a new company at Preston, Ont., formed under the name of the Metal Shingle and Siding Company. Cyrus Dolph, J. N. Clare, and H. D. Walker, all of Preston, are the first directors, and the capital of the company is $10,000. The new company started, operations last month.

The following parents have been granted for Canada: Peter

Fraser, Hamilton device for heating and lighting; F. L. Decarie,

Montreal, hose coupling; Philip Nicolle, Toronto, water closet

Adolphe Vervort, Montreal, fire-proof flooring and ceiling; P. C.

Ogilive, Montreal, radiator section couplings; Carl Rubel, Louth,

Ont., art of making lime; E. S. Manny, Montreal, hot water and

steam boiler 1. and J. W. Crichton, Halifax, N. S., sash lock

Jas, D. Murphy, New York, fire-proof floor arch

