

<doctype type="text"><article title=" CANADIAN HEATING APPARATUS AND

METHODS.

" author="">CANADIAN HEATING APPARATUS AND

METHODS.

IN view of the fact that the climate of Canada in winter is at times somewhat severe, it is not surprising that the subject of artificial heating has here received much consideration, and as a result, heating apparatus and methods have been brought to the highest standard yet achieved in any country. In the early half of the century this subject received little or no attention. The open fireplace was the means employed both for cooking and heating. Then followed wood stoves, which, after























































































a considerable period of service, gave place to coal ranges for cooking and base burners for heating. With the advent of the latter the acme of method was believed to have been reached.

About twenty-five years ago the founders of the present firm of Warden King & Son, of Montreal, first introduced into Canada the method of heating by hot water. No better means could be found of rightly estimating the wonderful development which has since taken place in this direction than by placing side by side the old square " Spence" boiler first manufactured by the above-named company with the well-known "Daisy" boiler of which they are the makers at the present day.

In Ontario, where the climate is less severe than in the province of Quebec, improvement for many years took place on the line of heating by means of hot air furnaces, a system which, owing to its efficiency and cleanliness as compared with stoves, is still largely in use.

About fifteen years ago hot water heating was introduced in Ontario by the Gurney Company, who have since been in the front rank of inventors and manufacturers in this field. As a matter of course they were not long without competitors, and at the present time there are probably not less than twenty firms engaged in the manufacture of boilers, furnaces and radiators throughout Canada.

The number of manufacturers, however, is small compared with the number and variety of apparatus manufactured. As the manufacturers in this line increased, the law of self-preservation compelled each one to give the closest study to the scientific principles of beating and the devising of apparatus by which the largest amount of heat could be obtained and transmitted with the least expenditure of fuel. At the













































present time the principles underlying the generation and transmission of heat and the means of putting them in operation are so well understood that there is no place on the market for poorly designed and inefficient apparatus. A recent visit to several of the leading manufactories revealed the fact that, notwithstanding the degree of perfection which has been achieved, there is a constant striving after improvement, and apparatus embodying new features in design and construction is constantly being placed on the market. In this connection mention may be made of the following new apparatus:

The Doric hot water boiler, operated by both the gravity and pressure systems, introduced last year by the Gurney Foundry Company, and which by reason of its low cost and efficiency is reported to have met with a gratifying degree of favor; the new down-draught Economy school heater put on the market last autumn by the Pease Furnace Co., Toronto. This furnace is designed to burn wood or coal screenings, and in the case of a public school building near Toronto, is credited with having, by the use of screenings, cut the coal bill in half. The Pease Company are also preparing to introduce a hot water boiler which is said to embody some new features in design and construction. 

