<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	151



THE importance of inviting competitive designs for public buildings is not recognized to the extent desired, as evidenced in the case of the Longue Pointe asylum and the proposed new civic building. Regarding the latter, a protest against the manner in which the design was obtained has been entered by the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, and is now before the city council. A system of competition among qualified architects is undoubtedly the most satisfactory, and the beneficial results obtained by the employment of the best artistic skill should not be underestimated. Public buildings are the property of the citizens, and should be open to public completion. Such competitions, however, should be conducted under proper conditions, and only persons of unquestionable ability appointed to act as judges. Then will the superiority of architecture predominate and the standing of architecture be raised to its proper level.



<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The semi—annual examinations for admission to study of architecture and for registration were held on the 28th, 29th and 30th of July last, in the rooms of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, New York Life Building, at to o'clock in the forenoon each day. Only one candidate, Mr. W. A. Gagnon, of Westmount, presented himself for examination, he being successful. The examiners were Messrs. A. T. Taylor, Alex. C. Hutchison and Jos. Venne.

Although the date is not yet definitely decided, it is probable that the next annual meeting of the Quebec Association of Architects will be held about the end of September. The scheme for a Dominion Association, which has been pending for some time, will be discussed, also methods for the guidance of open competitions and several other subjects of importance.



<article title=" ARCHITECTURE AT MCGILL UNIVERSITY " author="">ARCHITECTURE AT MCGILL UNIVERSITY.



McGill- University has issued its programme of classes for the season of 1897-98. The architectural department, as is well known, was endowed by Mr. W. C. McDonald, the founder, with a very complete equipment. A special architectural department has been added to the faculty library, for the use of students. In addition to a number of new works a collection of architectural photographs is being formed, also a complete series of lantern slides for the illustration of the historical courses. Models, specimens of materials, and fittings for use in the course on building construction, materials, sanitation, etc., have been obtained. The museum of the engineering building possesses a large collection of sculpture casts.

The architectural department is under the supervision of Mr. Stewart Heubert Capper, M. A., A. R. I. B. A., A. R. C. A., as professor, and Mr. H. F. Armstrong as lecturer.

On recommendation of the faculty, the architectural and modeling classes will be open to women students.

Mr. A. T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A., R. C. A., has given to the students of the architectural course a prize of $25, and Mr. A. C. Hutchison, R.C.A., three prizes of $12, $8 and $5, to be awarded to the three undergraduates taking the highest standing in the freehand drawing of the first year.

THE DIGNITY OF TRADE.

ON this subject Mr. Andrew Carnegie, the successful iron manufacturer, of Pittsburgh, Pa., says

If a young man does not find romance in his business, it is not the fault of the business, but the fault of the young man. Business is not all dollars, these are but the shell ---the kernel lies within, and is to be enjoyed later, as the higher faculties of the business man, so constantly called into play, develop and mature.

The old prejudice against trade has gone even from the strongholds in Europe. This change has come because trade itself has changed. In old days every branch of business was conducted upon the smallest retail scale, and small dealings in small affairs breed small men ; besides, every man had to be occupied with the details, and, indeed, each man manufactured or traded for himself. The higher qualities of organization and of enterprise, of broad views and of executive ability, were not brought into play. In our day business in all its branches is conducted upon so gigantic a scale that partners of a huge concern are rulers over a domain. The large employer of labor sometimes has more men in his industrial army than the petty German kings had tinder their banners.

I can, with confidence, recommend the business career as one in which there is abundant room for the exercise of man's highest powers, and of every good quality in human nature. I believe the career of the great merchant or banker or captain of industry to be favorable to the development of the powers of the mind, and to the ripening of the judgment upon a wide range of general subjects, to freedom from prejudice, and the keeping of an open mind. And I do know that permanent success is not obtainable except by fair and honorable dealing, by irreproachable habits and correct living, by the display of good sense and rare judgment in all the relations of human life, for credit and confidence fly from the business man foolish in word and deed, or irregular in habits, or even suspected of sharp practice. The business career is thus a stern school of all the virtues.



<article title=" FOREIGN MARKET FOR CANADIAN BUILDING STONE " author="">FOREIGN MARKET FOR CANADIAN BUILDING STONE.

MR. E. Odlum, writing to the Toronto Globe on the further development of the foreign trade of Canada, says "As granite, marble and various ornamental stone are imported from many countries, and as Canada is rich in numerous varieties of high grade stone, there would seem to be an opening for trade along this line. The fact that Canada imports stone need not prevent an earnest, systematic, persistent attempt to export similar articles. I know many excellent granites, marbles and free stones in Conada that could be exported as ballast. In bulky, light cargoes ballast is required, and if well managed that very ballast might be used as valuable building and ornamental stone."



An Ottawa contractor named Stubbs is said to have taken his departure for parts unknown.



The end of the famous suit between the Great Northwest Central Railway Company and its contractor, Alphonse Charlebois, came with the recent decision of the privy council. The judgment of the privy council reverses that of the supreme court of Canada, and declares that the consent judgment for $622,000 given to Charlebois by the railway company is invalid. This consent judgment was secured by Charlebois, presumably for work done on the road, for which he was the contractor, and of which he bad been one of the directors.

