<doctype type="text">	96	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



chevet or apsidal arrangement and polygonal chapels. The English cathedrals have nearly always square east ends, the French  cathedrals almost always the chevet or apsidal east end. On the gorgeous shrine of thc Confessor, however, was lavished all the skill of Peter thc Roman citizen The mosaic pavement was brought from Rome. The enameled and mosaic encrusted twisted columns surrounding it are suggestions from the Roman. esque churches of Italy and he details are largely classical. We read that the Jews wept when they saw the second temple at Jerusalem so inferior, as they thought, to the glories of the first one. The 13th century English citizens must have rejoiced where they saw this new Abbey so infinitely grander than the previous one, and the old was forgotten in the glories of the new. The Societies for the Preservation of Ancient Buildings in England had they existed at that time, would have been horrified at the vandalism of Henry Ill, but they seem to have had no qualms of conscience in such matters in these good old days. They believed in the know thyself" of' Carlyle, and conscious of their power they had no hesitation in pulling down the work of their predecessors and building more nobly and grandly. To us there has been distinct loss and there has been gain: loss, in that many splendid buildings have disappeared forever gain, in that oftentimes finer ones remain to us in their place.

It is when we come down to comparatively modern times that we tremble for the ark '' and stay impious hands from meddling with those notable cathedrals and abbeys that have come down to us as a precious heritage front the past, for alas we know we have nothing worthy enough wherewith to replace them.

The centre of the new Abbey was the magnificent shrine of the Confessor, and if the good king knew, perhaps this was some compensation to him for the destruction of his church that he had built as well as he knew how in the dawn of the art in England.

Henry III lived to complete the choir and the east end of the Abbey with the ambulatory and chapels, the Chapter house, and at least the east—most bay of the nave, all which still exist, the date of this work being from about the year 1245 to 1260. The next four bays of the nave are credited to Edward the I., date about 1269 to 1300, and the remaining six bays were added in the following reigns of Edward the II and Edward the III. About the end of the 14th century and early part of the 15th century Abbot Litlington built the lower portion of the western towers forming t he west—most hay, but unfortunately left the west front incomplete, also built the refectory on the ancient walls of the Confessor's work, as well as the Abbot's house, the Jerusalem chamber, the west and most of the south cloister. In 1498 Abbot Estney, we are told, put in the great west window. In

King Henry the VII began his magnificent chapel on the site of the Lady Chapel built by Henry the III. The present western towers and gable were added by Sir Christopher Wren about the years 1730 to 1740, some say by his pupil Hawksmoor, but the weight of evidence is in favor of the great master. With the exception of the restoration of the chapter house by Sir Gilbert Scott, and a small portion of the facade of the north transept by the same architect, completed entirely within the last few years by Mr. Pearson, nothing since has been done to the main structure of the Abbey to alter it materially, and thus we are brought down to the present time. Such are the hare bones of chronology it will be my aim now in the remaining part of this lecture to clothe these with as vivid particulars and interest as I am able, and I trust gradually to unfold the beauty of this grand old Abbey.

No description of the Abbey would be complete without a reference to the great Benedictine monastery of which this church was a part, and before describing the Abbey in detail, a glimpse of' these buildings will not be out of place. It can only, however, be a mere glimpse, as a satisfactory account would require at least a whole lecture and as this subject has been so well treated recently elsewhere by Prof. Capper, it is the less necessary.

The general arrangement of Benedictine monasteries was always the same. We have a most interesting plan and description of St. Gall's in Switzerland built about the year 820 and also a bird's eye view of the one at Canterbury taken in the 12th century, preserved in the great Psalter in the Library of Trinity College, Cambridge, and on which Prof. Willis has written such an excellent monograph so that we are in no doubt as to he arrangement, and are therefore able to trace out the remains at West— minister 

The buildings at Westminister are, as they were in nearly all cases, on the south side of the church, and surround the cloisters, although singularly enough in the two examples referred to above, they are on the north side of the church. On the eastern side of the cloisters was t be dormitory built on the old walls of Edward the Confessor, which communicated with the south transept so that the monks could get comfortably to early prayers. Below this was the common room of the monks. From this east walk entrance is obtained to the beautiful chapter house.

On the south side of the cloister was the refectory, kitchens, etc., and on the west side was the Abbot's house, in which is the fatuous Jerusalem chamber.

To the cast of this group of buildings lay the infirmary, with smaller cloisters and an infirmary chapel and outbuildings. The north walk of the cloister next the Abbey was the Scriptorium, where the monks patiently elaborated their beautiful missals and manuscripts.

To students of architecture it is interesting to notice the great irregularity of the cloisters, the north and east sides being divided each into six buys, and the elevations emphasize the differences still more. Also the east wall of the cloister being co-ordinate with that of the Confessor's work takes the place of a west aisle to the south transept, differing thus from the north transept which has aisles on both sides. At Salisbury and in most other examples we find time cloisters regular and a unit in design.

The cloisters are amongst the most charming hits of the old monasteries and cathedrals, and I must confess that to me they have often formed the most attractive spots where I have lingered longest, and returned again and again with ever fresh pleasure. Here, away from the noise of the outer world, guarded by the venerable buildings that look down on them, lie these simple grass plots of hallowed ground surrounded by the open traceries and moulded arcades, where the changing shadows flit in and out, and the sunshine lights up ever and anon the old inscriptions on the pavements, gradually being obliterated by the feet of successive generations of men. here quiet lives have been spent and ended, and their memorials are preserved perchance only by the illustrated missals and manuscripts now in museums and libraries, and to which they dedicated their strength and talents. Despise them not By their laborious and loving industry tile)' kept the lamp of knowledge and devotion bright and shining in those ages before the era of printing and handed down to us living thought of inestimable value.

When one thinks of the lovely double arcaded cloisters perched like an eagle's eerie on the top of the sea-girt rock of Mount St. Michel in Normandy; on that famous Campo Canta cloister at Pisa glowing with the brightest work from the brush of Benozzo Gozzoli, Andrea Orcagna, and Spinello Aretino; on the beautiful cloisters of Santa Croce at Florence the work of the great Arnolfo; on the mosaic encrusted arcades at Monreale and Palermo; thoughts arise too deep for utterance. But amid all the splendors of these cloisters one turns with very loving thoughts to the gray, worn and simple, but touchingly pathetic cloisters of our own English Salisbury, Lincoln and Canterbury, and not least to those of Westminister.

it ma)' be interesting to those who like definite figures to know that the Abbey, including Henry the Seventh's chapel is 530 feet long externally and the width across the transepts is 203 feet that they have is 38 ft. 7 in, wide, and 101 ft. 8 in. high inside; and that the height of the western towers is 225 feet I may add that of the English cathedrals York covers the greatest area, Winchester is the longest and Westminster' comes fourth in point of length and area.

We make the confession at once that the least interesting portion of the Abbey is its exterior. It has been ruined by so-called "restorers" who would have been better named "destroyers." It is far less effective than many a smaller church. As we have already pointed out it has no central tower' and therefore no main feature to dominate the whole structure as at Lincoln, Canterbury, Salisbury or Norwich, This is much to be regretted, as the balance of composition of a high central tower or spire, amid subordinate western towers or spires is always felt to be eminently satisfactory. Sir Christopher Wren adopted the same idea in St. Pauls with its magnificent central dome and the two beautiful western campanili towers.

The Continental builders gave more prominence to time western towers and made their central feature of' lighter design ——more of the character of the fleche, and less important, and I cannot but think that many of their compositions suffer thereby. If it were possible to ream' a lofty massive tower and spire at the crossing of the nave and transepts of Amiens or Rheims, or Notre Dame at Paris, in harmony wit It their magnificent western fronts, instead of the fleches now existing, we would have splendid buildings that would be almost unrivalled amongst all other mediaeval creations.

As we found a strong French influence at work shaping the plan of Westminster, possibly nothing more was contemplated at the crossing than a fleche, after the Continental manner, more especially as the four piers of the crossing do not appear strong enough to carry a heavy tower.

We learn from a report made by Wren on the condition of the Abbey that lie contemplated a central tower at the time he erected the two western towers. He says : '' The original intention was



plainly to have had a spire, the beginnings of which appear on time corners of the cross but left off before it rose so high as the ridge of the roof. In may opinion the tower should give a proper grace to the whole fabric, and the west end of time city which seems to want it. I have made a design which will not be very expensive and light, but still in the Gothic form and of a style with the rest of the structure. To deviate from the old would be to run into a disagreeable mixture which no person of a good taste could relish. I have varied a little from the usual form in giving 12 sides to the spire instead of 8 for reasons to be discerned in the model. The angles of pyramids in the Gothic architecture were usually enriched with what the flower botanists call

Calceolus " which is a proper form to help workmen to ascend on the outside to amend any defects without raising large scaffolds. I have done the same Its being of so good use as well as agreeable ornament."

However much one might have desired to see what Wren would have made of it, yet considering his imperfect knowledge of Gothic, and the semi-classic detail of his so-called Gothic western towers, I am unfeignedly thankful to his wishes were not carried out arid than nothing was done.

Undoubtedly a central tower of good design would add enormously to tile appearance of the Abbey, and I feel sure that if Mr. Pearson, its present architect, was intrusted with the work the result would be worthy of the best traditions of mediaeval times.

Wren was permitted, however, to build tire two western towers amid complete the west gable. In time same report, referring to these towers, he says : ' I have prepared perfect draughts and models, such as I conceive may agree with the original scheme of the old architect without any modern mixtures to show toy own inventions."

In spite of this declaration there was very munch of ' modern mixtures '' which are to be deplored. Time lines of the towers are

