



<doctype type="text">arch is used, is shown by the fact that a flat arch does sleep. The effect of repose is as great where a flat arch is used as if it had been a lintel.

Now I think we may say that in most building some

rangement one often sees of a round headed window on the side of a drawing room towards the street, and square headed ones on another side, the square head on the same line as the intrudes of the round head, though



faction. To my mind the resulting effect of the most thoroughly Gothic cathedral is that of repose. The condition may be one of equilibrium only, but the equilibrium must be obvious in order to please the eye and then the resulting effect is repose.

It follows then that active looking arches cannot be inserted in a wall any how without upsetting the obviousness of this equilibrium. We do not want to have to reason about the stability of a wall but to see clearly at first glance that it is stable, and indeed an emphasis of stability gives more satisfaction. As a rule in masonry, what looks strong enough has an excess of strength, so that if we are to make arch work look right we must go beyond the mere consideration of statical needs, and give some consideration to artifices, by which the curved lines of the arch (which, as I said, seem to be the chief indicators of its restlessness) may be composed. One of these is uniformity in the springing line. This is a point which is often disregarded when the arches, though visible together, are not close together. When the openings form a regular arcade the need of making the arches spring from the same line is clear, but it does not seem to be so clear that there ought to be a springing line for each storey, just as definite as lines of strings and cornices which indicate the floor and ceiling levels. It is not a question of real stability, but one of repose gained by the composition of lines, and though ample piers may be between them, arched windows which spring from below the heads of square headed windows in the same storey (Fig. 7),































































can never be as pleasing as those which spring from the level of these heads. (Fig. 8.)

It is as bad inside a room as without it, and the are

they are not often seen together from outside are always seen together inside, and the effect is unpleasing. The old colonial composition which we so often see is a good example of the right composition of square and round headed openings. (Fig. 9.) The moving line of the arch obtains rest by the intervention of the horizontal line emphasized by the cornice.

In this last we have an illustration of a habit of mind which ought to go hand in hand with the determination to avoid shams. The architect of shams has some kind of convenient construction covered up and masked with an appearance of some other kind of construction. The architect who likes to state the facts is too often content merely to state them, forgetting that a mere statement can hardly be called art. The difference between simple expression and artistic expression is that one lays the facts before us, leaving us to find out for ourselves what they are. The artist, poet, painter, architect, puts them in such a way that they strike at once without one's having the trouble to think at all. That is what makes the artist. He is not content until he has expressed the matter so that it will impress some one else.

 There is a large stock of means to this end at the disposal of every architect.

The whole list of mouldings, features and ornaments serve for this purpose. Some, as in the case of the base to which I alluded before, have

