

<doctype type="text">CONCRETES 



for floors and pavements can be prepared thus Remove the soil to a depth of two feet, and then lay in the largest stone or rubble you can obtain to the depth of one foot, and on top of this shoot sufficient small stones about the size of eggs---to fill up the interstices, and level the surface smooth. On top of this put a layer of coarse gravel six inches thick, and well douse the whole with water, and let it remain some days until it has well settled. The stuff so laid in will form a solid body or foundation for the concrete, which should be prepared as follows Mix one barrel of good cement with 3 pounds of clean sharp sand ; well mix together in the dry state, and then make the mixture into a paste by sprinkling sufficient water on it, well stirring the whole. To the compound thus mixed add two barrels of stone chips and two barrels of coarse gravel, but only as much as the paste will readily combine with. Mix all thoroughly, and then tip it on the bed or foundation, and level it off to its proper height. Proceed with the laying of this deposit as quickly as possible, and when the whole surface is covered, ram it down by the aid of a rammer, such as is used by paviors. Finish off the surface by laying on a thin layer of pure cement mortar to bring the surface to complete evenness, Do not let it dry too quickly, but wet it occasionally so that it shall have all the water it will absorb.

CONCRETE MARBLE.



No. 1.——Ingredients Milk of lime (prepared by steeping lime in water, allowing it to settle, and pouring off the fluid, which is the '' milk of lime " required), finely-powdered marble or limestone, or else chalk ; a small quantity of coarsely-powdered limestone. Preparation Mix the marble, limestone, or chalk with the milk of lime until it acquires the consistency of paste, and to give the whole more cohesion add the coarsely powdered limestone. Lay the compound as quickly as possible, as it dries very quickly, and becomes hard.

No 2.—Five parts coarse sand, 12 parts pebbles, 3 parts lime.

No. 3.- Sixteen parts pebbles, 8 parts river sand, 2 parts lime. Mix with water to a suitable consistency.

SPECIAL MORTARS.



HYDRAULIC MORTAR. Burn some lime (CaO, calcic oxide), and then moisten the burnt lime with water and allow it to fall into a powdery condition by exposing it to the air ; this powder will be calcic hydrate (C2OH2O)

---i.e., slaked lime). Separately prepare some kisselguhr (infusorial earth or fossil meal), by washing, drying, gently heating, and pounding up any lumps that may be formed ; then mix this fossil meal with the calcic hydrate in equal weights, and mix the compound with water to form a suitable working consistence. For mortars that are not much exposed to water, mix part of infusorial earth with two parts of calcic hydrate (by weight). Another good hydraulic mortar may be made by mixing 1 part of alum shale with two or three parts of the slaked lime. The mixture is moistened with water for use, and used as mortar. it dries very quickly, becomes hard and impermeable.

A mortar for damp places may he made by using a warm solution of green vitriol (sulphate of iron or ferrous sulphate, as it is also called), with which to slake the lime, and mixing the slaked lime with very fine quartz sand.

To make ordinary mortar harden under water, add a little manganese to it.

Turkish mortar, for use in building solidly-constructed edifices, is prepared by mixing with water to the desired consistency part of powdered brick and 2 parts of sifted lime. Put this on in layers of in. or 6 in. thick between the course of brick and stone.





<article title=" RULES FOR MEASUREMENT " author="">RULES FOR MEASUREMENT.

Many states have different rules of measuring for various portions of buildings, and we give below a few rules which are in general practice throughout many of the states, says the National Builder

STONE WORK.



Measure rubble work by the cubic foot or by the cord of one hundred cubic feet.

Measure the outside of walls for their length, exclusive of pilasters.

At re-entrant angles measure through the walls both ways.

The section of a pilaster shall be measured as the sum of its face and returns multiplied by twice its projection from the face of the wall.

Measure openings over four feet in width as though four feet were unbroken.

Measure openings of greater width than five feet as five feet narrower than their actual size and deduct the balance.

Independent piers shall be measured at their actual cubic contents, and paid for according to the character of the work.

Footing courses shall be measured by same rules as walls.

Ashlar work, range work, copings, etc., are to be measured superficially after measuring the walls as rubble. Openings shall be deducted with the exception of reveals.

BRICK WORK.



Masons' measure shall be reckoned at 7 1/2 brick per foot super for each half brick of thickness of wall.

To get the lengths of walls measure the outside exclusive of pilaster.

At re-entrant angles measure the thickness of the wall one way, thus giving the actual material.

The section of a pilaster shall be measured as the sum of its face and returns multiplied by its projection from the wall.

Measure all openings of ten square feet or less as though they were unbroken.

Measure openings over tour feet in width as though four feet narrower than their actual size, and deduct the balance.

Independent piers shall be measured at twice their actual contents, and paid for according to the character of the work.

hollow walls Allow the mason one-half the air space.

We also give the rules for measuring roofs of different materials

SLATE AND TILE ROOFS.



Measure by the square of 100 feet.

Measure the slope at one foot longer than the actual length covered.

Measure only to the edge of slates on gable, and measure one foot more than is actually covered on each side of hips and valleys.

