<doctype type="text">172	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



dragged, culminated in the greet conflict whose arena was transferred from Germany to Northern Italy. When Ghibellines and Guelfs had exhausted every resource of men and money, and every princely family was somewhat hard-pressed, many of the petty chieftains of the north, who had become mercenary to either faction, settled down with their freebooting retainers, or squatted we ought to say, upon the soil of Tuscany. And, as already men had begun to know their value as fighters, their personal value in a political equation was likely to he considered. (Quite naturally then, the advent of sturdy Northmen, who gloried in their

personal freedom, transmitted a sort of contagion of unrest to the more patient vassals on the Tuscan plains. Thence to the cities spread an awakening towards a sense of man's individuality, or his value to himself as well as to the state. This was the daybreak of a new era. When the aurora of this new age darted above the horizon in Italy, the artists, instead of servilely painting conventual designs at the command of their superiors, began also to think for themselves, with the result that there soon appeared the master-pieces of Cimibue, Di Grandi, Da Vinci, Raffael, Angelo.

With the releasing of the grip of Italian feudalism upon he bodies and minds of its minions, both art and letters responded to the impulse of expansion. But the nobles were poor and the church was rich consequently, she that had nursed a feeble art in the cell of her convents through the dark ages, became its patron when it afterwards grew strong in the free air of a renaissance. The artists, who were not monks, remained worshippers at the shrines of the church, and so between the patron and the worshipper was evolved the sacred art that is the standard by which art, both sacred and secular, has ever since been measured.

In looking for the causes of its decline we see the further tribulations which befell the Christian church. History has already made us familiar with the frequent and unfortunate alliances into which it was led by knights-bishop and knights-errant during the stormy centuries that succeeded the scarcely less stormy Crusades. Years they were, darkened with a moral effeminacy that reached its climax of folly ultimately in a widespread sale of indulgences which shocked the conscience of the world, and in a general moral paralysis that did not greatly revive even under the galvanism of the Reformation. During later years the successors of Raffael (a noble line of painters, including Dominichino Fra Angelico and many, many such), reproduced from the cloister reflections mostly of his great master-pieces. What moral decrepitude began political revolutions completed, and to-day the shattered remnants of the ecclesiastical strongholds of mediaeval Europe serve but to show where temporal sovereignty of the church, together with the studio of the cloister, once existed. But while these destructive forces were at work there was a constructive element plainly visible also. Independent tribes became welded into nations feudal states gradually grew into kingdoms and turbulent chaos was metamorphosed into a cosmos somewhat resembling peace. Rulers received their crowns from Episcopal hands, but eventually wearied of the constant interferences of ecclesiastics, with the inevitable result that kingly patronage was given in the course of time to Painters-Royal. Commissions for historic pictures lured the pencils of the artists away from biblical designs the popularity of the monastery as a picture mart declined; Sacred Art grew feeble, and still is mourned as dead.

Through this review of early conditions affecting Sacred Art, we are aware of its limits and are better prepared for a definition of the term. Sacred Art, as generally understood, treats of Bible themes, embracing the worship of God, the observances and sacred acts of the prophets, of the disciples of Christ and the priests of the temple, together with historic incidents in the life of Christ. Around these may be grouped events in the lives of devout members of the Christian church, who have been in later years canonized by its councils. Here the classification ends. Much of the latter material might properly be termed religious art, treating as it does the ceremonials and religious rites of the Christian church, and the signification of sacred" be limited to apostolic themes. But there is no evidence that such distinction has ever been made by the church that has given us both theme and picture, nor by any writer on the subject. We must therefore accept this definition as canonic; and in doing so it will be seen the barriers set up are strong, nor do they confine us within a very narrow sphere.

The effort to limit Sacred Art to its old barriers is manifestly as great as to confine the City of London within the radius of the music of Bow Bells, or within the confines of the old wall. While a vast population hives around her it draws life from her heart

and is known by her name, so within the province of Sacred Art and around its heart there would seem rightfully to cluster all those themes that live upon the story and teaching of the Book of Books.

It will be wise now in the interest of our theme to look for a few moments at the nineteenth century it self and note its influence upon art. Its tendencies ought to be considered, the national movements and local influences as well, and the men who stand at the gateways of its history. This age is characterized by a scrutiny of every material and condition that effects a truth even if that truth have in it man's temporal well-being or eternal salvation. Three centuries ago, owing to prevalent illiteracy, faith was narrower even if it was necessarily stronger, in the intercourse of trade amongst the people, or in regard to the teachings of the only educated class of that day. It was

dential, as I understand the term, that the magic lever of knowledge was held in the hands of a community whose raison d'etre was their belief in a God of holiness and a Christ Redeemer of the souls of men. Their teachings saved the race from moral extinction, and it stamped the record of the people's simple faith upon the missiles and panels and canvases that shame the impious banter of half-enlightened scoffers to-day. But this century permits men to probe deeper into the mystery of C and to perceive

profounder meaning in the teachings of Jesus, and more all-touching significance in His life.

That the art of to-day' feels the influence of this scrutiny is certain. Many of the pictures within the sacred circle express a devoutness less formal and more unconscious; possess less stage manner and more altruism exhibit less of the adornment and precision of the conventicle and more of the pathos of the soul that has learned for itself the meaning of vicarious suffering right down in the throbbing populations of the world.

It is here where a notable difference will be observed distinguishing the religious art of this period from that of the medieval epoch. In the matter of reverence it appears to me the spirit of the present day is not wholly divined. If the art of the years yield any verdict on this question it is in confirmation of the excellence of the latter manner. Reverence, as represented of old seemed impregnated with more than a trace of despair and gloom, now it is awed by the omnipotence of mercy, and dares to hope.

A thought or two now in regard to national influences. It is true the great mass of the population of France, and in some measure Germany, under the magic of Voltarian ridicule drifted from moral moorings, unrestrained by any conviction of accountability. Accepting only the enlightenment of reason they were carried on by an easy current into the naturalism, which, under every change of literary creed, existed as the dominant cult during the first half of this century. About the middle of the century another revolution, more enlightened than the former, brought back the estranged heart of the populace to a moral sense if not to religious subserviency. For it seems to have been immediately after this that science began to speak for morality as a necessity. It is true it did not contribute to faith in God, but rather to atheism, but at the same time the Christian sentiment that claims a good code of morals as its great bulwark made some advance.

In England the religious movements that once more redeemed the people and saved the nation, as is asserted by the eminent encyclopedist, Dr. Cunningham Geikie, have given little in the way of direct art, except in illustrated publications which are voluminous and influential, but which I have not space to notice more fully in this paper, but they' have left us a better social code so that the sentiment breathed into pictures partakes of more domestic and purer virtue than continental art as a whole, or than is to be discovered in the art of any former period. An opinion prevails that the wholesome spirit of British home life has, through most of this century, by the instrumentality of literature and art, exerted some influence upon the schools of Western Europe. For certain it is that the last half of this century, in spite of its scientific agnosticism and ruthless demolition of creeds, has manifested a spirit not at all hostile to art of a religious character. National influences have not been unfavorable to the growth of sacred art.

It may be in place here to express an opinion, namely, that though France has given evidence of artistic power unrivalled by any nation, and Britain, with her self—contained, insular religious devotion has a mental soil well prepared for it, it remains for Germany to produce the master types of recent sacred art. Sir Noel Paton's sermons in color are impressive, but they do not impress like Christ healing a sick child by Gabriel Max. Edwin Long's "Diana or Christ" in his greatest work, but it is not equal

