<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	171



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

ST. NICHOLAS' CHURCH, RODMERSHAM, KENT.



CHURCH OF THE COVENANT, TORONTO.—GORDON & HELLI



WELL, ARCHITECTS.



MEMORIAL FOR MOUNT ROYAL CEMETERY, MONTREAL.—



BOND & SMITH, ARCHITECTS.



SUN LIFE INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL.—JAMES &



JAMES—J. WILSON GRAY, ASSOCIATED ARCHITECTS.



NEW BUILDING OF THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY, MONTREAL.



. —DAVID MAXWELL, ARCHITECT.



THIS company's new building, at the corner of Notre Dame and St. John streets, Montreal, contains the head office, eastern and local department offices, electrical engineering department, main exchange, distributing room, power room, and various other departments, including the Montreal agency. The Merchants Bank of Halifax occupies a large portion of the ground floor;

























































the Royal Victoria Insurance Company and the Northern Electric & Manufacturing Co., Limited, have offices on the first floor, and the first and third floors are laid out principally for offices to be rented. A corridor ten by one hundred and thirty feet (10' X 130') long runs from Notre Dame street to Hospital street, With a large vestibule at each entrance. Off this corridor are the entrances to the elevators, stairways, Montreal agency, long distance booths and the banking room.

The vault in the bank was built by Messrs. J. & J. Taylor, Toronto, and is one of the most expensive and strongest safety deposit vaults ever built in Canada. The door of the vault, including the bolt work, is over a foot thick, made of chrome steel, according to the most modern practice in safe construction, and the walls, floor and ceiling are all of strength and thickness proportionate to the door. In connection with the vault are examining boxes for depositors and a book vault. There is also a directors' room, lunch and coat rooms, and a lavatory.

<article title=" A NINETEENTH CENTURY SACRED ART " author="Forster, J.W.L.">A NINETEENTH CENTURY SACRED ART.

By J. W. L. FORSTER

THE bare suggestion of it comes to us with a touch of novelty. Has anyone dared to say there is such a thing? Many have said there is not. Are there indeed signs of the times we have not discerned? As with mining prospectors there is sometimes a question whether a trace of silver may, instead of indicating a vein of that precious metal, only make more emphatic the testproofs that the vein is lead so may the presence here and there of a sacred picture prove the art of to-day to be only very secular indeed. Indications are, however, clear enough to give zest to inquiry, and to assure us that the few minutes so given will not be without interest.

I do not intend to speak of Christian art in its general application, as that refers to an era distinct from the Pagan era which preceded it, but only of that province in the choice of subject that has received by consent the name Sacred Art. As to a definition of this term opinions are not unanimous; a brief review therefore of the conditions which affect it may perhaps make clearer the character of art falling within the limits called sacred.

In studying these conditions we have to note that Christianity, which had in earlier centuries dismantled Pagan temples, and in a spasm of prurience broken and pulverized their statues, instituted

























































































the monastery, into whose sanctuary men retired who wished to be holy. A large part of their leisure was there given to ornamental work, with the invention from time to time of new features to supersede the old. Penmanship was followed by wood-carving, then by pottery, glass-work, illuminating, stone-carting, higher architecture, painting. Cathedrals arose and convents increased in number; for the Christian church grew rich amongst people whose souls she guarded and whose enterprises she blessed. And as the patronage of the church was bestowed, as it is the rightful privilege of wealth to bestow it, upon merit and skill, skill naturally sought the cloister and soon made its home there. In such environment the themes of the religious writings, particularly those in the ancient Scriptures—ever picturesque and grand

-—stirred the pulses of the artists to achieve, in drawings and color, representations of those hallowed scones. Outside the cloister men were of two classes—nobles and slaves. To be noble was to fight and win, and then fight to defend the winnings; to be a slave was to toil and moil for life and master, and fight whenever summoned in the master's cause. There was little chance for culture little wreck on soft virtues for soldiers, art was for the men with petticoats." Such conditions could not well produce other than a monastic art.

It may here be noted that the political combinations and struggles, into which, alas! the Christian church was too often

