<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	123



<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL

Mr. John C. Burrows, a well-known contractor of Hamilton, died in that city last month.



On the 26th of May Mr. Alfred McInnes, of the firm of John McInnes & Co., contractors Halifax, N. S., was married to Miss Conrod.



Messrs. W. T. Whiteway and W. T. Horton have formed a partnership as architects at Halifax, N. S., under the style of Whiteway & Horton.



Mr. Thos. M. Buley, painter and decorator, who had been in business in Toronto for 27 years, died at his residence on Denison avenue early this month.



The death is announced of Mr. John Drury, builder, of St. John, N. B. Mr. Drury was born in Sussex, but removed to St. John when very young. For thirty-five years he carried on a successful business, and erected many of the finest buildings in the city.



A prominent resident of Toronto passed away a couple of weeks ago in the person of Mr. William Hill, builder. Deceased had been a resident of that city for fifty-four years. He was born at Tad-caster, Yorkshire, England, in 1819, and came to Canada in the forties. He obtained his first employment in Toronto upon the Insane Asylum on Queen Street, which was then in course of construction. In 1866 he sustained a double fracture of one leg and a broken ankle on the other by falling a distance of 65 feet, from which he was permanently lamed.





<article title="Chips" author="">CHIPS.

The corner stone of a new public hospital building at Cornwall Ont., was laid by the Hon. A. S. Hardy, Premier of Ontario, on the 14th inst. The building is being erected with funds donated for the purpose by the late Mr. John Purcell.



The brickmakers of Hamilton, Ont., have lately increased the price of bricks from $4.25 to $5.50. Some time ago, when there was competition among the brickmakers, brick was selling for $3.50 a thousand, but the price has been gradually increased to the figure named.

<article title="Useful Hints" author="">USEFUL HINTS.

LAC WATER VARNISH.---Shellac, 6oz. ; borax, 1 1/2oz; water,



pint. Boil together until the lac is dissolved. If bleached lac is used a white varnish will be made if the orange shellac, the varnish will have a pale brown color. This varnish makes a fair vehicle for water colors. It is a good paper varnish, and dries with a fair lustre and with a hard coat, which is waterproof. By adding any of the soluble coal tar colors colored varnishes can be made.



GLUE VARNISH.---Dissolve jib. of good pale glue in two gallons of water. The color of this varnish depends very much on the quality of the glue used if the best gelatin, then a white varnish will be made if a brown glue, then a brown varnish. This varnish is not very good, because of the sticky coat it gives, which is not waterproof. By adding, just before using, a small quantity of bichrornate of potassium (1oz. in two gallons), the coat becomes nearly waterproof. It is important that the bichrornate be added just before use, as it would act on the varnish and cause it to set into a gelatinous, unworkable mass. This varnish forms the basis of some leather varnishes. A little thymol or borax may be added as a preservative.



NEW PUTTY FOR METALS.—A new putty for metals, says the "Gewerbe," is being offered for sale from Switzerland. It is a metallic alloy, which melts at about 25O C. (482 F.) like lead, and can be poured into the finest moulds on account of its easy fusibility. Another characteristic of this flew putty, and one which recommends it especially for use is the great binding power which it shows in union with all kinds of materials, such as stone, masonry and metal. Owing to its great density, it is greatly adapted for repairing leaks in water and gas pipes, oil receptacles, etc. Its low specific gravity, which is about 1.5, as well as the circumstance that it expands in cooling, thus securing absolute tightness of the puttied fissures, have caused it to meet with a favorable reception. When the putty is to be used, break it into small pieces, and melt these in an iron kettle over a moderate fire, thus obtaining a highly fusible mass. For casting small objects, lime made of plaster of paris, loam or sand may be used.



Are you in Darkness?









BASEMENT FITTED WITH ORDINARY SIDEWALK LIGHTS.











Come to us

	for Light!	SAME BASEMENT LIGHTED BY LUXFER	PRISMS. MAN



READING 75 FEET FROM FRONT.



Full Particulars and Estimates for our New









LUXFER PRISM SIDEWALK

for Illuminating Basements can be obtained from







LUXFER PRISM CO., Ltd. 58 Yonge St., Toronto