<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	239



for them. But the corporation, having employed competent contractors to do the work, and having stipulated for its being properly done, the work itself being a lawful one, and not intrinsically dangerous to anyone, and not being in the nature of a nuisance, were not liable for an accident arising from the negligence of the contractors in carrying out their contract: Reedie v. London and Northwestern R. W. Co., 4 Ex. 244. The corporation are confronted with a dilemma. If the finding of the jury was right, the corporation cannot ask that the result of its own negligence should be visited upon the innocent contractors. If the finding of the jury was wrong, and the accident was dire to the negligence of the contractors, then the corporation never was liable to the plaintiff at all, the contractors alone were liable, and therefore the corporation cannot recover over against them. Claim of defendants against third parties dismissed with costs. Fullerton, Q. C., for defendants.

<article title=" TREMAINE Vs. SUTCLIFFE " author="">

TREMAINE Vs. SUTCLIFFE.---This case, which recently came before the courts at Halifax, Nova Scotia, is one in which both architects and contractors will lie interested. We therefore print in full the decision of

Mr. Justice Weatherbe arid his remarks bearing on the case, as follows:



This cause came on for trial before me at chambers. Parr of the evidence was taken before me, and for the convenience of the parties and their counsel several adjournments took place arid evidence was taken before a commissioner who was the stenographer appointed in the case. After the evidence was completed written arguments were submitted by counsel.

The action is brought to recover remuneration for the plaintiffs services as architect on an agreement to pay two per cent. for plans and specifications arid two per cent. for superintending the work.

More than 150 pages of typewritten evidence has been taken, and a large portion of which deals with questions of opinion rather than of fact. The contention of defendants counsel, which he endeavors industriously to support by numerous references to the evidence, is that the work of the plaintiff was unskillfully and negligently done both in preparing plans and specifications, and in superintending the work. Superintending the work would. I

understand embrace the properly and promptly advising the defendant in any difference of opinion between him and a contractor. It is argued for defendant that according to the plaintiffs own evidence carelessness and indifference are manifest from the very brief time spent at supervision as well as from the evidence of necessity of defendants attendance to the supervision to prevent departure from the plans and specifications as also from what resulted during prosecution of the work. Defendant's counsel farther contends that the agreement for commissions can-not be construed as plaintiff maintains to cover the whole outlay of defendant, and that, in fact, the amount upon which commission is claimed covers damages paid by defendant which resulted to an adjoining building during the prosecution of the work in question on rent paid for another building by defendants, on shelving in another building with which plaintiff had nothing to do, arid never saw, on extras for which plaintiff did not prepare the plans nor supervise the work, and on the cost of vault doors, which latter would be treated on a different principle I suppose from the other items mentioned in this sentence. Defendant claims by way of counter-claim for the negligence, default and breach of contract specified above, and in addition complains that $300 or more were lost by the improper method of construction, approved of by the architect, of a glass house on top of the building, and also that plaintiff has certified for work not done or improperly done and for work in excess of what should have been certified and for his conduct in relation to what is alleged to be the unskillful and in

proper equipment of the building with electrical wiring, the subject in controversy to which the greater portion of the evidence is directed. Defendant claims that the wire itself is dangerous and therefore useless and that rewiring will cost over $500. It is obvious that though the wire is not dangerous, and even though the evidence brings it within the specifications this does riot necessarily dispose of the question of negligence of the architect as to his duty in relation thereto.

I have reviewed not only the special evidence on which the defendant relies, but the whole of the voluminous mass of testimony and I have carefully examined plaintiff's counsel's statements by which he seeks to controvert the defendant's argument, and I cannot wholly agree with either of the counsel. I am called upon to apply arid pass upon a large number of facts and conflicting opinions in the capacity of a juror and to form a conclusion upon the whole case, including the counter-claim. Though I am much impressed with the observation of defendant's counsel as to the character of the wire, arid though I cannot avoid doubt, I am not able to pronounce it not in accordance with the contract.

Counsel refers to the indifference of the architect in the conflict between the defendant and the contractor on this subject. I was much struck with the evidence of Mr. Brookfield. The architect seems to have permitted a very experienced and persistent contractor to almost usurp his functions in collecting information arid

advising the defendant riot only in regard to the wiring but in respect of other subjects where controversy and difference of opinion arose. Indeed this indifference or rather want of firmness and promptitude, perhaps the not unnatural result of inexperience, this lack of firmness or whatever it may be termed, which has evidently caused defendant a great amount of annoyance arid trouble, is so prominent in the evidence as to have raised doubts whether' I should not have wholly disallowed tire plaintiff's claim. I regard this as a matter which might have been before a jury wholly within their province.

In, however, deciding for plaintiff I do not so decide upon the construction of the contract to the extent urged on his behalf for the amount of commissions on the sum on which plaintiffs claim is based. Upon the view left open to me to take I award him in addition to the $100 paid into court $351, or $451 in all, instead of the sum claimed (526.68). There remains the question of costs in connection with the circumstances attending the conduct of the plaintiff already referred to. I cannot escape the conviction that

the defense set up, and the counter-claim arose our on circumstances all attributable to the attitude and conduct of plaintiff, and therefore there should be no costs.

In view of my decision, at which I have arrived with so much hesitation, being reviewed at the instance of either party, I wish to add that there was nothing in the demeanor of the parties to the suit or those witnesses who gave their evidence in court which afforded me any advantage over a judge who may have to rely alone on the perusal of the evidence.







The new building designed by Mr. F. M. Rattenbury, architect, for the Bank of Montreal, at Victoria, B. C., is now ready for occupation. The banking room measures 6o x 40 feet, with an 18 foot ceiling. The walls are paneled with Tennessee marble in a variety of shades. The woodwork is of walnut, enriched by excellent carving. The floors are laid with mosaic. The contractors were all local men, the stonework being executed by Messrs. McGregor & Jeeves, the plastering by Mr. Richard Drake, the interior walnut fittings by Weiler Bros., the tiles supplied by Mr. Anderson, and the leaded glass work by Mr. E. W. Morris.

