<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER	39



The only church work of any importance executed this year was the addition and improvements to the Roman Catholic Church of St. Mary, admirably located in a thickly-settled portion of the Hudson's Bay Co.'s reserve. The edifice was considerably increased in size by extending it in front almost to the street line, and its appearance was improved by a new stone and brick front, with granite columns at each side of the entrances. The southeast corner is flanked by a square tower of bold design topped out with a spire, and the south-west corner by a circular tower. The church being in the Norman style, the spire dues not seem to harmonize with the rest of the building, and if the spire had been omitted and the roof of the tower carried up to a greater height than at present, the effect would be much better. Cost about $18,000 Mr. S. Hooper, architect of the improvements.

One or two office buildings are promised us for next year. Plans of one, I understand, have been prepared by' Mr. George W. Gouinlock, architect, of Toronto, and, therefore, we may expect that it will be an ornament to the city', and a credit to the designer. A first-class office building would fill a long-felt want, and without doubt yield a good return on the investment.

In the early part of the summer a number of leading citizens formed themselves into a committee of ways and means for the erection of an opera house, and decided to give a bonus of $10,000 to any one who would erect and equip an opera house in an approved location, size and style. The result was that opera house builders became as thick as mosquitoes in a Manitoba swamp in summer time and just as hungry, with as little to fall back upon. The committee became bewildered at the number of "dainty dishes" set before them, each dish being recommended by its friends as being the only' original and long-desired article. After many meetings and much discussion the committee seemed to dissolve into space, and the new opera house is numbered among the things that might have been and yet may be.



VICTORIA, B. C.



The stem of $500,000 will cover the cost of buildings erected in Victoria this being about the same as in 1895. On the new parliament buildings $125,000 was expended, and on the post office $75,000. The other principal buildings were the Bank of Montreal, a four-story stone building, cost $40,000; F. M. Rattenbury, architect; McGregor & Jeeves, contractors; additions to St. Joseph's hospital, 4 stories, cost $25,000 ; S. Maclure, architect ; brick warehouse for S. Leiser & Co., three stories, cost $20,000 ; A. Ewart, architect ; Humber & Sons, contractors; brick warehouse for James Yates, three stories and basement, cost $15,000 ; C. Ewart architect ; Thos. Catteral contractor. Several good dwellings were erected at a cost ranging from $2,000 to $3,500. The materials used were largely brick and stone, which were lower in price than in 1895.

Mr. Thos. C. Sorby has submitted a comprehensive scheme to the City Council for the improvement of the harbor, which, if carried out, will not only prove a boon to the city, but will provide employment for a large number of workmen.



NEW WESTMINSTER, B. C.



Considering the present period of depression, some advance was made in New Westminster, and indications are not wanting that 1897 will see still further improvement in the building line. The large armory and drill shed was completed early in the year, at a cost of $7,000. The Roman Catholic seminary, corner of Third avenue and Seventh street, is another important structure, costing in the neighborhood of $10,000. Nelson's brewery at Sapperton has been completed at a similar cost. The city market has accounted for an expenditure of $6,000. A number of substantial residences were built during the year, chiefly those of Messrs. Jas. Kennedy, W. Myers Gray and Geo. Calbick. The buildings and wharf of the Automatic Can Company will cost, when completed, fully' $100,000.



STRATFORD, ONT.



The sum of $85,000 represents the building improvements in Stratford. Repair work and residences have predominated, but, notwithstanding, a few other buildings of some merit were erected. Among the list are: House of Refuge, cost $16,000

H.	J. Powell, architect, W. Clark, Toronto, contractor; Catholic Hall Association, alterations, cost $15,000, D. G. Baxter, architect, W. Daly', contractor ; two kindergarten schools, D. G. Baxter, architect, J. Becker, contractor; brick residence for R. T. Orr, cost $4,000, Thomas Orr & Sons, contractors ; improvements to Albion Hotel, cost S4,000; stable and residence for

D.	M. Fraser, cost $3,000, H. J. Powell, architect, J. L. Youngs, James Stamp and William Daly, contractors ; residences for A. J. McPherson, cost $4,000, H. J. Powell, architect, Weber & Litt, A. Oswald and Porteous & McLegan, contractors. Considerable work was also carried out in the neighboring towns by' Stratford architects. The St. Mary's Methodist church, built by Mr. Baxter, cost $14,000, J. Near, contractor. Prices of materials were generally lower, particularly of brick. The erection of several buildings as soon as spring opens is said to be in contemplation, and if the work holds out the coming season is likely' to he rather active.

BRANTFORD, ONT.



The value of buildings erected in Brantford in 1896 is given as $125,000, and is regarded as a fair showing. A large portion of the buildings erected Were for residential purposes The principal work was carried out from the plans of Hewitt & MacLaren and A. H. Mellish, architects.

ST. CATHARINES, ONT.



The sum of $62,000 as the total value of building in St. Catharines shows a large increase as compared with the previous year. Of this $28,000 was residential, $20,000 business, $11,000 public

and $3,000 sundries. Newman Bros.' store cost $3,500; McSloy's residence, $7,500; stone addition to knife works, $6,000:

addition to Welland Vale tool works, $6,000; rebuilding opera house, $5,000; general hospital addition, $4,000; two double tenement houses $6,400. The architects were Messrs. Wm. B. Allen and S. G. Dolson, amid the contractors Messrs. Geo. Wilson, Newman Bros., W. H. Drysdale, Ed. Hudson, John W. Carl, Jas. McBride, E. Stapleford, F:. C. Nicholson and others.



CHATHAM, ONT.



Some improvement is reported in building operations from Chatham, the sum expended being $74,500. Two schools were erected at a cost of $33,000, an I residences to the value of $37,500, besides one hotel costing $4,000. Brick is represented by $55,000 and wood by about $20,000. C. R. Oldershaw was architect for one of the schools, the hotel, a terrace of twelve houses, and several residences The contractors were J. Darling, Robertson & Mckie and William Blight. Materials have been lower in price.



CHARLOTTETOWN, P. E. I.



In Charlottetown, P. E. I., fifteen residences, two business



places and one public building were erected, at an approximate cost of $100,000. In this is included the Roman Catholic cathedral, of stone, erected from plans of F. X. Berlinquet, Quebec, by Paquet & Godbout, of St. Hyacinthe, Que. at a cost of $60,000 The only other building of any' mote is a brick store block on Grafton street, cost $12,500. C. B. Chappell was the architect and Parkman & Crabbe the contractors. There is very little work in view for 1897.



OTHER TOWNS.



Reports from a number of other towns are not of a very encouraging character. In Barrie $75,000 was spent on buildings, $ 15,000 on streets and cement sidewalks, and $4,000 on sewers. There were erected 9 residential buildings, 4 public and 1 business, all brick, principal among which were the public school, Methodist church, theatre, and agricultural buildings. Architects, Smith & Bird and Thos. Kennedy & Co. In St. Thomas the principal buildings were the Jackson & Brierly' block, cost $6,000, and the Disciples' college, cost $4,000. Architects, J. Z. Long & Son. Contractors, Wm. Reath and H. Lindop. A few substantial buildings were erected in Collingwood at a cost of about $20,000, but as a rule architects were not employed to prepare plans. Some $12,000 was expended on cement sidewalks. It is reported that a number of new buildings are contemplated this year. Twenty-five new residences were erected at Fort William, besides other business places, and a large $10,000 block is to be commenced as soon as spring opens. Buildings were erected in Berlin to the value of $189,770; Rat Portage, $100,000, in which is included time Cowan block, $8,000, and the Lauren block, $6,000 ; Preston, $20,000 ; Smith's Falls, $40,000; Listowel, $15,000 including Anglican church, cost $8,000, Frank Darling, Toronto, architect, W. E. Binning, superintendent, and residences for Mrs. W. G. Wa and Mr. F. W. Way cost $2,000 and $2,500 respectively', Bamford Bros., contractors; Newmarket, $18,000 including 3 residences, 2 blocks of stores amid in public building, built of brick and wood, Wm. Bunney, architect for most of the buildings ; Sarnia, $25,000, included in which is the county poor house, $18,000 H. G. Phillips, architect. The general hospital, which cost $25,000, was completed last summer, J. C. Robertson, architect. Prices for labor have been somewhat lower, owing to little demand. Calgary, N. W. T., spent $50,000, the most important building being the Indian industrial school, a stone structure costing $15,000, built with the object of adding thereto, Child & Wilson, architects ; Brandon, Man., $25,000, two-thirds brick, balance wood, W. H. Shillinglaw, architect.







<article title="Chips" author="">CHIPS.

Robert Robinson, contractor Toronto, who died last month, left an estate valued at $12,770.

The Ontario Radiator Manufacturing Company', of Toronto, are reported to have secured premises in the northern part of the city and will shortly commence operations.

The corporation of the City' of Toronto is applying for legislation to compel owners and other persons interested in buildings, other than private dwellings more than two stories in height, to provide proper fire escapes thereon, and to prevent the occupation of such buildings unless such fire escapes are provided.

An interesting exhibition of views of English ecclesiastical architecture was given at the School of Practical Science last month by Mr. Jos. Keele, fellow in the Department of Architecture. Mr. Keele took great pains in explaining the technicalities of the buildings, the photographs of which were taken by himself.

Professor Capper delivered an interesting lecture at McGill University' recently on ' Christian Architecture." He began by showing that its beginnings showed a decided backward movement in point of construction from Pyzantine and Roman architecture. The characteristics of the Christian basilicas, as distinguished, in the lecturer's opinion, from the Pagan were explained and several examples thrown on the screen. The division into apse, transept, nave and atrium was illustrated by numerous plans amid views, amid attention was also drawn to time



practice of raising the altar end of the church. Architecturally' the earlier Italian churches came into for rather severe condemnation, amid there were some very interesting criticisms of the Cathedral at Pisa, within its leaning tower, or campanile. The influence of the Pisan front on neighboring churches was shown by' some interesting views.

