	<doctype type="text">188	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



from pretty. It has many quaint features, however, in the form of knobbed rhones, spouts instead of rainconductors, and basket windows. The design is royal and also unique, and the inn when finished will be by no means a conventional one. So close is the interest taken in the work connected with the rearranged hostelry by Her Royal Highness that she intends herself to paint the device on the sign that is to hang in old-time fashion over the doorway of the public entrance to the building, and the walls of the new apartments are to be artistically decorated according to her own scheme of treatment.



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

ERRATA, In the September number of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER the name of Mr. "David" Maxwell was given as the architect of the Bell Telephone Company's building. It should have read " Edward " Maxwell.



DESIGN FOR PROPOSED CITY HALL AT ST. THOMAS, ONT. —

EVAN T. MACDONALD, ARCHITECT.

RESIDENCE FOR MR. H. W. FORD, ST. THOMAS, ONT.

EVAN T. MACDONALD, ARCHITECT.



INTERIOR VIEWS IN THE RESIDENCE OF MR. M. J. HANEY,



ROSEDALE, TORONTO. ERNEST R. ROLPH, ARCHITECT.

The two interior views of Mr. M. J. Haney's house in Rosedale, Toronto, published in this issue, should prove interesting, as showing the success with which an old house could be remodeled.

The alterations, which are somewhat extensive, were done under the general superintendence of Mr. Wm. Clarke, in accordance with the designs of Ernest R. Rolph, architect. All interior decorations were executed by Wm. H. Elliott & Co., of this city.



THE HOLY BLOSSOM SYNAGOGUE, BOND STREET, TORONTO.

J. W. SIDDALL, ARCHITECT.

The building, which is an adaptation of the Moorish style of architecture, is constructed of Ohio sandstone, plain and pressed brick. The most important feature of the Bond street facade, shown in the illustration, is an 18 foot. semi-circular arch, highly ornamented with terra cotta. In the tympanum of this arch are bands of stone containing the words in English and Hebrew,

The Holy Blossom Synagogue," " Hear, 0, Israel, the Lord our God the Lord is one," in gilded incised letters. Above the arch is a group of five windows with terra cotta columns and archivists ; on either side are flanking towers, containing long triplet windows and crowned by bulbous domes. At the angles of these towers, which contain the main staircases, are piers surmounted by smaller domes, the whole facade being crowned with arcaded cornices and balustrade.

The main entrances are in an open vestibule guarded by iron collapsible gates and lined with enameled bricks and terra cotta. In this vestibule are three doorways, two leading to the inner vestibules, from which are staircases to the main vestibule above ; the centre doorway leads to the school room.

The auditorium is lighted by a large central dome, decorated on a ground of blue of gradually decreasing density. A richly carved casing of quartered oak, 16 feet wide and 15 feet high, encloses the ark. Around the highly ornamented pulpit of the rabbi and desk of the cantor, radiate in concentric circles the seats of the congregation. The main gallery extends around seven sides of the octagon and over the front vestibules.

The school room, which is almost on a level with the

street, is divided by rolling partitions into eight class rooms.

The building is lighted with gas and electric light and heated by hot water and air.

The contractors were Messrs. Hutchinson & Carlyle.



<article title=" REGULATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT OF

GOVERNMENT COMPETITIONS.

" author="">REGULATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT OF

GOVERNMENT COMPETITIONS.

THE Secretary of the United States Treasury has recently declared his intention to put in force the act passed by the United States Congress in 1893, providing for the obtaining by competition of plans for government buildings. The Acting Supervising Architect has prepared the following regulations governing such competitions

1.	At least five architects of good professional standing, who are citizens of the United States, shall be invited by the Secretary of the Treasury to submit plans, drawings and specifications In accordance with thc conditions set forth in these regulations and such plans, drawings and specifications shall be passed upon as to merit by the commission herein provided for.



2.	A commission shall be appointed by thc Secretary of the Treasury, consisting of the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department arid two architects, or experts in the construction of buildings, whose duty it shall be to judge and report to him as to thc relative merit of the designs and plans submitted. 



3.	The office of the Supervising Architect will furnish full data and information as to the cost and the general requirements of the buildings placed in competition tinder these regulations, and the successful architect will be awarded a commission to prepare complete plans, drawings and specifications and to locally supervise the buildings won in any competition.



4.	'The architect to whom said commission is awarded will receive in compensation for his full professional services, including local supervision of said building, a fee computed at the rate of five per cent, upon all sums up to $500,000, 3 1/2 per cent, upon thc next $500,000 or any part thereof, and 2 1/2 per cent, upon any excess beyond $1,000,000.



5.	It must be understood that no claim shall be made upon the United States by any successful competitor for any fee, percentage or payment whatever, or any expense incident to, or growing out of, his participation in this competition.



6.	The Department agrees to make selection from the designs submitted if, in its opinion, one suitable in all respects, as to design, detail and cost, bc submitted but expressly reserves the right to reject any and all plans, designs and specifications submitted, and to reopen the competition, if, in the opinion of the commission herein referred to, or of the Secretary of the Treasury, no design suitable in all respects has been submitted.



7.	Each competitor must submit with his plans a detailed statement of cost.



8.	It must be understood that a competitor will forfeit all privileges under these regulations who shall violate any of the conditions governing- this competition, or who shall seek in any way, directly or indirectly, to gain advantage by influencing in his favor any of the commission.



9.	No member of the commission herein referred to shall have any interest whatever, direct or indirect, in any design submitted in this competition, or any association with, or employment by, any of the competitors, and no employee of the Treasury Department shall be allowed to enter the competition herein provided for.



10.	Each set of drawings, with its accompanying description, must be securely wrapped and scaled and addressed to the



Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.,' plainly and conspicuously marked with the name of the building under competition, and without any distinguishing mark or device which might disclose thc identity of the competitor.



11.	There must be enclosed with each set of drawings, etc., a plain, white opaque envelope, within which the competitor will place a card bearing his name and address. The envelope must bc securely scaled with a plain wax seal, having no impression, legend, device or mark upon it which might disclose the identity of thc competitor.



12.	Upon opening the packages Containing the drawings, the commission will number the envelope containing the name and address of thc competitor, and will place the same number upon

