<doctype type="text">

<article title="SEWER VENTILATION" author="">SEWER VENTILATION.

THE following paper on the above subject, prepared by Mr. J. W. Hughes, a well-known Montreal plumber, was presented for the consideration of the members of the American Public Health Association at the annual convention of that body held in Philadelphia on the 28th ultimo:

It has for some time been accepted as an imperative requirement of a properly planned plumbing system that provision be made for a free circulation of fresh air at all times through not only the main internal sewers of a building, but also through the smaller branches known as the waste pipe, in other words, that there be no dead ends, but that each and every part of a properly planned system of sewers for a building be constantly swept by a current of air; and carrying out this principle provision is made in the planning of up-to-date public sewer systems for the ventilation of the same. The private sewers and waste pipes of a building, forming as they do but a part of the genera! system, should in my opinion be treated as a part of the whole; and the attempt to cut them off as is done by fitting what is known as the intercepting trap is a mistake. First, because it interferes with the basic principle of the water carriage system for the disposal of sewage, which is that the sewage should in the most rapid manner possible and without obstruction be carried from its source to its destination, yet the advocates of the intercepting trap place an obstruction (in other words a miniature cess-pool) just at the point where it will do the greatest possible injury, and obstruct the rapid carrying away of the sewage, and defeat at the start the main principle on which the system is based, namely, the rapid removal of sewage and its carriage by an ample supply of water to its destination.

The advocates of the intercepting trap claim that the improved forms of this cess-pool offer very little obstruction to the flow. Such a contention is absurd, as if they did not obstruct the flow, catch and hold the sewage they would not be traps. Again, it is claimed that the improved traps are continually washed out or scoured to a certain extent. This is true as compared with the older forms; but let any one who has had occasion to open the cleaning eye of one of these traps that has been for some time in use speak of the conditions found, and he must tell of stored-up putridity, sickening odors, and a condition of things unsanitary, not to be found even in the main sewers of the streets, and certainly not to be found in any other portion of the pipes in a building where the sewage has had an unobstructed flow.

My second charge is that it completely defeats any effectual general system of sewer ventilation by preventing free circulation of air through the whole system of main sewers and that part of them consisting of the building sewers. To offset this in part what is known as the fresh air inlet is placed between the intercepting trap and the building. This is a pipe brought to the surface and fitted with a suitable terminal ; the proper name of this pipe is a "stink outlet," as when a fixture is used the rush of water from it must force a portion of the air out of the inlet, and then it of necessity becomes a stink outlet, and as a rule in cities this pipe must be so placed as to make it a dangerous nuisance even to the wayfarer, or if at a distance from the foot walk to the inmates of the building with which it is connected, as the foul air escaping from it gains access

to the building it is proposed to protect through doors and windows. "But," says the advocate of the intercepting trap, "would you advise arranging pipes so that the air of the street sewers would have free passage through the pipes in a building?" To this my reply is, yes. And there is no other safe plan. People who live in populous districts must bear each and every one his part of the risks as well as sharing the benefits of the whole. No one living under conditions imposed by the concentration of large masses of people on a limited area can escape and the principle of the greatest good to the greatest number must apply.

The advocates of the intercepting trap do not deny the necessity of sewer ventilation, but they attempt to provide for it in detail instead of as a whole, and so defeat the object they wish to attain. They will tell you that the street sewers must be ventilated by having perforated man-hole covers placed at regular intervals along the line of street sewers by means of the trap, but let the main sewers have free and open connection with the street. Now as the streets of a town are the sources from which the buildings derive their greatest supply of fresh air, my claim is that such a course is wrong and insanitary. Given pure air in the streets, and there must be pure air in the buildings, the local cause of air pollution being, of course, excepted. Do away with the trap or the private sewers, continue the interior sewers of the building, full size through the roof, carrying them to a sufficient height to be well above adjacent windows; then there will be a natural circulation of air through the entire system of both public and private sewers, and the outlet from the sewers, which is acknowledged to be a necessity, will be above the general line of the house-tops, and not at the street level, as is the case when the intercepting trap is adopted. The higher temperature of the pipes passing through the building, especially in the cold season will insure this circulation at the time when it is most required. Of course there are exceptions to all rules, and there are no doubt in all cities certain places where the local traditions would call for the placing of a trap in the private sewer ; such cases call for the exercise of the skill and experience of the practical plumber and the sanitary engineer. It is no more possible to lay down a rule covering every possible contingency called for in scientific plumbing and ventilating than it is to apply fixed rules to the practice of medicine. If it were there would be little need of skilled and experienced physicians. The principles of scientific medicine and plumbing are fixed, but the application of these principles calls for the intelligence acquired by education and developed by practice.

Much injury has been done by attempting to frame plumbing by-laws that will apply to every case. The conditions vary in almost every building, and to adapt the principles to the special requirements requires not only practical but scientific knowledge. If the American Public Health Association would make a study of the general principles covering this question and embody them in a code having its endorsation, leaving the practical application of these principles to those whose special duty it is to apply them, much good would result. In conclusion conditions exist in northern climates during that portion of the year when snow is on the ground that completely neutralize the effect of the perforated manhole covers over the street sewers, and during such time, in cities where the intercepting trap

