<doctype type="text">

	238	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER.



PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS.

VII.

<article title=" PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS " author="Tilly, Charles">

MR. CHARLES TILLEY



THERE are few men in the Maritime provinces engaged in the contracting line who are better known in the trade and by the public generally than Mr. Charles Tilley, of St. John.

Since early in the sixties Mr. Tilley has been engaged in contracting and building, and during that time has put up a large percentage of the buildings in his native city. He was born in 1839, and at the age of 15 years entered as apprentice the employ of Messrs. Crosby & Small, who were then the largest mason contractors in the city. After serving an apprenticeship of four years, he left Crosby & Small and went to Halifax, where he worked at the trade for a year.

He started in business for himself in 1863, his first contract being for the Hampton court-house. Since







































that time his business has steadily extended, and some of the best buildings in the city are from his hands.

After the fire of 1877 Mr. Tilley entered into partnership with Mr. John M. Redfern. This partnership continued for six years.

Among the many buildings erected by Mr. Tilley may be mentioned the market (cost $130,000), the Wygoody building, the Dock street electric light building (which has since been altered), and the Queen's Hotel, Fredericton.

<article title=" PAVING BRICKS FOR BUILDING FRONTS " author="">

PAVING BRICKS FOR BUILDING FRONTS.

THE pictures which we give of the building for the Home of the Friendless, in Chicago, are interesting not alone for their general artistic merit, says the Clay-worker, but as well on account of the means employed to accomplish an artistic result. As will be seen from the description, this building is faced with paving brick (seconds) from Galesburg, Illinois. The decorative parts are terra cotta. The natural color of the brick develops a rich brown and a variation in tint which is more and more sought for by the best architects. There was a time when it was supposed that for fronts each brick should be exactly the same color as every other brick. But in examining some of the brickwork of earlier centuries, where time and circumstances have made changes in color, it has been noticed by artists that the variation in color, when not too great, has been the means of producing highly artistic results. The architect of one of the most imposing houses in New

York went to a terra cotta establishment some years ago and said "I want to look over some of your castoff clay products." In going through the yard he saw some blue mottled fire brick which were used for lining kilns. He bargained for them and they were used to face one of Gotham's finest houses, and mottled brick became a fad. This was about the first use that was made of this kind of brick for fine fronts in this country. 'While it has been carried to extremes in some instances on the whole the result has been very good. In connection with the brick used for the Home of the Friend-less we are taught a lesson in regard to the size of brick made for paving purposes. These brick being of the same size and form of the ordinary building brick, it was possible to use them on this work. We have noticed in this city that in some instances the hardest of paving brick have been used for facing above grade to the line of the first-floor because of their non-absorbent qualities. Out of this accidental use of paving brick we may expect to see an increased market for this character of product. Then paving brick manufacturers will wish they had been content to make standard size brick instead of the large block.



LEGAL.

McCANN v. CITY OF TORONTO,--- Judgment by Mr. Justice Street, upon question of liability of third parties to defendants. The plaintiff recovered judgment against defendants for $600 for damages sustained by her owing to their negligence in not having fastened a trap door in the roof of the tower of a fire hall in Dundas street, in the City of Toronto. The door was blown off as the plaintiff was passing along the highway, and, striking her oil the head, inflicted the injuries of which she complained. The jury found that the plaintiff had been injured by the negligence of defendants in not properly securing the trap door. THEY ALSO FOUND, in answer to questions put to them at the request of the counsel for defendants (who disputed the liability of defendants for acts of negligence on the part of the contractors, Messrs. Phillips, the third parties, who had undertaken to erect and complete the building), THAT THE SPECIFICATIONS WERE SATISFIED WITHOUT THE PLACING OF FASTENINGS UPON THE TRAP-DOOR. The building had not been taken over from the contractors at the time the accident happened. The specifications required the contractors to leave a trap-door in the tower of the building, and to "provide trap and flagpole." The contract embodied the specifications by reference, and required the contractors to "find and provide such good, proper and sufficient materials of all kinds whatsoever as shall be proper and sufficient for completing and furnishing all 1 the above mentioned works of said building shown on the said

<article title=" McCANN v. CITY OF TORONTO " author="">

plans and mentioned in said specifications," and to furnish and perform all the work called for in a good workmanlike manner.



There was also a stipulation that the corporation "will not in any I manner be answerable or accountable . . . for the injury to



any person or persons, either workmen or the public, . . from any cause which might have been prevented by the contractors



against all which injuries and damages . . . the contractors must properly guard and make good all damages from whatever cause . . and be strictly responsible for the same. The plan showed that the trap-door was to be placed upon a steep slope in the roof of the lower. By express agreement the learned judge was not to be bound by the findings of the jury except as to the amount of the damages. He finds, upon the evidence, that the contractors did not comply with their contract to complete and finish their work when they left the trap-door secured. It was as much a part of the roof as were the shingles, and it was as necessary to secure it properly as it was to put I sufficient nails into the shingles. The result of this finding is that 1 the corporation were not negligent and that the contractors were. The jury found the converse, and upon their finding that the corporation had net stipulated for the securing of the trap-door they were held liable and judgment was recovered against them. The result of the case is that they would not have been liable if the negligence which caused the accident had been that of the contractors. They were the land-owners, it is true, and the accident happened to one of the public upon the highway adjoining their land, and in the curse of construction of a building being erected

