<doctype type="text">The cornices are run as accurately, as mathematically as the rest, and the drawings and details are faithfully observed. the result is naturally as unsympathetic as the method. I speak of the average. I am well aware that, fortunately, there are exceptions. I am happy in believing that they are many, and the number seems likely to increase rapidly as architects increasingly devote more time and thought to what is one of the most interesting and important crafts among the many that they rule. What we need, it seems to me, to fit us for a more competent control of plaster-work, as of so many crafts, is to draw less and model more. Fortunately, within the last few years, a good many sculptors of talent have turned their attention to decorative

plaster-work, and beautiful ceilings, friezes, and panels in low relief stand to the credit of several men whose names are well known to won. There is an increasing demand for decorative work in plaster. People, even of moderate means, are no longer generally content with the blank white lids of the boxes they live

in. This discontent is exemplified in many ways, one of them is that suburban joy, the patterned ceiling paper other indications are the patent substitutes for modeled ceilings, whose illustrated catalogues, with their alluring titles, are lavished in the letter box and waste paper basket of every architect. A desire for decorative friezes is also prevalent, and is exemplified by precisely similar instances. If this discontent is responsible for many queer results and unlovely makeshifts, it is not in itself ignoble It is our business to divert it into wholesome channels. The instinct to enrich the ceiling or the roof is, I think, a natural one— -the roof is surely as worthy of adornment as the walls. In a church or a great hall it is, or should be, the crown and glory of the whole scheme. In domestic work, in the home of the average comfortable Briton, the cheap substitute for modeled plaster-work obtains a readier acceptance on account of the fact that we dwell-- most of us---like hermit crabs, in other peoples shells. The leasehold condition of our occupancy has begotten a leasehold type of decoration. The householder wants something that will last my time, don't you know or, at any rate, suffice for seven, fourteen or twenty—one years. So lie not unnaturally shrinks front permanency which implies cost, and he thinks t lie real t lung costly ; hut, as a matter of fact, it is by no means necessarily so. With care and thought, and a little ingenuity, it is possible to get good decorative results in plaster at small cost. There are many ways, for instance, of redeeming the absolute bareness of a plain plaster ceiling, without much expenditure. You can have a well-moulded cornice, and divide your ceiling into plain panels by means of shallow ribs. At very little extra cost, if your design repeats,'' you can put some simple little ornament into the panels. You can dispense with ribs, and have ornamental corner-pieces and a centre ; or you can have the general field plain, and have an ornamental border next the cornice, and modeled in low, broad relief. Where your conditions make it possible, and, I should say, in a longish room or corridor, you can drop the cornice a little way down the wall, and form your ceiling to a shallow curve. This may be delightful in itself, even if quite unrelieved, or can be very effectively decorated with light ribs at intervals and simple flattish ornaments. There is really no end to the simple and effective possibilities of very slightly decorated ceilings. I have seen an old ceiling in a low room at Oxford which has four corner ornaments and a centre, very simply modeled in a highly conventionalized grape vine design—and it wants nothing more—but the plain surface is such as would horrify the skilled plasterer of to-day.

The ceiling under an ordinary collar-rafter roof frequently gives a pleasant opportunity for plaster decoration. You can accept the splayed side between ceiling and cornice and treat it as a sort of sloping frieze, ornamenting the flat under the collars more simply and sparsely, or you can fix out. and form a curved or vaulted ceiling, as I have suggested before; and a vault is one of the most delightful fields for decoration.

When cost is not a closely restrictive consideration, the range of possibilities is wide—for ceiling, frieze, decorative panels on chimney-breasts, or such like positions, or for the treatment of the walls themselves. It is sometimes desirable—in a hall or a ball-room for instance—to treat the walls with a permanent architectural decoration that precludes further adornment by means of pictures, wall-papers or hangings, and this, if you use low relief and have a good protective base or ado, can well be done with

plaster-work by means of pilasters, decorated panelling, reliefs, etc. If pilasters are used, it is generally advisable to enclose the

plaster relief in a wooden frame for preservation's sake. Whatever the field of your decoration, it is necessary, of course, to use

restraint, to avoid overcrowding and fussiness, to ain't at a broad decorative result, to remember that on will cheapen your devices by over-repetition ion and spoil your ornament by over-elaboration. The eye wants some unornamented spaces to rest upon. It seems to me in most cases wise to have rather plainly treated walls and a simple freize, for instance, where your ceiling is elaborate, and a simple ceiling where you want an elaborate frieze. It is hardly necessary to say that your plaster-work should be plastering '' in effect, rotund and soft, and should not imitate the treatment of any other material.

Time ceiling, frieze, panels, or whatsoever form the plaster-work may take, should fall into the architectural scheme of the interior they contribute to ; they must he in coherent relation to the rest. The scale must be preserved. And there are many considerations to he take it into account in designing a frieze or ceiling. The proportion of the room, of course, first. It is obvious that the same design would be inappropriate, in one instance, if applied to two rooms, one of which was to feet high and the other 20 feet, and that a long low room needs different ceiling treatment to a high square one. Then the lighting must be taken into account. Where the tops of the windows reach nearly to the ceiling, and especially where a longish room has such windows pretty evenly distributed along one side only, very delicate relief will tell at a considerable height. In the same room, if he windows are low, or so small as to give inadequate light, the relief will require to be bolder in order to tell. A room lit from two opposite sides, giving a strong cross light, is time most difficult to treat successfully. The cross light defeats time shadows and spoils the effect of relief; in such a room greater emphasis, greater sharpness of modeling, is advisable. All these remarks are intended to apply to daylight effects, but artificial lighting should be considered too. In great reception rooms, chiefly used at night, and in all rooms intended to he brilliantly lit—say by electric light—it is well to keep might relief rather softer and more delicate than in rooms of more ordinary character in illumination. 

As a general rule, in an averagely lighted room, tip to 13 feet or 14 feet in height, the relief of ceiling mouldings or ornaments does not require very great projection if the ceiling is left white or nearly white, as relief looks exaggerated. Ribs, I think, are butt mat her broad amid shallow iii form, and with a tendency to round members rather than sharp—arrised ones. Their size, of course, must depend upon the scale of time room, t hue heights at which they occur and the effect aimed am. Constructional beams dividing the length of a ceiling frequently help time design greatly, and are capable of very effective treatment in themselves In many a splendid old ceiling the ornament was confined entirely to time beams and the cornice with which they intersected.



When there are no beams I am personally inclined to prefer detachment between the decorative design of the ceiling amid time cornice. I like a margin left among the cornice. This helps you if you wish to leave the ceiling whitish and to color the cornice; amid, generally speaking, the cornice must be regarded as the crown of the wall and not as the beginning of the ceiling.

However, that is, after all, a matter of design or circumstance; it is risky to generalize too freely. But it is safe to say that too much attention cannot be bestowed, first, on the ground surface--whether of ceiling, frieze or panel— and second, on the modeling of any ornament, whether simple rib or foliated or arabesque design. If you cannot be sure of getting good modeling have more at all, find safety iii plainness. If you wish to avoid sharpness and hardness have ribs amid cornices modeled, not run. Keep them simple amid broad, not liney amid wiry. Generally speaking, I believe that for ceilings a more or less geometric basis for the leading lines gives time happiest effect ; the arrangement should, at any rate, be ordered, if not formal. But whatever the basis and whatever the treatment, the design should essentially be a ceiling design, the ornamentation of a flat surface—to be seen from below—and in a room where it is intended to be seen from all points it should "read," as it is called, in all direction equally well, though it may have a main longitudinal or lateral tendency. It is, perhaps, hardly necessary to counsel the avoidance of any obviously unsuitable type of design for a ceiling, such as swags and festoons---- suitable, perhaps, on a vertical surface like a frieze, where the sense of vertical dependence is appropriate, but inappropriate and awkward in a ceiling. A frequently effective treatment for a tallish frieze is to have some form of ornament repeated at widish intervals, time interspace being either quite plain or filled with a plain moulded panel.

I have dealt so far with the consideration of plaster-work for

