	<doctype type="text">190	THE	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF



ARCHITECTS.



PROCEEDINGS OF THE SEVENTH ANNUAL CONVENTION.



" author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF



ARCHITECTS.



PROCEEDINGS OF THE SEVENTH ANNUAL CONVENTION.







THE seventh annual convention of the P. Q. A. A. was held in the city of Quebec on Thursday, September the 30th, and Friday, October the 1st. The members of the Association in the old city of Champlain were indefatigable in their efforts to make it a success, and it was a decided success, not only socially, but on account of the importance of the deliberations and of the resolutions adopted.

The members were welcomed with that large hospitality which is one of the characteristic features of Quebec, while the weather was delightful throughout.

With the kind permission of the municipal authorities and particularly of His Worship the Mayor of the city, the sessions were held in one of the spacious committee rooms of the new city hall.

The first session opened at 10 o'clock in the forenoon of Thursday, September 30th, under the presidency of Mr. A. T. Taylor. There were present: Messrs. A. T. Taylor, J. F. Peachy, A. Raza, A. C. Hutchison, Jos. Venne, S. H. Capper, E. B. Dussault, A. Mailloux, J. Nelson, J. A. Monette, J.

P.	Ouellet, J. Z. Resther,

G.	E. Tanguay, M. Perreault, C. Dufort, H. Staveley, D. Ouellet and A. H. Larochelle.

There was first the reading, by the Secretary, Mr. Jos. Venne, of the minutes of the two last general meetings, and afterwards the presentation of the annual report of the Council, as follows

REPORT OF COUNCIL.



The council of the Association beg to present the seventh annual report of its transactions. Years are passing away and the Association enters upon the eighth year of its existence. Although the work has been quietly done, it has none the less been most useful and effective. The past year has continued to be one of depression in the building trades, but events point to a more encouraging and satisfactory state of things in the future for the profession generally. This report having been typewritten beforehand and distributed to the members, in accordance with the resolution passed at the last meeting, you will be able to appreciate the work of the council more fully and to note the progress which has been made.



COMPETITION OF PUBLIC ARCHITECTURAL WORKS.----Special attention is drawn to the negotiations entered into with the governments and the city of Montreal to induce them to throw open public architectural works to competition.



ARCHITECTURAL AND ARTS AND CRAFTS EXHIBITION.---The

Architectural and Arts and Crafts Exhibition held in connection with the last annual meeting in Montreal was a decided success, being novel and exceedingly interesting. It was encouraging to

find that the members responded willingly and heartily to the formation of a guarantee fund and your council was glad to be in a position to return to the members a portion of the moneys subscribed, as the whole amount was not required. We take this opportunity of heartily thanking numerous friends who so readily lent valuable and precious objects of art for exhibition. An effort should be made to repeat at stated intervals similar or kindred exhibitions, as they have proved themselves to be one of the most effective means of promoting fellowship and progress

amongst our members and a valuable method of education in art.

LECTURES AND DINNERS.—The winter lectures and dinners were organized on a new basis and the council congratulates the Association upon the good results obtained. The lectures were delivered in the Art Gallery, Montreal, which was kindly placed at our disposal by the Council of the Art Association, thus continuing during the past year many tokens of kindness to our Association, which are hereby gratefully acknowledged. Principal Peterson, of McGill University, very kindly consented to lecture for us on

The Ruins and Antiquities of Athens," which proved most interesting. Prof. Capper, the recently appointed Professor of Architecture at McGill, also lectured on: The Builders of the Egyptian Pyramids," Two other lectures were given respectively by our president on "The Story of an Illustrious Abbey," and by Mr. Alex. C. Hutchison on "Gothic Architecture in Northern Italy." These lectures were well attended by a distinguished and learned audience, ladies forming a notable addition and adding greatly to the brilliance of the gatherings. These lectures were all illustrated by diagrams and also by stereopticon views. Instead of monthly dinners as formerly, it was decided to hold only two dinners during the winter and to make these specially attractive. This was done and the result was very gratifying. The dinners were very pleasant social reunions of the members and during the evenings most profitable talks on architectural subjects were initiated. It is hoped that these opportunities for social intercourse will be continued and that more

of the members will avail themselves of them.

FORMATION OF A DOMINION INSTITUTE.--- As requested by a resolution passed at the last general meeting, tile council, from its first sitting considered the advisability of the organization of a Dominion Institute of Architects and correspondence was opened with sister associations of British Columbia and Ontario; only the latter, however, has as yet responded to our advances. A draft of constitution was prepared by your council and sent to the Ontario association. Some legal points have been raised which are now under consideration. Many difficulties present themselves in the working out of such a scheme, amongst others the matter of ways and means and the economical and satisfactory working of such a Federal Institute in a great Dominion such as ours. They are not, however, insuperable, and your council hopes the undertaking may ultimately be consummated.



SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.--- Your council has not been successful yet in obtaining the assent of the Lieutenant-Governor in Council to a schedule of charges. In the meantime, our recognized schedule of charges has had the signature of all the members attached, with the exception of one, and has been lithographed and distributed to all the members

of its utility and has been of great help to some members in strengthening their position in transacting business.

COMPETITIONS. —The consideration of public competitions, especially in connection with public works, has had considerable attention in the course of the year, and your council thought it expedient to memorialize both governments and the city of Montreal. This important matter should not be forgotten in the deliberations of the next council, who could be instructed to continue the work commenced, and all cities, towns and municipalities should be approached in this matter. Private competitions, which may he termed frivolous, have been attempted, and some members were induced to take part in them. Some complaints having been made to the council, a circular putting forth the desked attitude of members in such cases was prepared and issued to members.

MR. FULLER'S SUPERANNUATION.—On the superannuation of Mr. Fuller, who has so long worthily filled tile office of Dominion Architect, your council memorialized the government to increase the pension allowed him, if it was at all possible, in view of his long and valuable services. Although not immediately successful, it is hoped that our efforts may not have been useless.

GOVERNMENT APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF ARCHITECT. Before the appointment by the government of a successor to Mr. Fuller. your council took the liberty if urging on the Federal government the great advisability of throwing open the architectural public work to architects generally instead of centralizing the same in the Dominion Architect's Department in Ottawa, so that the chief architect would be a supervising architect only, as the name implies, and further that in the appointment of the chief architect, integrity, competence and distinguished ability should

