	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	177































<article title="The Builder" author="">THE BUILDER

A New Work on

Plastering.

A NEW work, of rather ambitious dimensions, on the art of plain and decorative plastering, has just been published in England by B. T. Batsford, 94 High Holborn, London. The book is the work of William Millar, plasterer and modeler, and is the greatest effort ever attempted in this direction. It contains over 600 pages of reading matter, each page being 8 x 11 inches, including margins, and fifty-two full-page plates. Over two hundred and thirty illustrations and explanatory diagrams are in the text, and the whole get-up is a monument of skill and industry such as the plasterer's art never before received, Every department of the art is discussed and explained from a thoroughly practical standpoint, and the rules laid down for doing all kinds of work are presented in the plainest and most unmistakable manner. The introductory chapter is interesting from an historical point of view, as it informs the reader of the methods employed by the ancients in applying plaster, and illustrates several designs in stucco found in Pompeii and in Rome, the work of artists of the first century also designs in stucco executed in Egypt 1400 years before our era. It is with the practical part of the work, however, that we have to do here. In the matter of choosing plaster of Paris for work, our author says

The quality of plaster may be tested by simply squeezing it in the hand. If it coheres slightly, and keeps in position after the hand has been gently opened, it is good ; but if it falls to pieces immediately it has been injured by damp." Of the strength of plaster he says

The compressive resistance of properly baked plaster is about 120 lbs. to the square inch when gauged with neat water, and 160 lbs. when gauged with lime water, thus showing that lime water hardens and improves the affinity of plaster. The adherence of plaster to itself is greater than to stone or brick. The adhesion to iron is from 24 to 37 lbs. to the square inch." These are matters every worker in plaster should know.





SAWDUST has been used as a substitute for hair, also for sand, in mortar for plastering. It makes a cheap additional aggregate for coarse stuff. Sawdust mortar stands the effects of rough weather and frost when used for external plastering. The sawdust should be used dry and put through a coarse sieve to exclude large particles. I have used it with plaster for both run and cast work ; it proved useful for breaks of heavy cornices, by rendering the work strong and light for handling. Some kinds (of sawdust) require washing, otherwise they are liable to stain the plaster. Several patents have been issued for the use of sawdust in place of hair and

Sawdust as a Substitute for Hair.

Gauged Work.

of sand. One of these is for the use of equal parts of

plaster, a lime and sawdust ; another is for the use of

4 1/2 parts each of slaked lime and sawdust to 1 part of

plaster, 1/4 part of glue and 1/16 part of Glycerine, with

a small part of hair. Kahl's patent plaster consists of

35 per cent. of sawdust, 35 per cent. of sand, 10 per

cent. of plaster, 10 per cent. of glue, and 10 per cent. of whiting.' " The author does not tell us of the lasting qualities of mortar in which sawdust enters so largely. Older writers warn us against employing sand or lime that contains vegetable matter of any kind, because of the rapid decay of the latter. Our opinion has always been that the preserving qualities of the lime will, in almost every case, do much towards preventing the decay of vegetable or animal matter, such as may be employed as aggregates or binders in mortar, as is evidenced in the preservation of hair in the mortar of very old buildings. Our advice is, however, never to use sawdust where good sand and hair can be obtained.





QUOTING again from the same authority, on the subject of gauged work, we are told that "All gauged work should be

regulated in strength according to the purpose required. A brick or stone wall would not require so much plaster as a lath partition. Work not subject to friction or wear does not require so much plaster. If the work is required for immediate use, as with running screeds, or blocking out large mouldings, or fixing large castings, much plaster must be used. The amount of plaster required for scaffold work varies from to equal proportions for gauging coarse stuff or setting stuff, and from 1/3 to equal proportions for coarse stuff for heavy cornices, and 1/3 to equal proportions for putty and fixing ornament. The amount of plaster also depends upon the quality of the plaster, some of which are much stronger than others. Coarse plaster that is of a dark and sandy nature is generally weak, sets quickly, and becomes soft and useless. Fine plaster should be used for gauging putty when running cornices, also for fixing enrichments. All gauged work should be gauged with uniformity, each separate gauge having the same amount of water and plaster as required by the bulk of stuff being gauged. Unequal gauging causes hard and soft places in the work, and when more plaster is used in one gauge than another there is an extra expansion caused by the swelling of plaster, which makes the work more difficult to do when floating, setting, running mouldings, or mitering. A quart and a pint measure should always be kept on the scaffold for measuring the water used for the various gauges. The quantity ot water will regulate the quantity of plaster for each

