



<doctype type="text">Boulder

Foundations.

This is not the best way to do the work if it is desirous to accomplish the best results, as experience has proven. The better way is to lay down the paper, then over the paper, on a line with the joists, put down strips of wood 2" x 3/8", and then put the top floor down, nailing over the strips so that the nails will be sure to find the joists. The advantage of this method over the other is that a cushion of air lies between the two floors, which acts as a non-conductor of cold and sound, a very important matter in a building. The positions of the joists may be marked on the base-boards before the paper goes down, so that the strips may be placed in their proper places with the least amount of trouble. The writer has found that the best results are obtained by making use of felt paper, the softer and more spongy the better. Tarred paper is objectionable, for several reasons it is not a strong paper, and it is impossible to get rid of the smell which is sure to work its way into the room when the latter is heated, and causing disagreeable sensations. Four or five layers of newspapers do very well, but where good, suitable paper can be obtained newspapers should not be employed.



IN many rural districts the obtaining of quarried stone is difficult and expensive, and hard burned bricks suitable for the

purpose of laying foundations, as a rule, cannot be secured. The use of boulders or field stone for the purpose may be adopted with success if the mason doing the work knows his business. In some sections of Ontario the use of boulders is quite common in the construction of foundations, outbuildings, fences and similar work. In the town and district of Parry Sound the use of boulders, whole and broken, is quite common, and some of the work done is quite creditable, particularly in walls above ground, where the stones have been selected with regard to size and color, with a fine taste for harmony and fitness. The "pointing" of the mortar joints, too, in many cases, evinces much skill and judgment on the part of the workman. In order to make a good solid foundation much will depend on the stone. in some places the surface or field stones are tolerably regular in shape, and make a good wall without breaking or dressing, while elsewhere they are more rounded boulders. With rounded boulders alone, the main strength of the wall depends much on the mortar used, which, in such cases, should be the very best and carefully applied. The wall should be built to two faces to look well, whatever may be the allowable projection of the outside stones beyond the mortar joints. Usually the outside joints are scraped out at the pointing to give the proper effect of projection. The best appearance is obtained by mixing large and small stones indiscriminately together, but if there is much difference in size the inequality of settlement will cause cracks, and it is safer to have the stones in the courses of approximately the same height. Especially should the use of large stones for the corners be avoided. The corner-stones should be long, to tie the angle, but not thick, or there will be cracks near them if the super-imposed building is a heavy one. If there are openings of any size in the wall, these should be faced with stones having a flat surface, and if these are not obtainable, use the best common bricks at hand, seeing they are well bonded in the wall. In England, Switzerland and Germany, where much boulder work is done, bricks are sometimes used here and there in the wall

Built-up Timbers.

as headers and stretchers, in horizontal courses, with good effect. If the mortar is good, no joints other than those at the corners and openings need to be dressed, even with the rounded stones. Walls built of field stone should never be less than two feet thick for low walls, and thirty inches or three feet for walls from twelve to twenty-four feet high. Almost any size of stones may be used, only such as go nearly but not quite through the wall, but these may be laid as stretchers if their width will permit. A boulder wall should stand three or four weeks before the superstructure is built on

it.	This gives a chance for the mortar to set.





IT often happens that the carpenter can not get timbers of sufficient length to make bearing beams, bressummers, or

such other timbers as the work in hand demands ; under such circumstances the method of "building up timbers" or splicing short beams must be resorted to. The method of building up timbers is known to nearly every carpenter in the land, but will not lose any of its merits by being described here. Let us suppose we want a beam 12" X 12, 48 feet long, and we have no means of getting it, but have on hand a lot of joists 2' X 12, and of various lengths say 12 feet and i6 feet long. Lay down on a good, level basis three 16 ft. joists, 2" X 12".

end on," with good joints at the butts and one edge to " a line." Three sixteens make 48, SO that the three joists placed end to end will make 48 feet. On these place four joists 2 feet long, keeping the edges fair with the under tier. See that your butt joints are snug and close, then nail well with 3 1/2" wire nails, taking care to double-nail at every joint. This being done, cut a 16-foot joist in two, and lay one of the halves 8 feet long on one end, keeping the upper edge even with the courses already down ; then lay down two joists 16 feet long, and finish with the other half joist. Nail same as before, only with longer nails. Now we have a beam 6" X 12 which is nearly as strong as a solid beam of the same dimensions. Continue to lay on joists and nail, until the required size is obtained, making sure that no two joints are over each other. It is always better, in making built up timbers, to run the joists through the planer ; but in many places in the country this cannot be done, so then the workman should pick out his stuff so as to have joists of the same thickness in each tier ; if not, the inequalities will prevent the joists from lying close together, which will be bad work.



IN building chimneys there should be

·no stringings exhibited, the flues should not be stinted as regards area, and

there should be ample of them. In no case should two pipes go into the same flue, and no two flues should open into one another. There should at least be the thickness of a brick on edge between every flue. All flues, no matter whether they are intended for smoke flues or for ventilation flues, should be parged with good mortar their entire length, the parging to be made smooth. If a few dollars' expense is not minded, it is a good plan to have an 8 inch drain tile placed in the flue, from top to bottom. This may be easily done if the tiles are put in lengths as the flue is being built. The joints may be made tight by filling them up with mortar as the tiles are put, together. A flue made this way is sure to give good satisfaction ; it will rarely get

Chimneys and Flues.

