THE WALL PAPER KING

OF CANADA



Sample books of Choice Wall Paper for Residences, Churches, Offices, Lodge Rooms, Public Halts, Hotels Stores, and our booklet "How to Paper" sent free to any address. Write a postal to



C. B. SCANTLEBURY,

P.O. Box 890.	Belleville, Ont.



Mention what prices you wish to pay the rooms you wish to paper, and where you saw this advertisement.



We pay Express Charges.



<doctype type="text;ad">

Mr. George Grant, contractor, Arnprior, has completed the erection of the new two-story brick public school in that town.



Mr. Sidney Pomeroy, Orillia, has now thoroughly refitted the planing mill lie lately added to his building and contracting business.



Mr. F. F.. Fortier, of Pembroke, who has the contract for the erection of the new post office at Arnprior, has the building nearly ready for the roof. This handsome building will greatly add to the appearance of the main street of the town.



The Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., of Shallow Lake, have purchased an electric plant from the Royal Electric Co., and will have the same operating in a very short time. It is their intention to work twenty—four hours per day during the season.



At the annual meeting of the Hamilton Art Students' League, held recently, the following officers were elected President Mr.



J.	R. Seavey vice-president, Miss Clara Galbraith ; secretary treasurer, Mr. H. L. Wright board of control, Messis J. S. Gordon, A. H. H. Hemming, Win. Marshall, Miss Rose Baine, Miss Galbraith, S. L. Wright, J. R. Scavey.



Messrs. William & Walter Stewart, architects, of Hamilton, have under construction a new building for the Sun Life Assurance Co., on the site of the old post-office building. A considerable

amount of the stone belonging to the old building is being employed in the new, but the material has been so nicely cleaned that an observer would have no idea that it had previously been in use.



Sir Wilfred Laurier laid the corner stone of the new St. Luke's hospital at Ottawa a few days ago. The building was designed by Mr. E. L. Horwood, a local architect. The dimensions are, 230 feet in length, 75 feet in depth and 85 feet in height. The structure will be made as nearly fireproof as possible. It will be lighted by electricity and heated by steam and hot air. It will ultimately provide accommodation for 120 patients. The present building provides accommodation for about 65 patients. The same architect has been commissioned to erect a building on the corner of Bank and Sparks street for the Sun Life Assurance Co. The building is designed in the Italian renaissance style, the lower story being constructed of Miramichi green and New Brunswick red sandstone in alternating courses. The upper portion of the building is of buff pressed brick, ornamented with terra cotta. The northeast corner is rounded and surmounted by a copper dome supporting a globe and a figure of Mercury, which is mounted on ball bearings so as to act as a weather vane. It is intended to make the structure absolutely fireproof, the construction being of steel covered with porous terra cotta.



A practical, technical monthly for Architects, Heating Contractors, and Builders.

The Only Paper of its Kind.

$ 1.00 a year. Send 10 cents for Sample Copy.



THE H. & V. PUBLISHING CO.

World Building, New York.













































Advertise in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

FOR HIGH CLASS METAL GRILLE WORK

Ornamental Iron Work,

Bank Railings and Wire Work,

	Address:	GEO. B. MEADOWS

	128 King Street West,	TORONTO







HEATING AND VENTILATION

OF







SCHOOLS · CHURCHES · THEATRES · WORKSHOPS

and all classes of LARGE BUILDINGS





BY THE FAN SYSTEM A SPECIALTY



Estimates	and Designs Furnished Promptly Modern Apparatus

o— RESULTS GUARANTEED —a

BLOWERS EXHAUSTERS

BOSTON BLOWER COMPANY

Hyde Park, Mass.