

<doctype type="text"><article title=" PRESIDENTS OF CANADIAN PLUMBERS'

ASSOCIATIONS.

" author="">PRESIDENTS OF CANADIAN PLUMBERS'

ASSOCIATIONS.

MR. R. SAMPSON.



THE ancient city of Quebec has quite an active plumbers' association, of which Mr. R. Sampson, whose countenance is herewith portrayed, is president. Mr. Sampson's father was a Devonshire man, who arrived in Quebec in 1832 to accept a position as master armorer in charge of the small arms department and citadel armory, in connection with which there were many interesting associations, such as the rebellion of 1837, the coming and going of the troops, etc. He occupied this position for forty years, and died at the honorable age of 85.

The subject of our sketch is 57 years of age, and was apprenticed to learn the brass trade with C. Pardie when thirteen years old. At the death of Mr. Pardie five years later, he secured employment with the late John Pye, well-known to the older plumbers of the province. That was the time of big margins, when plumbers were regarded as superior to ordinary mortals









































and feared for their ability—to make bills and collect them. Then there was no trouble with the apprentice question, as there was always some hand work to give them employment between times, and better opportunities were afforded to become lead workers than at present, with our superior machine-made lead work. By casting on sand tables many tons of sheet lead were manufactured, from which soil pipe, traps, bends, etc., were made in a manner unknown to the present trade.

In i866 Mr. Sampson went to New York, were he was employed for one year at brasswork and plumbing. Returning to Quebec, he commenced business on his own account in i868, and has continued ever since. He has spent much of his time in working on patent models for different clients, which has given a great variety of work. In his business he is ably assisted by his son, who has charge of the brass shop, while his daughter assumes the responsibility of the office work. Mr. Sampson has accumulated considerable wealth by strict attention to business, but has nevertheless found time to participate in an occasional hunting and fishing tour.

Upon the formation of the local plumbers' association two years ago, Mr. Sampson was chosen president, a position which he still occupies. He reports the association to be in a good condition, and although some of

the local firms have not yet joined, it is hoped they will be induced to follow in the footsteps of the majority.



<article title=" LONDON PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION " author="">LONDON PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION.

MR. W. Heard, president, sends the following encouraging- report of the local plumbers' association at

London:

I can report the London Association to be in first class working order. All the members are fully alive to the benefits of their connection with the National Association of Master Plumbers, and the manufacturers and wholesale dealers are realizing the benefit that comes to them by standing true to the association.

The plumbing trade here, for the last four months, has been very dull, but there are indications of an improvement. The local association membership has been increased by the addition of Messrs. Noble & Rich, who have lately commenced business here, and being well-known, practical men, will get their share of the trade.

A decided improvement is noticeable in the feeling of the individual members of the trade, one to the other, since the association has been formed, the old-time jealousy being displaced by frankness and fair dealing. That augurs a new era.

An invitation has been received from ex-President Haslett, to celebrate the birthday of the local associated a pleasant time is anticipated.







MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

<article title=" ROOFING TILES AND THEIR MANUFACTURE " author="Crawford, C.W.">ROOFING TILES AND THEIR MANUFACTURE. *

By C. W. CRAWFORD.



Tilemaking, next to brickmaking, is the greatest of the clay industries in other countries than this. The roofs are universal in all of Continental Europe, and are much used in the British Isles, where slates are so plentiful. All of the known varieties may be found in any of the old cities, from that resembling a drain tile split in two, or that having a reverse curve like a letter 5, or the flat shingle tile, among the older styles, to the modern interlocking tile now in exclusive use. The fashions in these tiles vary so greatly that the idea of a patent tile in this country is absurd. The tribe is so numerous and so venerable that it is difficult to conceive of any new thing on this side that is not in use on the other. The underlying principle of them all is the same—that of a tongue and groove, arranged with the groove facing upward and the tongue of the opposite tile fitting loosely into it. This is the single lock, and is the more common. But some are made with two tongues and two grooves, called a double lock. This latter plan is more secure against wind and fine snow, but having greater lap, they are necessarily heavier, but both kinds are water tight if of good quality. No tile roof is air tight, and the ample ventilation they admit of is considered an advantage in making the house cooler in summer without being colder in winter. Some of the old pan tiles of S shape are laid with cement, and are fairly tight, but the expansion and contraction must inevitably crack the cement. It is the common practice now to lay tiles as they come from the factory, without cement, except in fitting ridge tiles and hip rolls.

Tiles are held on the roof mainly by gravity, by being

* Abstract of paper read before the Ohio Clayworkers' Association.

