<doctype type="text">the architect may have full power to extend the time for the completion of the works to such an extent as may seem to be reasonable and just, but no contractor or contractors shall in any way hold the proprietor liable for any delay or loss occasioned by any other contractor or contractors engaged on the works.

Tenth Should the contractor fail to furnish the work at or before the time agreed upon, he shall pay to or allow the pro

proprietor the sum of S	dollars per week, as



liquidated or ascertained damages for each and every week during which the said works shall remain incomplete, due allowance to be made for extension of time for additional work or- alterations as laid down in clause number of this agreement.

Eleventh And it is further agreed that the proprietor may employ any other contractor or workmen, who may enter upon the premises or building, to do any work not mentioned in the specifications or shown on the plans.

Twelfth It shall be mutually understood and agreed that all sketches, plans, drawings and specifications are, and remain, the property of the architect, and shall be returned on the issue of final certificate.

In witness thereof the said parties to these presents have hereunto set their hands and seals, the day of the year first above mentioned.

Signed, sealed and delivered iii the

presence of                                        





<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.



Mr. C. de B. Leprohen, C.E., of the city surveyor's staff, Montreal, has lately returned from a trip to Europe. While in France he inspected the principal cement works, and is said to have obtained much valuable information.

Mr. J. W. H. Watis, architect, of the Public Works Department, who was for twenty-three years in the Government service, has been dismissed. Mr. Watts was not a permanent clerk, although employed in the department nearly a quarter of a century.

Mr. Henry P. Smith, late with W. Newlands, architect, Kingston, has opened an office in the Anchor Building, Brock street, Kingston, and is preparing plans for a fine new stone building for the Sisters of Notre Dame Convent, to cost about $10,000. lie would be pleased to receive catalogues and samples.

Much regret has been occasioned by the recent death of Major

	was	engineer of the Department of

Perley, who formerly chief 

Railways and Canals at Ottawa. Major Perley was engaged by the Dominion Government to supervise the erection of the Canadian Building at Bisley, and while so employed succumbed to an attack of bronchitis.

Wm. W. H. Gairns, who had been connected with the Bennett & Wright Company, of Toronto, for twenty-three years, died at his residence on Chicora Avenue a fortnight ago. As foreman for the company he took charge and successfully completed some of the largest work in the Dominion, including the Parliament Buildings at Victoria, B.C.

Mr. Peter McMichael who for many years has been connected with the James Robertson Company at Toronto, has been promoted to the management of the branch at St. John, N.B. Before leaving, his business confreres evidenced the esteem in which he was held by presenting him with a diamond ring, accompanied by an illuminated address. Those who assembled at the Rossin House on the occasion were: Representatives of the Booth Copper Company, Limited the Goderich Organ Company the Miln, Bingham Printing Company; the Montreal Roller Mills Company; the James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company the John Ritchie Plumbing Company the Toronto Foundry Company ; the Toronto Radiator Company the Toronto Hardware Company; the Toronto Steel Clad Bath Company the Standard Manufacturing Company the Gurney Foundry Company, and others.



The celebrated red granite of the Bay of Fundy region is capable of withstanding a pressure of 11,812 pounds to the cubic inch.

The development which has taken place in recent years in the use of metal as a covering material for the exterior or interior of buildings is well illustrated by a handsome catalogue recently published by the Metallic Roofing Co., of Toronto, In this catalogue are shown a variety of patterns of metal covering material adopted for roofs, outer and inner walls, ceilings, wainscoting, dadoes, etc. Photographic reproductions are given of a number of prominent public, business and residential buildings in various parts of Canada in which this material has been thus employed.

<article title=" MANUFACTURE OF MOSAIC FLOORS " author="">MANUFACTURE OF MOSAIC FLOORS.

The Yale Scientific Monthly describes a new process of manufacturing mosaic floors. Small particles of wood, such as saw-dust, wood, flour and fine shavings, are treated first with a mixture of shellac and alcohol, and with them a cement made of curd and slaked lime, and while this mixture is still damp it is put into hot moulds of the desired shape and size and placed under pressure; the joint action of the heat and pressure unites the wood most thoroughly with both the shellac and the cement, and after a few minutes the compound is taken out of the moulds and completely cooled and hardened. Great care is necessary that no foreign substance, especially of an oily nature, be present, as this would prevent the cement from being absorbed into the pores of the wood. In making different colored mosaic the natural color of the woods used is taken into account, then the wood itself is dyed, and lastly dyes dissolved in alcohol are mixed with the shellac. The process is then performed as before. It is said that notwithstanding its hardness, this compound possesses all the perfection of wood, thus rendering it of particular adaptation for use as a floor covering in the case of living rooms and private dwellings, and the important advantage is claimed for it of being unaffected by any changes of temperature.



<article title=" ASBESTIC PLASTER " author="">ASBESTIC PLASTER.

A VERY satisfactory test of as bestic plaster was recently made in the United Slates Treasury Department Building. In the court was placed a structure representing a miniature house, the roof of which was about four feet high, the interior being plastered with asbestic," the name by which this new wall plaster is known. Around the structure were piled kindling wood, shavings and paper enough to make a bon-fire to celebrate a great political victory. After being ignited the light structure was immediately enveloped in flames, which burned fiercely and furiously, but to no avail, as they had found a master. After being subjected to the fire for half an hour an important test was made. A stream of water, through a one and a half inch nozzle, was poured on the plaster attached to the sides and roof without any effect. It is said that the plaster did not drop or crack, but was intact, demonstrating conclusively that it was fire—proof.

Gen. Wm. Sooy Smith, of Chicago, says of asbetic plaster Fire proofing, to be worthy of the name, must resist the combined action of heat and water, and be a non-conductor of heat. In trying to find a material that would serve the required purpose I first tried talc, which is a good non-conductor and very refractory. Soapstone is an impure tale. By mixing this in a pulverized condition with hydraulic cement and other substances I succeeded in making a good fire-proofing material. While conducting these experiments I heard of a material in the great asbestos mine near Montreal, Canada. There is found in that quarry serpentine rock carrying a large percentage of asbestos. This rock, pulverized and mixed with good cementing material, makes by far the most perfect fire-proofing yet discovered. It may be heated to ,100 degrees Fahrenheit (red heat) without harming its durability. Nails may be driven into in and it will not crack. When the nail is removed nothing but a small hole remains, which may be readily filled with putty or any other substance in order to restore the finish of the wall. Struck with a hammer, there is no breakage only the indentations showing. Then, again,. the material is elastic. If the building settles or sinks, it stretches, and the plastering is not marred. Another point is that it will take decoration equal to canvas without danger of the picture being destroyed should the walls settle."



E.	G. Scott, Quebec M. J. Butler, Napanee F. G. B. Allan, Napanee Mills; R. C. Carter, Kingston: S. Rathbun, Desoronto, and James N. Greenshields, Montreal, are applying for incorporation as the St. Lawrence Portland Cement Co., with a capital of

$25,000.

