<doctype type="text">derived from the much-claimed-for direct passage of waste matter to the sewer. The system of ventilation that some people advocate, having an unimpeded course from the sewer through the house vents to the outside air, should be ignored and condemned without any hesitation either in practice or theory.

The only proper system of ventilation for the soil, waste and drain pipes of any building is on the fresh air inlet system on the house side of the main drain trap, as circulation of air creates ventilation under any conditions where ventilation is required. The air cannot be too pure to effect such purposes. The best means I know of that can be applied, is to admit the outside air from a point, say about two feet above the ground, carried down to the foot of the soil pipe, and entering on the house side of the trap. The superior gravity of the outside air forces the confined air in pipes to circulate out of the orifice at the top of the main vent pipe, there to diffuse itself in the atmosphere, becoming harmless in its effects. The chances of stoppage in fixture traps are ten to one in the main trap, the reason for such being that as a rule water closets have, at the most, only ten to fourteen inches fall before reaching the trap seal, which is claimed in the main trap to be an obstruction. On the other hand, we have in sixty to seventy cases Out of one hundred, from five to seven feet fall before reaching the main trap. In most instances the chances for cleaning out stoppage in fixture traps are more difficult than in the main trap. Over-flows in fixture traps are liable to do ten times more damage on upper floors of a building than an over-flow through the fresh air inlet at its base, which is the true indicator that the main trap in question calls for immediate attention. This is not the case with fixture traps until the damage is done, provided there are fixtures in the basement. Over-flows in basements are not fraught with such dangerous or annoying results as if happening on upper floors. They act as direct indicators to stopped-up drainage, which should be attended to at once.

Where can you place a better fixture to remedy the evil more quickly than by having the main trap to begin investigation after examining fixture traps? If they are found to be all right, there is no other fixture so useful for any purpose as this much misrepresented main trap. I can see great benefits to be derived from this system of house drainage, and the only grievance seems to be that plumbing or sanitary work, with its plumbing inspectors and sanitary laws, rules and regulations, should be condemned, and be, instead of a progressive element in our midst, a thing of the past. After many years of practice and theory, are we to wait until the thinking lawyer and householder, who in early days would see to it that he had a cement or other trap fixed in his house drain to prevent the foul odors permeating his dwelling, commences over again to see that it is to be done, or are we expected to know of these requirements, and to recede from our plain duty by ignoring that which we know is a prime necessity. In connection with our imperfect drain and sewer systems, I believe we should not recede from that which is right; the task is before us in all branches of business, in all mechanical callings, and we must endeavor to advance with rigid rules determined to protect the health and lives of the community who place their confidence in us.

From many years of practical experience with main traps, I have yet to meet with any difficulty or serious complaint sufficient to call for anything but the highest praise for this—the most perfect system of sanitary plumbing known at the present time. Nor do I know of an instance where once this system was properly introduced, and its principles explained, that it has ever been removed. Ventilation, or the thorough circulation of air under various conditions, is what creates or conducts in direct connection with the sewer, and, run out above roof of building, causes a removal of the pipe air only under some favorable conditions. The forcing of the confined air to ascend occurs only when the sewer air is colder and of greater gravity than the pipe air, and the external atmospheric conditions at and above the earth's surface are favorable to assist the confined pipe air to discharge at the orifice of the main vent pipe above the roof. The condition above stated, as a general rule, is present to assist the upward motion only during the heated term of the year. In winter weather, when the sewer air is much warmer than either the outside air or confined air in house pipes, the reverse or descending motion takes place. If sufficient heat is generated in the sewer to put in motion the air confined in the conducts or vent pipes, the only favorable time for downward motion is when there is a heavy atmosphere prevailing at and above the earth's surface. Being subjected to various changes

on account of wind, rainstorms, etc., in place of a direct circulation taking place, the air in pipes becemes dormant and stagnant and moves in neither direction, only being distributed a little when a large quantity of water sufficient to fill the pipes is discharged suddenly into the fixtures. We must apply as an agent some remedy to destroy or set in motion this stagnant air in house pipes and remove it, if possible, from the building, with all its dangerous elements always at hand to enter the dwellings of our people through any defects which may happen to exist. As sanitarians it is our duty to prevent, not to cure. The physician's duty is to cure if he can, and he must take and be content with second place.

In conclusion let me point out that the most important feature in connection with the system which I have tried to place before you is the fact that we admit fresh air into the soil pipe which causes circulation to constantly take place, morning noon and night, and removes foul odors from all house drains and connections.



<article title=" PRESIDENT	OF CANADIAN PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATIONS " author="">PRESIDENT	OF CANADIAN PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATIONS.

MR. THOMAS CAMPBELL.



THE Master Plumbers' Association of St. John, N. B., was organized about two years ago, and now includes on its membership roll every plumber in the city. The present officers are Thos. Campbell, president ; J. H. Doody, vice-president; Peter Campbell, secretary. It is our privilege to present on this page a portrait and brief sketch of Mr. Campbell, who has so ably occupied the president's chair.

Mr. Campbell is a native of St. John. He was

















































apprenticed at an early age to learn the plumber's trade in that city, completing his instruction in Boston, where he spent some years. He commenced business in St. John some twenty-five years ago, and at all times has kept up with modern improvements in steam-fitting, hot water heating and plumbing. He is now engaged in fitting up the new High School building, now under construction, with the Sturtevant blast system of steam, driven by fans through galvanized iron piping. He has also just completed the heating apparatus in the new Vanwart block on Duke street.

Mr. Campbell was asked a few weeks ago by the Queen's Jubilee Committee to take part in the coming celebration as one of the very few survivors of the old volunteer fire department, of which he was one of the first and most prominent members, having been foreman and engineer of No. 4 company between the years 1850 and 1860, when the foremost men in the city were enrolled as fire-fighters, and when a fire department maintained at city expense was unknown.

As president of the Association for the past two years, Mr. Campbell has proven himself to be well qualified for the position, and has always shown a disposition to advance in every way possible the calling in which he is engaged. He claims that plumbing and its attendant branches have taken great strides in scientific improvement in New Brunswick of late years, that St. John architects are very particular as to specifications, and in no part of Canada, not even in its largest cities, can be found a higher standard of work.

