<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Results of Strikes " author="">

Results of Strikes.

manufacture in this country. As everything must have a beginning, it is most unfair to men with enterprise who seek to add to the number of home industries, that they should find such difficulty in securing a fair comparison of the quality of their goods with those of foreign makers. It is greatly to be regretted that the government, acting no doubt on the advice of their engineers, have from year to year specified the use of foreign cement in the construction of public works in the face of the existing evidence that the Canadian article is equally good. Fortunately there is no lack of material in Canada for the manufacture of both Portland and natural cement, and the enterprise of our people should speedily bring our manufacturing capacity up to the point where at least the total demand of the home market can be supplied. When that point shall have been reached, we trust it may be found to he possible to manufacture for export also.



THE recent gigantic strike of workmen connected with the engineering trades in Great Britain serves to show the far-

reaching injury which results from conflicts of this character, precipitated in many instances by thoughtless or selfish demagogues in the ranks of the labor unions. Apart from the injury and hardship which have noticeably been the outcome of such conflicts in the past—as, for example, disorganization of trade and privation to the families of the workmen new and more far-reaching effects have manifested themselves in connection with the recent struggle. The iron manufacturing industry of Great Britain was so paralyzed that foreign orders for machinery, etc., could not be supplied with the required promptitude, and in consequence were in many instances transferred to the manufacturers of the United States and other countries. In all probability many of these orders have gone from the British manufacturer never to return. British manufacturers are also being placed at a serious disadvantage in competition with those of other countries by reason of the working rules imposed by the unions. One of these is, that a workman shall not attend to the operation of more than one machine. In these days of automatic machinery, a workman, if given liberty of action, could easily attend to two or three machines. He is forbidden, however, to give attention to more than one. Should this one occupy but a quarter of his time, he must idle away the remainder. This is the method by which the unions seek to limit production and provide employment for their members. In their anxiety to gain this end they seem to have entirely disregarded the fact that their employers are obliged to meet the competition of' the world, and that to do so they must be able to produce their goods as economically as their rivals. If the British manufacturer is obliged to employ three workmen to do the work which the American or German manufacturer gets done by one, the foreign trade which he formerly controlled to so large an extent will pass from him into the hands of' his competitors, and the British workman will find his occupation gone. The situation is already a most serious one, and it is to be hoped, before it becomes too late, steps will he taken to apply a remedy. If the labor agitators are unable or unwilling to see how shortsighted is the policy which they are pursuing, legislation should be enacted which would prevent them from bringing ruin upon individual interests and the commerce of the nation. We again express the belief that

The Pennsylvania State Capitol Competition.

the promoters of strikes will yet carry their despotism to the point where the public sense of justice will assert itself and deprive them of the power to exercise tyranny over their fellow-workmen and employers to whose enterprise they are indebted for most of the comforts of life which they enjoy.

<article title=" The Pennsylvania State Capitol Competition " author="">

REFERENCE was recently made in these pages to the action of the State Commissioners of Pennsylvania in repudiating the recommendations of their expert advisers in the competition for designs for a State Capitol building to be erected at Harrisburgh, Pa. Allusion was also made to the fact that an injunction had been applied for by some of the competing architects to restrain the Commission from carrying out their expressed intention to hold a second competition on conditions of their own choosing. We have now with regret to announce the failure of the legal proceedings to obtain redress for the wronged competitors. The Supreme Court, taking a strictly legal view of the case, and disregarding entirely its moral aspect, has decided that the Commissioners had no authority to enter into agreement with architects as to conditions under which they should submit designs in competition, and that consequently the State cannot he legally bound to recognize and fulfil these conditions. This decision may correctly represent the strictly legal interpretation of the matter, but the competing architects had a right to presume that the conditions of a programme signed by the Governor of the State, the acting Speaker of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the State Treasurer and the Auditor-General would be in no danger of repudiation.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLANS SHOWING HEATING, PLUMBING AND VENTILATING SYSTEM, NEW MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, TORONTO. -



E.	J. LENNOX, ARCHITECT.



KNOX CHURCH, WOODSTOCK, ONT. BURKE & HORWOOD,  ARCHITECTS.



THE church is built of dark purple Toronto bricks trimmed with brown stone. The window openings are of moulded brown bricks. The auditorium is of amphitheatrical form, with the roof of single span. The school at the rear is polygonal in form, with radiating class rooms. The work was carried out under the superintendence of Mr. Alexander White, of Wood-stock, and cost about $45,000.



PERSONAL.

Mr. Robert W. Waddell, C. E., of Kansas, formerly of Cobourg, Ont., was married on November 24th at Peterborough, to Miss Elizabeth Vair, of Belleville.

Mr. H. J. Powell, architect, of Stratford, has recently entered into partnership with Mr. L. C. Wideman, of Guelph. The firm have opened an office in Guelph.



Mr. R. J. Fawcett, architect, has recently removed from Petrolea to Sarnia, where he will make his headquarters in the future. A branch office will be maintained at Pelrolea.

Mr. J. A. P. Waddell, C. F., who recently delivered a course of lectures on bridge engineering at McGill University, Montreal, has received the appointment of consulting engineer of thc Boston Elevated Railroad Company.



A London dispatch of Nov. 18th announces the death of Sir Henry Doulton, head of the celebrated firm of Doulton & Co., pottery manufacturers. Thc deceased gentleman initiated the manufacture of sanitary pipe making in 1846, and in 1870 commenced the manufacture of art pottery.

