	<doctype type="text">34	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



is very common in Italy, and I remember being always especially pleased with the free way with which they abandon or take up the banding in the same wall. The tower of the town hail of Verona begins in bands of brick and marble, which is left off soon after it rises above the roof. In the church of S. Fermo, in the same town, the brick tower is even more capriciously and irregularly banded with white marble, and I remember being especially delighted with it, and thinking that it is not worth while to be anxious about a spotty effect from using stone for constructive convenience more in one part of a building than in another.



That is probably the safest lesson to draw from the success of colour combinations such as those which I have described as capricious. Whether they were intended to be capricious or not one cannot say, but I think it is not likely. It is not an effect which one gains by striving after. One can imagine an architect saying to his client or critic I think I have succeeded in imparting some dignity to this front," but one cannot imagine his saying '' Observe my capriciousness."



It is anxiety on either side that we should avoid. Nature seems to be careless how she splashes on colour, and we may consider ourselves exempted from petty











































































anxieties in that direction. If constructive exigencies require stone in one part more than another, we need not be afraid of danger from want of uniformity of colour. Nor I think need we be afraid of colored trimmings or banding---provided we are not afraid of them and use them freely. There is plenty of example for it in old work, nor is it all irregular as in the examples I gave. I only cited those as illustrations of an extreme, which seem to prove the principle that colour should not be too definite in form. We cannot, of course, do anything like that in our own new work. If we go in for bands it is bands that must come out. It will not do to stop them and have our client's friends asking him whether it was funds that did not hold out or the quarry—-nor indeed is there anything the matter with the effect of bands. What we really want is a motive for a natural irregularity. One is to be found in the interruption of openings; whether we allow the banding to run through without any reference to the openings, and so interrupt the handing constantly, or whether we disturb the regularity

 of spacing in the bands by making some of them conform to the line of heads and sills.

But in the only Italian wall I remember studying there was another motive which answered perfectly. The marble bands were in all cases three courses of brick apart, but the bands themselves were of all thicknesses. Presumably with a view to economy of material and labor, the pieces were sorted so as to make courses of different heights with as little cutting as possible, and then laid at regular distances apart. There is a reasonableness about this which makes it satisfactory even when you discover it ; anti for persons who would not look for it nor discover it, I am sure it was none the less one of the contributing causes of the agreeableness of the wall.

DISCUSSION 



Mr. Dick said that one point that occurred to him in connection with this irregularity, the breaking of bands, etc., was as to the difficulty of drawing the line between an apparently natural irregularity and the affectation of It. They sometimes saw pieces of stone work in brick buildings without any natural termination as it were, in which the brick was run into the stone work. Sometimes the effect was very good, sometimes it was not. Where it was good it was successful, he thought, because the effect appeared to be natural, as in the case of the tower that Mr. Langton referred to ; but where the effect was unsatisfactory it was, he thought, because it conveyed the impression to the mind that it was the result of a studied affectation of irregularity. It was rather a difficult thing to do successfully.

Mr. Darling said that it had always struck him that our modern buildings failed in comparison with the old ones just because those who were responsible for their construction were so particular generally in having everything exactly to correspond. With the old men nothing was regular. There were no two sides of a church the same. There were no two arches alike. That no doubt, contributed largely to the interest one felt in the building when seeing it, although one might not be conscious of the reason at thc time. When they turned to new work the difference was apparent at once. He thought, however, that studied affectation was worse than perfect similarity. [low the old men arrived at these results he did not know.

Mr. E. Burke, referring to a series of articles by Professor Goodyear on the features of some of the old basilicas said that that gentleman had for years been making measured surveys, in the course of which he had several times discovered a most remarkable irregularity in the spacing of the arches. But the irregularity was a gradual diminution in one direction and Professor Goodyear thought this was done with the idea of increasing the apparent length of the church.

A Member This may be a gain from one standpoint but must be a loss from others.

Mr. Helliwell said that it occurred to him that the agreeable effects in these old buildings in Europe to which Mr. Langton had referred might be due to the action of natural causes. Time has a very softening effect on almost all materials, and will tone down what originally is discordant and in strong contrast. The architects of the present day had, of course, to deal with new buildings, and the colors that were introduced into them were often very harsh. Speaking of these bands of marble, he (Mr. Helliwell) had not himself had opportunity of seeing them, but he gathered that although when new it was of striking- color, time had its effect on it as well as on other materials. They knew that in our buildings here in which they tried to introduce color the best effects were got where the greatest irregularity was observed, and where a great variety of shades was used too.

Mr. Darling said he was quite sure that those Italian buildings of red brick, black brick, and white marble built up together must have looked crude when first built.

'[he President remarked that he thought they had had an illustration of that in the building they had been looking at that day. While the smoke around the new city buildings was course objectionable, it was bene

