<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	137



shall be one engineer, medical health officer, two master plumbers and one practical journeyman n plumber, the last three to be chosen by the Master Plumbers Association.

8.	That inspectors of plumbing construction shall have full authority, subject to the Examining Board only.

9.	That action he taken in Ontario first.



The committee further referred to the model by—law enacted by the province of Ontario as a step in tire right direction, hut thought it did not go far enough. The by—law was in the nature of a minimum that would be accepted by the Ontario Board of Health before any city or municipality can put in operation any system of sewerage, its being optional with any municipality to enact any by-law embodying more if they think it desirable or necessary.

The following is a copy of the by-laws recommended for adoption:



NO. —. A BYLAW TO LICENSE AND REGULATE PLUMBERS.



Whereas, it is desirable and necessary to lice use and regulate plumbers in the city of——.



Therefore, the Council of the Corporation of the city of —— enacts as follows:

1. Upon and immediately after the passing of this bylaw and in every ensuring year before the first day of February, any person desiring to carry on the business or trade of plumbing, as a master plumber within the limits of the city of—— shall take out a license, for which license such person shall pay, at the time of issuing thereof, the sum of $ -— --, except as hereinafter provided. No person shall receive such license unless Ire is of tire full age of 21 years, and has a place of business within , and furnishes a bond binding himself in the sum of $200 with at least two securities in the sum of $100 each, to the satisfaction of ——, that he is himself a practical plumber, or that he will employ a sufficient number of regularly educated, practical and experienced plumbers to do all such plumbing work as lie may engage to do, (whether he is a practical plumber himself or not) will not permit or allow any such work to be done by or for himself, or in connection with his business, except by such competent workmen, and that he will riot violate any of tire terms and conditions, rules and regulations contained in bylaw No. -—, and in art)' other bylaw in force from time to time in —- -, respecting plumbing, drainage, sanitary matters and the water works.

2.	That every person desiring such license shall file with the a petition in writing, giving the name of the applicant, and

in case of partnership, the name of each member thereof, together with the place of business, and asking to become a registered plumber, and such petition shall be accompanied with the bond hereinbefore mentioned.

3.	Arty change in the firm or location of the business shall be properly reported to the ——, and the license shall be kept in a conspicuous place at the place of business.

4.	A partnership of two or more persons desiring to carry on such business of master plumbers may do so on obtaining the license hereinbefore provided for and the word "person' in this by law shall include such partnership. When two or more persons are licensed as partners the license shall be issued in the name of he firm or co-partnership and no license shall he transferable.

5.	All licensed master plumbers shall be held responsible for all acts of their apprentices or employees in connection with the business for which license is issued.

6.	Every such license unless it is expressed to be granted for shorter period and unless the same shall become sooner forfeited as hereinafter provided shall be for the year current at the time of the passing thereof, and shall expire on the 31st day of December next succeeding the date of the same.

7.	Upon satisfactory evidence furnished to the Board of Plumbing Examiners that any plumber has been twice convicted for any violation of this bylaw or of any of the bylaws respecting plumbing, drainage sanitary matters or waterworks, the said Board of Plumbing Examiners shall declare the license forfeited.

8.	Any plumber whose license shall be declared forfeited as hereinbefore provided, shall not again be entitled to a license until the said declaration of forfeiture shall be revoked by the Board of Plumbing Examiners as hereinbefore provided.

9.	No person shall curry on business in of- as a master plumber, unless he is the holder of a license issued as hereinbefore provided to himself or to the partnership of which he is a member.

10. Within one month after the passing of this bylaw, every man at work in the of as a journeyman plumber shall register his name, age, residence, and name of present employer, arid any journeyman plumber who is not now employed as such, who may desire to be so employed in the of ——hereafter, must before commencing work, comply with the foregoing regulations, and further that a fee of be charged for each such name registered.

11.	That any person or persons, guilty of an infraction of any of the provisions of this by—law, shall, upon conviction before the Mayor, Police Magistrate, Justice or Justices of the Peace of

on tire oath or affirmation of any credible witness, forfeit and pay at tire discretion of the said Mayor, Police Magistrate, Justice or Justices oft the Peace convicting, a penalty not exceeding the sum of fifty dollars, ($50), for each offence, together with the cost of prosecution, and in default of payment thereof forth— with, it shall and may be lawful for the Mayor, Police Magistrate or Justice convicting, as aforesaid, to issue a warrant under his hand and seal, or in case of the said Mayor, Police Magistrate, and Justice or Justices, or any two or more of then acting together therein, then tinder the hand and seal of one of them, levy

the said penalty and cost or costs only, by distress and sale or the offender or offenders goods and chattels, and in case of no sufficient distress to satisfy tire s rid penalty arid said costs, it shall and may be lawful for the Mayor, Police Magistrate, Justice or Justices, convicting as aforesaid, to commit the offender or offenders to the common gaol of the of with or without hard labor for any period not exceeding one calendar month, unless time said penalty or cost he sooner paid.

12.	The Council shall, from time to time, as occasion may re— quire, on the nomination of the Board of Plumbing Examiners, appoint such inspector of plumbing as may be found necessary, but no person shall ho eligible for such appointment who shall trot have passed a satisfactory examination for proficiency in both



practice and theory of plumbing arid drainage before the Board of Examiners, as hereinafter provided. Such inspector or inspectors shall have frill power to act on all matters under the by—law subject only to the Board of Plumbing Examiners. Such inspector shall be tinder the supervision of the Board of health, and shall be attached to the office of the city engineer, and shall be paid such salary as the Council shall determine.

13.	The Board of Plumbing Examiners is hereby constituted to consist of one engineer, medical health officer, two master plumbers in good standing in the——of , and one practical plumber to be chosen by the Master Plumbers' Association. The last three shall hold office for one year after their appointment,



arid shall be paid a fee of four dollars for each session of the board, and the board shall be called together by the engineer (who shall be chairman of the board) at such times as the chair-man shall find necessary.

14.	him case any dispute arises under the by—law to license and regulate plumbers, as to whether airy person or persons employed by - regularly educated, practical and ex— a licensed plumber is a regularly

experienced plumber, as in said by-law provided, rind said master plumber may require the--------to permit the said workman to be examined before the said Board of Examiners, whose decision, properly certified as to the competence of tire said workman, shall be final and conclusive.

15. It small be the duty of the above mentioned plumbing examiners to inquire into all engines or disputes arising from the operation or interpretation of any part of by—law No. — entitled

A By-law to Secure the Sanitary Condition of Buildings,'' to linear and decide upon all disputes between the plumbing inspector arid the public, and between the said inspect or and the plumbers of the of and their decision shall be final arid conclusive. It shall be the duty of the chairman of tire plumbing examiners to take such necessary at action within one week from proper notice to him in writing against any per sour accursed.

16.	In t use of urn'. dispute arising relating to any provision of the above mentioned by-laws, tire party who disputes shall give notice to the engineer in writing there forth the nature of the dispute, and shall appear before the Board of Plumbing Examiners, who shall hear arid decide on the merits of said dispute, and the decision of the said board shall be final and conclusive.

NO. , A BY-LAW TO SECURE THE SANITARY CONDITION OF



BUILDINGS.



Whereas it is desirable and necessary to make provisions to secure the sanitary condition of buildings.

Therefore the Council of the Corporation of tire city of——enacts as follows:

It shall riot be lawful to construct or extend any drain for the reception of sewage or waste water tinder or into any building (except stables), or to connect same with any public sewer or drain, except the said drain, shall in its plan arid construction conform to the following requirements:

PERMIT.



1.	Before proceeding to construct, reconstruct or alter any portion of the drainage, ventilation or water system of an hotel, there, warehouse dwelling house or other building, the owner or house agents constructing time same shall file in the office of the

—	an application for a permit therefor, and such application shall be accompanied with a specification or an abstract thereof mm a blank form prescribed and supplied for this purpose, stating the nature of the work It) be done, and giving the size, kind arid weight of all pipes, traps arid fittings, together with a description of all closets and other fixtures, amid a plan with tire streets and street numbers marked thereon, and showing the drainage system underground.

2.	All plans must be legibly drawn in mink on heavy white paper or tracting linen, and must be drawn on a scale of eight feet to one inch.

3.	A permit must be granted or refused within two days from the time of filing of the application, and time permit of the----(if granted) shall be valid for six months from the date issued.

4.	it the shall find the said plans and specifications do riot conform with the rules and requirements laid down in respect to the drainage and plumbing iii the by-law in the city of , Ire shall not issue any permit for such plumbing and drainage, arid it shall be unlawful to proceed therewith.

5.	The shall be notified when any work is ready for inspection, amid all work must be left uncovered and convenient for examination until inspected and approved of. The inspection shall he miracle within two days, except where the soil is of such a nature that it cannot be left open for two day's, when the inspection shall be made forthwith In after notification shall have been given to the or inspector appointed by- the corporation appointed for that purpose, shah call for smoke test, which test shall be made by' the party' whose work is being inspected under the direction of the said or inspector. The

or inspector is to supply the machine or instrument to make

