	<doctype type="text">206	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The Law of Light.

necessary to remedy the professional defect, one of which is the association of a qualified architect with the engineer on large works, and the other is such an extension of the engineer's educational training as will supply him, if possible, with the necessary artistic discrimination. It will probably be a long- time before the second method is pursued to any considerable extent, for the curriculum of engineering study is sufficiently full already, but the procedure first named is at once available. While it is exceedingly rare that an architect and an engineer are associated for this purpose in works of construction, there is no reason whatever why they should not be, and there are many good reasons why they should be so associated in works of great magnitude. Such works involve the expenditure of large sums of money ; they are usually of a monumental character, and frequently are located where they become objects of public sight. In not a few cases they may add beauty and dignity to the landscape or irretrievably mar it."





A RECENT decision by Lord Justice Lindley, of the British Court of Appeal, serves to clarify the legal interpretation

of the law on this subject. While affirming the generally accepted principle that a grantor may not derogate from his own grant, that is to say, in the case of the sale of a house, a vendor may not afterwards, if he owns the adjoining land, obstruct the lights of the house which he has sold, the Lord Justice made reference to cases to prove that the right may in particular cases be modified or limited, In the present instance, however, while the defendant was able to show that the plaintiff knew that houses were to be built on adjoining land, he was not able to show that there was any understanding that the lights of the house sold were to be seriously obstructed ; on the contrary, it was shown that the defendant had built higher and closer than was in contemplation. The result of the case is, therefore, that the mere fact of a purchaser knowing that adjoining land will be ultimately built on does not constitute acquiescence in a future obstruction.





A CURIOUS method of construction, which is said to have been much in use in Ireland upwards of a century

ago, came to light recently in connection with the attempt to straighten the spire of a church in the county of Cork. After the spire had been examined by an architect, and the contractors had set about taking it down, with the view of rebuilding, the surprising discovery was made that it could not be taken down except it was done en masse, as the stones of which it is built were hermetically bound to each other with a combination of molten lead and sand, which rendered it absolutely impossible to separate one stone from another, the whole spire being, as it were, one solid block. On further and closer inspection it was found that the entire building was erected in a similar manner, no other mortar or binding substances of any kind being used save the sand and molten lead. A huge iron shaft runs through the top portion of the spire, on which the stones were slipped like rings and irrevocably riveted with lead and sand. Under this extraordinary circumstance the idea of taking down the tower had to be abandoned, as being quite impracticable, if not utterly impossible, but the desired end is said to have

A Curious Method of

Construction.

The Future of Toronto.

been satisfactorily attained by an ingenious and clever method adopted by the contractor and his staff, particulars of which are unfortunately not supplied.



THE City Council, in conjunction with the citizens of Toronto, should seriously consider what steps should be taken to

ensure the future stability and growth of the city. Influences are at work tending to lessen her present importance and check her future growth. We hear it constantly affirmed that the influence of the C.P.R. is being steadily exerted for the purpose of diverting trade from Toronto. The Ottawa and Parry Sound Railway is likewise proving a means of carrying away from Toronto the trade of northern Ontario, which, geographically speaking, should belong to her. This trade is finding an outlet in Ottawa and Montreal, both of which cities are profiting at the expense of Toronto. The centralizing influence of the departmental stores Is also seen in the diminished number of wholesale establishments. Owing to the failure of the Councils of past years to accord liberal treatment to manufacturers, this important class have given Toronto a wide berth in favor of Hamilton and smaller towns, where shipping facilities are equally good and taxes either nominal or entirely abolished. Unless Toronto is content to become a purely educational and residential centre, her public bodies and citizens generally should arouse themselves from the lethargy which in recent years seems to have settled down upon them, and try to evolve means of maintaining in the future the advancement which has marked the city's history in the past.



IT is gratifying to observe that the City Council of Toronto is still being urged to purchase or lease for the purposes of a public square the property at the south-east corner of Bay and Queen streets, opposite the new city and county buildings. The square would be formed by extending James street through to Richmond street. The present owners of the land would derive large advantage from the valuable frontages which this extension would afford, and are consequently favorably disposed towards the project. If the land required for the square were leased by the city the annual ground rent would amount to $6,400, of which sum the property owners benefited offer to contribute $2,000. Or the city might purchase the property outright. The Council have instructed the Assessment Commissioner to learn the exact terms on which the land can be obtained. A public breathing and resting place in the business district is one of the greatest needs of the city at the present time, and will become more vitally necessary in years to come. The square is also required to enhance the appearance of the new civic buildings. Lastly, no more fitting memorial could be devised to commemorate one of the greatest events in British history, the Diamond Jubilee of Her Majesty's illustrious reign. We trust that before the Jubilee car shall close, the Council will consummate the purchase or lease of the property required for this proposed Victoria Square.



Mr. W. C. McDonald, to whose generosity is due the endowment of the Department of Architecture at McGill University, of which Prof. Capper is the head, has recently donated to this department a number of folio volumes treating of Egyptian and Venetian architecture.

The Proposed Victoria Square.

