<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	139



10 lbs. per lineal yard 1 inch internal diameter 13 lbs. per lineal yard.

Galvanized wrought-iron pipe and fittings may be used for water supply pipes if desired, but no black iron pipe shall be used.

31.	Every masterplumber who shall himself or by his apprentice, agent or employees make any extension or alteration to, or shall remove any tap, pipe or other fixture attached to the pipes of the water works, shall, on the first day of the month in which such extension, alteration or removal was made, report the nature or extent of the same in writing to the engineer upon a written form to be supplied by said department.

32.	No person except a duly qualified and registered master plumber under this law shall be allowed, without first having obtained a permit from the Water Works Department, to open or shut off a stop-cock in connection with the service supplying any premises, unless in ease of urgent necessity to prevent loss from flooding, or in ease of a plumber to make necessary repairs or to test his work, and shall in every such case leave the stop-cock as he found the same, and any person who shall commit any damage to any stop-cock in the service pipes of the department renders himself liable for the amount of any such damage.

33.	No person except a duly qualified and registered master plumber, under this law shall be allowed to build, lay, alter or change any branch pipe or connect same to the system of sewers in tile city of

34.	No person except a duly qualified master plumber, properly registered under this law, shall make any connection to or run any pipe for the purpose of conveying water from the water works into any building or ground in the city of

35.	All work contemplated in this bylaw shall be done in a workmanlike manner and shall be subject to the inspection and supervision of the inspector appointed by he Corporation of the city of for that purpose, and all faulty or defective work which may at any time be discovered shall be made satisfactory to the said inspector, and when found satisfactory the certificate shall be issued to the plumber.

36.	No arrangements shall be made for supplying urinals except by self-closing cocks or automatic flush tanks, and no arrangements shall be made for cleaning water closets or privy vaults by waste pipes from wash basins or by sinks or by any other means or evasion, but they shall be fitted up with the fixtures and appurtenances belonging to them respectively.

37.	The —— engineer, the medical health officer, and any inspector appointed for that purpose shall have the right at proper hours of the day and upon reasonable notice given and request made upon owner or agent, to enter upon and have free access to all parts of any building in the——, in which water from the waterworks is delivered or consumed or has connection to the sewer.

38.	That section 15 of the by law appended to the Public Health Act is hereby repealed within the city of - except rule

thereof.

39.	This bylaw shall go into force immediately on the passing thereof.

Section 40 referred to non-compliance with the provisions of the by-law, and the penalty to be imposed, which was placed at $50 for each offence.

The report was referred to the Committee on Resolutions.



REPORT OF LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE.



Tile Legislative Committee, composed of Messrs. McKinley, Horton and Johnson, reported the cost of incorporation as $280, made up as follows Advertising, $30; Government fees, $ too; Solicitor's fees and disbursements, $150. It was also necessary to get incorporation tinder the Manufacturers Act to have $40,000 of subscribed stock, as well as a seal, which would cost

$4.50. Report referred to Committee on Resolutions.



 REPORT OF APPRENTICESHIP COMMITTEE.



The report of the apprenticeship committee dealt with the necessity of young men learning their trade thoroughly, and remaining in one shop instead of moving around. The card system was recommended for adoption, by which means an apprentice could not be taken on by another plumber without having a proper clearance card from his last employer. There were tunes when a master plumber was compelled to reduce his staff, and the card system would enable tile discharged apprentice to complete his training in another shop.

This report was also refer-red to the Committee on Resolutions.



The report of the Essay Committee was then read by the Secretary. It laid special stress on the necessity of obedience to the principles of sanitation. Lack of space prevents us giving a more detailed synopsis of the report, which was referred to the Committee on Resolutions.

Mr. W. J. Burroughes, president of the Toronto association here introduced to the convention AId. Scott, Chairman of the Reception Committee of the City Council, In doing so, he took occasion to outline the programme arranged for, and invited all master plumbers to attend the convention.

Aid. Scott then welcomed the delegates. Among other things he said "You are engaged in looking after the comforts, conveniences and safety of the community, and it is right to expect reasonable and proper reward. I hope that the occasion of your convention will result in some of the dissatisfactions which, I learn from one of your reports, exist, being removed, and that it will be a benefit to others as well as yourselves. Your craft is a very

ancient one. Until recent years it was supposed that the manufacture of lead pipe was of recent origin. This has lately been found to be a mistake, for over 1,800 years ago the plumbers' craft was pursued, except in the matter of sanitation on much the same line as it is today. It was my fortune to visit some time since a city which had been buried for over 1,800 years, and there I found lead pipe and traps all very much the same as we see in use to-day, showing that the Romans over ,800 years ago were engaged in the same class of stork as you ate to-day. I wish won success in your convention."

The president gratefully acknowledged the hearty reception extended by Ald. Scott, on behalf of tile city. It was a fact, he said, that the city of Toronto had the best sanitary laws in Canada, and these laws were carried out. They had assembled together to discuss questions which contributed to the happiness of the citizens and for the purpose of securing better plumbing.

Mr. Hughes, secretary, also spoke at some length. He congratulated his Toronto friends upon the improvements that had taken place since his last visit about sixteen years ago. Referring to the statement made by Ald. Scott that their trade was an ancient one, he said the very name they bore was taken from an old Roman work, '' plumbum," meaning lead. It is to—day almost a misnomer. White lead pipe was once the staple, it was now being used less and less. Concluding, he remarked that he could not see why legislators should safeguard the public against



poor doctors and not against poor plumbing.

The president then called upon the representatives of tile supply houses to say a few words, Mr. Edward Gurney, Mr. A. A. McMichael, of the James Robertson Company, and Mr. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Company, responding.



Adjournment for lunch was then announced. During intermission the group photograph, which we print on another page, was taken Oil the Metropolitan church grounds.



AFTERNOON SESSION.



Upon re-assembling the reading of the president's address was the first business. This was done by Secretary Hughes.



PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.



The president, in his address, outlined the early work of the Association, and pointed out the necessity of the Executive Committee answering all correspondence promptly. New associations, he said, had been formed in several places. Members from Sherbrooke, Richmond, and St. Hyacinthe had affiliated with the Montreal association, and he had news that an effort was being made to organize in Vancouver, B. C. It was important that tile smaller towns and villages as well as the cities should organize, as the same interests bound them together.

Regarding the relations between the plumbers and the wholesale dealers, he was glad to say that all the principal dealers and nearly all the wholesale houses had signed the resolutions, thereby showing their good wishes towards the craft. He had an important interview with Mr. McMichael, of the James Robertson Company, in Montreal, and as a result Mr. McMichael stated that he would not only advise the Plumbers' Supply Association to sign the agreement, but would try and have it lived up to. The Master Plumbers' Association should, he thought, assist the wholesale men by supplying them wit 11 the names of all legitimate master plumbers. Each local association should look after its own members and report to tile National, The plumbers themselves were their own enemies. It was yet common to see master plumbers going into wholesale stores, getting the goods charged to their customers and getting a discount reserved on the sales made. This was paving the way for the customer to return to the wholesaler, and puts the wholesale man in a false position if he should refuse to sell. They had also suffered through the journeyman plumbers, who took customers to wholesale houses and bought material and had the work done by day. One large manufacturing firm, the Robert Mitchell Company, of Montreal, had discontinued their contracting department, and would continue only as a supply house. This was a step in the right direction, and the president hoped others would soon follow. In January last the Executive Committee met in tile city of Quebec and discussed several objections which were made to the resolutions principally affecting the hardware stores, engine builders, pump manufacturers, brewers, etc. Certain decisions were arrived at, but this convention would have to try and solve that problem. The plan adopted last year of naming the president, the secretary, and a delegate for sub-committee was a good one, and should be continued Be careful, he urged it the choice of executive officers. 'flue services of Mr. J. W. Hughes, the able secretary, bad been of great benefit to the association. Plumbing bylaws in cities and towns should not be overlooked, as they were the foundation of success. It was thorough them that the standard of



plumbing would be elevated. In conclusion Mr. Lamarche thanked the trade press for the assistance rendered the association and the association for the honor conferred upon him by his election as its chief executive officer.



The reading of the address was greeted with applause.



Here a letter was read from the Toronto Plumbers' Supply Association, soliciting a conference with a committee of the National Association of Master Plumbers, and Messrs. Lamarche, Burroughes and Fitzsimmons were appointed.

Mr. W,. Smith, vice president for Ontario, submitted his report, which stated that one of his first duties was to appoint a

