































<doctype type="text"><article title="THE BUILDER" author="">THE BUILDER

Finish.

BUILDINGS of to-day are very much different to buildings erected earlier in the century, so far as the finish is concerned, The builder of to-day is satisfied if he can put a good front on his work, and give an air of neatness to a room ; but he seldom cares to waste time in making good and secure the work to be covered.. Grounds, skirtings and linings are put in place and nailed fast without reference to their being true on any edge or side, than the one to be worked on. Wainscoting and other beaded stuff is just as often set up out of plumb as it is on purely vertical lines ; dour and window frames are frequently set out of plumb, and as often Out of square, but, if the eye cannot detect it without the aid of an appliance, it is Jet go, and if the work has a good appearance, that satisfies the modern workman. He mistakes neatness for finish in nearly everything he docs, whereas neatness has been well described as a cheap substitute for refinement. That is to say, he is satisfied if he scrapes his surfaces clean and smooth and leaves the woodwork on the exposed surface in good order for the painter, whom he allows to hide many a blemish with putty and paint. A repetition of sizes, in doors and windows, in moulding, in ornament, and in everything that can be repeated, is the rule, and every irregularity is scrupulously avoided. He prefers monotony, for it is cheap, and if he can repeat one window a hundred times, so much the better, and if a set pattern of factory wrought moulding can be utilized, it will surely find a place, as it is cheap and neat. Such work may go under the name of neatness, it may look neat, in fact it is neat, but it is not finish as finish is understood by people of taste. One of the characteristics of finish is contrivance ; another is fitness. Doubtless the contract system is accountable for much of the sameness of finish now in vogue, and architects, when designing, too often take their mouldings, doors, newels, brackets, &c., from the catalogue and price-list of some manufacturer, from whose stock of dry wrought stuff the contractor draws his supplies.





WHILE it is a truism that the free use

of machine wrought stuff has lessened

the cost of building very much within the last thirty years, and thereby enabled many a poor man to own his own homestead, it has had the effect of lowering the standard of good taste in the art of building in many departments Let us, for instance, take as an example modern joinery, which is now mostly prepared by machinery, especially as applied to openings. It is quite the exception now to find mouldings worked from the solid as they formerly were.

Imitation.

Moulded doors are doors that have mouldings planted in the panels and nailed or glued in place. Door jambs for brick or stone walls were framed and paneled, and had soffit linings paneled and were fixed to plugged backings or framed grounds. Such work nowadays is simply a wide jamb of two-inch plank, rebated to receive the door, and finished with architraves on each face, with a band moulding made at the factory and having the same section as thousands of feet of other mouldings from the same factory. The windows and frames are put together as cheaply as possible, and if they answer the purpose at the closing of the building contract, that is sufficient to make them pass muster, and it is no wonder that in many modern houses the windows continually want the doctor. In the older period, and in the older towns of the country, it was the fashion to have the old double-hung sash windows, with paneled backs, elbow linings and paneled shutters hung in two or more leaves, which folded back into boxings, and in good work the shutters and flaps were all made to appear alike the back lining was carefully tongued into the lining of carved frame, and also into the ground of boxing. The hinging was skillfully managed, and everything was done when the shutters or blinds were closed to make the screen look finished. There are many examples of this complete finish still existing in old Montreal, old Toronto, old Hamilton, St. Catharines and other frontier towns, and it would be an object lesson to many young carpenters, to see and study one of these old time windows when all, or nearly all, the work was done by hand, and the mouldings worked from the solid. There was no imitation in the work, no two buildings were finished alike.





ALL flue-doors, ash-doors, stove-rings and ventilating registers are generally marked on well-prepared plans, and

should be placed in position as the work goes on. If left for subsequent cutting in the wall, they are sure to be forgotten. Rings for furnace smoke-pipes should never be less than sixteen inches from the cellar ceiling. All flues must be closed at the bottom, unless they are intended to ventilate the cellar or joists under the foundation, but where this is the case, no smoke pipe or fire-place must connect with that flue. Flues should not connect with one another, but should be kept separated to the top. The withs or walls should not be less than four inches thick, and should be bonded once in every eight courses at least, in ordinary chimneys, by having the bricks roughly mitered with the stretchers in the wall. " "Sometimes," says Clark, " ties of tin or hoop iron are laid in the points to sustain the withs,

Something for the Bricklayer.

