



<doctype type="text">most costly artistic productions of all lands. In fact, the church became a veritable museum of art. No young man was supposed to have finished his education until he could say he had ''sojourned" in the Holy City of Canterbury,'' for a twelve months at least.

As stated before, the best glass painters in Europe acquired their art in that city, and the fragments of windows still left in the church that were the work of the 12th, 13th and 14th centuries have no equals in Chrisendom, and to this day artists from France, Spain, Germany and Italy visit Canterbury for the sole purpose of seeing and examining these painted windows. Religious art died in Canterbury when the Reformation made its advent. From the day of t he separation of England from the Roman church, the doom of religious art was sealed for a time. Like a second black plague, Henry's infamous emissaries swept over England, leaving desolation behind them. The people rose in valiant defense of their supposed guides and protectors, the monks and friars, but their struggles were in vain. Abbeys and monasteries, cathedrals and churches, shrines and tombs, tell a prey to the kings mercenaries. Desecration took the place of consecration. Churches were no longer built but destroyed ; religious art, which is the foundation of all art, was scoffed at, and things of beauty, if connected with the Church, were jeered at, and when possible destroyed. Abbeys and convents and monasteries, once centres of religious education, charity and benevolence, were blasted by fire or turned over to conscienceless followers, and the country was studded with ruins ecclesiastical art, in all of its branches, came to an end. It had died a violent death, not a death from decay or exhaustion ; and the great church of Canterbury, being the centre of Ecclesiasticism, suffered most ; and its interior was robbed of almost everything the great Harry could turn into money.

What the people lost, however, in ecclesiastical art by the Reformation, they gained in freedom of thought, material wealth and domestic art. Men and artists who had been employed their whole lives in the building and decoration of great religious temples, were employed by the enriched adherents of the king in building, enlarging and beautifying the domestic castles and halls that have made England a land of ''stately homes," and gave to Eliza Cook an opportunity to exhibit her beautiful poem, " Those Stately Homes of England." It was during the latter part of King Henry's reign and the early part of Mary's that Hatfield House, the present home of the Salisbur's, '' Speke Hall," and many other noted domestic buildings on the Island, had their beginnings.

What Henry left undone in the way of destroying art work in the churches, the Puritans finished. They went much further than 1-henry, and with less reason. It is to them that is due the destruction of the most beautiful glass-work the world ever produced. Canterbury, York, Durham, Chester and Westminster suffered severely from the vandalism of Cromwell's fanatics. Nearly all images and statuary of a religious kind had been removed and mostly destroyed by Henry's order, but the Puritans defaced the buildings proper, breaking the figures in the walls, on the capitals and in the exterior niches, and mutilating the tombs, destroying memorial brasses and tearing down reredos and screens because they had in their combination symbols of the Christian faith. Notwithstanding all its misfortunes

and disasters, the noble structure still exerts an influence on religious architecture in England, and with the revival of religious activity in the latter part of the last century, the Renaissance methods fed largely on the various styles, as embodied in Canterbury, when applied to the new temples demanded by the new—born fever. The building as left us by William of Sens, the Saxon William, Chicheley and the two Goldstenes is yet a power for good in the world of religious architecture. In closing, I may say that a number of kings and queens, some 25 archbishops, several noted warriors and statesmen, are buried inside of the church. The last archbishop interred under the roof was the Cardinal Archbishop Pole, who died 1558. During the reign of Queen Elizabeth, the crypt under the cathedral was allowed to be used by the Hugonots, who brought with them from France many of the useful arts, and the spinning and weaving of silk, an industry unknown at the time in England. For a time Canterbury became the centre of the silk trade, but eventually branches of it were taken to other cities the ribbon trade to Coventry, velvets, plushes, etc., to other places. And now Canterbury, once the most important city in England, is not even a third-rate place, if population and wealth are considered, but as a place full of glorious memories a shrine, where religious or patriotic devotees may visit with gratification and profit—no other town or city in the

tight little isle" offers the same opportunities. The influence radiating from the little Church of St. Martin, having their beginnings with the baptism of Ethelbert, are still active, not only in the narrow limits that form Great Britain and Ireland, but over an area greater than Ethelbert supposed the world to be, and the two hundred millions of people speaking the language whose rootlets were planted by this early king, and enriched by the author of "The Canterbury Tales," and rounded up by the immortal bard of Avon, still feel that influence ; and by their unsurpassed energy, their incomparable governmental methods, and love of justice, will continue to spread, by good example, and by giving equal rights to all mankind, the benefits inherited by the conversion of the brave Ethelbert, and his baptism in the little Church of St. Martin, And in conclusion let me add that all this was brought about by the love and wisdom of the gentle Bertha.

What an heritage then is this little church, coming down to us from the time when Rome was mistress of the world, and in which Roman soldiers had worshipped. It survived its builders, and saw the Roman legions leave the land forever ; it witnessed its own desecration by Saxon and by Dane, and its final triumph over the Scandinavian gods, and its settlement down to peace and glory and reverence under the Normans, to again be governed by the race, whom by the help of Bertha, made it the first Saxon Christian church on the British Island.



<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

The American Monthly Review of Reviews for August devotes itself with accustomed thoroughness to the new tariff.



We are indebted to Mr. Chas. Baillairge, C. E., for a copy of the transactions of the Geographical Society of Quebec. It contains a frontispiece, a portrait of the Hon. N. S. Parent, Minister of Agriculture of the Province of Quebec, and patron of the society, also a portrait of Mr. Frank D. Tenis, president of the society, and of several ex-presidents and explorers, together with exploration maps and photographic reproductions of scenery in the extreme north.

