



<doctype type="text"><article title=" PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS.

VI.

" author="">PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS.

VI.



MR. J. E. ASKWITH.



The name of Mr. J. E. Askwith, of Ottawa, is familiarly known throughout Ontario and the eastern provinces, he being a contractor of wide and varied experience. He was born in the city of Ottawa on January 28th, 1841, was educated in the common schools, and served his apprenticeship in the carpenter and millwright trades. In the year 1872 he engaged in the sawn lumber business, and commenced contracting three years later.

The mention of some of the most important contracts executed by Mr. Askwith will serve as an indication of his success. In the vicinity of Ottawa he built the Geological museum, the Government printing bureau, including placing of shafting and machinery, a number of residences, the Wellington bridge on the Rideau river, and piling the west bank of the Rideau canal. The outside work included the Quarantine Hospital at Grosse Isle, Que, Marpeth pier, Lake Erie, Stratford post office, Niagara Fails post office, Peterborough post office and custom house, Chatham

post office, Cape Bauld light house, Newfoundland, Notawasaga light house and the Colchester reef light house.

The latter work was a dangerous and difficult piece of construction, and American engineers declared that it was impossible to build it. The light house was situated seven miles from land in fourteen feet of water, with the full sweep of the lake.

Mr. Askwith was also a member of a firm that constructed a section of the C. P. R. short line through the state of Maine. He is now engaged in building one of the largest armories in the Dominion, at Halifax, N. S., the cost of which will be $200,000.

For seventeen years Mr. Askwith was councilor and school trustee in New Edinburgh before that village was annexed to Ottawa. After its annexation he was elected alderman for the city of Ottawa for four successive years, and was chairman of the Board of Health for three years. He is now a member of the Park Commissioners of Ottawa.



<article title=" CONSTRUCTION OF BRICKS " author="">CONSTRUCTION OF BRICKS.

IN a paper on "Brickwork," read before the Architectural Association of London, Eng., Mr. John Toomey gave the following suggestions regarding methods of using different materials

SAND.—I have often found that the quality of the sand used for building purposes does not receive the attention it deserves. A clean, sharp sand is essential to the making of good mortar, whether mixed with lime or cement. The many impurities to be found in sand must act injuriously and tend to detract from the strength of the mortar. The best way to avoid this is to wash the sand, but the expense attached to this process prevents its general adoption. But I have used a " Medway" sand and one from the neighborhood of

Hatfield, good in quality, being both sharp and clean. Where a mortar-mill is used the " clinkers" from a dust-destructor mixed in reasonable quantities with sand and lime or cement make a good mortar. But it is always an important point to see that a proper proportion of lime or cement is used, which is not always done. 

BRICKS. —The question of the qualities of bricks is such a large one that I shall only be able to speak of a few kinds. The numerous kinds of bricks that are now in the market show that greater attention is being paid to their production, chiefly in facing bricks (external). They may be divided into two classes, viz., the "sand" brick and the " pressed" brick, The different processes of manufacture of the two bricks being so different, the sand brick being moulded whilst the materials are of a dough-like consistency, and the other being

pressed,' while the ingredients are nearly dry, must tend to make the pressed brick squarer and more regular in shape and size. But a brick, like terra-cotta, must be well burnt to be durable, and in burning it loses in shapeliness what it gains in durability.



METHODS OF BEDDING BRICKS.-—I think it is essential (except during the winter months) that bricks should be well wetted before being laid. This is all the more necessary where cement mortar is used. The only possible way to secure strong work is to "grout" each course of brickwork, and this is where the advantage of "washed" or well screened sharp sand is seen, as it will more readily fill the open joints of the brickwork. The plastering of mortar on the top of each course will not do. But the fact that wet bricks make bricklayers' fingers sore may have something to do with the neglect of wetting bricks. in work that is to be pointed after the building is erected. the joints should be



raked out half an inch deep, and well brushed off with a hard broom to clear away all loose mortar, and the pointing should be well pressed or "ironed" in the joints. In glazed or enameled work it may be often noticed that after a time the "glaze" flakes off and the defective part appears black. This is very often due to using chipped or defective bricks, but it is also due sometimes to another cause, viz. the mode of bedding them. The bricks having two deep "frogs," and generally being laid in a close joint, care is not always taken that sufficient mortar is spread to insure the frogs of the brick being solidly filled so that when the weight comes on the wall the pressure is largely on the outer edge of the brick, and causes the "glaze" to fly.

One way to obviate this is to fill the "frogs" before laying the bricks. Another way is to "joggle" either the end or side of the brick before bedding, and fill or 'grout" them up with liquid mortar.



The conditions of present-day building often compel builders and others to carry on their works in sections. Very often walls are built with a vertical "toothing." If this cannot be avoided, I think the connection or making good to such toothing should be done with cement.

