<doctype type="text"><article title=" THE STORY OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS ABBEY " author="Taylor, A.T.">THE STORY OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS ABBEY.

BY A. T. TAYLOR, F.R.I.B.A.



There is a community of thought and sentiment linking, as with a golden chain, the architectural expression of all ages and all races.

The same spirit worked amongst earth's earliest builders in brick and mortar on the plains of Shinar when they essayed to rear the tower of Babel it seized on the boulders on the banks of the Nile, and the Sphinx speaks to us still of eternal silence and peace ; it carved human headed winged bulls to stand on the marble pedestals of Ninevah, it raised the Parthenon on the hill of Athens—still exquisitely beautiful even in its ruins it inspired the chisel of Phideas to give shape and embodiment to those splendid processional figures, fit necklace for the goddess Athena; it bade the Moors build their gorgeous Mosques and Alhambras, and in the gloomy north rose at its command abbey and cathedral, with their fretted cloisters, lofty groined roofs, flying buttresses, spire and pinnacle.

Conspicuous amongst these stands a venerable pile, the story of which, it will be my endeavor, however imperfectly, to bring before you this evening.

There is perhaps no spot of ground in the British Empire which ought to be so dear to every Englishman as that acre contained

within the precincts of the Abbey church of St Peter's		West

 minister.

	It would be difficult for the most prosaic, callous of ignorant	 of

mortals to visit this shrine, even if he knew nothing of its history, without a feeling of awe coming over him as he slept from the sunshine and busy life of the outer world to the religious gloom and silence of the interior; but to one who knew something of its history, traditions, associations and architecture, it would be impossible to do so without the keenest emotion and the interest interest. 

Architecturally it has no tall graceful spite like Salisbury, , no magnificent central tower like Canterbury, it has not the itch— ness nor loftiness of Beauvais, nor the storied wealth of sculpture of Wells or Amiens, it is not glowing with splendid color of marble and mosaic like lie Lily Cathedral of Florence of the old Doge's church of St. Marks at Venice but it is solemn noble, venerable——in perfect keeping with the genius of the English people ; it is woven into warp and wool of the texture of English history, and may almost be said to be part of the English Con—  situation.

Seventeen centuries clasp hands and encircle the Abbey. The mists of antiquity shroud its earliest history, but it is said that somewhere before the year 200 A. D., a small rude Christian church was built on Thorney Island on possibly the site of a temple to Apollo, just as tradition credits St. Pauls with being built on the site of a temple to Diana.

There is no doubt that there must have been a Roman station here, for a Roman sarcophagus was found on t lie site, and in digging more recently a Roman mosaic pavement was discovered in good condition, and also other remains. This is not to be wondered at, for there was a ford across the River Thames at this point, and the famous Walking Street led directly to this ford until it was diverted eastward on the building of London bridge, and from the opposite side of the river the Dover Road was a great highway, so that it was not the secluded marshy impenetrable spot that some have described it to be, but full of life and pageantry.

In course of time, however, the flow of the tide of Roman supremacy had to ebb and the Saxons surged over the country again, bringing ruin and desolation everywhere. Thorny island shared the fate of many other places, and what had once been the scene of so much life, fell back in its original desolation

The next glimpse we have of its history is when Sebert King of the East Saxons, a convert to the Christian religion, after having built a church to St. Paul near by, on the site of the present St. Pauls cathedral, proceeded to restore the ruins of the old church or build a new one on Thorny Island, Westminister , to St. Peter. The legend of its supernatural consecration is repeated by all chroniclers---how at midnight on the eve of its consecration by Miletus, the Bishop of London, one Edric, a fisherman, was roused up to row over the river a venerable person who, on disembarking entered the sacred edifice and suddenly it was lit up by a thousand tapers and the amazed fisherman heard heavenly words and music that ravished his soul; then all was still. On the reappearance of the mysterious visitant, lie announced himself as St. Peter, and enjoined Edric to tell the Bishop of the morn what he had seen and heard, and as a token he was to have a miraculous catch of fish.

Any doubts the good Bishop had of the morn were set at rest by the lingering fragrance of unearthly incense, and the very palpable drippings on the altar of the wax candles of heaven

The earliest document referring to the Abbey, dated 785 A. D., was a conveyance by Offa, King of Morcia, of some land to St. Peter and the "people of the Lord dwelling in Thorney"

And now the Danes overwhelmed the Saxons as the Saxons had overwhelmed the British, and desolation again reigned. After the lapse of a century King Edgar, urged by St. Dunstan, restored or rebuilt the church, arid brought, we are told, twelve monks from Glastonbury. He also about this time began the Benedictine monastery, and gave a grant of the lands lying adjacent.

We now begin to emerge from the mists of antiquity and feel on surer ground when we come to the notable personality of Edward the Confessor whose palace was contiguous to the Abbey. A Saxon by birth, lie was a Norman in heart arid sympathies. He was a great builder, and coming fresh from the massive structures of Normandy he set his heart on rearing a noble monument to himself of this Isle of Thorns, and his name will ever be



Paper presented before the Province of' Quebec Association of Architects, in the Art Gallery, Montreal, April 20, 1897.

indissolubly connected with the Abbey. About 1050 be destroyed the old church and built a new one from t he very foundation ion, which was completed and consecrated in the year 1065. We are told that its fame lingered in the minds of men for generations. It was the first cruciform church in England ; its massive roof until walls and pillars were a marked contrast to the Saxon wooden rafters and beams, and was a herald and symbol of the mightier race who were soon entirely to dominate the enervated Saxon people.

It must have been a magnificent conception for the age in which it was built, and was a triumph of faith and devotion, combined with wonderful constructive ability. We gather front somewhat meager accounts that its size was enormous, covering nearly the whole area of the present Abbey. A high tower rose in the centre, the stones were richly carved and the church was raised high and vaulted ; the windows s were filled with stained glass and the roof was covered with lead The utuotuastery, consisting of the refectory', dormitory and in infirmary with its special chapel, and the cloister anti chapel house were all begun by Edward the Confessor, if they were not finished by him.



The whole building must have been of a similar scale to the Abbaye aux Hommes at Caen. We have an interesting representation of the church in the well-known Baycaux Tapestry', wrought by Queen Matilda, which allowing for' even a Queen's ideas of architectural rendition, must have had some resemblance to the original, and is therefore most



In it there is a quaint figure of a man on a slight bridge connecting the palace with the Abbey arid holding by one hand the tower of the palace, and grasping with the oilier time weather-cock on the east end of the Abbey, indicating without doubt the close connection and contiguity of t hue two.

Dean Stanley mitt his memorials of the Abbey say's '' This is the architectural expression oh a truth dear to Englishmen the close incorporation of the palace amid Abbey front its earliest days us a likeness of the English constitution, a combination of things sacred and things common. The Abbey is secular because it us sacred and sacred because it is secular. The vast political



pageants of which it hurts been t be theatre, the dust of the most wordily laid side by side with the dust oh the utmost saintly, the wrangles of divines or statesmen which have disturbed its sacred peace, the clash oh arms which ha pursued fugitive warriors and princes into the ides of its sanctuary, even the traces of Westminster boys, who have played it its cloisters and inscribed their names on its walls, belong to time story of the Abbey no less than its venerable beauty, its solemn services truth its lofty aspirations.

God elsewhere for your smooth polished buildings, your purely ecclesiastical places of worship---go to the creations of yesterday, the modern basilica, lie restored church the non-conformist tabernacle, but it us this union of secular with ecclesiastical grandeur in Westminister Abbey that constitutes its special delight. It is this union which has made the Abbey' the seat of the imperial throne, the sepulchre of kings act kinglike men, tile home of time English nation, where for the moment all Englishmen may forget their differences, finding underneath its roof echoes of some memories dear to each."

Of Edward the Confessor's church very' little remains, possibly one venerable arch in the south transept, certainly the huge pillars and portion of the wall underneath the dormitory, the low passage leading from the cloister to Little Dean's yard, and a small portion of the refectory and of the infirmary chapel---these fragments have come down the centuries to us eloquent of the simple faith and devotion of this Saxon-Norman king. We may also add the rough bases of two of the piers of this choir which are now buried under time beautiful pavement on the north side of the choir.

There is something fitting it the thought that the temple lie built to the glory' of God became also his mausoleum ; he was buried in front oh' the high altar, where his body rested until Henry III, desiring to do honor to his memory erected the magnificent tomb it the chapel of the kings, and removed his remains no that spot. Thus as it were, iii the very heart of Westminister Abbey lies the dust of Edward the Confessor.

The King is dead, long live time King." As the curtain frills on one great royal builder, it rises tin another royal builder event greater than Edward the Confessor, viz., Henry' III.

Henry's reign was alt epoch not only for the Abbey' butt for England. The beginning of the 13th century was notable theologically for the immense stimulus, given chiefly' by the preaching of St. Bernard, to the worship of time Virgin Mary. lit architecture it was shown by the erection of a Lady Chapel at time east end behind the high altar of very many of the great cathedrals.

The first of Henry III's efforts in building was the addition to the Confessor's church of a Lady Chapel, which was dedicated by the young king at bus coronation.

Like King James he was a " sore saint for the Crown," amid lie was a passionate devotee of religious observances. It is told of him that on his tour through France with Louis t lie King, lie stopped so lung no hear mass at every church hue came to, that Louis caused all the rest of the churches runt the route to tie shut up until they had passed.

Fortunately with this he combined a passion fur architecture; hue was familiar with the glories of the cathedrals of Amiens, Rheims, Beauvais and Notre Dame, Paris, and his marriage with Eleanor of Province introduced into England in her train many foreign artists and litterateurs.

He was not content with erect tug a Lady Chapel—his great dream of building ant entirely' new Abbey far more splendid than the simple one of Edward the Confessor began to take shape. We are told it was to tie incomparable for beauty', even in that great age of art. This introduction of foreign ideas can readily lie seem in the plant of the crust end of more Abbey with its French

