<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	237



ceed twelve times their thickness, and that are not over one hundred feet in length without a partition, it will only be necessary to consider the resistance to pressure. To determine this a number of experiments have been made by practical engineers with the following results

	Pressure necessary to

 Kind of stone. crush the				stone.

Granite	8,000	to 12,000 lbs. to			square inch.

Limestone	2 00		8,000

Marble	4,000	,,	8,000

Sandstone	2,000		5,000		"

Good brick                  1,200 500 

Ordinary brick	600		650		"

Portland cement, neat	3,000	,,	3,600	"	"

Portland cement 1, sand 3	1,200		1,600

Lime mortar	125	,,	250



One tenth of the crushing weight should be the full extent of pressure allowed, for nearly all materials are more or less faulty, and this allowance of ten per cent. will be ample to meet all ordinary, and most extraordinary requirements. The ultimate strength of common bricks laid in lime mortar is about 1,500 pounds to the square inch, but if laid in Portland cement the power of resistance is increased to 2,500 pounds to the square inch so to crush the lowest courses in a pier laid in lime mortar would require a height of brickwork of 2,000 feet, and if the bricks are laid in cement the pier will require to be 3,600 feet high to crush the lower courses. ''Mahan's Civil Engineering" contains the following table, which shows the pressure on the lower courses of several noted buildings, and the percentage of the resisting power employed

 

 

 

 

Pillars of the dome of St. Peters, Rome	230	3722	16

			,,	St. Pauls, London	274	3733	13

	,,	,,	,,	St. Genevieve Paris	116	3167	8

		,,	,,	Toussaint, Angers	788	7880	10



The stone used in all the buildings named in the table is a limestone of some kind or other.



IN many parts of England there is a An English Method. custom of making sashes with the

stiles projecting beyond the meeting rail, and having their ends ornamented with an ogee end, as shown in sketch herewith presented. By this method a stronger sash is secured, as the tenor of the rail may pass through the stile its full width, or without relish, a very important feature. The bevel on the



























meeting rail laps over the stile and adjusts itself to the parting head just the same as if the rail was dove-tailed into the stile. This style of sash is called in England "joggled sash," and the ogee moulding on the end of the stile adds considerably to the appearance of the work. The joggle (S) is left about two and a half inches past the meeting rail. A and B show the upper

Shop Wrinkles.

and lower sashes, and C shows the same in section.  Joggled sashes should only be used where the top sheet or both sheets are hung ; though the inside sash might be joggled, even if the sashes were held in place by stops, as is often the case in country houses.



IT frequently happens that the country builder is called upon to erect "shopfixtures," such as counters, shelving,

drawers and the like work. In the making of shelving the old-fashioned way of "dadoing" or grooving the standards is in a measure obsolete, as when the shelves were once placed there could be no change made afterwards as to their position. The better way is to fit the standards with notched racks about one and a half inches wide, one being placed on each end of the standard on the sides receiving the shelves. These racks may be made with a dog-tooth notch on one edge to take in a cleat, or the notches may be semi-circular, the latter being by far the easiest made, and one much handier to adjust. The quickest way to make these is to prepare half-inch stuff three inches wide and the length required. Prepare as many as are wanted, remembering that one piece will make enough for one side of a standard. Clamp two, three or four of these strips together with hand-screws or other device, run a gauge line down the centre, as shown at SS in the accompanying diagram. On this line space off the regular distances, say two, three or four inches from centres.































With these points as centres, bore one-inch holes, as at K, K, K, K. having gone the whole length of the strips, making clean holes with a centre bit, or, better still, with an expansion hit, saw the strips through on the fines 0, 0, 0, 0. Take off the hand-screws, and you have a number of pieces for racks similar to A, A. The cleats for carrying the shelves should be made of half-inch stuff, one inch wide, with the ends rounded to fit the half-circle in the racks, the shelf, of course, fitting on this cleat when in place. The distance shown at X is the width of the standards. Shelves are made the same width, and are notched out on the ends to accommodate the two racks. This method is much less costly than the saw-tooth rack, and is just as good. This method will be found useful in fitting up pantries or store-rooms, where shelving often has to he changed to get proper distances between them. It is frequently used in cabinet work, for book-cases, cupboards and  china-closets.



Our readers will notice the re-appearance in our advertisement pages of the announcement of Messrs. Merchant & Co., of Philadelphia They call the attention of Canadian architects and builders to the merits of their metal "Spanish" tiles and "Gothic shingles.

