<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	133



L. R., Ch. 72) that it was a breach of covenant to erect any building above the prescribed height extending beyond the back of the house, though the ground upon which it was build was never used as a garden. Where a covenant was that '' no buildings " except dwelling—houses not to cost more than £200 each to front with the road should he erected on certain land, and the defendant, having thrown the land into pleasure ground, built a garden wall alongside the road eight feet six inches high, and in one part eleven feet high, behind which part he also erected a vinery with a roof leaning against the wall it was held (Bowes v. Law, L. R., 9, Eq. 636) that the building of the wall to the height of eight feet six inches was not a breach of covenant, but that the building of the wall to the height of eleven feet and the erection of the vinery were breaches of the covenant. The erection of wooden boardings for the purpose of advertisement, fastened to the premises, is a breach of covenant not '' to erect or make any building or erection on any part of the demised premises.'' But he erection of an advertisement boarding is not a breach of a covenant that any building'' which should he erected on the land should be of a certain height and have a stocked front and slated roof, and be used only as a dwelling-house (Foster v. Fraser,



[1893], 3, Ch. 158). A covenant in the purchase deed of a house in a terrace that no building shall he erected on any part of the land of the vendor lying on the other side of the terrace, and opposite to the plot of laud thereby conveyed, applies only to the part of the land which is opposite to, and is the width of the plot conveyed. the right to a prospect can be acquired only by grant or covenant, and not by prescription. Where a lessor, pending an agreement for a building lease, represented to tie intended lessee that he could not obstruct the sea view from the houses to be built by the lessee, pursuant to the proposed lease, because he himself was a lessee under a lease of 999 years, containing covenants which restricted him from so doing but after the building lease had been taken, and the houses built upon he faith of this representation, t he lessor surrendered his 999 years' lease, and took a new lease, omitting the restrictive covenants, the Court restrained him, by injunction, from building so as to obstruct the sea view.

A covenant by the lessee to '' rebuild " a house on the site of the demised message, which he covenants to pull down, involves no obligation to build a new house in the same manner, style, and shape, or with the same elevation, as the old building. If it is in tended, therefore that the house should be rebuilt in the same  style, the covenant should be  framed as to clearly express this agreement. Bay windows carried from the foundation to the roof, and projecting three feet beyond the line of existing houses are a breach of covenant not to erect ally building" nearer to the road than the line of frontage of the then present houses in that road, and to observe the straight line of frontage with the line of the houses. Where, at the date of the covenant, the houses were already' built, and the covenant prohibited any trees or buildings whatsoever in the garden exceeding a certain height, it was held that '' garden '' meant tile whole space from

 extremity of the

the back wall of the house to the	plot,	although

not used as a garden, and that a bow of eight feet at the rear of tile house, and above the prohibited height, was a violation of the covenant. It building land is to be laid out with private residences, a covenant is inserted to restrain the lessee from erecting any buildings on the premises to he used for carrying on trades or businesses generally or to particular businesses. A covenant restrictive of the user of premises is not void as being in restraint of trade such a covenant in a lease runs with the land. A covenant not to carry on any' trade, business, or calling in a house, or to otherwise use or stiffer to be used, to the annoyance, nuisance, or injury of any of the houses of the estate, is broken by carrying on a girl's school, and the covenantee does not waive the benefit of the covenant though he has permitted other houses held under the like covenant to be used as schools (Kemp v. Sober

Sm. N.S. 516; Johnstone v. Hall, 2 C. and J. 414). The object of the covenant sometimes, is to restrain the erection of buildings for the purpose of carrying on certain specified trades and businesses only, and in such cases questions may arise as to whether a particular trade is within the meaning of the covenant. Such a prohibition goes only to those trades or businesses which are actually' specified, and implies that other trades may be carried



on.	The test whether a covenant not to carry on a similar business" to that of the lessor has or has not been broken, is whether the one business is sufficiently like the other to compete with it. A covenant that land should not be used "as a site for any hotel, tavern, public-house, or beerhouse," nor '' should the

trade or calling of an hotel or tavern keeper, publican, or beer-shop keeper, or seller by retail of wine, beer, spirits, or spirituous liquors" be "used, exercised, or carried on at or upon the same is not broken by the sale of wines and liquors in bottle by' a grocer in the course of his trade. Nor is a covenant not to use premises as a public-house, inn, tavern, or beershop, or for the sale of wine and liquor, broken by the sale to members of a club for the benefit of the club held on the premises. Nor, apparently, by the user as a private hotel i.e. by sale only to guests and travelers staying at the hotel. But a covenant to use the premises "as and for offices, and the storage of wines and liquors only," is broken by selling wine by the glass ; and a covenant not to permit any' house to he used as a beershop or public-house is broken by the sale of beer in the shop, in pursuance of an Excise retail of beer to be consumed off the premises.

If the covenant provide against tile exercise of certain trades or businesses, specifying them, "01' any other offensive trade," omitting the words '' or business," the Court will not extend to the word " trade " in the latter part of the sentence the meaning of tile word '' business '' in he former part; but will treat tile word "trade" as applicable to the dealing by buying and selling only, for every business is not a trade, though every trade is a business. In sonic cases there is only a general covenant, which is so framed as to restrain the erection of houses and buildings for the exercise of offensive trades or businesses, or to prohibit occupations which may be a nuisance or annoyance to the other ten ants of the lessor ; and in construing such covenants much will depend on the situation of the premises and the particular circumstances of each case. The word " nuisance" in a covenant is sufficient to prevent an act causing annoyance only'. "Annoyance and '' grievance '' are wider terms than nuisance, and in— elude anything that will disturb tile reasonable peace of mind and pleasure of an ordinary sensible person, although it do not amount to physical detriment to comfort. Where the covenant prohibits the erection of buildings for the exercise of trades which may grow to the annoyance or damage of tile lessor, etc., with- out his written license, tire mere tact of the lessor's suffering the tenant to carry on one trade will not, afterwards, authorize tile carrying on of another without his written license.

In framing covenants against nuisances and trade in building leases, it should be observed that the omission of the words '' offensive trade, business, or occupation " may be of very great importance to the lessor, having regard to tile liability of the owner or occupier of hand both at law and in equity in respect of nuisances committed, or caused, by those whom he brings on the land, or at any rate where he licenses the acts causing tire nuisance. The landlord may not be liable where a nuisance is caused by the act of a tenant, yet if the act is one expressly contemplated in and authorized by lie lease, the landlord may be liable for any injury caused thereby, although tile tenant, if sued, might have no defense to the action.

Lands were conveyed to A for tile purpose of erecting villas upon them. B)' the conveyance parts were allotted for roads, and it provided that the owners and occupiers of tile villas should at all times have a full and complete right of read or passage over, along, and upon the same, in as absolute a mode of enjoyment as if the same were public roads ; and A entered into a covenant to that effect. Villas were built upon tile land, and let to several persons. Some of the lesses, without the consent of tile others, requested a gas company to open tip the roads and lay down pipes for the supply of gas to their villas, which the company accordingly proceeded to do. On a bill by the devisees of A for an injunction to restrain the company from so doing, it was held that whether the roads were public or private, tile devisees were bound by his covenant, and that the occupiers of tire villas were entitled to have gas laid on to their houses (Selby v. Crystal Palace District Gas Company, 31 L. J., Ch. 595).



<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.



Messrs. Dick & Wickson, architects, Toronto, have removed from tile Canada Life Building to No. 26 Bank of Commerce building.

Messrs. Curry, Baker & Co., architects anti heating engineers, Toronto, have removed from Victoria street to 90 Yonge street, where they have a nice suite of offices well adapted for their purposes.



Mr. Chas. Baillarge, Architect and C. E., Quebec, presented to Section II of the Royal Society of Canada, at its meeting in Halifax, N.S., in June, papers on "How Best to Learn to Speak or Teach a Language," and "The Abstract and Concrete in Education."

