<doctype type="text"><article title="London Master Plumbers" author="">LONDON MASTER PLUMBERS.

THE interest manifested in association work by the master plumbers of London should serve as a precedent to other branches of the Dominion Association who are less active in this respect. Since organization, which was effected in April last, much important work has been accomplished, and to-day every plumber in the city is a member of the Association. It is our privilege to present in this number the portraits of Mr. R. J. Haslett, past-president, and Mr. W. H. Heard, the present incumbent, who was elected to succeed Mr. Haslett at the annual election of officers in December last.



MR. R. J. HASLETT.



When the London association was first organized in the spring of last year, Mr. Haslett was chosen as the chief executive officer, filling the position with honor until the close of the year. In his work he was ably assisted by Mr. Win. Smith, vice-president, who has been re-elected for 1897.



Mr. Haslett was born on December 16th, 1842, in Plymouth, Devonshire, England, and at the age of years was bound for seven years with Philip Marshall to learn the trade of plumbing, gas and steam fitting, thus securing the thorough training characteristic of the mother country. Finishing his trade, he remained for three years with the same employer, during which time he was foreman of plumbing, etc., at the Imperial Hotel, Torquay, which required two and one-half years to execute the work. All material used was made by hand, even to some of the sheet lead, of which 40 tons was used on the roof alone. He next went to Falmouth, Cornwall, and fitted up a very large hotel there, and finished up at the Duke of Cornwall Hotel in Plymouth, Devonshire. Leaving England for New York City in September, 1867, he remained in that city for a time, then removed to Albany, N. Y., later to Rutland,





































MR. R. J. HASLETT,

Past-President London Master Plumbers Association.





Vt., and afterwards to Montreal, where he worked for one year. The following year he removed to London Ont., working for thirteen years with E. Rogers & Co., and only leaving them upon their retiring from business. In 1889 Mr. Haslett started in business in that city for himself, and by perseverance and energy has established a snug business. He has lately been given the plumbing contracts for residences for Messrs. J. Shaw, W. D. Eckert, Thos. Barcroft, J. Harwood, John Wilkie, Rev. Geo. Wickett, and Mrs. R. Munroe, in London, and

the Brown House " at Aylmer, Ont., and is constantly extending his connection.

In the year 1872 Mr. Haslett paid a visit to England, where he married Miss Fanny M. Greep, returning to London the same year. His only .son is now engaged with him in his business, In the year of the Queen s Jubilee he again took a pleasure trip to his native country, it being also his parents' jubilee, they having been married fifty years.

MR. W. H. HEARD.



The subject of this sketch was born in the city of St. Thomas, Ont., in 1858, where his father was engaged



































MR. W. H. HEARD,

President London Master Plumbers' Association.





in the building trade. At the age of eight years he moved with his parents to a farm overlooking that city, where he remained until 1877, when he commenced the plumbing trade with Messrs. Essex, Murray & Jolliffe, of London. His ability was early recognized, and in 1880 he was appointed foreman of the establishment. His enterprise led him to connect himself with the London Steam Supply Company, which operated the Holly steam heating system, but this venture did not prove a financial success, and in 1881 he formed a co-partnership with James Greenway, which continued until 1893, when Mr. Greenway retired. Mr. Heard has since continued the plumbing business under the old style of W.

H.	Heard & Co.

Mr. Heard moved his place of residence in 1892 to the beautiful old homestead, which has been converted into a modern fruit farm. He is an enthusiast on the subject of fruit culture, and is an expert in the spraying of fruit, a subject at present so interesting to the fruit growers. He is the inventor and patentee of a spraying apparatus that has proved to be the winner of the spraying contest held under the Government auspices in 1896. In this the practical training received at the plumbing trade was the cause of his success, combining as it did the expert knowledge of the mechanic with the practical experience of the orchardist. The device makes t possible to do cement covering and whitewashing of buildings at a cost but little dearer than the price of the materials. He is manager of the Spramotor Company, which business is carried on in the same premises with his plumbing and heating trade, which, with his Fruit farm, keeps him a busy man.

Mr. Heard is the chairman of the sanitary committee f the Dominion Association of Master Plumbers, president of the London association, and is an energetic

