



<doctype type="text">the wonder of his contemporaries. '' Nothing similar,'' writes William of Malmsbury, '' was to be found in England, either for the brilliancy of the painted windows, the splendor of the marble pavement, or the pictured walls which attracted the eyes of the beholders." The cathedral was re-dedicated to Jesus Christ, on its completion in 1114, by Archbishop Rudulfus. Henry of England, David of Scotland, and every bishop of the realm were present, '' the ceremony being the most famous that had ever been heard of on earth, since that of the temple of Solomon.''

In 1162 the first Englishman since the Norman conquest was made archbishop and primate of all England. This was Thomas a Beckett, who became, after death, the most famous intercessor in the Christian church. He was made archbishop through the efforts of Henry II, who thought to make of him a tool, to be used for his own purposes when treating with Rome ; the King found in him, however, anything but a pliant tool. For several years the archbishop bearded the King, until, in an outburst of anger, the latter exclaimed, '' Will no one rid me of this stubborn priest." As a result of this expression the archbishop was murdered in the church on the 27th of December, 1170. In a year after the assassination the cathedral was desecrated, the bells were fastened up, the pavements torn up, the hangings and pictures removed, and dirt and rubbish suffered to accumulate. The re-consecration of the church, after so memorable an event, led the way to an influx of benefactions and honors, strongly characteristic of the superstitions of the age and of the influence of the priests. The recorded lists of treasures which flowed in upon the death of the archbishop after the church had declared him a martyr in the cause of its dominion, are admirable testimonies of its fame. On the 5th of September, 1174, the choir and other parts of the church were consumed by fire, and the greater portion of the woodwork in the roof was destroyed. In 175 and

1180, Richards being the archbishop, the whole was rebuilt and improved under the superintendence of William of Sens, who, it seems, had been brought from France for that purpose. Mr. William of Sens borrowed largely from the Cathedral of Sens, for nearly all the work of his left us in Canterbury is simply a reproduction of work in his own town. Fortunately for the cathedral, but unfortunately for himself, he fell from a scaffold and was disabled before the work was halt done, and the work tell to the lot of an Englishman another William, and of whom the chroniclers say " was small in body, lofty in mind, astute in workmanship and honest," qualities that did not seem to obtain to any large extent among the Normans. At this point I am offered an opportunity to descant on the artistic beauties of this, one of the most noted cathedrals in Europe, for he it remembered, that until Thomas Beckett, the murdered Anglo-Saxon priest, was made a martyr and became the foremost saint in the Roman calendar, St. Dunstan was the saint that took the cake for working all sorts of impossible things, and curing free of charge all kinds of unnamable diseases. Both St. Thomas and St. Dunstan were archbishops of Canterbury, both saints were Anglo-Saxons, and both saints had shewed their utter disregard of kingship, while the Norman archbishop, St. Anselm, was noted for his unquestionable faith, his learning, and his humble submission to the king and pope. I admire the latter saint for his learning and his desire to better the condition of his

fellows by teaching them to take things as they came, and for his devotion to his church and his love of art. I love Dunstan for his fearless independence, his indifference to the doctrine of divine kingship, and his efforts to benefit his fellow men by teaching them the industrial arts so as to enable them to wrestle with the problems of the earth, rather than to waste their existence dreaming of the unknowable. It I had my way in the matter, it should be St. Dunstan of England, hammering at the forge, rather than the mythical St. George, killing an animal that never existed, that should be the royal arms of England. As to St. Thomas, he was of the rugged bull-dog type. He loved a fight and never counted on, or feared the consequences. If he had not quarreled with Henry the 2nd, he would have had a tussle with the Pope, and like lien rye, the Pope in all probability would have come out second best. Thomas' piety hung pretty loosely upon him, though the monkish writers have built a wall of sanctify around his memory, while history and facts give us such an insight into his character as to lead us to believe that all his ideas regarding religion were of the crudest sort, and led him to mistake wealth and power for religion.

Since William the Anglo-Saxon finished his work in  1180, the Cathedral has not been greatly enlarged, though some additions and many improvements in the interim have been made; the tower has been completed, and the south porch added, so that dimensions now are nearly about as in 1180.

Rome, watching the trend of events, and knowing pretty nearly what kind of a man King Henry was, made the murdered Archbishop a Saint, and appointed a day—St. Thomas' day which is still kept, ordered Henry to make atonement for his sinfulness in suggesting the murder of so good a man as Becket. Henry made a pilgrimage to the tomb in sackcloth and allowed himself to be pounded by the priests until he fainted— the fool and by this means became reconciled to the church. To this incident we are indebted for that masterpiece of poetic art, "The Canterbury Pilgrims," by quaint and loveable old Chaucer. I can forgive Henry for his pusillanimous submission, because of its being the means of giving us those beautiful productions by the Father of English poetry.

Under direction of the Pope, with the consent of Henry the 3rd, Cardinal Langdon caused a costly shrine to be built in honor of the saint, and the removal or translation of the remains took place on the 7th of July, 220. This ceremony took place in the presence of Henry the 3rd, the Cardinal and a number of foreign prelates. The expense attending this ceremony was immense, the Cardinal having provided refreshments, with provender for horses, along the road from London, for all who chose to attend. Conduits were dispersed about the city of Canterbury, which ran with wine, and nothing was wanting to give full effect to the triumph of priestly power. The festival of the Translation of St. Thomas became an anniversary of the highest splendor, and to this day it is observed in many of the Roman churches on the continent. I may say also, that for two centuries after the murder nearly every church built in Europe was dedicated to our own Anglo-Saxon bulldog, St. Thomas a Becket.

	(To be	Continued)



Mr. N. H. Bradley, architect, 18 King Street East, Toronto, was recently married to Miss N. Corner.

