<doctype type="text">

_____	<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">CORRESPONDENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents. 





AN UNAUTHORIZED PUBLICATION.

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS,



MONTREAL, February 5th, 

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—A diary for this year has recently been published in Montreal entitled "The Canadian Architects' Diary," that has been sent gratis to a large number of architects and others.

From the reproduction of a part of a photograph group of the members of the Association of Architects of the Province of Quebec, and of a notice and portrait intended for the President of the Association, it might be inferred that the diary had the sanction and impromptus of the Association.

This is not the case ; on the contrary, unwarrantable liberties have been taken by the proprietors of the diary, not only with the Association, but with many of the individual members of it.

No permission was asked or given to publish the group of architects, and to make matters worse, only a portion of the original photograph was reproduced, causing it to be most imperfect and misleading, and leaving out many of the oldest and most respected members of the Association.

Invidious distinction doubtless was not intended, but has undoubtedly been made.

As far as can be learned the notices of the different architects were also put in without their knowledge or sanction.

It is only fair to say, however, that no payment whatever was asked or given for any of these notices.

Some might infer from the name of the diary that you had some connection with it ; we are fully aware that you had not.

The Council regret exceedingly the occurrence of the whole matter and trust that this protest may be the means of preventing any repetition of it. I have the honor to remain,

Yours obediently,

	Jos.	VENNE, Secretary.





UNION BUILDINGS, 43 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER STREET

MONTREAL, January 20th, 1897.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR ---A copy of a recent publication called the "Canadian Architects' Diary" has, I understand, been sent gratis to all or nearly all the architects in Canada.

Permit me to say through the medium of your journal, the unduly prominent position given to me and my work was done entirely without my knowledge. The first information I had of the matter was on receiving a copy of the diary, and I was much distressed and annoyed to find the liberty that had been taken with my name and personality. I trust my respected confreres throughout the Dominion will exonerate me from any responsibility for a production that is in such palpably bad taste.

I have no doubt that the other architects of whom notices are given, were similarly ignorant of what was being done, and feel as indignant as

Yours obediently,

ANDREW T. TAYLOR.

[Referring to the above communications we desire to state that an effort was made by the authors to have sample pages of the publication referred to circulated through the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, seemingly with the object of conveying to the minds of architects the impression that the publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER was connected with the enterprise. This effort, however, was not successful. We wish to disclaim connection of every kind with this unwarranted publication, and to express our regret that a number of the leading architects of the Dominion have suffered serious annoyance as the result of its appearance.—The Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.]

<article title="the Ontario Architects' Act" author="">THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT.

OTTAWA, December 14th, 1896.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, —1 have read with interest the different articles in your paper, re the Architects' Bill, which was before the local legislature last session, and which was thrown out at that time. I cannot help thinking that there are evils (unforeseen at present) which are sure to arise if such a bill is passed.

Of course there are several sides to everything, and I venture to point out one, which may not have been much discussed, viz It must be granted that the legislature cannot alter the standing of Architecture as a profession if they passed fifty bills, for or against it Architecture established itself at the head of the professions, long before legislatures, as we know them, were thought of, and is the greatest factor to show the civilizations and histories of the peoples of the world.

Where written histories have been destroyed and forgotten, the modern historian uses the ancients' architecture, and by its style and decorations, tells us the habits, religions and politics of peoples dead centuries ago.

Now sir, what I wish to suggest is this As Architecture has lived and flourished for such a time, without aid from any but its own votaries, can we fondly believe that the profession will be elevated by the passing of an act of parliament? I think not; rather it may tend to retrograde that which it intends to elevate.

Looking at the matter from a more selfish point of view, I should like to point out as an illustration of what I mean, other professions which have been fostered by parliament. For instance, medicine, law, dentistry, pharmacy, etc. What has legislation done for them ? It has done this -it has filled colleges with students, and the students are ever looking where they may, metaphorically speaking, lay their heads on all sides we see these professions full to overflowing, and only a small proportion of these men can ever hope to make either success or fortune ; the majority eke out a bare existence ; the great cry of the time is ''the professions are overcrowded."

Now, sir, my humble opinion is this if such a bill passes parliament, students will be attracted and ground out of colleges in large numbers, as they' now are from the other colleges, only to find too late, that the chances for fame and fortune are indeed small ; and the bill, which on its face seems to make a closed corporation of all things architectural, has instead only served as a light to attract the moths it would fan keep away. As it now is, architects have the selection of students, and therefore the power to upraise the profession if they will only take enough interest in them to direct their studies and make them something more than tracing machines. Thanking you in advance,

Yours truly,

ARCHITECT.



['' Architect's "letter (evidently inspired by a fear lest the act will bring in competitors) must be considered an effectual off-set to the usual cry that the promoters of the proposed amendment to the act are trying to keep out new architects. EDITOR C. A. & B.]



PROPOSED LEGISLATION FOR ONTARIO

ARCHITECTS.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, —Your editorial in reply to a letter I wrote and which you published in a recent issue of your valuable paper shows to my mind the weak points in the Bill to be reintroduced at the next session of the Ontario Legislature.

Surely if it is desirable or necessary to apply for special legislation to compel men to pass certain examinations before they can be legally styled architects, it is to be assumed that there are at present some persons in Ontario trading on that title who are either a disgrace to a body of professional men or that by their incompetency the aesthetic feeling is shocked or the lives or limbs of the public are endangered ; and is it not on this latter plea that special legislation is asked? Why

