	<doctype type="text">10	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>, and would tend to elevate and improve architecture in Ontario.

Besides our duties along these social and business lines, it becomes us to strive personally to advance the truly art side of our

profession. This is as urgently needed as the other. Scientific data may be attained from books; art education can only be satisfactorily attained by association, criticism and suggest ion. I am well aware that no amount of education ('an make an artist if the original qualification be absent. I am equally convinced that no architect can satisfactorily develop without the favoring circumstances of association and criticism. True, he may study classical and gothic models and be able to reproduce on paper

many of the best architectural triumphs of the past. But the subject before architects is not reproduction but adaptation. The building problems of to-day are so hampered by social requirements and unbending commercial interests, that the old academic rules will not strictly apply. The study of the classic orders is not that the architect may reproduce a temple with all the proportions strictly after Vaginal or some other authority, but rather that he may adapt them to the modern conditions of a classical street front. The vigorous and varied forms of gothic architecture are studied, not for the purpose of exact reproduction but rather to see how much of them can be engrafted on the modern building with its arbitrary requirements The study of the history of architecture is not along archeological lines, but rather that a comprehension of the motives and principles that found their expression in stone and brick may serve to solve present problems Such is

the practical trend of the age, but there is no reason why it should be divorced from the truest art. The bars have been let down, but that is no reason why architects should run riot with all architectural forms. The principles of true art remain unchanged, though the form of their expression must necessarily alter with our changing civilization And it is just those principles that are hardest to define that are most necessary of conservation. And it is the application of those principles to present problems that the architect most needs. This is something he cannot learn from books nor evolve from his own consciousness. It can only be learned from the mistakes and successes of others. Even then it can only be truly learned as he looks at these mistakes or successes through the varied lenses of other architects opinions. How many of the eccentricities of budding genius might be prevented by the sober contemplation from another's standpoint of the self thought brilliant solution to some architectural problem.

How many offensive mannerisms in design might be corrected by a little advice from those whose trained eyes analyze the defect.

The very freedom which we claim on the ground of our modern requirements and modern building material is becoming a license to perpetrate architectural sins.

Plate glass and steel construct ion have so modified our limitations as to voids and solids that we are apt to forget the artist in our homage to the engineer Old fashioned rules of proportion are ruthlessly swept aside, and as if to match the constructive change, the salient points of t lie engineering triumph are

with detail and decoration that defies all rules of adaptation or

suitability.

No one will deny that there must be necessary changes in our ideas of general massing and the relation of solids to voids, to meet the pressing requirements of modern condition. But there is no reason why the realm of detail should be so ruthlessly invaded or its past examples so persistently miscopied and misplaced. Competent critics of modern architecture generally put their finger on this weak spot, and I think I may safely state that a remedying of this is one of the crying needs to which Ontario architects should address themselves To see and recognize our deficiency is a long way towards its remedying.

The correct proportion of any classic detail may be copied from a book, but the suitable incorporation of a detail and the appropriate use of an ornament is a much more difficult matter. A post graduate course by Ontario architects in the colleges of local chapters, under the curriculum of friendly criticism and suggestion, seems to me one feasible way of finding its solution.

There is another matter that affects the estimation of our profession in the eves of the public, and that should receive some attention from us. Any who have been called upon to give expert testimony in courts must have observed the great divergence, and even direct contradiction of experts in their evidence; and as a result, the very little weight that a judge gives to their testimony. The public distinctly discounts all expert evidence, and many go to the length of stating that they can hire professional experts to give any kind of evidence they like. This is very humiliating to the individual architect, and distinctly derogatory to the reputation of the profession.

An architect should of course at all times exercise a judicial mind and seek to do justice to all concerned. This, I am glad to know, is the ruling principle with a very large number of our Ontario men Their differences of statement in the witness box arise more from the method of questioning by the examining counsel than from any intention in mind or purpose. Indeed, a very conscientious man is put to great inconvenience by the ingenious method of stating or mis-stating fact to which he is expected to give an affirmative or negative answer. Also, the manner

which the case has been previously stated to the witness forms a strong bias in the mind of even a cautious and reflective man. But unfortunately, cautious and reflective men are not in demand as professional experts for court cases, but rather those who can be most easily enlisted as advocates of the side they are engaged to support.

\ a distrust of professional evidence has arisen honest men when called upon to testify are humiliated by having their state \ discounted and the whale status of the profession is lowered in the eyes of the public.

The only adequate remedy appears to be in having the experts appointed and p aid by the courts to make disinterested investigations and reports Such h is the ease in France. Certain members of the profession are designated by government as architectural experts and the Judge of any case can avail himself of their help in determining any ratter r requiring technical knowledge or experience Some steps should be taken to secure similar legislation in Canada A committee appointed by this convention could co-operate. with one from the Society of Civil Engineers and any other body interested in having the abuse remedied it being understood that it no legislative agitation on any subject other than our important amendment be commenced until our association has gained its point, and it becomes unlawful for anyone to begin masquerading as an architect under such a title without the necessary educational qualifications This is the present desirable goal to which our activities must strive. From now until the next legislative session rises all legitimate influence must be exerted to carry our Hill F very member of the association must (10 his part. Builder manufacturers and others engaged in building interests must be seen, our case fairly stated to them, and, if possible, their sympathy and co—operation secured for the passage of the Act. They are regarded as men who take a practical law of the matter, and their influence with many of the members of t the House is considerable on such matters as affect building or architecture. Any misapprehensions that have arisen must he explained, and the fullest light of investigation turned on the proposed measure. Our cause so manifestly just and in the interest s of the public, that our best policy is the courting of the fullest

investigation.



TREASURER'S REPORT.



In the unavoidable absence of Mr. Burke, the Treasurer s report was read by the registrar, <person>Mr. Langton

</person>

THE Treasurer IN account WITH THE Ontario association of Architects.

	1896.	DR.

Jan. 1.	To balance from 2895	$1,644		80\

Dec. 31.	   Members annual fees		271	00

	   Members registration fees		30	00

	   Students' registration fees		12	00

	   Students examination fees		9	00

	   Sale examination papers		0	75

	   Transfer of articles		I	00

	   Interest on Treasurer's b ink account		46	00

		$2,014		75

  1896

Jan. 2. By W. A. Langton, balance of salary try for 1895 $1 50 00 Dec. 31 W. A. Langton, salary for 1896            300 00

	W.	A langton	general disbursements 	62 37

	Crombic, Worrell & Gwynne legal services	28 50

	Printing reports, circulars 	etc.              6o 

Printing examination papers	25 00

C. H Mortioner	for CANADIAN ARCHITECT for 1894 95 96, SENT to

	Three British Architectural	societies . . 	22 50

	C.	H Mortimer  reporting convention . . 	12 50

Harry Webb convention lunch	14 00

General stationery	16 90

Caretaker School of Practical Science, re

Convention and Examinations	15 00 A. H Gregg, attendance at Examinations 25 00 Books added to Library                    16 00

Total disbursements	$ 738 32

Balance on hand	, 276 43

$2,014 75



We have examined the books and vouchers of the Association, amid certify that the above is a correct statement thereof.

<person>HENRY LANGLEY</person>,

<person>WM. R. GREGG</person>.



The Treasurer, in submitting the accompanying statement, would explain that while the total disbursements are $265.79 more than last year, the present account includes a Proportion of the Registrar's salary amounting to $150.00 which should be charged to 2895. Last year had other outstanding accounts amounting to $33.63, while this year $3.00 will cover this item. Considerable extra expenditure was also involved this year for printing in connection with our efforts to secure legislation. Three years' subscription for the CANADIAN ARCHITECT, which was sent to three British architectural societies for the years 1894-95-96 and amounting to $22.50, was paid this year. Attention is called to the fact that our balance is still decreasing, owing to the fact that a large number of fees have not been paid for several years past. Our balance in the bank is $368.47 less than it was at this time last year.



On motion of <person>Mr. Power</person>, seconded by Mr. Fuller, the report was adopted.



REPORT OF REGISTRAR AND LIBRARIAN



The Registrar then read his own report

REPORT OF REGISTRAR AND LIBRARIAN AT THE ANNUAL MEETING

ON JANUARY 12TH, 1897.



MEMBERS.—The number of members on the roll is the same as last year, viz., 132. There have been two new registrations, but also a death and a resignation

STUDENTS. —There has been one student registered. The examinations were held in Match. The Board of Examiners were

