<doctype type="text">	ARCHITECT	BUILDER	197



will not produce good work. Another way is to ask a builder for an estimate and give this estimate to all builders tendering, with the understanding that the carver who gave thc estimate is to do the work. When thc builder signs the contract he takes the liberty of handing the carving to someone else, who will do it cheaper. Thc architect who allows this cannot expect to get value for his money. If the builder employed his own carvers, and could satisfy thc architect of his ability to do as good work as he who gave the original estimate, it would not be so bad, but it is not right in any case. Another reason why good work is not done, is because some architect will ask for tenders on a scale drawing, and when the details arrive, the carver finds himself in a good-sized hole lie is afraid of getting the worst of it, and slights the work, making trouble all round.



Estimating on the value of carving, from a good drawing, is guesswork at best. The carver estimates according to his interpretation of the drawing, but if he has to compete with cheap men, he has to guess how low he can go without getting stuck, and how high he can go and get the work, for if lie is not lowest, he is not likely to get it. He seldom estimates on the real value of the work. It would be better if the architect would consult the carver as to how much and how good lie could do the work for so much money, and let it go at that, seeing to it that the carver lived up to his agreement. The fact of the matter is, that no man can tell the value of a piece of carving before it is (lone. It may take a day to do a piece of carving in a fairly effective way, and a week can be spent in doing time same piece of work. The size of work does not count half as much as the way it is done.

A change in the method of estimating the cost of carving would do away with many of the evils. If an architect gave an order to do certain work for a certain amount of money, it would be to the carver's best interests to give him full value, and carry out his ideas. I have known work to be done in this way that resulted in a saving on the original estimate. There is one shop in New York where this plan is adopted, and the result has always been satisfactory. It is necessary to this end, however, that the carver should be capable, as well as honest, The architect who is known to be easy to please, will not have to pay as the man who is known to be hard to please, neither will he who is known to be easy get as good work. 1 like the man who is particular about the quality of the work he is getting, providing he will say so from the start, and show clearly what it is he wants. But when an architect tries to get a low estimate by submitting a scale drawing and saying, I don't want anything too fine," etc., etc., and then finds fault with the work lie is getting, be is not doing himself justice nor does lie get the best results. It is to be hoped that time architect and his carver will put their heads together, and arrive at a better understanding. Then we will get better work, and there will be less trouble, while, as a consequence, there would be as much likelihood of a reduction as of an increase in the cost of the work.

Yours &c.,

W.	N. McCORMACK.

12 Lombard street, Toronto.





<article title="Correspondence – the Maritime Provinces" author="">THE MARITIME PROVINCES.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



BUILDERS in general throughout this section are congratulating themselves on having had a fair season's work. Though no buildings have been erected of great importance during the summer, yet sufficient work has been carried on in buildings of a smaller order and in repairs made, to keep all the workmen busily employed throughout the season. In all building lines one hears, in answer to query, '' can't complain."

Early in the season the building fraternity watched with interest the issue of the popular movement in favor of a free public library. Had the city accepted the site offered by would be philanthropic donors probably the money would have been forthcoming for the erection of the library. As it was their delay caused the with- drawl of the offer, and chances are that if the project is carried out another year the site must be purchased. Many still believe another year will see its fulfillment, and it seems pretty well understood that in such a case the design must be of an order to be a decided addition to the beauty of the city.

The works of the present time construction of the big docks and warehouses on the Carleton side of the harbor are very extensive, and indicate some preparations being made by St. John for the long looked anti hoped for handling of the winter maritime business of Canada which, if obtained, will mean much to the future building trade of the city. The new docks give

accommodation for the largest of ocean going vessels, and are of great length and capacity. Hundreds have found employment in the work - in the surveying, dredging, pile driving, timbering amid ballasting, and a large force of carpenters was required in the erection of the buildings. had it not been for this work of magnitude there would have been noticed a depression in building circles.

The new fire engine house and hose station in the north end, which may approximate about S 12,000, and which is being done by Sproul & Corbett, under superintendence and from designs made by R. C. John Dunn of this city, is well under way, and will be a fine building of brick and stone with a good appearance Other works of construction throughout the city are of lesser importance.



A fine residence is being built on East King street, and on Wellington Row contractor Bates is pushing to completion a handsome residence for Dr. Magee. The new house for Chas. T. Nevins, on corner of Queen and Canterbury streets, is well under way, and in Portland the houses of Mr. Flewelling and Geo. Hoben are nearly completed. A number of other buildings are going up about the city.



The Diciples of Christ have had different plans under consideration for the building of a brick house of worship on Douglas avenue, but they will not begin operations until another spring.



The improvements to St. Rose's church spire in Carleton have now been completed and the church presents a fine appearance.



A small Anglican church at Red Head is being built, through the plans at first intended to be rinsed have been given up.



Outside the city an average amount of building is being carried



on.



At Fredericton some good structures are going up, chief among which is the Edgecombe building of brick. The burning of the brick Deaf and Dumb Institute there may necessitate its rebuilding next summer, though a decision to that effect has not yet been arrived at.



Sir Wilfred Laurier, on the occasion of his recent visit to Moncton, laid the corner stone of a large high school building.



The masonry of the new town hall in Chatham is now completed by B. Mooney & Sons, of this city, and tenders are asked for construction of a brick hire engine house amid town offices in Amherst, N. S. As this is the seat of the big contracting firm of Rhodes, Curry & Company it is expected that they will secure the job without much opposition.



In Annapolis, N. S., a masonic temple of brick and stone with 40 feet frontage to cost about $5,000 or $6,000, is going up.

The view Lefebore Memorial Hall at Memratncook is now completed exteriorly it is a fine specimen of architecture, and the interior is also finished in good taste.

At the recent exhibition held here a fine exhibit of granite was made by the Dominion Granite Co. Their showing of black granite attracted particular attention by its marked brilliancy and by the prominence in which the letters stand out without being painted. Experts have said that this black Welsford granite us the finest that can be found, and time owners of the quarry are filling large orders, some to Scotland and England.

The rise in the U. S. tariff on undressed building stone to 12 cents a cubic foot or 4023533f cost, three times what it formerly was, has affected time stone business in this locality to a considerable extent. Some of the best amid handsomest building stone obtainable is quarried in the maritime provinces, amid those interested are disappointed that the Canadian tan if is mint higher, In shipping from here to Montreal amid points west the American article has also great advantages it freight: rates. Competition from Scotland is even greater—the homing overland haul from here being front $4 to $5 per ton, as against only $1.25 from time old country.

That Toronto thinks well of our stone is evidenced in its view municipal building, constructed of brown stone from the Wood-point quarries in Westmoreland County, N. B. Among other structures built of this stone is the drill shied in Halifax, costing a quarter of a million dollars, the new high school building erected last year in this city, and the Wygoody building on Germain street.

City Inspector Meagher is endeavoring to create greater respect among tile builders for the by-law which provides for paneling brick buildings. A meeting will be held to reconsider time question.

Tine winter mechanical drawing classes have been reorganized at time Y. M. C. A. under the instructorship of H. H. Lordly, C.E., and F. G. Burton, B.A. So little opportunity is afforded in the city for such instruction that these classes are meeting within good success. A woodworking class is also being formed, having at its head one of the best woodworkers in the city.

The report is given, with regret, of the death of Mr. J. H. Pullen, a much respected and esteemed painting contractor, who for many years has done business in the city. His son, J. H. Pullen, will carry on the business at the old stand on Horsefield street.

Mr. Ernest Fairweather, architect, of this city, has gone to Boston and New York on a business and holiday trip.

ST. JOHN, N. B., Oct. 9th, 1897.

