	<doctype type="text">68	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE IN NORTHERN ITALY " author="Hutchison, A.C.">GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE IN NORTHERN ITALY.*

By A. C. HUTCHISON



To understand Gothic architecture as practiced in Northern Italy during the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, and to be able to judge of its successes and failures when compared with the architecture of the same period as practiced north of the Alps, a is essential that we understand the architectural environment of the Italian people.



As early as the latter half of the seventh century a style of architecture made its appearance at Pavia and elsewhere in which features of construction and design mark it as distinct from the debased Roman architecture previously practiced.

Owing to the disturbed condition of the country during the dark ages the new style made little progress, and it was not until the eleventh century that buildings of importance in the style were erected, but during the eleventh and twelfth centuries it held complete sway in every part of Northern Italy except in Venice, which, from its insulated position and intimate commercial intercourse with Constantinople, sought its architectural inspiration from the east rather than from the west.

One other exception to the universal practice of the style is the Church of San Miniato in Florence, and in some other buildings in that locality, where we find a return to a more classical style.

As this style was the immediate predecessor of the Gothic, and as some of its features were adopted by the Gothic architects, it will assist us in our study of the Gothic style of Italy if we briefly glance at some of its more prominent characteristics.

Before the advent of the Gothic style all the architecture practiced, not only in Northern Italy but also north of the Alps, was characterized by the use of the round or semi-circular arch, but though this important feature was common to the architecture of Italy, France, Germany, England and Scotland, each country employed it in such manner and in conjunction with other features, as to give to it more or less of a national character. The national character of this round arched architecture, while strongly marked, particularly in Germany and England, was, if possible, more marked in Italy, where it was practiced in a style entirely different from the contemporary style as found on the north of the Alps.

The round arched style which prevailed throughout Northern Italy before the introduction of the pointed arch, is known as Lombard architecture not that the Lombards who had established themselves in the land about the end of the sixth century had any architecture or produced any style of their own. They were, however, great builders, and there is little doubt that in the erection of their earlier buildings they employed native workmen who, knowing no other style than debased Roman architecture, would work in that style but gradually under Lombard influence new features were introduced which in course of time produced the style to which their name is given.

During their sway, which extended over a period of about two centuries, the land was studded with churches and baptisteries erected under the auspices of their kings and queens.

Nearly all the buildings erected by them during the seventh and eighth centuries have disappeared a few, however, remain as examples of their work, the more notable being San Michele of Pavia, San Friediano of Lucca, and Sari Ambrogia of Milan.

The Baptistery of Florence, it is claimed, was erected during the Lombard dynasty, but if this was the case it does not possess the characteristics of the style that marks the buildings I have named.

From the few examples of the early Lombard style which remain to the present day, we can see the change in the proportions of columns and piers the introduction of wild and grotesque imagery in their ornamentation of capitals and walls, that mark the style as distinct from the Roman.

During the two centuries which followed the rule of the Lombards, Italy was in such a disturbed arid unsettled condition that little or not progress in art was made, the erection of churches ceased and only buildings required for defense were undertaker During this period Genoa arid Venice, somewhat apart from the scene of strife and rising in importance as maritime powers, were able to proceed with erection of buildings. In Venice, towards the end of the tenth century, the erection of the well-known St. Mark's was begun. Owing to the intimate commercial relations with the East, Greek architects were employed, with the result that in this city of the sea we have an independent development in architecture of a complex character that marks it as distinct from that of Italy.



Paper read before the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

As the development of the early architecture of Venice is foreign to my subject, I will pass it by, and returning to the mainland we find that the darkness which had enveloped the land during the ninth and tenth centuries began to break and give place to a new era of activity in building. During the eleventh and twelfth centuries a number of buildings were erected superior in size and skill in construction to any that were built during the time of the Lombard rule. These buildings are marked by the leading features which characterized the early Lombard buildings, but in addition we find view features introduced that gave the style a step in advance and prepared it for the advent of the Gothic.

An examination of the work of this period will show that the uncouth and grotesque carvings which characterized the early Lombard buildings has given place to figures arid groups in low relief of somewhat better workmanship but still crude in design.

The most conspicuous feature that marks the buildings of this period is one that stamps the Italian character upon the round arched style as practiced in Italy, and serving to separate it distinctly from the contemporary architecture north of the Alps. This distinctive feature of Italian buildings was the piling of tier upon tier of decorated arches differing from each other in design, arid occupying the whole facade of the building to its very summit. The most notable examples of this arrangement are to be found in the churches of Lucca, hut one that is better known to most travelers is the facade of the Duomo of Pisa.

Another feature introduced at this period, which always found favor with the Italians, and which they continued to practice during the whole of the Gothic period, was the use of material of different colors in the construction of tine walls and piers sometimes it was applied to that side of tine building, sometimes to the inside, arid sometimes to both outside arid inside. Usually' tire polychromatic effect sought for was obtained by the use of marbles or stories of different color's arranged in alternate courses.

I might mention other features that characterized the later Lombard buildings, arid which, adopted by the Gothic architects, influenced them in their designs. These features I will be better able to describe when the views of the buildings are projected on the screen. It was riot until the first quarter of the thirteenth century had passed away that the pointed or Gothic style made its appearance in Italy, and when it did make its appearance in the first building erected in tine new style—that of Sari Francesco at Assisi—we find it complete in its forms arid details as then

practiced it the North. It appears that when the erection of the building to receive the mortal remains of the great St. Francis

was determined	was not	n Italy,

	upon, there	architect of celebrity



and Elias, the favorite disciple of San. Francis, to whom the work was entrusted, obtained tine assistance of a German architect named Jacobus. It was only natural that he should recommend and use the style of architecture then practiced in his own country, with the result that it the crypt arid in the interior of the upper church we have a style of architecture quite distinct from  anything that preceded it in Italy. It is true that long before this time the pointed form of arch was frequently used as a constructive feature in the architecture of Sicily; its use there was no doubt owing to the influence of Saracenic art, which, along with Byzantine arid Norman architecture, produced a strange combination that gives so much interest to the mediaeval buildings of that island. Through the pointed arch was thus used in Sicily, it did not in any way affect the architecture of Northern Italy as I have already shown, it was introduced from north of tire Alps. As soon, however, as it obtained a footing in Italy', it supplanted the earlier round arched styles, and the Italian architects were obliged to conform to the new style.

From the fact that it was an importation from a foreign country, and was in a sense imposed upon the Italians whose love for the round arched styles was deeply rooted, it follows that we cannot in Italian buildings trace the gradual development from the round to the pointed arch as we can in France and Germany, and more particularly in England, where in many buildings we may mark the first use of the pointed arch in conjunction with the round arch. The struggle for supremacy between the old round arch and the new pointed arch in England was protracted, with tire result that between Norman Architecture characterized by' the rise of the round arch and the massive proportions of its piers and arches, and the Early English period when the pointed style was supreme, we have a well defined transitional period that affords a most interesting study.

In Italian architecture there is no such transition period when tine Gothic was introduced it at one supplanted tine Lombard style, and though tire Italian architects never hesitated to use the

