<doctype type="text">	86	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



such a way as to form when complete an harmonious whole. An offer was made to the Council to execute a first installment of the scheme, viz., the Council Chamber, entrances, etc., at a cost slightly exceeding what. would be required for decorative work of an ordinary character. It is to be hoped that the proposal of those who have this undertaking in hand may yet be accepted and carried out. The time has come when Canadians should, as far as their resources will allow, exercise regard for what is aesthetic as well as what is purely utilitarian, We are rapidly making history, and it is due to our future greatness and the interest of coming generations that the notable events of the past and present should be perpetuated in our public buildings and monuments. Only once or twice in a century are buildings of such importance as these likely to be erected, and the opportunity should not be allowed to pass of making then, an object of the greatest possible interest. Probably in no other way could this object be better fulfilled than by the proposed series of historical  paintings. 



BUILDING operations in Toronto give Building in

	Toronto.	promise of being on a more satisfactory

		scale than there was reason to antic



pate earlier in the season. In contradistinction to last season there is comparatively little work being done on the line of erecting new or repairing old business premises. The concentration of business due to the development of departmental stores, has been an important factor in restricting expenditure for alterations and repairs to store property. The bulk of the work in progress this year relates to the construction of new residences of a substantial character, which in most instances are designed to be occupied by the owners. The prevailing low price for real estate, building materials and labor, has no doubt had a considerable influence towards inducing those who have the means to erect for themselves homes suited to their tastes and requirements. The present cost of building is stated on good authority to be from one to four cents per cubic foot less than the ruling figures of six or seven years

ago.	________________









A PROPOSAL has recently been made An Apartment House looking to the erection of an apartment for Toronto.

 house on the lines of those which



have been built in New York and other large American cities. Articles have recently appeared in the newspapers in which the opinion is expressed that there is pressing need for such a building in Toronto. The writers state that the cost of living could be greatly reduced by means of this Bellamy plan as compared with the present method of each family occupying and maintaining a separate establishment. There is doubtless some ground for this contention, but those who advance the argument have either overlooked, or have purposely kept in the background the many disadvantages of living in apartment house flats as compared with individual houses. The high average of health and comfort which prevail in Toronto to-day is due in large measure to the fact that it is a city of individual homes, and that surrounding each home is sufficient open space to afford recreation for the children and fresh air for all. We do not believe that any considerable number of the citizens will attempt to effect a small saving in cost of living at the expense of present advantages. The meagre attendance at the meetings called by the promoters of the apartment house enterprise appears to bear out this view of the case.

<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

CHURCH AT QUEBEC	VALLEE & TANGUAY, ARCHITECTS. VIEWS AT CREDIT FORKS MINING AND) MANUFACTURING

CO.'S QUARRY, CREDIT FORKS, ONT.



DESIGN FOR THREE HOUSES, SCOLLARD STREET, TORONTO.

—DICK & WICKSON, ARCHITECTS.



A	PROPOSED SIX-ROOM COTTAGE TO BE BUILT IN COLLINGWOOD, ONT. --—FRED. T. HODGSON, ARCHITECT

SYNOPSIS OF SPECIFICATION:	Cellar to be six feet in the clear, and to be excavated under dining room and kitchen only. Quarried stone to be used in foundation walls.

Superstructure to be balloon frame, composed of 2 X 4 scantlings. To be boarded diagonally on the outside with hemlock or pine 1" boards, and horizontally on the inside with common inch lumber.

Building paper or felt to cover all outside boarding, including roof, before siding or shingles are put on.

Outside to be covered with No. 2 siding and picked shingles. To be shingled with No. cedar shingles laid 5 inches to weather.

Sashes in dining room, parlor, kitchen and front chamber to be double-hung and furnished with sashlocks and lifts. Small panes in all sashes to have assorted colored glass.

All outside doors to be 34" thick, inside doors to be 1 3/8" thick.

Cellar floor to be of concrete and cement, finished off smooth, and to have weeping tiles underneath for drainage.

Lower joists to be 2" X 10", second floor joists to be 2" X 8", and to be bridged every 8 feet of their length.

Ceiling posts to be 2" X 6", rafters, cellar beams and ties to be formed of 2" x 6" stuff. All inside studding in partitions, etc., to be 2" x 4" scantling.

Parlor to be finished throughout with good seasoned cherry, oak or black birch, including mantel and overmantel. Bevel plate mirror in overmantel in parlor not less than 20" X 32.

All other wood finish to be of pine or elm.

Floor in kitchen to be of hardwood birch or maple other floors to be First story, pine ; second story, pine or basswood.

Closets provided with shelves, drawers and wardrobe hooks. Fit up pantry with shelves, drawers, bins and china closet.

Fit up bath room Victoria metal tub and necessary appliances for hot and cold water.

Provide water-closet with all necessary requirements.

Build chimney stack from cellar floor, containing three flues. Form in stack two fire places, one in parlor and one in dining room. Provide grates for same with tile-facings and hearths. The one in dining room to cost not less than $18.00 complete, and the one in parlor to cost not less than $25. complete. Stacks to be built of hard-burned bricks. Chimney top to be of design as shown on drawings. Flues to he well and smoothly parged.

Lath and plaster in usual way, plastering to be three coat work. Run beads on margin of arches and on all projecting angles in inside walls. Run cornice 9' x 11' in parlor.

Paint all woodwork inside and out, not otherwise provided for, three coat work with white lead and linseed oil paint, and in such colors as may be determined upon. Hardwood finish in parlor to be filled, finished in "hard oil" and rubbed.

All glass to be of approved quality, to be " patty set well fastened in sashes with zinc points and evenly glazed.

Hardware (specified) to be of good quality and approved.

Workmanship in all departments to be good and honest and of a durable quality.

The architect states that this cottage can be built and completed in good style for from $1,200 to $1,600, according to locality, amount of plumbing, style of finish and quality of materials employed in its construction.

It is convenient, not lacking in tastefulness, and well suited to the wants of a small family of limited means.

