<doctype type="text">STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT



<article title="Students' department On Observation" author="Stokes, Leonard">ON OBSERVATION. *

By LEONARD STOKES F.R.I.B.A.



CURIOUSLY enough, our English system of apprenticeship is based almost entirely upon the system of observation. The young man observes how the old man does it—in the same way, somewhat, it is true, as a conjurer may be observed to bring two live rabbits and a bunch of flowers out of an empty hat, placed on a small three-legged table placed under our very noses. Well, as there are smart conjurers and clumsy conjurers, so there are good architects and slovenly ones. In each case their tricks—for they are really little else

—can be acquired by some of us, but I regret to say that the tricks of the clumsy are more easily observed, and therefore acquired, than those of the smart and good.

The pupil in a moderately good office undoubtedly enjoys many advantages, but if he only observes the rules of the office and does what he is told he will not get very far, I fear. No, he must not only observe for himself how certain problem are overcome on paper, but he must also observe for himself the effect and result in actual work. He might observe, for one thing, how a mistake made on paper —perhaps by himself—may involve the modification of a whole feature, or even the whole end or side of a building, when it comes to be put up. He may observe how a carelessly made and unworkable section when reduced to bricks and mortar—produces unthought of difficulties such as want of head-room on your stairs, or suchlike trifles how foremen will always follow the wrong drawing if two don't happen to agree, and how easy it is for him to go wrong if there is any ambiguity in them at all. These observations will, I hope, teach him the desirability of making drawings accurate ; for unless a drawing is accurate, it is very little use at all, unless it is to show to a client to whom, correct or incorrect, it is, in 99 cases out of 100, simply so much Greek. Showy drawings are, no doubt, a kind of credit to the office, and it is always a pleasure to look at a drawing that has some style about it, but after all drawings are only a means to an end, and that end should always be kept well in view, if you want to win a competition, make your drawings as showy and as inaccurate as you like, but if you wish to get your building put up as you want it. then let your drawings be as numerous as possible and absolutely correct ; of course if you can make them look well into the bargain, so much the better.

Now the advantage the pupil has is that he sees so many things going on around him, and if he is worth his salt he will take advantage of this, and the observations he should make at this period of his career will be of the greatest use to him in after life. He can, you see, train his eye on the works of his master. I don't mean that his master will let him design or alter anything much, but what the pupil must do is to observe how the design looks on paper, and form his own opinion as to what it will look like in execution (this he had better, perhaps, keep to himself), and when he sees the work in reality, he must note how far his judgment has been right, or how far he has been led to misjudge the whole by not being able to see it in his mind's eye whilst looking at the drawing only. Situation, too, may have



From a paper read before the Liverpool Architectural Society.

something to do with it, and what he thought would look heavy or clumsy on paper, may look just the reverse when put in position and seen in conjunction with its surroundings and this question of surroundings should have a great deal to do with the question of design, although 1 fear that enough attention is not always paid to it.

Another form of observation, which cannot well be over-estimated, is sketching and measuring existing work. You see what we have to do now-a-days is to make paper designs, which, when executed by the builder, will, firstly, answer the purpose for which they are intended, and secondly, satisfy the eye. Now, a young man wanting to learn how to do this has to work backwards, so to speak. He must first find his ideal building, and then set to work to reduce it to paper; and, having done so, he should be able to look at his drawings and see the building standing out in all its balance, dignity and beauty. The more careful the study the greater the reward ; and, after a time, he will be able to think on paper to any given scale, and these thoughts, when handed over to the builder, can be worked out so as to produce just thc effect desired.

The eye, too, should he trained to see things in perspective, even though they are only drawn in elevation and, if the eye cannot at first he brought to do this, the hand may be sworn in, for the habit of thinking, sketching and seeing things in perspective will be found of the greatest use in designing. Far too much work is thought out, only on the flat, and hence, when executed, is unsatisfactory ; observation is the never-failing remedy, and it is surprising, how, after a little bit of it, your brain and eye become most obedient and expert, and you can either think or see round corners with the greatest ease.

Besides the study of what is generally called old work, the study of contemporary work should follow, hand in hand. Observe again, how our best men get their best effects, and observe also where they fail ; for, perhaps, one of the greatest uses of observation lies in its teaching us what to avoid. Books, too, may be of great use to us if used judiciously, but I am inclined to think they are often very much abused, and many a man's work bears the impress of book knowledge where it should rather give evidence of independent thought and a living treatment. Photo-lithography may be a blessing in some ways, but our streets should not be simply composed—as they too often are—of a collection of the most fashionable plates that have appeared, from time to time, in the building journals ; adapted it may be, to some extent, to their new requirements, but never looking more than make-believes at the best.

A young architect should, of course, read, and there are some books, that he must almost live with, as they will help him to appreciate what is good and noble about his calling, and lift his drooping spirits after a day's specification writing or drain planning. But I cannot help feeling—take it for what it is worth--—that an hour in a fine building- will open a man's soul more than a week's reading, and sketching in a museum will do him more real good than all the histories of architecture that were ever written, Do not misunderstand me, pray ; I am speaking of the young architect, and of what will help to develop the architect within him ; but, of course, the young gentleman -forgive the term—must not be forgotten, and he must acquire many things, such as history and knowledge of the styles,

