	<doctype type="text">38	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



vaults. Cost $7,000 Additions to Chalmers church, Langley & Langley, Toronto, architects Geo. Steven, contractor. Addition to convent \ for Sisters of Loretto, two stories, stone, 41 X 71 ft., G. R. Bruce architect; contractors, F McQuillan, stone John  Hughes, carpenter work Mahoney Bros., plastering W. Scriven, painting Geo. Howard, tinsmithing; Feck & Phillips, plumbing Cost, $5,000 Stone addition to store of Frank Dowler Co. contractors T. Irving D. Young, A. Cormie, and

Burr Bros.	Cost	000.

B.	Kloeper's residence is one of the finest in the city. It is two— and a half stories, pressed brick, 33 x 56 ft. Architect, G. R. Bruce contractors, H. Chnbb, brick F. W. Darby, carpenter Mahoney Bros., plastering J. Goss, painting J. R. Jackson & Co., tinsmithing Feck & Phillips, plumbing. Cost, $4,000 A double semi-detached pressed brick residence was also built for  John Hutton. Architect, G. R. Bruce contractors, H. Benallick, John Hughes, Mahoney Bros., A. Cormie, D. E. Rudd, Feek & Phillips. Cost, $4,000.

QUEBEC QUE.



While in 1894 building in Quebec reached in value $500,000, and in 1895 only $350,000, the year just passed shows a still further reduction, the figures being given as a quarter of a million dollars. In the 1895 estimate, however was included the new city hall, so that the comparison is more favorable than would appear at first glance. Residential buildings account for about two—thirds of the amount, and business establishments and churches for the balance. There has been some activity in building in the towns adjacent to Quebec particularly in churches, in which over $200,000 has been spent. The buildings were constructed about one-half each of brick and stone. The creation of a new park, with a conservatory, etc., cost in the vicinity of $30,000. Among the principal contractors were Jos. Gosselin, Jos. St. Hilaire, L. Moisau, Hubert Morin, Edward Matte, Caliste Dion, Olivier Michaud and  Jos. Moageon.

ST. JOHN, N. B.



The permits issued by the Building Inspector of St. John last year were 78, against 82 the previous year. The total value was $154,940, against $187,625 in 1895. The High School building was the principal structure, and cost $40,000. The architect was G.

E.	Fairweather, the masonry contractor B. Mooney & Sons, and the carpenter John Duffy. The Pender nail factory, the Murphy carriage factory and the Thorne warehouse were other important business premises. The dwellings were constructed principally of wood. The contract has been let to R. D. Boss for a biscuit

factory,	feet,	change

92 X 47 with brick boiler house. Very little 

occurred in the prices of materials or labor. The average wages for masons was $3 per day, and for carpenters $10 per week.



HALIFAX, N. S.



While, perhaps, there were fewer buildings erected in Halifax in 1896 than during the previous year they have been of a better class, and the total expenditure is treater being about 700,000 or an increase of $100,000. The details are Residential 100 brick 2, wood 98; business 23 brick 7, wood 14 public 8-wood 1, stone 4, brick 3 The drill shed, commenced in 1895, was completed last year and cost $200 000 J E. Askwith, contractor. Other prominent buildings are those of Gordon & Keith and Geo. Wright on Burlington slit. et the Immigration buildings at deep water terminus t he new Gerrish engine house and Barnstead & Sutherland's building on Barrington street. I lie principal residences were those of Senator David McKeen, cost $30,000, and Mr. Payzant, cost $10,000 The architects for the different buildings were J. C. Dumaresq, Elliott & Hopson, Henry Busch and W. T. Whiteway Some of the contractors were Messrs. Askwith, S. M. Brookfield, McArthur Marshall, Curry Bros. & Bent and Rhodes, Curry & Company.



WINNIPEG, MAN.



Winnipeg has just passed through what is to be hoped its final period of depression, for its showing last season in the building trades, outside of road-making, is lower than ever, hardly reach the $450,000 mark.

A goodly portion of the business done during 1896 has been "cobbling," that is, alterations, repairs and stone foundations to buildings erected during the boom years. However, there is every reason to expect an improved state of things in 897, when once more the Hub City of the Dominion will again be able to hold her own in building matters with any city in Canada of a similar size. Mining operations on the east shore of Lake Winnipeg will, it is believed, stimulate building operations.

The largest contracts were the Assiniboine Block alterations and additions, which cost $35,000 Chas. H. Wheeler, architect;  John Shaw & Co., builders. The sum of $30,000 was spent on the exhibition buildings Mr. Burgess, architect Kelly & Co., Andrews, Robinson, Thompson & Co., Murray & McLeod, and others, being the contractors. The new telephone building, Kelly &, Co., contractors, cost about $18,000 The Wyatt block, constructed by this. Burnett, cost $16,000. Then there were new residences built for Messrs. Win. Blackwood, cost $8,000 W. H. Culver, cost $ 11,000 and W. Tupper, which are referred to in a correspondence below. Mr. Griffith, architect, erected several residences, as well as Mitchell's photograph building and Ryan's new block. The Dufferin and Argyle schools were completed in 1896, C'. H. Wheeler being the architect, and Kelly Bros. and John Shaw & Co. the builders. The Gurney Co. erected a new warehouse at a cost of $17,000 Kelly & Co., contractors.

C.	H. Wheeler designed new residences for D. Lennons and John Plaxton, the contractors being J. C. Gilker and S. B. Ritchie respectively; also a warehouse for R. R. Taylor, P. Burnett, contractor. Mr. Greenfield erected several residences as well as alterations. The price of brick and wood has been about

the same as in 1895, but stone has advanced about per cent. There is one important matter which should receive the attention of the contractors in Winnipeg, and that is the low links for which work has been taken down writing 1896. 'I lieu e is scarcely a builder in the city who has more than held his own in figuring on contracts, the competition being so lively and keen as to cause considerable cutting the result being either loss or is you were before.'' No profit iii contracting was the catch word in the trades last season. This '' cutting " process makes it very difficult for architects, especially at the commencement of a season, to estimate the cost of new buildings. Scarcity of work as a title means low prices an abundance, high ices.



A correspondent sends us the following communication relating to building operations in Winnipeg:

While the year 1896 has not been one of great activity in the be milling line in Winnipeg or the province, yet there has been a general advance along the line, especially in the erection of stone foundations tinder and modern improvements in buildings erected during amid since the now historical '' boom,'' by persons whose chief object to build to sell, or mortgage to such an extent that they might  top out with profit to themselves amid let the loan company take possession. Most of the improvements to the old buildings ire not being made from philanthropic motives, but are prompted by a desire to protect the interests of the owners, who realize that we are becoming a fastidious people, amid now insist on enjoying the conveniences and comforts enjoyed by our sisters, cousins and aunts in the eastern cities. When a house has not these conveniences the inevitable notice, '' To Let—Rent Low to a Desirable Tenant is to be seen, week in and week out, in the window or on the door Post.

Many frame amid brick residences have been erected, principally in the south-western and western portions of the city, all on stone foundations, with basement full size of house, properly sewered. The old method of erecting a frame or brick building on a wood sill, supported by plank set on the sod, has been abandoned. It was found that a foundation formed in this manner decayed in six to ten years, which naturally seriously affected the stability and value of the superstructure , as well as making it very difficult to heat during the cold snaps that occasionally visit Manitoba.

It is only a year or two since the majority of dwellings here were entirely frame a few frame and brick veneer, amid an odd one here amid the rock of solid brick. Now a brick veneer house is an exception, and the timber of solid brick dwellings is increasing every year.

The construction of sewers and a waterworks system during the past few years, combined with the efforts of the loan companies, which now loan only on buildings constructed according to modern ideas, is the amount advanced amid the interest charged, has been the me ins of improving the character of the buildings constructed, as well as the character of the builder, sit it may be said, '' Virtue is its own reward," and has also the advantage of being able to secure a large bait at the lowest rate of interest.

Mr. W. H. Culver, Q. C., has had erected a very fine residence out Edmonton street. The exterior walls from grade lute to window sills and lintels are of Calgary sandstone. The exterior walls of the superstructure are local huff brick, the principal apartments of ground floor being finished in oak and the windows glazed with plait.' glass. Cost over $11,000.

Mr. William Blackwood has also had erected a large residence out Colony street stone foundation above garage line, faced with random coursed Stonewall stone, the exterior walls above being local buff brick The principal apartments are trimmed with oak, remainder with British Columbia fir, with doors framed with cedar panels and B C spruce stiles. Cost about $8,000. Mr. George Brownie was architect of both the above houses.

Another flue residence has been erected for Mr. W'. J. Tupper at Armstrong's Point, from plaits prepared by Mr. Walter Chesterton, architect The foundation above ground line is faced with random coursed local limestone, and the exterior walls above are red pressed brick, with the gables it the half-timbered style. S. B. Ritchie was the contractor.

These three are the principal residences erected last year, The others, although good of their kind, are of the ordinary design.

Two or three business blocks have been erected on Maui street. The principal one, erected by Messrs. Wyatt & McDonald, near the Bank of Montreal, is a good solid brick building of two stores, three stories in height, amid treated in a plain manner, evidently within the intention of receiving maximum of revenue for minimum of expenditure regardless of the wish of the citizens to have the principal retail street of the city' little with edifices of arm ornamental character The large plate glass windows have a flute effect, especially at night, when all ablaze with light. But the same mistake is reheated here that has been made in most of our shops viz., the window reveal is too deep and the square iron

pillars which carry the front wall are so large and so placed that they  it off a proper view of the goods in the windows. It is strange that it is objectionable method of constructing show windows, arid which is obsolete in tip—no—date eastern towns, should still be followed, particularly in a city of progressive ideas such as this is.

A commercial building of some importance and which is sure to become a factor in the prosperity' of the country, amid known as the Parsons cold storage warehouse, was commenced last year and completed this. It is built at the river hank, next the transfer railway and is a well-constructed substantial building, stone foundation arid brick superstructure, three stories and basement in height, plaitneth after the latest arid most improved system by a Chicago architect who makes a specialty' of cold storage warehouses; cost $20,000. Mr. S. Frank Peters, architect, superintended the work.

