<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	193



The tall buildings of New York and other American cities must he accepted as the outcome of modern requirements, due principally to the enormous initial cost of the sites available. The engineering problems involved were many and complex, but they were being solved with the greatest skill by contemporary engineers. The aesthetic problems involved were no less difficult, and did not offer so easy or complete a solution. The lecturer reviewed the modern "tall building" as developed in New York, criticizing it from the architectural and aesthetic standpoints ; he dealt with the question of ornamentation and incidentally discussed the question of concealed steel skeleton construction and the employment of stone as the material for casing in the constructional metal frame. The horizontal and vertical principles of design for these buildings were contrasted and compared, the lecturer favoring the former; and the isolation which allows these buildings to be judged of as a whole was also noted. In conclusion reference was made to the general effects of these buildings, now that their number has so largely in· creased, upon the aspect of New York itself as seen on approaching the city from the harbor.

After some congratulatory remarks of the new president of the Association, Mr. J. F. Peachy, and a cordial vote of thanks to the lecturer for his scholarly and instructive lecture, the President called for a discussion upon the subject of the paper.

Mr. Venne said that the aesthetic problem of the construction of the tall building was a very hard one to solve, but he would assume without risk of mistake that the "sky-scraper" of New York and Chicago was far from having the aesthetic aspect of the architectural masterpieces of the European Cities. Near by these towering buildings, monuments like "La Magdeleine" and other grand cathedrals of the old world would suffer in their artistic appearance. If the cathedrals of

Notre Dame de Paris" and of Amiens were placed beside those sky-scrapers of New York and Chicago what would they look like? There was a diversity of opinion regarding the necessity for these tall buildings. Personally, he thought they were unnecessary, and was of opinion that architects and builders would before long return to normal conditions of building.

Mr. Venne, who was mentioned on the programme as the next lecturer, in spite of the lateness of the hour and the fact that he had unfortunately left his manuscript behind, gave from memory and with the aid of a few notes written at the last moment, his lecture on "The Aesthetic Function of Mouldings and Profiles."

By the courtesy of the author our readers will have the privilege of reading the full text of this paper.

Prof. Capper had taken for his subject a question of ensemble so to speak ; Mr. Venne said that he had chosen to treat and discuss a subject of details the mouldings and their object and effect in architectural art.

Thanks were given to the lecturer by the President, Mr. Peachey, in the name of the Association.

Mr. Hutchison asked permission to make some few remarks on the lecture of Prof. Capper. lie said that tall buildings in the cities of Chicago and New York were in many cases no more nor less than gigantic and monstrous boxes. They were nothing else than engineering feats. If you ask the architects of those tall buildings how they are determining the proper architectural treatment to give to such buildings, the y will say in many cases

that they are considering and treating these towering constructions as mere columns, dividing them with regard to ornamentation into the three distinct parts of a column

—the base, the shaft and the cap. Mr. Hutchison said that the tall construction was at an experimental stage, and it was not easy to decide about the proper treatment it ought to receive. Steel and iron were more and more in use in buildings. Architects in their designing ought to deal with these materials in such a way as to make them more pleasant features in construction.

Mr. Andrew T. Taylor, the ex-president of the Association, spoke of the threatening danger of these tall constructions in iron and steel. These materials are exposed to rust, and, being covered, the action of rust cannot be easily detected. In some fifty years from now a sudden collapse would certainly happen in many cases, if proper and timely measures were not taken to prevent it. He predicted that in less than one hundred years from now most of these tall buildings will be no more, while the tall monuments and constructions in stone of the old world- those of ancient Egypt, for instance—are still standing, after three thousand years of existence.



The President reminded the members present that they were expected to attend without fail at the annual banquet, at 7 o'clock p.m., at the Victoria Hotel.



ANNUAL BANQUET.



The annual dinner was a very sumptuous and enjoyable affair, the tables being beautifully ornamented with tropical plants and flowers. The banquet was given in the private dining-room of the hotel, and was served in a manner that left nothing to be desired and that reflected great honor upon the management. It included all the delicacies of the season, as the following menu will show

MENU. 

Huitres en Coquilles

SOUPE 

Consommé la Royale.

POISSON.

	Saumon Frais, Sauce Hollondaise.	Pommes de Terre Pailles.

ENTREES.

Timballes de Poulet la Reine.	Filet de Boeuf, piqué aux Champignons.

ROTIS.

	Dindonneau farci, Sauce aux Atocas.	Gigot d'Agneau a la Parisienne.

 N MAYONNAISE

	Homard	  Poulet.	Laitue

		LEGUMES.

	Pommes de Terre a la Creme.	Haricot Verts a l'Anglaise.

	Celery.	Petits Pois a la Francaise.	Asperges.

		    ENTREMETS.

	Victoria Pudding, Cognac Sauce.	Bavaroise au Chocolat

Tartes Assorties.	Geleé au Champagne.	Gateaux Assorties

DESSERT.

Raisins.	Noix Assorties	Amandes	Pommes	Poires

	Raisins de Serre.	Creme A la Vanille.

	THE.	FROMAGE.	CAFE.



Those present were J. F. Peachey, President ; A.

T. Taylor, Alex. Hutchison, Jas. Nelson, O. Mailloux, Professor Capper, J. Z. Resther, Jos. Venne, A. Raza, D. Ouellet, G. Tanguay, E. Dussault, C. Dufort, J. A.

Monette, J. P. Ouellet, architects ; J. B. Mortimer, of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER ; N. Levasseur, secretary of the Chamber of Commerce of Quebec ; T. Moloney, of the Provincial Secretary's Department Mr. Barthe, editor of La Semaine Commerciale ; Mr. Carrel, of the Daily Telegraph ; Mr. Chambers, of the Morning Chronicle ; G. Levasseur, journalist ; and some other representatives of the press of the cities of Quebec and Montreal. General regret was expressed at the absence of Messrs. Baillarge and Berlinguet, who had been called out of the city by professional engagements.

