	<doctype type="text">48	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT 



so placed that besides being convenient to the pulpit entrance to the church should be easily accessible and in a pleasant location, as often a pastor spends much time in such a room.

Usually one or two good sized rooms are required for general purpose use, and are called parlors, but in the case of a building divided as above one compartment could be utilized as a parlor

Some large and extensive churches have quite extensive auxiliary institutions in connection with their school, such as good baths, gymnasium and reading rooms; these are sometimes it a separate building and sometimes under the same roof as the school ; such institutions are found very attractive in places that are deficient in that sort of thing outside of the churches. There are none like this in Toronto that I am aware of, hut some day some wealthy church may want model school and auxiliary buildings, and it is well to remember that whatever one's private opinion may be in regard to the propriety of them there are these accessories.

Experience seems to prove that a two-story building is not satisfactory, for while it certainly gains much room it also causes inconvenience and a good deal of grumbling; it is not long since we gave an estimate for remodeling a school house of that description, the church board seriously entertaining the idea of dispensing with the upper story.

A one story building with clerestocy lighting and galleries seems to suit better than any other, as while the main rooms are all on the ground floor the gallery space can become practically part of the school. Most schools have been erected on this principle lately, and amongst others the World's Fair Sunday school building, of which I have made rough plans, arid which by many interested people is rated as the nearest approach to a perfect building, though this may be a somewhat exaggerated idea. In this plan there are four departments (see plan), and in regard to the satisfaction which this building has given I will read some extracts from letters received in reply to enquiries made by myself (extracts read.)

Personally I have strong misgivings as to the efficiency of the shutters to exclude sound of primary class singing from other departments, and as they have a good deal of singing, such a defect would be serious ; possibly double shutters with a space between might accomplish the purpose, and I believe in some instances have already been resorted to.

All floors are now made on the level, except in the galleries, and that suits much better than the stepped floors even for primaries, arid in some departments the system of furnishing consists in large or small tables with individual small chairs around them.

The plumbing has to be taken into serious consideration, both as regards the number of fixtures and the location of them. One of the toilet rooms should be very near the primary class, and here should be one for ladies, one for men and boys and one for minister's vestry.

No portion of the ventilation requires more consideration than hat of the infant class. I have frequently gone from a large room well filled with scholars into a primary department and have been struck with the unwholesomeness of the latter compared to he former unless provided with a plentiful supply of fresh warm air and a good outlet, the room becomes very offensive. This department should he in a good bright sunny position—indeed a pleasant room helps most effectually in all the departments. To much an extent is this realized that one school has been fitted up with a fountain in the centre, nicely surrounded by flowers. One an easily imagine that such an addition would do much to exercise a refining influence on the scholars. While the teaching is in progress the running water helps to mitigate the confusion of many talking at once, and when an address is being given from the platform the water is turned off. I could safely guarantee that this school would be the most popular in America if they would only turn on Jemonade instead of water.

Unless the whole building is to be kept heated continuously all

·inter through, which few really are, it is necessary to arrange the heating apparatus so that one parlor, the minister's vestry and all the toilet rooms at least, will never be without heat, as some part of a well conducted institution is sure to be required early every night.

For large schools it is necessary to have separate entrances for boys and girls, and at least one of these should be so placed as be prominently seen from the main street upon which it abuts, that for week evening services there may be no difficulty in noticing the doorway. Sometimes they have been so arranged that the doorway being behind a transept or some other projection or the front of the building occupied with minor rooms

not lighted up, it is really difficult to know whether the place is open at all or not. A good example of a good entrance is the Presbyterian church school at the corner of College and Bathurst streets in this city.

Whatever may be the verdict in regard to the plans of the model building, the elevations certainly will not stand criticism.

—the fourth prize man having by far the nearest approach to a good design.





<article title=" BUILDERS AND THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT.

" author="">BUILDERS AND THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE ONTARIO ARCHITECTS' ACT.

A MEMBER of the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects in order to test the feeling of builders with regard to the proposal to make the name Architect a title obtainable only by training and examination has submitted the bill to three prominent builders In his own neighborhood—the Ottawa Valley, The following letters were received in reply.



ARNPRIOR, February 17th, 1897.



ANDREW BELL, ESQ., Almonte.

DEAR SIR,—I have received from you and carefully read over the proposed Bill, an Act to amend the Ontario Architects' Act, and can assure you I am fully in sympathy with its object, both as a private citizen, and as a builder of 30 years' large experience.

I am in the habit of making plans for building, but do not wish to be called an Architect, and am sure that your Bill, if passed, will not interfere with rue in that respect. I have found by experience that I can get on better with a building when superintended by a properly qualified Architect than when by one not so. I am strongly in favor of any measure that will tend to educate and elevate the profession of the Architect.

Yours truly,

B.	V. STAFFORD,



Mayor of Arnprior and Builder.



ALMONTE, ONT., March 6th, 1897.

ANDREW BELL, ESQ.



DEAR SIR,—I have read over carefully the copy of proposed Bill to amend the Ontario Architects' Bill and explanatory circular you handed me, and I heartily agree with its object.

As a builder of thirty-five years' experience, having put up buildings in Ottawa City, and almost every town of any size in the Ottawa valley, I believe that anything that will tend to elevate the noble profession of architecture is a movement in the right direction, and will be a great benefit to those engaged in it in the future, as well as to builders and the public at large, and this movement of your Association will certainly be strongly in that direction. It seems to me to be decidedly educational, and I cannot see how it will in any way interfere with the rights of builders—much more likely to help them. I very much prefer erecting a building from the plans and under the superintendence of a properly trained Architect than one without that qualification. When the title "Architect" is a distinguishing one, it will be one worth studying for and striving for, and must hereafter improve the appearance, as well as the sanitary condition, comfort and safety of our villages, towns and cities.

ROBERT CAMERON, Builder.





CARLETON PLACE. 12th March, 1897.



ANDREW BELL, ESQ., Almonte.



DEAR SIR,------In reply to your letter with copy of proposed Bill to amend the Ontario Architects' Act, arid also Mr. Langton's circular explaining it, I have to say that as a builder and a citizen I fully approve of it, believing that it will be the means of educating in the future a higher class of Architects, and so tend to improve our public arid private buildings, which is much needed in this province. I have had thirty years' experience as a builder, and I speak as I feel I should on this matter.

Yours,



W.	PATTIE.

Builder and ex-Mayor of Carleton Place.

Ex-Warden of the County of Lanark, and

now County Councilor.



These letters, from men of experience and judgment, seem to cover entirely the builder's point of view.

