	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	'3



teously answered ; but as to endeavoring to carry out affiliation with them, he saw where difficulties would crop up. For instance, they had just heard a proposition with regard to legislation for the purpose of keeping foreign plans out of the country.

<person>Mr. Power </person>moved that in the opinion of this meeting an international association would not be advantageous under present circumstances, and that the Registrar be instructed to reply to this effect to the Secretary of the American Institute of Architects.

<person>Mr. Darling </person>seconded the motion.

Mr. Powers motion was then put and carried.

Mr. <person>D. B. Dick </person>said that a matter had been put in his hands to bring before the convention. Some little time ago a suggestion was made --by whom he did not exactly know —that there should be a chapter of the Association formed in Toronto. Two or three meetings of the Toronto members of the Association were called, and he thought some twenty or twenty-five members attended them.

<person>Mr. Langton </person>remarked that thirty-two members had assented to the proposition ; some had done so by letter.

Mr. Dick went on to say that the upshot of the matter was that a committee was appointed—of which lie (Mr. Dick) was convener—to consider the question and report as to what should be done. The report which he held in his hand was prepared and submitted at the last general meeting of the Toronto members of the Association, and approved of; and the committee was continued and instructed to take charge of the matter at this convention. He would now read the report. (Reads.)

The committee appointed at the meeting of the Toronto members of the <assoc>O. A. A.</assoc>, held on Dec. 16th to consider the question of forming a local chapter of the Association, beg to report as

follows

That they are of opinion that the proper course to pursue will be to lay before the convention a proposition looking to the formation of local chapters throughout the province wherever desired

by a sufficient number of members residing in one municipality or

within a reasonable distance of it. To carry out this idea it appears only to be necessary to add a few by-laws to those passed

by the Association, as your committee consider it desirable that each local chapter should have the Utmost freedom in regulating its own affairs in whatever way the members consider most suitable to their local circumstances

Your committee are also of opinion that a prominent feature in the establishment of a system of chapters should be that each chapter should have the benefit of all the papers read before the others, if they desire it. In this way the larger chapters would be of material assistance to the smaller ones, and the benefits to be derived from membership in the Association would be distributed more equally over all the members throughout the province.

The following by law, consisting of five clauses or sections, is submitted as containing all that is necessary to accomplish the desired end:

PROPOSED BY-LAW.



1.	The Association shall encourage the formation of local associations to be known as Chapters of the 0. A. A. Any five members of the Association may apply to the Council for permission to form a chapter with headquarters in any city or town which hey may select, and such permission shall be granted by the Council if it is found that the territory proposed to be covered by the new chapter does not encroach upon that of any existing chapter. If any question of encroachment should arise, it will be determined by the Council at their discretion.

2.	Members of chapters must be members of the O.A.A., but no obligation shall rest upon any member of the O. A. A. to become a member of a chapter unless he desires to do so. Chapters may establish a grade of associate members and may elect honorary members, but no practicing architect shall be eligible either as an associate or honorary member. Associate members shall not be eligible to any office and shall not be entitled to vote.

3.	Each chapter shall have power to fix its own dues and make such by-laws as it may think necessary and desirable, so long as these do not conflict with the constitution and by—laws of the O.

A. A., of which point the Council shall be the judge, and for this purpose the by-Jaws proposed to be adopted by any chapter must

first be submitted to the Council for approval.

Whenever a paper shall have been read at a meeting of a chapter, the secretary or other officer of such chapter shall notify the Registrar of the .Association of the title of such paper, and he shall in turn notify the proper officer of each of the other chapters. On receiving a request from any chapter for the use of a certain

paper, the Registrar shall communicate with its author, asking for the loan of the paper, and upon receiving it shall forward it to the chapter desiring it This chapter shall arrange to have it read at a meeting by one of its members and as soon as possible thereafter shall return it to the Registrar, who will forward it again to the author.

5.	Each chapter shall report annually to the Association the number of members on its roll, and if at any time the number shall

fall below five the Council of the Association shall declare such chapter no longer in existence.

Signed on behalf of the Committee 

<person>D.B. DICK</person>, Convener.

Toronto, 24th Dec., 1896.



After reading the report, Mr. Dick said he hoped gentlemen would discuss this matter, and not pass this report by any means merely as a matter of courtesy. He asked them not to pass it if they did not feel that these chapters were desirable. He was sorry there were so few of the Toronto members present. He did not think it looked very hopeful for the success of the chapter that of the sixty members of the Association residing in Toronto there were so few that took sufficient interest in the matter to show it by their attendance here on this occasion. He moved the adoption of the report.

<person>Mr. Harper </person>seconded the motion.

Mr. Gregg said that he very strongly approved of the general principle of the thing. They had heard that thirty architects in Toronto favored it, and said that they would become members of a Toronto chapter. He did not think there was anything discouraging in that.

The President Thirty-two.

Mr. Gregg said that generally half the people that should take an interest in such a thing did not do so. These thirty-two were probably all the men that had ever taken an interest in the convention, and they did not propose to drop the convention because certain members in Toronto did not pay them a visit once a year. He thought the larger proportion of the men who were taking an interest in the Association were Toronto members. He thought there should be a chapter formed here, and he thought that when it was formed other chapters would he formed in other places. Other places would feel the need of such a thing. lie heartily approved of the principle, and would move that they adopt the principle and consider the clauses of the report.

<person>Mr. Power </person>thought there were two sides to the question. He would like to see more interest taken in the matter both in Toronto and outside. They had only to look around them in order to see the amount of interest that was taken in thc Association itself in which they were all supposed to feel an interest. He should be afraid that if a chapter were formed and carried on in Toronto it would to some extent take away from the interest felt in the Association ; and he was afraid that at this juncture they could not afford to take any such chances as that. Not long since they had a greater number coming forward and showing their interest in this Association than they saw present to-day. He thought that until this Association was put on a better footing it would be a mistake to proceed with the chapter idea. tic did not wish to go against the suggestion in any way. If there was sufficient interest felt in it to assure its being carried on properly here, all right but he doubted it.

<person>Mr. Simpson </person>asked if the matter could not be allowed to stand until the next day. He thought there were a great many members who did not expect very much to take place on the first day of their meeting, and who on that account did not attend until the second day, lie knew there would he quite a number more of the Toronto members present on the following day, and he thought there would be more from outside also. He moved the adjournment of the discussion until Wednesday.

<person>Mr. Darling </person>seconded this motion, and it was carried.

The rest of the afternoon was occupied in the exhibition and discussion of a series of stereopticon views of designs by members of the Association. At six o'clock the convention adjourned until the following day.

On Wednesday morning- at ten o'clock a visit was paid to the new City Hall under the personal conduct of <person>Mr. Lennox,</person> the architect. There was a great deal to be seen and, in spite of the cold weather, the party visiting- the works were unwilling to leave as early as had been intended, so that it was about half-past twelve before the Convention was again called to order. A number of members were in attendance who had not been present on the first day.

Mr. Langton read a paper upon " Principle in De

