



<doctype type="text">ARTIFICIAL STONE AND MARBLE COM

POUNDS FOR BUILDERS.

THE following formulae, writes '' W. C. S.," in the Building News, give the methods of preparing some of the best-known products used as artificial stones, concretes, etc., which are open for anyone to prepare



ARTIFICIAL STONE COMPOUNDS FOR BUILDING.



No. 1. —Ingredients: 10 parts of hydraulic lime which has fallen to a powder, with water to form a paste ; 25



parts of gravel, 5 parts of coal ashes or wood ashes, water q.s. Preparation. Thoroughly mix the mass, and add sufficient water to make the mass equal to 50 parts bulk, then pour the mass into moulds made of wooden boards and allow it to set.

No. 2. Ingredients 125 parts of hydraulic lime which has fallen to a powder, mix with sufficient water to form a paste ; then add 250 parts of ground oyster-shells and 150 parts of ground peat ashes, and sufficient water to make the whole equal to 500. parts in bulk. Then pour into mould until set, as in No. 1.

No. 3.—Ingredients 100 parts ground quartz sand, 2 to 10 parts finely-ground plumbic oxide, water-glass (silicate of soda) q.s. Mix the solids together, and then moisten with the water-glass until thoroughly mixed, and firmly press into moulds. When set, the stone mass thus formed should be burned.

No. 4.— Ingredients part of cement (Portland), 3 parts of sand, dilute sulphuric acid (1 part acid to 50 parts water). Preparation Mix the sand and cement into a dough with the acid fluid, and submit to a strong pressure. Then dry the stones in the air for two days, and afterwards steep them for 12 hours in water and acid (3 of acid and 100 of water), and finally dry them.

No. 5. Ingredients 2 parts of Portland cement,

part of sand, part of cinders, solution of green copperas q.s. Preparation Dissolve the green copperas in water until no more will dissolve. Separately mix the three solids together in the dry state, and then moisten them with the solution of copperas ; press the mass into moulds, and allow them to dry in a warm place for two weeks then take the blocks out of the moulds, steep them in water for 24 hours, and finally dry for four weeks.

No. 6.—Ingredients 10 parts unslaked lime, 3 to 4 parts of water, 40 to 6o parts of dry sand, 2 1/2 to 10 parts of hydraulic cement. Preparation Mix the lime with the 3 or 4 parts of water, and then mix in the sand, and finally the cement. Afterwards grind the compound, and press into moulds.

No. 7.—Ingredients One part of alum, 15 parts of water, 2 parts hydraulic lime, 10 parts sand, one part cement. Preparation Dissolve the alum well, and then add the other ingredients, and work up to the required consistency ; press into moulds, and allow to remain for 24 hours. The blocks of stone thus prepared will not be fit for use for at least 14 days but to be thoroughly hard requires longer drying.

No. 8.—Ingredients 30 parts of quartz sand, part of oxide of lead (plumbic oxide), 10 parts of water-glass. Preparation Mix the sand with the oxide, and then make a dough of the mass by adding the water-glass press into moulds, and then heat the blocks at a red heat for two hours.

No. 9. Ingredients 4 parts of coarse sand, part of cement, gravel q.s., lime-water q.s., 2 parts of fine sand, part of cement, part of dry metallic coloring

matter. Preparation Mix the sand, cement and gravel with sufficient lime-water to form a paste ; press this into moulds, and cover the surface with a composition made up of the fine sand, cement and coloring matter. When the surface is nearly dry, brush it over with a solution of water-glass

No. 10.—" Victoria " stone is made as follows The refuse from the granite quarries is broken up into pieces of suitable size, and 4 parts of the fragments thus obtained are mixed with one of Portland cement, with the addition of sufficient water to bring the mass to the consistency of dough. The mass is run into moulds, in which it is allowed to remain for several days, or until it has set solid ; the blocks are then immersed in a solution of silicate of soda.

No. 11. Ingredients 400 parts of sand, 52 parts of limestone, 6 parts of burnt clay (brickdust), 13 to 25 parts of water-glass. Mix all together.



ARTIFICIAL MARBLE.



No. 1. —Ingredients: 8 parts marble-dust or white limestone, 2 parts zinc oxide, part Portland cement, hot aqueous solution of water-glass q.s. Mix the three solid ingredients into a paste with the solution of water-glass (which should contain about 40 per cent. of the glass), and mould the paste under pressure while warm, and expose the moulded form for a week or ten days to warm, dry air before finishing.

No. 2. Ingredients: 280 parts of granite or other stone, broken small ; 140 parts of limestone or chalk, parts of burned calamine, 3 parts of calcined feldspar, 2 parts of calcium phosphate, 40 parts of water-glass Mix all the ingredients together in a dry state before adding the water-glass, then press the paste into moulds, and dry the finished pieces at a temperature gradually rising to 125 Fahr.

No. 3. Ingredients Alum, water, plaster of Paris. Preparation Dissolve alum in water (cold) until no more alum will dissolve, and then gradually stir in dry plaster of Paris until the mixture is of a suitable consistence, then spread out the plaster in slabs or form into blocks and bake it.



VARIEGATED MARBLE



is produced artificially by mixing dry Portland cement with dry pigment that will color the cement, and the mixture is made into a paste with the least possible quantity of water. Make a separate pasty compound of each color, and then place each separate compound one on top of the other, and press the compound from all sides, and beat it, so that the colors of the different parts impress themselves on each other without any uniformity; the result will be the production of veins penetrating the mass, which should then be sawn into plates or slabs, and these pressed in a mould for twelve days, during which time they should be kept moist as long as they are not entirely hardened. The polishing of each slab is proceeded with just like marble is polished.



IMITATION MARBLE



may also be produced from sandstone by impregnating the latter first with a solution of sulphate of alumina, and the next one of water-glass. The sandstone will thus acquire a marble-like appearance, and can be polished. The sandstone when thus prepared can be submitted to a very great heat, until it is almost vitrified. It is likewise unaffected by atmospheric influences.

