<doctype type="text;ad"><article title=" WORKS OF CONSTRUCTION " author="">WORKS OF CONSTRUCTION.

Mr. J. Whittaker, slate roofer, London, reports good trade in his line, and has a large number of contracts already booked for this season. Mr. Wittaker has been engaged in the roofing business for the past two years, and in that line has built up a very large trade.



The corner stone of a new Methodist church was recently laid at Simcoe, Ont., the erection of which is in the hands of Mr. M.

W.	Hoyt, of Brantford. It will be 70 x 50 feet, with Sunday school room 60 x 50 feet, and two stories high. The floor and seats will be built in amphitheatre style with a floor elevation of 2 feet 6 inches. A circular gallery will run across one end. The seating capacity will be about 700.



A new opera house has been completed at Rat Portage, Ont., from the plans of Mr. G. A. Mitchell, of Winnipeg. The building is 150 X 50 feet, four stories high. The front part will be used for a hotel, while the opera house proper will be in the rear, 50 x So feet, entered through a large corridor paneled in British Columbia cedar. The stage is 24 X 48 feet, and from the floor to the gridiron is 43 feet 4 inches. The roof is a mansard and covered with metallic shingles. The cost was $22,000.



A large block of stores, covering 100 feet, is being erected at Fort William, Ont., for Mr. Joseph King. This will be one of the finest blocks in that town, having a most imposing front three stories high by 100 feet wide, which will be entirely constructed of galvanized iron made to details prepared by

Messrs. Arnoldi & Ewart, the architects, of Ottawa, and executed by the Metallic Roofing Company, of Toronto. The exterior will be covered with "Special single stone rock faced siding in different sized courses while the interior will be furnished with embossed steel ceiling.

The new Southern Congregational Church at London, Ont., was recently opened. The building cost $4,000, and has a seating capacity for 500 persons, with a large basement. The foundation is of stone and walls of white brick, while a small, slate-covered tower is located in the centre of the from. There is a small gallery at the rear of the auditorium, and a gradual rise of the floor from the altar to the entrance. The architect was Mr. Herbert Mathews, and the contractors Moran & Ridge, brickwork Hessel & Davidson, carpenters McLaren, Parkinson & Co., heating; John Fenn, plastering; George Lewis, painting.

In response to a question of a member of the City Council, Mr. E. J. Lennox, architect for the new municipal buildings in Toronto, stated that the Council might hold a meeting in the chain her by November next. There were now 241 men employed on the work, including 78 plasterers, 45 carpenters, 67 steamfitters and plumbers, 30 bricklayers and 21 excavators. By the end of May the number would be increased to over 300. Work on the tower will be commenced again at the end of the present month, the delay in this part of the work being caused by the lack of stone supply. Thirty feet of stone and fifty feet of wood have yet to be put on the tower.



























































































Mica Boiler covering Co. Ltd. Toronto



Toronto Steel-Clad Bath and Metal Co., Ltd.