	<doctype type="text">170	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



 otherwise may be attached to a gas pipe. The ground wire shall be carried to, and attached to, the pipe outside of the first joint or coupling inside the foundation walls, and the connection shall be made by soldering, if possible. In the absence of other good ground, the ground shall be made by means of a metallic plate or a bunch of wires buried in a permanently moist earth.

58.	ELECTRIC GAS LIGHTING--Where electric gas lighting is to be used on the same fixture



with the electric light:

a.	No part of the gas piping or fixture shall be in electric connection with the gas lighting circuit.

b.	The wires used with the fixtures must have a non-inflammable insulation, or, where concealed between the pipe and shell of the fixture, the insulation must be such as required for fixture wiring for the electric light.

c.	The whole installation must be free from "grounds."

d.	The two installations must test perfectly free from connection with each other.

59.	SOLDERING FLUID—



a.	The following formula for soldering fluid is suggested:

	Saturated solution of zinc chloride	parts.

	Alcohol	4 parts.

	Glycerine.	     ....	. 1 part.

		<article title="Correspondence" author="">CORRESPONDENCE.

(Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]





<article title=" SOME SUGGESTIONS TO THE O. A. A.

" author="Paull, Huber, G.">SOME SUGGESTIONS TO THE O. A. A.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

SIR,—Is it not about time that the committee appointed by the Ontario Association of Architects some years ago to look after the aesthetic, archaeological, historical, architectural and monumentally decorative detail of this provincial capital, commenced to agitate in favor of something?

The building industry has been enjoying a recess for a spell, and no doubt the worthy architects composing this distinguished committee have been enabled to participate in the vacation along with the rest of us; surely, therefore, they might have racked their wits and put them to some use in discovering data in this convention-visited city for their commemorative genius. If they are not hopelessly asleep I would like to suggest a few thoughts not unworthy the consideration of a respectable committee charged with the serious business of placing the Queen City on a proper art basis.

First, the reclaiming from the vandal Time, the lethargy of the Dominion Government, a squatter or two, and other evil influences, that half a dozen acres or so within the southern purlieus of the city, known as the " Old Fort."

The Old Fort has a history well worth preserving, and is not unworthy of a better fate than it receives. The Old Fort has been the scene of at least one sanguinary engagement, disastrous for both participating parties, but chiefly the invaders, when on the memorable 25th of April, in the year 1812, some weeks previous, perhaps, to the birth of the majority of the members of the committee aforesaid, the redoubtable General Pike invading the province attacked the Fort and was blown into oblivion, and various other directions, by the timely explosion of the powder magazine, the innocent result of a well planned accident on the part of one of our reckless regulars on sentry duty who happened carelessly to ignite the end of a fuse communicating with the interior of the magazine, just as the intrepid Yankee was making his headlong way eastward across the Garrison Common towards the Fort. Peace to his ashes.

The curious old block houses of the Old Fort are in a good state of preservation, requiring but little to keep them so and attractive. They might be fitted up as a historical and military museum.

The embrasures and fortifications generally, such as they are, would be all the more presentable and picturesque by being restored also the grand old guns would look more comfortable on less shaky carriages. Pyramids of cannon balls alongside would also add to the effect, besides being quietly suggestive to a certain class of visitors that we keep well awake.

The sidewalks of the Fort would be more in keeping if they were of a more permanent character than of pine, say of brick, and the roadway, instead of rambling all over the sward, be kept within bounds, a 20-foot gravel carriage drive with 6-inch stone kerbing on each side, the drive to make a detour and loop around the old guard house.

Why not look after the roadway also leading from the Old to the New Fort, plant a line of trees on each side and make a proper connection with the old military burying ground? In short, invoke the aid of the City Council to petition the Dominion Government to make a regular and systematic attempt at creditable maintenance of the Old Fort and all the great space beyond to the New Fort—including the

making of a boulevard and drive 200 feet wide or so along the water-front from the Queen's Wharf to the ramparts of the New Fort, with proper approaches at either end and at the foot of Strachan avenue continued across the common. All of which I submit are eminently proper suggestions for the consideration of a wide-awake

committee.



The Garrison Commons and Old Fort could be made wonderfully attractive without in any one feature destroying the utility of either for the purposes intended by the government, and the City Council could well afford to adopt a liberal policy in this direction, With the exhibition park and the New Fort at one end and the Old Fort at the other with all its historic reminiscences, together with the interesting little military cemetery, the place could be made quite as attractive and picturesque as the celebrated Hoe at Plymouth.

I would suggest that the Old Fort be dignified with a Gate (capital G) at the eastern entrance—nothing so costly, of course, or ambitious as the St. Louis or Kent Gates at Quebec—and yet something of a monumental character, built between the earth works, having an arched carriage entrance and a side entrance for pedestrians, built substantially of stone, with neat turrets and battlements, having a fortified appearance—something like a Gate, you know.

A tablet could be placed somewhere in the entrance, or over the central arch, recording the catastrophe of the sudden elevation of the Invincible Pike together with his staff of 200 aerial navigators; also the statement in prose or poetry of the fact that the British red coats and a company of English Hussars have front time to time made things lively within the precincts of the old stockade, recording the time of their occupation, together with the name of the companies. So much for the Old Fort.

2nd. What is to prevent the committee, if not too tired doing nothing, taking an active interest in the City Hall Square scheme, and the Governor Simcoe monument, about the necessity of either of which a whole volume might be written.

3rd. Why should Castle Frank be forgotten? Must this old historical land-mark be allowed to go uncared for and unsung—no glittering marble or eternal bronze or big round boulder to mark the identical site? Alas The very roadway to the place is eloquent with a hundred interesting reminiscences.

4th. Shame on the city—not one effort has been made by public or private enterprise to record the Victorian Jubilee, save the ludicrous burlesque at the recent Exhibition, when $20,000 was literally given to the winds, when half the amount would have perpetuated to generations that we are not altogether a city living on a reputation for loyalty only without the deed. Surely the committee on art and things, if still in existence, might take the representatives from other eminent bodies into its confidence and devise some means, however desperate, to save the city's historical records from dry rot and mildew and blight. Wake up, committee! Wake up! and show yourselves.

HUBUR G. PAULL.





<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



THE annual meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of' Architects will be held in the City Hall, Quebec, on Thursday, September 30th, and Friday, October 1st. Members having any suggestions to make should forward the same to the secretary at as early a date as possible. The members are especially requested to prepare themselves to take an active interest in the meeting, and to bring forward questions for discussion. The programme is now being prepared. The transactions of the council for the year ending September 30th, 1897, will be printed and distributed to the members, in accordance with the resolution passed at the last meeting. This, it is hoped, will result in a more general discussion.

In October next the association enters upon the eighth year of its existence. Since its foundation it has been most useful and effective. The future will in a large degree depend upon the efforts put forth by the members of the association.

<article title=" AMATEUR SKETCH CLUB " author="">AMATEUR SKETCH CLUB.



An architectural sketch club has at last been formed in Montreal. Every person having an interest in architecture is eligible for membership. During past years such a step has many times been suggested, but the support offered did not seem sufficient to warrant any action. The organization will be known as the "Amateur Sketch Club," the object being to promote architectural sketching and study.

The club is now making arrangements and will shortly inaugurate a series of sketching tours. Draughtsmen and younger members are cordially invited to become members.

Until further notice correspondence should be addressed to the Amateur Sketch Club, Room 4, New York Life Building, Montreal.

