<doctype type="text;ad">

principle. This power, which is applicable to every condition under which the building business is transacted, lies fallow at the present time because of failure on the part of those most interested to understand the great importance of preventing evil conditions rather than curing them after they have gained foothold. There is no condition to which the building business is subject which is not capable of beneficial treatment by united action on the part of the builders ; organization presents the means for united action, and out of the solidity thus obtained beneficial results must inevitably follow. Bulletin of the National Association of Builders.



<article title=" THE LIAR AND THE CONTRACTOR " author="">THE LIAR AND THE CONTRACTOR.

FROM a compilation of proverbs in all languages, those referring to the liar number 101. We were seeking a proverb that would fit the case of the liar as he is known at contract-lettings for stone work on public buildings. No. 85 in the list seems to most forcibly express an idea we had in mind to write about. It reads "The credit got by a lie lasts only till the truth comes out." This fits us for a text. The contractor who secures a job by misrepresenting the actual quality of material, or the character of the workmanship he pledges himself to put into the structure, holds credit

only till the truth comes out," and that usually makes its appearance before the contractor " hangs up his fiddle and the how," and retires from active business life. We might cite thc career of more than one stone contracting firm to prove that it doesn't pay to be a liar, and be solicitous at the same time to secure other contracts. The evil they have done lives after them. On the other hand, the reputation of the honest contractor precedes him, and where he has to deal with honest men on boards he is likely to succeed if he can make figures to come within the appropriation. A notable incident illustrative of this point is fresh in the minds of stone contractors, where the record of what the successful contractor has done in an honest way for many years was of itself sufficient to put to rout the half dozen slick workers combined against him.

Stone.



Mr. W. G. Elliott, of the firm of Elliott & Phin, contractors, Brantford, has lately purchased an interest in thc firm of Workman & Watt, brick manufacturers, of that city. The name of the new firm will be Workman & Elliott. They will manufacture red and white brick and other materials. Mr. Workman has also joined Mr. Elliott as a partner in his contracting business, the firm name being Elliott & Workman.

<article title=" WANTED TO ADVERTISE HIS TRADE " author="">WANTED TO ADVERTISE HIS TRADE

A VERDANT youth dropped into a jeweler's, and after gazing at some fraternity pins in the show case, said to the proprietor

"Them's mighty nice breastpins you got there, mister."

"What kind of a pin would you like to look at?"

How much is this one with a pair o' compasses and a square?" pointing to a Masonic pin.

"Five dollars."

Five dollars, eh! You haven't got one with any handsaw on it, have you. I'm just outer my time, and as I'm going to set up as carpenter and jiner, 1 thought I'd like to have somethin' to wear, so folks would know what I was doin'. Well, I'll take it, though I'd like one with a handsaw, but I guess mebbe that's plain enough. The compasses is to mark out your work, and the square is to measure it when marked out, and any durned fool knows G stands for gimlet."



Excess of water in a concrete mixture is bad practice, as only a fixed equivalent of water can chemically combine with cement. The surplus water simply displaces so much of' the solid contents of the mass and leaves voids after it has evaporated. This makes the hardened concrete porous so it will absorb moisture ; this is a source of great weakness, as the water held in the interstices during frosty weather expands and thus the cement begins to show cracks or other defects.

In the United States there are State hoards of arbitration. The master builders of Boston are not afraid to declare that the board before whom their disputes are brought is unfair, untrue and disposed to suppress facts. As the master builders have advocated the principle of arbitration, they now suffer like the engineer who was '' hoist with his own petard." '' We do not relish," they say, ''the misrepresentations and the patronizing suggestions which the State Board of Arbitration sees fit to publicly visit upon us, even after they have been given the fullest and freest information as to our functions and purposes, and as to the efforts which we have been making toward securing peaceful solution of labor troubles. If this sort of treatment by a board which is expected to be fair and dispassionate is thought to be in the line of conciliation, then we do not properly understand the term. There is something wrong-, either in the system or its administration, something that militates seriously against any great good to be secured by and through this expensive department of the State." The law courts are likely to sympathize with the master builders, for they cannot approve of new fangled processes for ascertaining the truth.





VICTORIA

FOSSIL..

MEAL

COVERING

You are losing money if you have not your Boilers and Pipes covered. When covering, USE THE BEST We claim, and advertisers say, this is our Prepared Fossil Meal. One inch thickness only required. Very Light, Adhesive, Easily Applied, and can be used over and over again. Locates a leak instantly. Applied to Elbows as easily as to a Straight Pipe. PRICE, $3.00 PER 100 LBS., WHICH COVERS 50 SQ. FEET.

Good References on Application.

Crude Infusorial Earth for filling in Walls, Etc., as a Non-Conductor of Sound



VICTORIA TRIPOLITE COMPANY, Limited - North Sydney, Nova Scotia

Please mention the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER when corresponding with Advertisers