<doctype type="text">

Alter a couple of hours had been devoted to the delicacies of the menu, the guests were called on to honor the official toasts, as follows

1st. " The Queen." In proposing this toast the President, Mr. Peachey, made allusion to her glorious

 jubilee.

2nd. ''The Governor-General, Patron of the Association." The President spoke briefly of the manifest sympathy of His Excellency, Lord Aberdeen, with the Association, having graciously accepted in the course of the year the title of patron.

3rd. "The Government of Quebec." In the absence of any members of the Provincial Government, Messrs. Barthe and Maloney were charged by the President to reply. Roth speakers did not hesitate to pledge the assistance of the government to the Association in its efforts to secure needed amendments to its charter.

4th. ''Sister Associations." Professor Capper, called by the President to reply to this toast, said that, according to what he had heard from the Secretary, the sister associations were not very sympathetic. The sister association of British Columbia had not answered the call of the Association of the province of Quebec to second a movement for the formation of a Federal Institute of Architects and the answer of the sister association of the province of Ontario did not amount to much.

Mr. Hutchison thought proper to say that it would not be fair to accuse the sister associations of Ontario and British Columbia of indifference or apathy. He was sure that they were at heart and in spirit with their sister association of Quebec. Their aims and objects were the same, but the distance at which they were separated from this association had doubtless much to do with their seeming indifference.

5th. "The Press." Suitable responses were made to this toast by the representatives of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER and the local press.

A toast to the health of the absentees, Messrs. Berlinguet and Baillairge, was afterwards proposed by Mr.

N.	Levasseur, and replied to by Messrs. Raza and Venne. 

The proceedings terminated with a toast to the health of the President of the Association, proposed in forceful terms by Mr. Chambers.



SECOND DAY.



On the morning of Friday, the second day of the convention, carriages were in waiting at the Victoria to convey the members of the Association to the station of the Quebec, Montmorency and Charlevoix Railway. The ladies, who had been unavoidably neglected to some extent the day before, were invited to participate in an excursion to the famous shrine of Saint Anne de Beaupre, passing on their way the Montmorency Falls.

They were in the celebrated sanctuary by 11 o'clock, viewing its sumptuous altars in marble, monument to Saint Anne in Mexican onyx, its historical treasures, and pyramids of crutches, left there by miraculously cured pilgrims. Full explanations were given to the visitors by one of the good fathers of the church. Every member of the Association, especially the strangers, seemed to be interested to the highest degree.

Visits were afterwards paid to the old sanctuary, the Fountain, the Scala Sancta, and the village itself, with its numerous and extensive hotels. Everything is historical in the surroundings here. A passer-by sees the

remains of old fortifications erected before the siege of Quebec, under the French.

Mr. Francois Parent offered the hospitality of his sumptuous home, where the visitors were received most cordially by Mrs. Parent. Part of the residence of Mr. Parent was used by Montcalm as his headquarters during the siege, and history states that the treaty of capitulation was even signed there. Mr. Parent, who is now the proprietor of an extensive brewery, is a mason contractor by trade. He offered a toast to the health of the architects, and in particular those of the Association.

Mr. Andrew T. Taylor offered the sincere thanks of the Association to Mr. Parent, and said that he was particularly impressed by feeling that he was speaking in the very room where such an important event as the capitulation of Quebec had been decided and the treaty signed.

At 3 o'clock, after luncheon, the members of the Association took their final drive. On account of the late hour, they had unfortunately to shorten it. Nevertheless, it was interesting. They passed by the heights of Ste. Fove, and the village and church of that name, to the famous cave, on the shores of the river, above Sillery Cove, used by a celebrated Canadian brigand called Chambers in 1837, and were shown at a little distance the site of the proposed new bridge for railway purposes between the north and south shores of' the St. Lawrence at Quebec.

At six o'clock they were back to their headquarters. Most of the Montreal members were leaving the same night by rail.

The ladies who favored the tourists with their presence on the excursion were Mesdames Nelson and Levasseur and Misses Mailloux and Dufort.





<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.

Mr. George Wilson, a prominent contractor, of New Edinburgh, Ont., died recently at his home in that place.



Mr. Wm. Rae has recently been admitted as a Partner with the firm of' Strickland & Symons, architects, Toronto. The firm will in future be known as Strickland, Symons & Rae.



Mr. Walter Chapman, C. E., of Barrie, has been appointed chief engineer of that department of the Grand Trunk Railway extending from Toronto to Nipissing and westward to Detroit.

Mr. Chapmans headquarters will be at Hamilton.



Mr. Ernest R. Rolph, architect, of Toronto, has removed to the Northwest territories, having received an appointment from the CPR to design and superintend the construction of buildings in connection with the Crow's Nest Pass railway. Mr. Arthur E. Wells, who has been in New York city during thc last five years, has returned to Toronto and assumed charge of Mr. Rolph's practice.



The death occurred at Montreal last month, of Mr. Frederick Preston Rubidge, who was for thirty years architect of thc Public Works Department at Ottawa. Mr. Rubidge had attained thc age of ninety-two years. He retired from the public service in 1872, afterwards removing to Hamilton and later on to Montreal. He was highly esteemed both on account of his personal qualities and the ability which he displayed in the practice of his profession.





Thomas Heaven, of Hamilton, Ont., has recently patented in the United States and Canada a furnace that is said to bc capable of burning all kinds of fuel, such as wood, hard or soft and lignite coal. The furnace is largely constructed of steel.



Incorporation has been granted to the St. Lawrence Portland Cement Co., with a capital of $25,000. The charter members of the company are E. S. Scott, Quebec; M. J. Butler, Napanee; F. G. B. Allan, Napanee Mills; R. C. Carter, Kingston F. S. Rathbun, Deseronto, and J. N. Greenshields, Montreal.

