<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	'5



are composed of the same simple elements. The desire to produce richer effects than could be obtained by simple mouldings led to the enrichment of their surfaces and so to the use of decorative carving. Sculpture also appeal's from very early times to have been associated with architecture as a decorative BUILDER And the character of the carving and the sculpture varied in different styles, and, taken in conjunction with the mouldings, contributed largely to their individuality.

All architecture then is composed of the same elements. But there is a radical difference between the principles on which these elements were used up to the 16th century, and those on which they have been used since, In the old method they were used as the words by which expression was given to those new thoughts which were ever contributing to the building up of the body of true architecture, In the modern method the thoughts themselves are appropriated and combined and arranged to make up the eclectic architecture of modern times.

That eclecticism is the ruling motive of modern architecture may be considered as an accepted fact. All the so-called " Revivals" have been nothing but eclecticism. The advance of science and the increased complexity of modern life have constantly raised new problems from the solution of which some tendency at least towards a new style might reasonably have been expected. Engineering and all the other sciences have kept fully abreast of these new demands, and have often created new wants by offering the means of satisfying them. Architecture alone has failed to rise to the occasion. It is not to be denied that in some respects architecture has advanced even within the last generation, but there has been no change of principle and the improvement has been rather in taste than method.

The chief factors in the creation of these modem opportunities have been the increase iii knowledge of the properties and strength of materials and of the principles of framing and the improvements in the manufacture of iron and steel and of glass. The building of the Crystal Palace by Sir Joseph Paxton, about the middle of this century, gave a great impetus to the use of iron, and the iron front became the new idea. Fortunately it had not vitality enough to live very long. Had the designers been able to divest their minds of the old ideas they might perhaps have made something of the new one. But instead of this they simply took the old forms of a stone construction amid tried to adapt them to the new material. The result was inevitable. To save material, columns and other features were attenuated to the last degree, and to save expense in modeling, details were duplicated with hopeless monotony, while, worse than all perhaps, the principal idea to be kept in mind in designing or selecting the details was not are they beautiful or appropriate?" but, will they draw out of the mould?" Some of these attempts have been removed to make way for more modern structures, but many of them still remain and periodically challenge attention by blossoming out in a resplendent coat of new paint.

But the one great opportunity of modern times has been the advent of the steel framed structure generally spoken of as the skyscraper.' It is not yet many years since it appeared as practically a new problem but the number of the attempts at its solution, and the vast amount of ability and skill that have been brought to bear upon these attempts, afford justification even now for an estimate of the value of the results. There is much variety among the examples and some of them are good, some bad, and some indifferent. But, however various they may be in other respects, this one thing has to be said of them all—that not one of them has contributed in the very smallest degree towards the creation of a new style. They are all shams in so far that their construction is not expressed but concealed. There is not an architectural idea in one of them that was not in current use long ago. They may be divided roughly into two classes, 1st, those in which the whole height is treated as one composition from which nothing can be taken away and to which nothing can he added without destroying its proportions, and 2nd, those which are designed on the principle of a pillar, some of the lower stories being grouped to form the base, and sonic of the upper ones the capital, while the intermediate stories form the shaft as it were. The first of these two ideas is by far the more difficult of successful accomplishment, and when it is successful the result is proportionately better than in the best of the other type. The second type is defective in that it fails to satisfy the eve that the design was made for just that number of stories and no other. The idea is suggested that the building might be cut in two in the middle, the upper part raised, and one or more new stories inserted. A design that conveys this impression to the mind cannot possibly have been made on true principles. The majority of the very tall buildings are also found wanting when the test of suitability of design is applied to them, because they are usually so situated that they cannot be seen except so much foreshortened that their proportions are entirely destroyed. The only appropriate place for a skyscraper is on the side of a large open square or at time end of a long street, which latter, of course, is rarely possible. It therefore carries within itself the seeds of its own destruction as an architectural idea, because its advantages depend upon its standing allot amid towering over its less aspiring neighbors. A street of skyscrapers would defeat its own purposes, and a city of skyscrapers would be unfit to live in. Hence there are already signs that its day is over and that the height of street buildings will in future be generally restricted by legislative enactment It is not wonderful that the skyscraper has done nothing towards the production of a new style nor that sonic of t lie examples have not been very happy as designs. The wonder is rather that, considering the time usually allowed for designating them, the average results have been even so good as they ate. There is no need to regret that the skyscraper was done nothing towards the attainment of a new style because it could, after all, have been nothing

more than a style for skyscrapers, while a new style to be of any use must be one capable of universal application.

One can hardly look back over the history of the styles without asking oneself the question—Is there any reason why they should mint have been developed upon other lines than those which they actually followed? If, for instance, the Roman style developed under one set of conditions into Gothic amid under another into Byzantine why might it not under a third and easily conceivable set of conditions have developed into a third style differing from both of these as much as they do from each other ? We have seen that all architecture is composed of the same essential elements. If these have been combined to form styles differing from each other as much as Egyptian and Roman or Greek and Gothic, why have they never been combined to make another different from them all ? It can only be because the evolution of a style is a long slow process and the world was more big enough to allow of the complete separation necessary for time existence at the same time of more than one or two of the wholly different sets of conditions necessary for the evolution of distinct styles. Amid further because during all the time that time old styles were in process of evolution, certain social conditions favorable to the process prevailed but have ceased in modern times to exist, and have been succeeded by others distinctly unfavorable.

In view of time fact that so few distinct styles were evolved during the past, is it possible by analysis to arrive at such a knowledge of the principles out of which they grew as to afford a hope that even yet the following out of time same principles might result in the production of a new one? We have seen that the elements of all styles are the same and are always at hand. There are men of as much talent or even genius in the world to-day as there ever were. The sister arts of painting amid sculpture are as much alive to—day as they have ever been at any period in their history. Why should architecture of all the fine arts alone be dead? Is no resource left her but that of fitting together the dry bones of the dead past instead of going forward in the full exuberance of life amid creating new ideas to he handed down as working material to future generations as the ideas of the past have come down from one generation to another?

The eclectic method has been tried for several centuries and has failed, is there no other? Would it be possible by going back to first principles to design a building absolutely without style? Much has been written and spoken about "catching the spirit" of a style but those who have succeeded best in the attempt have only succeeded in producing imitations—close enough in many cases to deceive those ignorant of the date of their erection into believing them genuine works of the style imitated. They have done absolutely nothing towards carrying the evolution of the style one iota further. There is, however, a spirit " of design without which no good work ever has been done or ever will be done in any style. It is something akin to thinking without words. It is the creation of a design by the thoughtful working out of all the problems involved under the special conditions of the case. It is conceivable that up to a certain point a design might thus be worked out that would be structurally complete, perfect in its proportions, and yet without a trace of detail belonging to any known style—in fact without any detail at all. One could not look at the Parthenon or Salisbury Cathedral from a distance too great to permit of any detail being visible without in some measure being conscious of the difference in the spirit of the two styles. If it were possible to work out a design, even without detail, that would not suggest the spirit of any known style, the first step would be taken towards the invention of a new one.



Let us conceive the experiment tried under the most favorable conditions. Let the designer be a man who has been brought up like a Nazarite from his birth with a view solely to this experiment. Let us assume that be has been thoroughly trained in the theory and practise of construction so that the most intricate problems present no difficulties to him. But with all this knowledge of building be has never seen a book on architecture, nor a photograph of any architectural example, and he knows nothing of ornamented construction. Let us suppose further that he is naturally a man of artistic temperament to whom the beauties of nature are a constant delight, and that be is a lover of painting and sculpture. Now suppose a problem set before him to be worked out, without regard to cost or any other limitation. The subject selected would probably be a large church, because religion has caused the production of a greater number of architectural monuments than anything else in the world. Now how would he go about it? The first idea Would be that a large number of people must be able easily and comfortably to see and hear the whole of the service. This means to begin with a large open space unencumbered with piers or columns—altogether there would be objection to the use of these outside of this space to form aisles or other adjuncts. But they would not be absolutely necessary as constructive expedients because the use of trusses renders it easy to roof over without intermediate supports, any space that could possibly be required for an audience room. A consideration of the pros and cons in regard to the different available forms would probably head to the conclusion that a rectangular plan not very far removed from a square would be. upon the whole, most convenient both for sight and hearing. Perhaps it might be more convenient to put staircases, vestries, schoolrooms and other appurtenances in projections rather than within the main walls Something of the nature of an apse or chancel might be rendered necessary by the ritual. A tower might Lie necessary for bells. Some stacks might be required for smoke flues and ventilating shafts. Windows and doors would be necessary, and perhaps also porches. If the roof were of truss construction a greater thickness of wall would be necessary under the ends )f the trusses than elsewhere, which would break up the uniformity )f thickness of the walls. That appears to be all. Two other

