



<doctype type="text">The President replied that he thanked them for the motion adopted in this informal way. The form in which he should like to receive their thanks would be their thoughtful consideration of the two suggestions he had made in his address. One was the question as to the adoption of sonic degree or some form of distinction in their membership. It seemed to him that even with their amendments passed even supposing they were placed in the position of being to a limited extent a close corporation-----that would involve the bringing in of all who are in any way seeking a living by architecture. It would mean that every country builder who sought to call himself an architect would have to become a member of this Association, and for long years to come the public would not be able to distinguish that there was any particular advantage to a man in being a member of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>; but it seemed to him that with their amendments carried or without them it would be desirable that men who have passed an examination and who have therefore shown themselves qualified along the purely technical lines, should be placed in some way in a better position than any one who might come in by virtue of legislation. He thought that those who had passed an examination should be singled out by some title or designation from those who had made no effort to so qualify themselves. Then he thought it would be very invidious to place a young man who had passed in this way on a higher plane than those who had practised their professions for ten or fifteen years, and who had put up buildings which were sufficient evidence of their skill and ability as architects. He would say that all men who had been practising architecture for ten years— or, if they liked, make it shorter-- a sufficient number of years to show they were architects—that they should be eligible for the position of Fellow. Thus they would have the grade of those who were graduates and the grade of those who by their work had proved they were competent architects, and thus they would have a distinction at the first and all through until their Act would have had the effect of grading up the whole of the profession to a proper standard. The other point was one which he felt very strongly on himself. That is, the question of expert evidence-- the question of having to go to court, as some of them had occasionally to do, and give expert evidence, and then having their statements in evidence largely discounted, and themselves placed in the humiliating position of practically being told that their evidence did not amount to anything. They ought certainly to seek means of having this altered so that in such cases they should be called in by the court and not by the litigants. He thought they should, to begin with, have a standing committee of this Association to investigate the question, and in doing so to get all the information that could be got from France or elsewhere, and to associate possibly with the committee of any other body which might be interested in the matter in the same way, so that something might be done to remove this growing evil

evil which involved a reflection upon the individual practitioner and upon the profession generally.

<person>Mr. Gregg</person>, speaking in regard to the first proposal of the President, said that last year there was a resolution upon this very point. That was, they passed a motion that every graduate having passed the examination should have a diploma. That idea should not be dropped. The motion had been passed and the diploma should be prepared, so that the graduate could have it and hang it up in his office. He would ask that the Council take the matter in hand and have a lithographed diploma prepared, even though it might be one that would not be an artistic adornment to the office. If it was only in Roman type and signed by the proper parties it would answer the purpose.

<person>Mr. Darling </person>said that he quite agreed with Mr. Gregg's suggestion about the diploma. But he did not think that the question of Fellowship should come up Who was going to judge among all the members of this Association who were really architects and who were not? He assumed that every man who would come into this Association would have to be a Fellow at the start,

the difference remaining to be made afterwards. They could not suppose that all the men over the country were going to stand it if ten or twenty of those constituting this organization were to be permitted to say who were and who were not architects. if the Association ever got its Act they might take some steps in the way of grading examinations in the years to come as the older men dropped out.

<person>Mr. Simpson </person>thought it would be rather premature to consider anything of the sort at present.

<person>Mr. Baker</person> thought the proposition only amounted to adding a name to what was already in existence. He thought the thanks of the Young men in the Association were due to the old men and them alone for the position of the Association to-day. The thing would be in a very had shape if left to the young ones, judging from the amount of interest they had shown in it. lie did not see why they should not call every member who had been practising ten years a Fellow, and the others Associates, and also those who pass in future, Associates.

Mr. Darling Supposing you call all the men who have been practising ten years fellows ; would a man who had only been practising nine years be kept out, and then would you a year afterwards call him a Fellow?

Mr. Baker Certainly.

Mr. Darling I do not see the reason in it.

<person>Mr. Baker</person>: I think every other association of the kind in existence has something of that sort to distinguish the members.

The President remarked that he was glad that the initial stage of the discussion had been got through with. The matter might now simmer in their minds, and perhaps by the end of another year they would be in a position to discuss it a little further on its merits.

<person>Mr. Burke </person>moved that the Council consider this matter and report upon it a year from now, as also upon the suggestion with regard to experts.

<person>Mr. Power </person>seconded the motion.

Mr. Burke expressed the opinion that the matter with regard to experts was very important. He thought it was very humiliating to go into court and see two architects of reputation giving evidence, each swearing diametrically the opposite to the other, each evidently inspired by the side by which he was employed.

<person>Mr. Curry </person>did not see how they were going to stop that. It was the same thing with the medical profession, and the medical profession as a body were very much better educated. As long as they had a body of men unequally educated they were going to have that difference of opinion. How often did a lawyer come to them to give evidence if he found that they would give it as the facts were and not as he wanted them to be represented? Lawyers went and hunted for evidence that was favorable to their own side only.

Mr. Burke said that the French idea was to have a board of experts who would report on the thing alone.

The President had known of cases in which the court had taken upon itself to appoint an official expert. It was done sometimes, he believed, in connection with the medical profession. He had known also of one or two isolated instances where in building cases the judge had appointed an expert. That principle they would like to see carried out in its entirety—and that was the object of his suggestion instead of its being an optional and very infrequent thing.

Mr. Darling thought they were laying down to themselves a very big job. He did not think any small body of men like themselves could induce any government to pass such a provision. He thought the simplest way out of the difficulty would he for the whole profession in Toronto to refuse to give evidence.

A member: You cannot refuse to give evidence.

Mr. Darling replied that he had refused. lie had stated, "I will not give my opinion until I go into court. I will then give my opinion whether it is in your favor or the contrary." They had then declined to subpoena him. If one said that to the lawyer who wanted him to go into court to give evidence the lawyer would not then subpoena him. He had heard a statement made by a lawyer a short time ago which had irritated him beyond endurance. That was a case in which,

