

<doctype type="text">Charge for Making

Estimates.

to the building while in course of construction. Prudence and wise precaution are not a waste of time and trouble, and if not exercised when called for, the consequences will assuredly have to be borne in loss and anxiety. Every man on the works should do his work faithfully, for the biggest leaks in contracting are often caused by workmen who shirk and shirk the work before them. It is always best to employ good men who know their business and who will do their parts faithfully. A good man is always worth his wages, no matter how much that may be.



IF there is one thing more than another that contractors should '' sit on," it is the practice of making estimates for

every " Tom, Dick and Harry that fancies he is in a position to have a house built, and who expects to get a $3,000 house for eight or nine hundred dollars. The work of giving free estimates falls more on the carpenter than on any other tradesman, and there can be no valid reason adduced why he should give his time and knowledge to interested people free of cost. Advice from a lawyer or a doctor is always charged for, and justly, and the knowledge and experience of the estimator are just as valuable and require as much time and labor to acquire as does the special knowledge of the physician or lawyer. If every builder would post up in his shop or place of business a large sign with the following legend inscribed on it in large letters, and where it cannot fail of being seen by all who enter the works,



<article title=" TAKE NOTICE " author="">TAKE NOTICE

WE CHARGE FOR MAKING



ESTIMATES.



and if the spirit of the legend is adhered to strictly, it would be the means of a great saving of time to the contractor and would insure fair prices for work done. It is a common occurrence that proposals are advertised for extensive works " with right to reject any or all bids." There is generally no restriction as to the number of bidders, and no certainty that any bid will be accepted, in which latter case all have their trouble for their pay. This is a gross injustice on the face of

it. Again, owners will solicit estimates from several builders just to learn whether it will be cheaper to build than to buy ; in these cases is it not fair that the men who spend their time in preparing estimates should be paid for it? If it was generally understood that owners would be obliged to pay a percentage to each party whom they notified to give them figures, some would be content with the bids of two or three parties, either of which they would not be afraid to accept, having made their own choice as to who were the best or most responsible. As it now is, if a man has a house to build, he invites every jobber he can hear of to estimate and then makes use of an irresponsible figure to bring down the competent contractor's estimate to the same level. We do not blame the owner ; the estimates cost him nothing, and he is gaining valuable information that is worth to him many a good dollar. So long as contractors are satisfied to give their estimates free of charge, so long will the owner take advantage of the generous opportunity.



The publishers of Heating and Ventilation, New York, in a card in our advertisement pages, offer to send free a specimen copy of their journal, the only one of its kind, to any address on

application.

<article title=" HOW TO HANDLE STONE " author="">HOW TO HANDLE STONE.

ON this subject Mr. J. B. Gordon writes as follows to

Stone:

There is a right way and a wrong way to open a quarry.

One should first consider the dip and rise or pitch of the strata, natural bed or rift, natural dries or seams.

A careful examination should be made by an expert to determine the right side to open.

Then decide on the kind of machinery that will be most profitable to handle the material most economically. The over-head cable system is at least one-third more economical than derricks. I speak of quarries in general. Some places derricks would be preferred.

Nine cases out of ten quarries are situated alongside railroads, or near enough to them to run switch tracks into them.

First consideration is amount of stripping ; next the quantity of unmarketable stone.

Erect two cables at right angles to each other. The one along the face and above the quarry will take all the useless refuse and deposit it once and for all time out of the way. The same cable takes the stone that has to wait shipment, such as bridge ashlar, rubble, etc., to another place until wanted. The second takes the marketable stone from the first and loads it on cars direct, or alongside the track. This is handling stone by a system.

Stone-cutters can be kept at work along and under both cables without confusion or danger.

The quarry can be kept clear and clean, and every man work to advantage.

The nature of the stone rules the kind of machinery required for quarrying and cutting it.

Employ a foreman who can command men, and make him solely responsible. A quarry owner should never be a quarry "boss." He should look after the selling of the stone, and he will have all he can attend to.

A competent " boss" will see that derricks, drills, hoists, channellers, etc., are securely placed in position; that every contrivance about them is in perfect order that no '' sway," '' swash " or ''buckle" is permitted to go without immediate remedy ; he will observe that men work steadily and clean up as well as they can after themselves ; he will insist that good men be paid a premium above the ruling wage-scale in common, thus insuring faithful service and strict obedience.

Now, a word or two to masonry contractors In building large walls loss is often suffered because the work is intrusted to foremen who lay out the work, stretch the lines and hoist the stone, but who let the mason select the position for it, thus delaying the work of the derrick until mason decides the bed and where to place the stone. This takes much time, but as the work seems to be going on all right the loss of time is not noted. Now the foreman should lay out the work, see that everything is in ship-shape ; select each stone for the place he has designated in the wall before moving it, mark the bed, and let the masons do the work. He has done the thinking.

The use of broken ashlar is increasing every day. It has been considered expensive to construct. It isn't, if it is made right. Usually on buildings where there is considerable of this work, you will likely find on the wall six men doing work that two competent masons ought to do. The stone is sent to the scaffold in all sizes, or as the masons call for it. In consequence they spend half their time measuring. Now, if the fitter or stone cutter were properly instructed as to the bond, he could send the stone to the wall, where, as I say, two men could do as much work as a half-dozen in the usual way. I have done it.

