	<doctype type="text">242	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



marble to pass completely into it, and leave about three centimeters of the tube free at either end. On allowing the tube to cool a perfect contact between the iron and marble was obtained, and it was no longer possible to withdraw the latter. Into either end of the tube containing the small column an accurately fitting sliding steel plug was inserted, and by means of these the marble was submitted to a pressure far above that which would be sufficient to crush it if not so enclosed. Under the pressure, which was applied gradually and in some cases continued for several weeks, the tube was found to slowly bulge until a very marked enlargement of the portion surrounding the marble had taken place. The tube was then cut through longitudinally by means of a milling machine along two lines opposite to one another. The marble within, however, was still firm, and held the respective sides of the iron tube, now completely separated, so tightly together that it was impossible without mechanical aids to tear these apart. By means of a wedge, however, they could be separated, splitting the marble through longitudinally. The column in one experiment was reduced from 40 millimeters to 21 millimeters in height. The deformed marble differs from the original rock in having a dead white color, the glistening cleavage faces of calcite being no longer visible, and although not so hard as the original rock, it is still firm and compact, and especially so when its deformation has been carried out very slowly. The experiments show that limestone, even when dry and at ordinary temperatures, does possess a certain degree of plasticity, and can be made to "flow," the movements set up developing many structures which are characteristic of rocks which have been squeezed or folded in the deeper portions of our earth's crust. It is to be hoped Messrs. Adams and Nicholson will continue their experiments, for in addition to their geological interest they suggest that much remains to be known about the strength of marble under constant pressure, and, it may be, about other materials also.

<article title=" POLISHING MARBLE " author="">

POLISHING MARBLE.

POLISHING includes five operations. Smoothing the roughness left on the surface is done by rubbing the marble with a piece of moist sandstone ; for mouldings either wooden or iron mullers are used, crushed and wet sandstone, or sand, more or less fine, according to the degree of polish required, being thrown under them. The second process is continued rubbing with pieces of pottery without enamel, which have only been baked once, also wet. If a brilliant polish is required, Gothland stone instead of pottery is used, and potters' clay or fullers' earth is placed beneath the muller. This operation is performed upon granites and porphyry with emery and a lead muller, the upper part of which is encrusted with the mixture until reduced by friction to clay or impalpable powder. As the polish depends almost entirely upon these two operations, care must be taken that they are performed with a regular and steady movement. When the marble has received the first polish, the flaws, cavities, and soft spots are sought out and filled with mastic of a suitable color. This mastic is usually composed of a mixture of yellow wax resin and Burgundy pitch, mixed with a little sulphur and plaster passed through a fine sieve, which gives it the consistency of a thick paste ; to color this paste to a tone analogous to the ground tints or natural cement of the material upon which it is placed, lampblack and

rouge, with a little of the prevailing color of the material, are added. For green and red marbles, this mastic is sometimes made of gum lac, mixed with Spanish sealing wax of the color of the marble. It is applied with pincers, and these parts are polished with the rest. Sometimes crushed fragments of the marble worked are introduced into the cement, but for fine marbles, the same colors are employed which are used in painting, and which will produce the same tone as the ground; the gum lac is added to give it body and brilliancy. The third operation in polishing consists in rubbing it again with a hard pumice stone, under which water is being constantly poured, unmixed with sand. For the fourth process, called softening the ground, lead filings are mixed with the emery mud produced by the polishing of mirrors, or the working of precious stones, and the marble is rubbed by a compact linen cushion well saturated with this mixture ; rouge is also used for this polish. For some outside works, and for hearths and paving tiles, marble workers confine themselves to this polish. When the marbles have holes or grains, a lead muller is substituted for the linen cushion. In order to give a perfect brilliancy to the polish the gloss is applied. Well wash the prepared surfaces and leave them until perfectly dry, then take a linen cushion, moistened only with water, and a little powder of calcined tin of the first quality. After rubbing with this for some time, take another cushion of dry rags, rub with it lightly, brush away any foreign substance which might scratch the marble, and a perfect polish will be obtained. A little alum mixed with the water used penetrates the pores of the marble, and gives it a speedier polish. This polish spots very easily, and is soon tarnished and destroyed by dampness. It is necessary when purchasing articles of polished marbles to subject them to the test of water ; if there is too much alum the marble absorbs the water and a whitish spot is left.





<article title=" MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS " author="">

MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

Mr. Thomas Whittaker, of Toronto, is reported to have discovered a large deposit of fire clay on lands owned by him in the Nipissing district. The material is said to have undergone analysis by the government expert, and is declared to be genuine. A company is said to be in process of formation to utilize the material.



The Ontario Peal Fuel Company, of Welland, have recently patented a method for the manufacture of artificial marble from gypsum. There is said to he an abundant supply of the mineral on the Grand River. A factory is now being fitted up in Toronto for the manufacture of the new material, regarding which further particulars will shortly he given.



Messrs. Henry Maurer & Son, of New York, have patented in Canada and other countries a brick which is said to be absolutely fire-proof, and, though dense in appearance, has the quality of allowing nails to he driven into it without causing chipping and the further quality of '' holding the nails so that it is with much difficulty that they can be withdrawn.



The Sprague Elevator Co., of New York, represented in Canada by Jack & Robertson, of Montreal, are reported to have recently received from the Central London Railway of London, Eng., the largest elevator contract on record. It includes 49 elevators erected in twenty-five different underground shafts, and distributed over six miles of route.





Teacher (to pupils)---"Who was Moses?" Truthful Tommy, at the back end of the class, signals cagerly. Teacher- Well?



T.	T.—" He was the man wot told the brickmakers to go on strike when Pharaoh wanted to sweat em."

