



<doctype type="text">partaking of light refreshments, which for another name we will call coffee, we returned to our hotel, feeling as fit as a fiddle for the work of our convention on the following day.

At the morning session we were welcomed to the city by Aid. Scott, on behalf of the Mayor, corporation and citizens, by Mr. Edward Gurney, president of the Board of Trade, and also by Mr. W. G. Burroughes, president of the local Plumbers' Association. Alter this we adjourned to the grounds of the Metropolitan church, where we were photographed.

The business of the committee being concluded on Friday morning, we accepted the invitation of Ald. Scott, chairman of the Reception Committee of the Council, who was accompanied by AId Beale, to take a carriage drive to view the sights of the city. It took twenty carriages to contain the delegates and their friends. Our first halt was made at the new municipal buildings of which Mr. E. J. Lennox is the architect. They will cost about $2,000,000, and are a credit to the city and to the architect who designed them. I understand that the Bennett & Wright Co., Ltd., of which our new president, Mr. Jos. Wright, is a member, has the contract for the heating, ventilating plumbing and electric wiring, amounting to nearly $200,000, which is no doubt the largest contract for that class of work ever let in the Dominion of Canada.

Proceeding along Queen, Jarvis, Gerrard and Sherbourne streets to Bloor street, we passed the Horticultural Gardens, with their artistically laid-out walks and beautiful shrubbery. Driving through the Queen's Park, we visited the noble pile known as the Parliament buildings, the home of the Ontario Legislature. In Queen's Park are monuments erected to the memory of the late Sir John A. Macdonald and Hon. George Browne, also to those brave volunteers who fell in defense of their country at Ridgeway in 1866 and at Batoche in 1885. just beyond the park are the classic buildings of Toronto University, which were destroyed by fire some seven or eight years ago, but which, rebuilt and enlarged, are a credit to the province and up-to-date in every department. After a drive to the extreme western part of the city, we entered the gates of High Park, a large park containing nearly 200 acres and with beautiful drives in all parts of it.

A drive along the Humber Bay brought us to Dufferin street, and at the kind invitation of the Toronto Radiator Company, we inspected their offices and works. At the entrance to their offices was a streamer with

Welcome to the Master Plumbers' Association " in such large type that it would attract the eye of every visitor. On assembling in the show rooms, Mr. Adam Taylor, who is acting manager in the absence of his brother, Mr. John Taylor, who is in Europe, extended on behalf of the president and board of directors, an invitation to partake of refreshments, which had very thought fully been provided. Alter our drive of three hours you may imagine that most of us were feeling rather fatigued, for the day was very hot ; so we required no second invitation, and in a very short time we filed into the hoard—room, where we were served with everything that man could desire to eat or drink. President Lamarche, in proposing the health of the Toronto Radiator Co., said that they were all delighted with their reception, and as unexpected joys were better appreciated, he could safely say that the Safford Co., both in the way of radiation and entertaining, could not be surpassed.

Continuing our drive down Dufferin street to Exhibition Park, where the great Victorian Era Exposition is to be held in September, and on our return trip, through the kindness of Mr. Carrick, an inspection of the extensive and well equipped show rooms and shops of the Gurney Foundry Company on King street was made. Quite satisfied with our pleasant afternoon's drive, we returned to our hotel to take a short rest before the banquet.

On assembling at harry Webb's parlors shortly after eight o'clock, we were received in royal style by the entertainment committee and by a large number of the local master plumbers, when the good hand of fellow

ship was extended to us. The menu card was very prettily gotten up, and contained a complete list of the good things fit for a king, the toast list being included. Mr. W. J. Burroughes, president of the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association, occupied the chair, and around him were seated Mr. Jos. Wright, president-elect of the National Association ; Dr. P. H. Bryce, secretary of the Provincial Board of Health ; Mr. S. G. Curry, vice-president of the Association of Architects AId. Scott, representing the mayor ; ex-president Lamarche Messrs. Edward Gurney and W. H. Carrick, of the Gurney Foundry Co. ; A. G. Booth, of the Steel-Clad Bath Co. A. A. McMichael, of the James Robertson Co., and other prominent persons. Mr. W. J. Burroughes occupied the chair.

The first toast on the list, ''Her Majesty the Queen," was proposed by the chairman, and responded to by all

 joining in the singing of the national anthem, '' God Save the Queen," with a three times and a tiger.

Canada, the Land we Live In," was responded to by Dr. Bryce in a very able speech. Mr. George Grant sang in his usual good style "The Land of the Maple." "The Mayor and Corporation" was responded to by Ald. Scott, who bid us all a hearty welcome. "The Supply Trade of Canada" was proposed by Mr. Fitzsimmons, who coupled with it the names of Messrs. Gurney, McLaren and McMichael. Mr. Gurney in responding, gave the association good advice, and said if they would always do the right thing they had no better friend than himself. Messrs. McLaren and Mc-Michael also responded. " Our Guests the National Delegates and Visitors " was the next toast on the list, and was acknowledged by ex-president Lamarche, in his usual happy style, and Mr. S. G. Curry, of the Ontario Association of Architects, all joining in singing "They are Jolly Good Fellows." The toast of the

Local Master Plumbers "was responded to by Messrs. Joseph Wright and J. B. Fitzsimmons. Coupled with the toast of the '' Entertainment Committee '' were the names of Mr. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Co.

Mr. Adam Taylor, of the Toronto Radiator Co., and Mr. A. G. Booth, of the Steel-Clad Bath Co. The toasts of '' The Press " and '' The Ladies" were accepted in a very hearty manner.

During the evening Messrs. Curran, Rich, Ramsay, Carrol, Grant and several others entertained us with songs and recitations which were very much appreciated.

According to previous arrangement most of the delegates and their friends were at Yonge St. dock in good time on Saturday morning. The majestic steamer "Chippeway" soon had the delegates on board, and we had a very pleasant sail across Lake Ontario. Old Niagara town was reached after two hours' sail, and after a few passengers had disembarked, we steamed up the beautiful Niagara River, with its swift running waters and high banks, and landed at the historic village of Queenston, memorable as the place where Sir Isaac Brock lost his life in 1812.

Electric cars were in waiting, and in a short time we were ascending the mountain side. Erected on a high point is Brock's Monument, from which, it is said, the city of Toronto, forty miles away, can be seen on a clear day. A short stop was made at the Whirlpool, and from the high banks which rise to a height of 250 feet, can be seen the great whirling eddies in their mad endeavors to get away from the vortex. Continuing our course, we passed the Whirlpool Rapids, and in a short time reached the town of Niagara Falls, with the cantilever and suspension bridges crossing the river in close vicinity. Entering the electric cars, we skirt the edge of those beautiful rapids above the falls in all their turbulent grandeur, passing on to the Dufferin Islands with their shady nooks and quiet retreats.

On our return to the falls luncheon was served to us in the Dufferin Restaurant. Our new president, Mr. Joseph Wright, occupied the chair. On his left was ex-president Lamarche, and on his right Mayor Cole, of Niagara Falls, who, being a plumber himself, felt quite at home among his fellow craftsmen. 'roasts were proposed and drunk with much enthusiasm, but as one of the speakers said that to be in a hall making a

