





























<doctype type="text"><article title="The Builder" author="">THE BUILDER

Nails Required.

IN estimating the cost of work it is



necessary that an approximate amount of nails required to complete the work

should be known. Since the introduction of the wire nail, the number of nails required to do a given piece of work is not the same as when the barbarous ''cut nail " was in vogue ; therefore, the rules given for the latter will not apply to the former. The table given herewith is nearly correct, and is based on experience

For 1000 lath, it takes 5 3/4 lbs. wire lath nails.

For 1000 shingles, 5' to weather, 5 lbs. shingle nails. For 1000 feet 6" sidings, 18 lbs. 2½" wire nails.

For 1000 feet common boarding 20 lbs. 234" wire nails. For 1000 feet rough boarding, 22 lbs 3" wire nails.

For 1000 feet square edge 1" flooring, 36 lbs 3 wire nails. For 1000 feet square edged 2' flooring 40 lbs 4 wire nails. For 1000 feet matched flooring, blind nailed ,31 lbs 3"

wire nails.

For 1000 feet burring. 1"x3", 42 lbs 3 wire nails.

For 1000 feet burring, 1"x2", 6o lbs 3 wire nails.

For 1000 feet pine finish, 26 lbs 2 1/2" wire nails.

For 1000 feet hardwood finish, 20 lbs 2 1/4" wire nails.

For 1000 feet studding in walls, 10 lbs 3 wire nails..

For 1000 feet rafters, cellar beams, 8 lbs 3 wire nails.

For 1000 feet common fencing. 12 lbs 3' wire nails.

For	1000 feet pantry fittings, shelves, hook strips, and similar work, about 5 lbs 2 wire nails.

These figures are very nearly correct, sufficiently so to answer the purpose of the estimator. Of course, if the sizes of the nails are changed —larger or smaller

the figures must be changed to suit.





ONE of the faults of the country builder when he designs a frame house or village cottage, is that he makes but

little provision for closet room, and none whatever for the proper distribution of furniture. Every bed-room should have a closet attached in some convenient place, where the door will not interfere with a proper arrangement of beds and other furniture. Wall space between windows and doors should be left for all the furniture, and, when possible, the bed should stand nearly in the middle of the room, with the head against the outer wall, and ample space should be left in other parts of the room for a dressing stand, a toilet stand, a table and a few chairs. By proper management, this may easily be accomplished in a medium sized room having two windows, a closet and an entrance door. The problem is not a difficult one if a little thought and judgment is used while planning. Sometimes, however, conditions are such that the designer has but little option in the matter, but it is possible that with the available opportunity

House Designing.

Strength of Built Up Timbers.

 at his command, he can do much towards getting such wall space, by placing the doors and windows in the best possible places, as may give to the room a comfortable and tasteful appearance. It is astonishing how much more convenient a room may be made by a display of judgment than if laid out without thought.



IT has been stated that a built up beam is stronger than a solid beam of the same dimensions. This assertion will

strike the novice as exceedingly absurd, yet most carpenters and millwrights have been taught to believe it, and the reasons for its being so have been advanced so often that they are almost threadbare. Most timbers, it is said, have knots in them, or are sawed at an angle to the grain, so that they will split diagonally under a comparatively light load. In a built up timber no large knots can weaken the beam except so much of it as is composed of one joist, and joists whose grain runs diagonally to the outside cut will be braced and strengthened by the other pieces being spiked to it and having the grain running in a different direction. To some extent this reasoning is true, but the quality and strength of timber being variable, the rule does not hold good in all cases. In fact, by experiments made by Hatfield in New York, and Kidder in the Technological Institute, Boston, results showed that, all things being equal, a built up beam with butt joints is not as strong a as a solid one of the same dimensions by from 20 to 30 per cent. Beams built up, and having no butt joints, quality of material being the same, are from five to eight percent. weaker than solid ones of like dimensions. In most cases where the work is being done outside the larger cities, the timbers specified are generally sufficiently large to cover any defects or weakness in them, so that there is little danger of serious results following the use of the timber specified, even if they are " built-up."



IN this country, particularly that portion laying north of Lake Huron, Manitoba and the Northwest Territories, great

care should be taken in putting down floors in order to make them warm. Floors should be double, with a layer of thick paper between them ; and this should be done on all floors, no matter how many stories there may be. The floor should be laid tight—it would be better if it was matched but it need not be of good quality ; if it is sound it is not essential that it be free from knots. The paper and upper floor should not be laid down until the plasterers and plumbers have done their work, and all the base and wainscot should be put down before the top floor is laid. It is usual to put down the paper and then lay the floor close over it.

Laying Floors.

