<doctype type="text">St. John, N. B. Nova Scotia—John Borton, Halifax. Manitoba-—L. A. Irvine, Winnipeg.

Secretary—J. W. Hughes, Montreal.

Treasurer—Win. Briggs, Montreal.

Executive Committee, one from each province—Ontario, J. B. Fitzsimmons, Toronto Quebec, R. Sampson, Quebec; New Brunswick, Thos. Campbell, St. John ; Nova Scotia, George A. Perrior, Halifax; Manitoba, W. Stephenson.

Messrs. Lamarche and Hughes thanked the committee for again nominating them to office, but thought it proper that a change of officers should be made and declined to stand, Mr. W. J. Burroughes vice-president, having, for personal reasons, refused to accept office in the association the committee submitted the name of Mr. Jos. Wright as president and Mr. W. Mansell as secretary.

At this stage Mr. Burroughes said that this was an important matter,

















































and they should take into consideration not only the standing of the nominees, but also their ability and willingness to act. A great deal of executive ability was required to keep matters running smoothly, and he hoped those who accepted office would not allow their enthusiasm to relax until their term of office had expired. They had with them a gentleman who was well versed in every detail of the work, and he moved in amendment that Mr. Win. Smith, of London, be elected president.

Mr. Wright declined in Mr. Smith's favor, and seconded the motion, but it was not the wish of the convention that he should retire.

Upon a ballot being taken, Mr. Wright was declared elected president.

For secretary, Mr. Fitzsimmons put forward in amendment the name of Mr. Burroughes, but Mr. Burroughes having refused to be nominated for president, declined to accept the secretaryship. He had private reasons, he said, for refusing to accept any position in the association.

No other nominations being made, Mr. Mansell was declared elected as secretary.

The newly-elected officers thanked the Association for the honor conferred upon them.

Upon motion of Mr. Lamarche, seconded by Mr. Smith, Quebec was chosen for the holding of the next annual convention, the date to be fixed by the Executive Committee.

Votes of thanks were then tendered to the retiring officers and acknowledged by them.

A special committee reported in favor of imposing a per capita tax of $4 per member for the ensuing year. The report was referred to the Executive Committee.

Mr. J. H. Harris, of Montreal, expressed thanks on behalf of his French-Canadian confreres for the manner in which they had been treated. The English, he said, were more active than the French-Canadians, but when the latter once enlisted in the ranks they were hard workers. They had an example of that in their ex-president. "We are trying hard," he said, "to get more of our French confreres to come into the Association, and when they come to consider the work we are doing for them they will come in. When they do come in they will be workers. He moved vote of thanks to the master plumbers of Toronto, which, being seconded by Mr. Hughes, was carried amid applause.

The business of the convention here ended, and the afternoon and evening and the following day were devoted to enjoyment.

<article title="social features" author="">SOCIAL. FEATURES.

The president, Mr. Joseph 'Wright, has received from an eastern delegate, whose identity is not disclosed, a somewhat lengthy resume of the social features of the convention, which shows that the efforts of the Toronto association to royally entertain their visitors were fully appreciated. From this we extract the following



IMPRESSIONS OF A DELEGATE TO THE RECENT MASTER



PLUMBERS' CONVENTION.

Having been appointed a delegate from our association to the convention of the master plumbers, which met in Pythian Hall, Toronto, on Dominion Day, I cannot allow this, my first visit to the Queen City of the West, to pass without in my humble way expressing to my fellow craftsmen of Toronto and to the hospitable citizens my thanks for their kind and generous treatment of us, in making our stay in their beautiful city so pleasant that in years to come it will be treasured as one of the brightest periods in our lives.

Toronto has the reputation of being an ideal city in which to hold conventions, as evidenced by the many associations which are to meet during the summer and autumn months. Some of these, such as the Epworth League and the British Association for the Advancement of Science, which meet in the city in a short time, are continental and world-wide in their reputation. At the former from 30,000 to 40,000 delegates are expected from all parts of America, and at the latter, the eminent scientists of the world are to meet together in convention and compare ideas. Mankind at large will be thoroughly benefited, and men will rise and call them blessed. And why should they not the master plumbers, who in a large measure hold the health of the community in their hands? From the strides which have been made in the science and art of plumbing during the Victorian era, when plagues and epidemics, which were called by many visitations of the wrath of God, are unknown, well may the public rise as one man and offer to us the glad hand that we are enabled, by mutual exchange of ideas, to place the dwellings we live in free from the germs of disease.

Such is the good work that our association is doing; but it is not my intention to go into details of the many matters which were brought up at the convention, but simply to express my appreciation of the manner in

















































which we were entertained during our stay in the city as the guests of the local Master Plumbers' Association.

On our arrival in Toronto we were received by the Entertainment Committee, and after our afternoon s work were taken in a large steamer, which can carry 2,000 passengers without crowding, across the bay to the Island, which lies about a mile from the city. On the Island are situated the lovely summer quarters of the Royal Canadian Yacht Club. I accepted an invitation from one of the members of this club and was royally entertained. After seeing the various sights and

