<doctype type="text">	114	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



sewers, and unless the town system provides for no traps on house sewers, the house sewer, if trapped outside the house wall, should be provided with a separate cast or wrought iron ventilating pipe of quality to he approved of by the proper official of not less than (4") four inches in diameter, carried to a point above the roof of the house and subject to the conditions as to height the same as the soil—pipe and oilier vent pipes.



4.	Where there is a rap on the house drain, it shall be laid or covered so as to avoid the danger of frost, preferably within the house wall. The soil-pipe may have a fresh air pipe entering it on thc proximal or house side, and leading to the fresh air with opened end turned down, and at a height above the danger of snow or other obstruction. Under certain circumstances the local authority may require this pipe to extend above the roof of the house.

5.	The house drain or soil—pipe where it passes through the wall must he supported on concrete, stone or brick, to prevent settlement, and similarly be protected or linteled over with stone or brick, to prevent its being broken by settlement of the wall, and in its course to the vertical pipe must be supported on piers or by iron hooks fastened to the cellar walls, or by strong supports suspended from the joists above, if latter arc of proper strength, and he laid throughout on an even grade.

6.	In all cases, where possible, the soil-pipe should he accessible, and easy of inspection by at least one brass cleaning screw near the foot of vertical pipe, and one immediately within the

 trap



at tile outer wall. In any ease where the house drain must he laid below the cellar floor, it must in to case be covered with concrete or earth, but be laid in a passage made of brick or concrete with a cover readily moveable at all times.

7.	Safes below closets, urinals, basin and refrigerators must not be connected with any soil pipe, waste pipe, or sewer, but must open above a trapped sink or basin, or into the pipe supplied for cellar and sub-soil drainage.

8.	Before the plumbing fixtures are connected with any system sealing all openings

of house drains they must first be tested by s

below the top of the soil-pipe, and applying the water test by filling the pipe to the top and examining carefully the pipe throughout the length for leaks. All defective pipes must be removed and replaced by new ones, and re-tested. A final smoke test must be ordered at the direction of the proper official.

9.	Old plumbing and drainage work which may be found on inspection defective must have such alterations made as the officers in charge of the inspection may direct.





<article title=" RECENT AGITATION FOR A DUTY ON

GYPSUM.

" author="">RECENT AGITATION FOR A DUTY ON

GYPSUM.

WHILE the United States tariff bill, which is now before the Senate was being framed, steps were taken by the western producers of gypsum, or plaster rock, to secure the imposition of a duty on importations of that article from Canada. Plaster manufacturers along the Atlantic seaboard are dependent almost entirely upon Canadian gypsum for their raw material, and consequently met this proposal with strong opposition, claiming that it would increase the cost to the consumer for the benefit of the railroads and mine owners.

The advocates of the duty claimed that the Americans were compelled to relinquish a large amount of trade and employment that properly belonged to their own people, and that four-fifths of the labor involved in the production of plaster is in quarrying it and preparing it for the mill. It is further claimed that the men employed in the gypsum quarries in the Maritime provinces are paid less wages than those thus engaged in the Western States, and that there is an adequate quantity of gypsum in the Unites States to supply all the demands of that country for many years to come. The output during 1895 was 265,000 short tons. It was asked that a duty of at least $2 per short ton be placed on the crude rock, $2.50 on ground gypsum and $3 on calcined plaster, or plaster of parts.

Against these arguments the plaster manufacturers in the Eastern States pointed out that only about one—

fifth of the cost of producing plaster could be charged to quarrying, that the eastern mills using Canadian rock were subjected to heavy freight charges, most of which is paid out to American seamen and vessel owners engaged in the coast wise trade, while the western producers had the raw material at their doors, and that it would result in the formation of a combine. It is claimed that the product of the eastern manufacturers does not come in competition with that of western manufacturers. There has never been a quality of gypsum rock discovered so far in the United States that will produce a quality of plaster equal to that made from the Nova Scotia and New Brunswick rock, and the principle use for eastern plaster in the west has been for ornamental work and in the potteries, it having been found impossible to use western plaster for these purposes.

A large proportion of the Canadian plaster rock imported is sold ex vessel to small mills which simply grind it and ship it to farmers in the interior. This is particularly the case at southern ports, and consequently any increase in the cost of the rock would be a burden upon the agricultural interests of the United States.

The importance of the trade of the Maritime provinces of Canada in gypsum rock to American coasting vessels is very great, as it affords freight for return trips. A very large proportion of this business is carried in American bottoms, the vessels engaged taking return cargoes of manufactured plaster and general merchandise to other American ports on their way back to obtain cargoes of gypsum. If no return gypsum. cargoes were obtainable the coasting trade would he very seriously affected, as would also the welfare of the seamen engaged in this branch of commerce.

Some idea of the importance of this trade may he obtained from the fact that one Canadian firm alone shipped last year 6o,ooo tons, two-thirds of which was carried by American vessels. This point has been strongly set forth in the representations to Congress, and a feeling antagonistic to the duty has been aroused which is almost certain to prevent its imposition.





<article title=" DEMAND FOR	BUILDING MATERIALS IN AUSTRALIA " author="">DEMAND FOR	BUILDING MATERIALS IN AUSTRALIA.

MR. J. S. LARKE, in his last report to the Dominion government, states that there is an opening in Australia for roofing slates. He says: The improvement in business is leading to a revival in building and an increase in the demands for roofing slates. The largest portion now comes from Vermont via New York. Formerly Welsh slate held the market. I have written to the Quebec slate companies whether they cannot share in the trade. I presume their slate is equal to the Vermont, and with an enlarged demand they would he warranted to adopt appliances for cheaper production. It is probable that to give best freight rates it would be necessary to ship by sailing vessel from Montreal. There is a very fine slate quarry, well fitted for exportation, in British Columbia. It ought to he in a position to command this trade, but unfortunately it is not being worked, so I am informed. The demand here would warrant the working of a quarry on an extensive scale. Plaster of Paris is another building material for which there is a better demand. The trade is now supplied from New York and Maine, but Nova Scotia and New Brunswick should he able to take part in it.

