<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



built in t plain substantial style of architecture, of coursed hammer-dressed masonry, 

All information as to the sites of the buildings, their size, number of rooms, &c., necessary for the preparation of the plans, can be obtained at the office of the department.'

This notice resulted in sixteen designs for parliament buildings being submitted, by fourteen different competitors and seven designs for departmental buildings by six Different competitors the whole of which were exhibited, and afterwards examined by gentlemen deemed competent to judge of their comparative merits.

his Excellency the Governor General in Council approved the recommendation, awarding the premiums as follows

Parliament building 1st <firm>Fuller & Jones </firm>2nd, <firm>Stent & Layer</firm>.

Departmental building: 1st, Stent & Layer 2nd, Fuller & Jones.

Governor's residence 1st, Cumberland & storm 2nd, Fuller & Jones.

These gentlemen were subsequently instructed by the department to make certain alterations in their plans, with a view to their better adaptation to the purposes contemplated they were also requested to have these changes made, and specifications of the works prepared, by the 15th of October following.

On the 8th of September, public notice was given, that tenders for the construction of the buildings would Ire received until the 1st day of November, and that the plans and specifications could be seen at Quebec, Ottawa and Toronto, on and after the 15th October. The tone, however, was extended to the 15th November, when twenty-one tenders were received for the parliament buildings, and twenty-nine for the Departmental buildings.

The tender of <person>Thomas MeGreevy </person>was accepted, for the bulk sum of

$348,500 for the construction of the parliament buildings; and a

contract was entered into with him on the 7th December, 1859, for their

completion by the 1st day of July, 1862.

About the same time the construction of the departmental buildings was awarded to Messrs. <firm>Jones, Haycoek & Clarke, </firm>at the bulk sum of $ 278,810, and the time fixed by the contract for their completion, was the 1st February, 1862

The architects who received the first premiums were, on the 29th November, 1859 appointed to superintend the execution of the works connected with the respective buildings, at a commission of about five per cent, upon the contract sum.

No adequate provision having been made for heating and ventilation in the accepted plans, a notice was issued on the 14th November, 1859, calling upon competent parties willing to undertake this service to tender for its performance, on or before the 30th December, and to submit the details of the system which they proposed to adopt, as also to guarantee its efficient working, for a period of ten years after completion ion.

In accordance with this notice nine tenders were received, and on the 28th January, 186o, the work was awarded to Charles Garth, at the hulk sum of $61,285. This was understood to include the furnishing and fitting up to the whole of the apparatus necessary for the heating and ventilation of all the buildings, except certain alterations as to the mode of warming the wings of the parliament buildings.



The building contractors commenced operations on the 20th December, and were principally occupied, during the winter of 1859-60, in the excavation of foundations, preparing materials, and making arrangements for carrying on the works in the ensuing spring.

The masonry was commenced on the parliament buildings on the 26th April, 1860, and in June the foundations of the main central tower were laid. On the eastern block for the departments building operations began on the 2nd April, and the works were then generally proceeded with.

On Saturday, the 1st September. 186o, H. R. H. the Prince of Wales laid the corner-stone of the pier immediately under the north-east angle

pillar of the legislative council chamber and in the early part of December building operations were generally stopped for the season.

About this time it became necessary to obtain more ample information in regard to the expenditure on, and management of, the works, than was in possession of the department. With this object in view, an order in council was passed on the 18th December, i86o, authorizing the chief engineer to be sent to Ottawa. for the purpose of reporting fully on all matters connected with the general character, superintendence, and progress of the works, &c., &c., from the commencement up to that period.

A detailed report was submitted by that officer on the 20th April, 1860 recommending certain changes to he made, by which the works could be resumed under a different system of management and supervision.

During the season of r86i they were continued agreeably to the suggestions contained in the report above referred to, until the 1st of October, when the appropriation having been exhausted, they were suspended by order of the hon. the commissioner.

The Hon. <person>H. H. Killaly </person>was, on the 21st September 1861 instructed in proceed to Ottawa and ascertain what arrangements could be made to protect the buildings during the ensuing winter, and to report generally upon their condition and the lest mode of settling with the contractors for works which had been performed, &c.

That gentleman accordingly submitted a report, dated 12th November, 1861 embodying his views upon these matters, and accompanied by a progress estimate, showing, in detail, the amount which he considered should be paid to the contractors for the various items of work, &c., done by them up to the October, r86i, at rates and prices fixed by him. On the 1st and 12th March, 1862, he sent estimates of the work done during the months of October and November, 1861 and on the fifth April, 1862, another report was furnished by him, which contained a summary of his previous estimates, together with an estimate of the probable cost of completing the buildings.

In 1862, the sum of $188.344.3o was appropriated, under the head of 'unproved items," for the previous year, and a further sum of $ 500.000 was granted by the legislature towards the construction of the buildings.

The contractors urging a settlement for time works they had per-

formed, and alleging certain claims for their suspension, a commission was appointed, under the great seal of the province, on the 21st June. 1802, to enquire into all matters connected with the construction of the buildings and management of the works, so far as they had then been proceeded with, and to advise the government as to the best method of carrying then on in future; and also to supply an estimate of the probable cost of their completion.

The gentlemen forming this commission had a re-measurement made of the whole of the works, and examined a large number if witnesses as to their past management, value of labor and materials, and other matters connected with the subject.

At this rime there had been paid to Mr. <person>Thomas McGreevy</person>, for work performed, the sum of $483,163.95, and to Messrs. <firm>Jones, Haycock &

Co.</firm>, the sum of $511,391.54	54.

On the 29th January, 1863, the report of the commission was submitted to the government, containing, amongst other matters, a recommendation that the works remaining In be done should be offered to the original contractors, at a schedule of prices fixed by then (the commissioners s).

This proposition having been acceded to by the government, and after considerable discussion, agreed to by the contractors, on the 18th April, 1863, contracts were entered into with Thomas McGreevy, form the completion of the parliament buildings ; and with Messrs. Jones, Haycock & Clarke, for the completion if the departmental buildings, at a schedule of prices to be applied to the different classes and items of work.

Under this arrangement, time claims alleged by the contractors as arising out of the first contracts, were left in abeyance.

Before the new contracts were entered into, the specifications were, however revised and it was deemed advisable, that instead of paying the architects by commission, as formerly, they should lie paid fixed salaries.

In carrying out this system, Mr. Thomas Fuller and Mr. <person>Charles Baillairge</person>, were appointed joint architects for all the buildings ; and in accordance with the provisions of the new contracts, a general superintendent was also appointed.

The architects formerly in charge of the buildings, preferred certain claims against the government, for matters arising out of their supervision under the first contract.

The works were proceeded with, and considerable progress made in the season of 1863. During the session of this year, the sum of $100,ooo was granted towards construction.

In May, 1864, it was deemed advisable that the chief engineer should proceed to Ottawa, and assume control of the works, in order that questions connected with them might be determined on the spot, and thereby avoid the delay caused by reference to the department, then at Quebec. The method of furnishing supplies of gas and water, &c., was then decided, and the necessary works for these objects commenced.

During this season (1864), all the branches of work connected with the buildings were urged for ward as rapidly as circumstances would permit. In the estimates for this year, a further sum of $400,ooo was appropriated towards their completion.

The contractors having repeatedly requested a settlement of the claims alleged by them to have arisen out of their first contract, and the architects having also applied for a settlement in connection with their supervision, it was decided in October, t864, to refer these matters to special arbitration.

For this purpose the government appointed one arbitrator, the claimants another, and these two selected a third. These three gentlemen formed a board, before which the several cases were argued by counsel, and evidence produced by the respective parties. The arbitrators, after a searching enquiry into the various matters brought before them, awarded to Messrs. Jones, Haycock & Clarke, in connection with their contract for the departmental buildings, on the 8mb day of March, i866, the sum of $88, 176, and for costs the sum of $2,203.

in the cases of the architects, the arbitrators awarded on the 2nd clay

of July, 1866, to Messrs. <firm>Fuller & Johns </firm>the sum of $5,064, and $181

for costs and to Messrs. <firm>Stent & Laver</firm>, the sum or $6,93i, and $200

for costs.

In May, 1865, the services or Mr. C. Baillairge, one of the architects, were dispensed with.

In May, i865, it was decided that the public departments should be moved to Ottawa, in the fall of the year, and the contractors were notified to take every exertion to have the buildings ready for their reception by that time.

The clearing and grading of the grounds was then proceeded with, and the formatter of roads to the different blocks of buildings urged forward. By the month of October, the buildings were sufficiently advanced to permit of their occupation by the several departments to which they had been allotted, and the roads were partially made. About this time the removal of the government took place.

The wings and central portion of the parliament buildings were also in such a state of forwardness as to admit of a number of the offices being occupied, and of the library being placed in the building.

This year the legislature granted a further sum of $300,000 toward the completion of the works.

In May, 1866, the claims preferred by Thomas MeGreevy, for matters arising out of his first contract for the construction of the parliament buildings, were, by mutual consent, referred to the sole arbitration of the chief engineer, who, after hearing and considering the evidence produced, awarded to the claimant, on the 12th day of November, m866, the sum of $61785.

The two chambers and other rooms necessary for the accommodation of the legislature were so far completed as to admit of a session being opened on the 8th of June, 1866, during which the sum of $500,ooo was granted towards the buildings.

In November, 1866, permission was given to Thomas McGreevy to transfer his contract for the completion of the public buildings to <person>Robert H. MeGreevy</person>.

lit the fall of this year the departmental buildings were completed, and in March, 1867, a settlement in full was made with the contractors for all work performed under or connected with the new or second

