	<doctype type="text">62	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title=" DECORATIVE PLASTER WORK " author="">DECORATIVE PLASTER WORK.*



AMONG the subsidiary arts with which the architect has to deal there are few of more general application or importance than that of the plasterer. So much of our construction nowadays

of necessity concealed, and plaster is so handy a means of concealment, and indeed, when rightly used, so excellent a one, that its use in the interior of buildings is inevitable.

It is a material so sympathetic and lending itself so easily to decorative treatment and t he repetition of ornamental design, that a vast amount of decorative plaster-work-----good bad and indifferent, and I fear the last two adjectives are fully entitled to qualify two-thirds of the work-—is being daily done. There is no one of us can well escape its use even if he wishes to do so. It therefore behooves all of us who have to do with building and decorating to consider and to learn what can and should, or what cannot and should not, be done with plaster-work, and it is much more with a desire to direct the attention of the younger members of my audience to some of its uses and abuses, than with any hope or intention of giving technical instruction, that I venture to appear before you.

One of the first considerations that borders the subject of is that of its fatal facility——which 

plaster-work	-	constitutes a great



decorative danger. Its comparative cheapness, its possibilities of rapid workmanship, and the endless and easy opportunities of reproduction that it affords—-in a word, its immunity front the natural and powerful restraints that cost and structural necessities impose in most other building materials—seem to me in the case of plaster-work to render self-imposed restraint and careful discrimination more than ever necessary in the designer.

We are all of us, unhappily, familiar with the incontinent cornices of amazing horticultural suggestions, with their basket—work and lattices, their vines and passion-flowers insecurely supported by internal wires, which bedecked the chief chambers of our fathers. We all know, and none of us, I hope, love, the weirdly confectioner 'centre flower' with dependent "gasalier" that formed the cherished ceiling ornament of the British householder in the fifties, the sixties, and even the seventies, and dropped, in intermittent fragments, into his tea—cup or his soup—tureen. So fearfully and wonderfully made, so all—pervading were these adornments, that they begot a natural nausea in time, a nausea that—as often happens in such cases—-communicated itself in mental connection to the innocent material that they vulgarized, causing sober folk to forswear ornament of any kind in plasterwork to find a safe and wholesome refuge in absolute negation, absolute plainness. This was, of course, only a partial revulsion, and was accompanied or followed by " revivals,' as they are called, of many types in plaster-work, as in all architectural design. The beautiful ceilings and friezes of the seventeenth century, which made our country famous for its plaster—work, were studied to good purpose by the very few, to evil by the very many, and "Elizabethan" and "Jacobean" travesties became nearly as rife and rampant as the exuberance of the centre-flower

period. '' Revivals '' of Italian, French Saracenic indeed, of all and every bygone manner, have been practiced, and there are many eminent plaster—shops where you can buy a '' reach—me— down " design in imitation, superficially correct, of any style you please at so much----the term is apt——" per superficial foot." These things have had a great vogue with the uninstructed. They please because they offer a romantic suggestion of a possibly romantic original or of the manorial or seigneurial appurtenances of romantic fiction a suggestion only, for even as copies they are poor, with their dead, level floated grounds, their railway line rigidity of '' run " mouldings, their sharp arises and mechanical "repeats." What a contrast they offer to the originals they travesty. Anyone who examines, with the eye of discernment, a good seventeenth-century English ceiling, will see that, beautiful as the plan of design and forms of ornament may be in themselves, they only count for a portion of the total sum of beauty. The hand of time and recurrent coats of whitewash have often done much in contribution of effect, but the intrinsic, ineffable, under-lying charm of handiwork, of human pleasure and interest, of "handling is there.

The plain surfaces are not hard and level, they are full of slight undulations, the ribs or " strap-work " have no mechanical rigidity, they are by no means accurate at their intersections, they are softly and pleasantly moulded, and usually undulate somewhat with the uneven surface of the ceiling.

The ornamental foliations, bosses, roses and the like--— when



* Abstract of a paper read at the Architectural Association on January 15 by Mr. E. Prioleau Warren.

they repeat, do not do so with regimental exactitude awkward corners caused by irregular wall lines, chimney-breasts, etc., are lightly and nonchalantly dealt with there is no strained attempt at fit, begotten of the drawing-board the design is curtailed, expanded, chopped off or twisted to meet the emergency in a manner that would look queer on a smart office drawing, but is delightful in reality.

Experts differ very much as to the methods of preparing the

plaster used for these old ceilings, and as to the way in which they were put up. It is, of course, well known that some were rendered in lathing, some on rough within and some on reeds or rushes. It is obvious that casting was employed in many instances for the ornamental foliations and bosses, and it is stated that a sort of stamp or pressing—mould was employed for repeating ornaments of small size, such as the roses in the beautiful ceiling at Chastelton, one or two of which I was able to examine closely, as they had fallen down. They certainly seemed to me to have been squeezed into a mould. There are many indications that a good deal of the rib—work was formed by pressing into the

plaster ceiling, while still damp, lengths of rib in a similar damp condition. One finds awkward joins and citrates failures to fit to a centre, in the case of radiating ribs, which warrant that idea.

If you examine a fallen bit of plaster from one of these old ceilings, you will generally find it very thick a the coarse, often very earthy, and sometimes full of little bits of gravel, etc., the kind of stuff the conscientious architect would have to condemn. But its very coarseness helped the effect of the plain surfaces by giving them texture—a quality we so often miss nowadays. How the elaborate and complicated ceilings were designed and set out we do not know with certainty, but there was probably a rough plan, which was all that a well-skilled workman needed—he had his tools, his models and his traditions. That he had models of ornaments for ceilings and friezes we know, as we find exact repetition not only in different rooms of the same house but in different houses, And you will often find ornamental designs, obviously intended for a ceiling, formed into a frieze or used to decorate the spandrels left between the horizontal frieze and the end of a vaulted ceiling, as iii the library at Merton College, Oxford. It is probable however, that much if not most of the decorative design was modeled in situ of the ceiling itself, partly with tools, partly with fingers.

When fingers were used upon the actual plaster it is obvious, as any plasterer will toll you, that the lime used cannot have been as sharp as that we use now—it must have been old or deadened, or no man's fingers would stand it.

There are many lessons to be learned from the abundant examples to be found in almost every county' of England of beautiful old plaster-work, while Scotland, Wales and Ireland have their characteristic examples, and one of them is the extreme importance of plain surfaces of texture. I am glad to know that within the last few years that lesson has been seriously taken to heart by one or two artists who have turned their attention to plaster-work. There were some striking instances of tile fact in the work of Mr. Ernest Gimson at the last Arts and Crafts Exhibition —work full of charm and feeling and quiet originality', and delightful in uneven surfaces, roughish texture and broad unadorned modeling—work as different in spirit from the average mechanical plaster-work of to-day as was that of the Elizabethan r Jacobean plasterer. I believe that the first essential of success it work of frieze or ceiling is the treatment of the ground. [t will be difficult, but necessary if we are to succeed, to wrest from the modern workman his ideal of perfect, even-floated and set levels, innocent of the faintest undulation as fresh thin snow over a sheet of ice, and looking just as cold and hard. It is amazing with what skill a good and conscientious plasterer, armed with his float and straight—edge, will arrive at that result. It is neat, it is smart, it is difficult to do, and he is proud of his achievement, and I do not blame him lie does well what is expected of him, and satisfies his conscience, we will hope. When his ceiling is to be sub-divided by ribs, or decorated with ornament of any' kind, lie still appears to be ruled by the instinct for harpness, hardiness and rigidity, He starts with a billiard-table surface, the " ribs " are run with a zinc mould in situ, or are cast n a "run" reverse mould and put tip subsequently, the ornaments are cast from sharp feelingless models, and the work reaches a wonderful perfection of mechanical accuracy, which, to the mind if an artist, is its glaring imperfection. The arises are sharp as

razors, the beads are round and smooth as glass tubes; a correspondence religiously exact is maintained on both sides of a centre

line.

