	<doctype type="text">214	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE NEW YORK STREET BRIDGE,

TORONTO.

" author="">THE NEW YORK STREET BRIDGE,

TORONTO.

THE York street bridge, Toronto, an illustration of which is given on this page, is now completed, and gives a much needed and convenient access to the various rowing, canoe and yacht clubs, and to the steamboat wharves which are located on the new Lake street now being constructed on the water front, without the dangerous and inconvenient level crossing over



































































































the several railway tracks. This bridge has been erected in accordance with Clause 7 of the Esplanade Agreement between the city and the railway companies, which provides that "an overhead traffic bridge, with ramps and approaches for vehicles and foot passengers, is to be constructed by the C. P. R. Co. along the east side of York street, according to plans and specifications to be approved of by the City Engineer of Toronto and by the chief engineers of the G. T. R. and C. P. R. Companies, such bridge to be a public highway and to be of sufficient width to accommodate a double street railway track, with side spaces for vehicles and foot-walks, and to be so constructed as to give access for passengers by means of foot-walks, stairways, or otherwise, to the platforms of the proposed Union Station." The bridge is of the type known as the Deck Bridge, and consists of about 35 spans, varying from 70 feet, the longest, and 13 feet 2 inches, the shortest. This variation in



































































































span was necessitated by having to cross railway tracks already in existence and others contemplated, also railway station platforms and roadways.

The plans for this bridge were prepared by Mr. P. A. Peterson, chief engineer of the C. P. Railway Co., which, after some alterations, were approved of by Mr. E. H. Keating, City Engineer. The approach from Front street is of masonry, and is 85 ft. 10 1/2 in. in length. The two south approaches (one from the east and one

