



<doctype type="text">that they can be filled wth water under pressure and afford a continuous circulation throughout. The water is heated in winter to 100 degrees at the entrance to the system, and is discharged at 40 degrees. In summer cold water is circulated and is discharged at a considerably higher temperature. The thought has frequently come to me that common sense would seem to indicate the use of piping and radiators, in hot water heating systems for the purpose of cooling the atmosphere in summer. Who will be the first architect and manufacturer to introduce the innovation?

x x x

A RECENT report of the British Cosnul to China gives us some interesting particulars regarding customs and regulations in the building trades in that country.









































































Neither masons or carpenters begin work in winter much before 9 a. m. In summer they knock off work for a long two hours' siesta in the middle of the day, and at all seasons of the year smoke, drink tea, and rest whenever it suits them. According to the regulations of the Builders' Guild, wages, if the men find their own food, are 180 cash (about 5 3/4d._ per diem. These wages are supplemented in the case of skilled laborers by their apprentices' wages, which are paid at the same rate. Apprentices are bound for three years, and as evdence of the scarcity of skilled labor it may be mentioned that on many works half the people are apprentices. As accidents are frequent in the trade, and especially among the unskilled hands, the parent of the apprentice has to give an engagement in writing holding the boy's master free from all liability for loss o

life or for injury incurred during the term of apprenticeship, but a present is expected in case of an accident. No interference is permitted, under the rules of the Builders' Guild, with a customer engaging any builder preferred by him. Touting for employment is punishable by a fine, to be fixed in public meeting. No outside firm is allowed to work unless it has joined the guild and received a certificate, the fee for which varies. Assistants or foremen who endeavor to obtain business on their own account from persons for whom their masters work are liable to heavy fine. Masters have to pay the guild at the rate of about one-twentieth of a penny per diem for every man employed by them, to form a fund to meet subscriptions for canal works, etc. A similar tax is levied on assistants to meet the cost of









































































festivals, illuminations, etc. If trouble occurs between a builder and his employees and work is stopped no other labor can be engaged until all outstanding accounts are settled. Breaches of the rules are punishable by fine levied in public meeting. Attendance is obligatory at meetings called to fix the quota to be paid towards subscription funds. Disputes between masters and men are not allowed in the guild house. They must be arranged in the tea houses and opium shops.

x x x



THE interesting features of the Ontario Legislative buildings are only beginning to be recognized. A reporter of a city paper has discovered that "shortly after noon when the sun first strikes the scroll work the shadow thrown is a remarkably exact likeness of the

