



<doctype type="text">Staining Bricks.

the frame because of " swelling," or of having too much paint smeared on it or the frame, the trouble may often be cured by rubbing that portion of the frame in which the sash slides with a little moistened soap. Ordinary toilet soap answers the purpose fairly well and has no disagreeable following, but common yellow soap is much better. Fuller's earth may be used, but it is apt to dissolve the paint, and besides, leaves dust and dirt behind. All sashes should have window locks, whether they be situated up or down-stairs. While the main object of a window lock is to keep out interlopers, it has a secondary importance; it should be so arranged as to bring the two meeting rails snug together and hold them in that position, to the exclusion of wind and weather.





IT frequently happens that a builder has to build an addition to some brick building already up ; and it also happens that

he cannot procure bricks to match the old bricks in color. To get over this difficulty he is compelled to use bricks available and render them the color of the old bricks by staining, or staining the old bricks to correspond with the new. There are several methods all good of staining bricks, and for the benefit of those builders who may require to employ one or other of the methods, we submit the following: To make a good durable red stain, mix Indian red, or Venetian red, with a solution of good Portland cement, regulating the color by adding a little Spanish brown if necessary. Mix with this fine sand, washed clean and dried, before being added to the solution. Cement and sand may be used in equal proportions. The mixture is to be a little thinner than ordinary paint. It must be stirred while being used, and applied with a brush. Another red stain, which is easily applied, looks better than the first, but lacks durability. Take as follows and in proportion to amount required One ounce of glue melted in one gallon of water, add a piece of alum the size of an egg, then a halt pound of Venetian red, and one pound of Spanish brown. Try the color and mix more light or dark to suit. For a buff or cream color, use any yellow mineral paint, such as yellow ochre, adding a mineral white to make it light it necessary. For black, use asphaltum heated to a fluid state before applying. Bricks should be stained black before being laid, and the best way is to make the brick moderately hot, then dip them about one inch in the melted asphaltum, and leave them to dry before being used. This makes a good durable job, if they are held in the mixture for a moment or two in order that the color may have an opportunity of being absorbed to the depth of a sixteenth of an inch. Another method of staining bricks black is to mix together asphaltum and linseed oil, and heat the mixture until it will mix together well. Heat the bricks and dip them in the mixture, where they should remain for a short time. The best way to stain black is to have a flat pan over a fire ; fill the pan until it has about an inch in depth of the mixture. Place in the pan as many bricks as it will hold, then take out the first brick and replace it with another. Put the stained brick on a board or a clean spot to dry; then take out the second brick and put another in its place and continue this operation until brick enough are stained, minding to keep up the supply of asphalt and oil.

<article title=" MR. HENRY CLARK " author="">MR. HENRY CLARK.

WE have pleasure in publishing the accompanying photo and sketch of Mr. Henry Clark, of Walkerton, Ont., a contractor well known throughout Western Ontario.

The subject of this sketch was born at Portsmouth, England, on the 10th of June, 1843, and is therefore now 54 years of age. After leaving school Mr. Clark followed the trade of ship-joiner at London, England, until the year 1869, when he decided to come to Canada. After visiting several towns on his arrival in this country, he settled in Gait, engaging in carpenter work and sub-contracting until 1895, when he removed to Walkerton and has since been engaged in building in that place and neighboring towns.

Among the many buildings erected by Mr. Clark are St. Paul's church, public school, carpenter work of the Robinson & Rowland block, Merchant's bank, English church, Baptist church manse, and a number of residences and stores in Walkerton. Mr. Clark has just





































completed the erection of a new factory building for the Walkerton Chair Factory Co., and is now on the new town hall at Walkerton, for which he has the contract.

Mr. Clark takes an active interest in municipal matters, and has been elected as alderman for his town for several terms.



<article title=" THE PROPER CONSTRUCTION OF ICE

HOUSES.

" author="">THE PROPER CONSTRUCTION OF ICE

HOUSES.

THE committee appointed by the Association of Railway Superintendents of Bridges and Buildings of the United States to report upon the best method of constructing ice houses, make the following recommendations In all ice house construction the most important consideration is the

INSULATION, —The ideal ice house is simply a storage chamber, absolutely protected on all aides against the absorption of external heat and supplied with well designed drains for the prompt removal of all water resulting from the little melting that, in spite of all precautions, will occur. Heat travels or is conveyed by radiation, conduction and convection. For the purposes of this discussion the outside of the building and the ground (however themselves heated) may be assumed to be the source of the heat against which it is desired to insulate the storage chamber. Experiment has shown that cells or small chambers of dry, dead air form the best insulator, In the proportioning of these

