<doctype type="text">60	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



reach the wood when it is exposed to the heat of a fire. Under these conditions the surface of the wood is converted into charcoal ; and charcoal being a non-conductor of heat, itself tends to retard the further combustion of the wood. But if air penetrates the tin casing in any manner, the charcoal first made, and then the wood itself, are both consumed, and the door is destroyed. In like manner, if a door is tinned only on one side—as we have seen some—as soon as the heat suffices to convert the surface of the wood under the tin and next to the fire into charcoal, the oxygen reaches it from the outside, and the door is of little more value than a thin door of iron or a plain wooden door.



<article title=" PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS " author="">PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS.

1.

MR. RICHARD DINNIS.



We have pleasure in presenting to our readers as the first of a proposed series of sketches of prominent Canadian contractors, the accompanying portrait and particulars of Mr. Richard Dinnis, senior member of the firm of Richard Dinnis & Sons, Toronto.

Mr. Dinnis was born in Cornwall, England, Sept.













































MR. RICHARD DINNIS.





18th, 1834. After leaving school he was apprenticed to Messrs. Oliver & Son, the largest contractors in Cornwall, from whom he received his indenture papers, which he now has. After receiving his papers he became head clerk and manager for the firm.

In 1856 he came to Toronto and entered the employ, as bookkeeper and assistant, of Mr. Pim, a well known builder of that time. He afterwards became general manager for Messrs. Worthington Bros., contractors, and with them in 1865 went to Ohio, U. S., to execute some large railroad contracts.

In 1866 he returned to Toronto and commenced on his own account the extensive business of which he s still the head. For many years Mr. Dinnis did a large business for the city in the construction of street roadways, wharves, etc., and during his long career in Toronto as a contractor has performed in a highly creditable and satisfactory manner the carpenter work in many of the best residences, warehouses and public buildings of that city. As the contractor for the large buildings for the Toronto Industrial Exhibition Association

 the made an enviable record for speedy workmanship—the Main building having been completed in ninety days, the large Annex in forty days and the Grand Stand, 650 feet in length, in forty-two days. The firm have the contract for the carpenter work in connection with the new city buildings now nearing completion in Toronto. As an evidence of their excellent reputation, the fact may be mentioned that when in 1888 the Toronto City Council decided to invite new tenders for these buildings, the carpenter work was excepted, on the ground that the original tender of Messrs. Richard Dinnis & Son was "an exceptionally good one."

The subject of this sketch is a member of the Toronto Board of Trade and from his large experience is in frequent request as a valuator, In the midst of onerous business duties he has also distinguished himself in other fields, having taken an active part as a volunteer and held a lieutenant's commission in the 10th Royals, being likewise a prominent Freemason, last year having been elected District Deputy Grand Master of the Toronto district.

Mr. Dinnis is yet in body and mind a vigorous man, and it is hoped that for many years to come his active and useful life may be prolonged.



<article title="A Main Trap and its Application" author="Elliott, R.F.">A MAIN TRAP AND ITS APPLICATION.

By R. F. ELLIOTT. KINGSTON 



WHILE we have various forms and styles of sanitary traps, they are all made on the same general principle. As we understand a trap it is a sag, bend or partitioned chamber in a drain, soil pipe or sewer, arranged so that the liquid contents of same act as a seal to prevent the passage of back air or gases, but at the same time permitting the free discharge of liquids, solids and all waste matter. Where there is a connection between the sewer and the plumbing fixtures inside of any building, the most important feature with such connection is to prevent the entrance into the building of sewer gas. This can only be done effectually by placing what is termed the main trap at the foot of soil pipe before entering the main drain on the outside of building. This trap can be placed either outside or inside of cellar wall, but as close to said wall as possible, with proper provisions against the action of frost, and arrangements made for easy access for examination and cleaning out same should occasion require.

In this part of the country, on account of our severe winter, I have always advocated the placing of it inside the cellar wall. Thus I claim prevention before cure. Property owners have sufficient putrid matter as a factor of foul air from years' secretion on the internal surface of their waste pipes with the mechanical agencies applied, to prevent their passage through the fixtures in the form of traps, ventilators, etc., thus preventing the turning of private property into ventilating shafts for the public sewers, with all the attendant evils liable to enter the building through defects taking place in piping, fixtures, etc. Such defects are only too well known to the trade in general. Therefore, the main trap in question is the only safe sentinel always on guard to prevent any entrance of foul odors from the sewer into the building. It may be advanced that by placing a trap in the main drain we prevent the free ventilation of the public sewers by cutting off the free passage of air from the sewer and not allowing it to pass up through the main pipe for ventilation of the fixtures in the building. I would say in reply to this, that the sewers are public property, and any ventilating required should be carried on at the public expense, and not thrust upon private property owners. Again, when the occupants of buildings have discharged the decomposed refuse of organic or vegetable matter, it would be most detrimental to receive it back again in the form of disease, infected with sewer air and all its accompanying disease-spreading germs.



The only objection I have ever heard against this main house trap is its liability of being stopped up with particles of refuse which would otherwise pass away clear of any obstruction to the sewer. We must not forget that what might stop in the trap is just as liable to stop in the drain beyond, where means for its removal is more difficult than if it were retained in the trap. Not that alone, but the direct passage for waste matter to the sewer acts also as a conductor for the foul odors from the sewer through the house pipes, which greatly overbalances the benefits to be

