<doctype type="text">	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	173



to Hoffman's "Christ in the Temple ". Uhde's homely peasant groups tell their sacred story with a naivete that is touching. So with Skredswig, the Norwegian and Karl Bloch, the Kane. Delug preached the gospel of sympathy, of love and sorrow in his very impressive picture called " Holy Women ". Munkacsy's "Christ before Pilate ", though painted by a German, was painted in French atmosphere, and is more realistic than mystic in character. But '' The Raising of Jairus ' Daughter by Max truly leaves nothing to he desired in recent Sacred Art.

The characteristics of race are a factor that should find a place in this discussion. There is, however, only time to say that subjects in sacred art as treated by painters of the Latin race partake to a great degree of the romantic or traditional history of the Christian church, while the Teuton artists seem attracted more to the significant life and work of Christ himself. These race characteristics will likely prove an important factor because of the recent art movements, which have been more active in the zone dominated by the Teuton.

But space is too limited to allow further reference to comparative qualities amongst schools, and the painters who have told with sincerity arid dignity the story that is not yet half told. There is but time to refer to quantity. In doing this, even if we leave out of reckoning the wider view of its province and confine ourselves to the most limited classification laid down earlier in this paper, a review of the catalogues of the Royal Academy for the tell years past reveals at least seven sacred pictures each year, the Salons of France ten, Munich ten, Berlin ten, and so on.

Spain, Italy, Russia, Netherlands each brings its quota of recruits to the ranks of sacred art so that the annual muster numbers at the lowest computation one hundred and fifty.

If for the sake of a severer and more careful selection we place the number at one hundred, the decade has added one thousand



purely sacred pictures of highest merit to our gallery.

In conclusion let me add a fact that it will be well to note, that in the former era of Sacred Art, personal recompense by means of commissions given by a wealthy paternal institution helped greatly to inspire the artists then to paint religious subjects, while in these times such pictures are, without challenge, mainly the work of an unsuggested impulse.

If such be the fact, the claim that there is an influential Nineteenth Century Sacred Art appears to be well sustained and it may be that there is in this fact a prophecy that shall realize a bright fulfillment in the twentieth century so near at hand.





<article title=" ILLINOIS ARCHITECTS' LICENSE BILL " author="">ILLINOIS ARCHITECTS' LICENSE BILL.

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois, represented in the General Assembly, That within thirty days after the passage of this act the Governor of this State shall, by the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint a State Board of Examiners of Architects, to be composed of five members, one of whom shall be a member of the faculty of the Illinois State University, and the other four shall be architects residing in the State of Illinois, who have been engaged in the practice of architecture at least ten ears. Two of the said practicing architects appointed as examiners shall be designated to hold office for two years from the date of the passage of this act, and the other two, together with the member of the faculty aforesaid, shall hold office for four years from the passage of this act and thereafter, upon the expiration of the term of office of the person so appointed, the Governor of the State shall appoint a successor to each person whose term of office shall expire, to hold office for four years, and said person so appointed shall have the above specified qualifications. In case appointment of a successor is not made before the expiration of the term of any member, such member shall hold office until a successor is appointed and duly qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the board shall be filled by the Governor of the State, for the unexpired term of such membership.

SECTION 2. The members of the State Board of Examiners of Architects shall, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, make and file with the Secretary of State the constitutional oath of office; they shall, as soon as organized, and annually thereafter, in the month of January, elect from their number a president and a secretary, who shall also be a treasurer. The treasurer shall tile a bond for the penal sum of $5,000 with the Secretary of State, to be accepted by the Governor of State before entering upon his duties. The Board shall adopt rules and regulations to govern its proceedings, not inconsistent with this act, and a seal, and the secretary shall have the care and custody thereof, and shall keep a record of all the proceedings of the board, which shall be open at all times to public scrutiny. The secretary of the board shall receive a salary which shall be fixed by the board, and which shall not exceed the sum of fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500) per year; he shall also receive his travelling and other expenses incurred in the performance of his official duties. The other members of the board shall receive the sum often dollars ($10) for each day actually engaged in this service-, and all legitimate and necessary expenses incurred in attending the meetings of said board; said expense shall be

paid from the fees received by the board under the provisions of this act, and no part of the salary or other expenses of the board shall he paid out of the State treasury. All moneys received in excess of the said per diem allowance and other expenses above provided for, shall be held by the treasurer as a special fund for meeting the expenses of said board, and the cost of an annual report of the proceedings of the State Board of Examiners of Architects.

Provided, however, that when the money in the hands of the treasurer at the time of the annual report is rendered, exceeds twenty—five hundred dollars ($2,500), the amount of such excess shall he paid into the State treasury, to the credit of the State Board of Examiners of Architects.



SECTION 3. Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum. Special meetings of the board shall be called by the secretary upon the written request of any two members, by giving at least seven days' written notice of the meeting to each member, reckoning from the day on which the notices are postmarked, telegraphed or personally delivered. The board shall adopt rules and regulations for the examination of applicants for licenses to practice architecture, in accordance with the provisions of this act, and may amend, modify and repeal such rules and regulations from time to time. The board shall, immediately upon the election of each officer thereof, and upon the adoption, repeal or modification of its rules of government or its rules and regulations for examination of applicants for licenses, file with the Secretary of State, and publish in at least one architectural journal and one daily newspaper published in the State of Illinois, at least twice, the name and address of each officer, and a copy of such rules and regulations, or the amendment, repeal or modification thereof

SECTION 4. Provision shall be made by the board hereby constituted for holding examinations at least twice in each year, of applicants for licenses to practice architecture, and any person over twenty-one years of age, upon payment of a fee of fifteen dollars ($15) to the secretary of the board, shall be entitled to an examination for determining his or her qualifications. All examinations shall be made directly by said board, or a committee of two members delegated by the board, and dime notice of the time and place of the holding of such examinations shall be published, as in the case provided for the publication of t lie rules and regulations thereof. The examination shall have special reference to the construction of buildings, and a test of the knowledge of the candidate of the strength of materials, and of his or her ability to make practical application of such knowledge in the ordinary professional work of an architect, and in the duties of a supervisor of mechanical work on buildings, and should also seek to determine his or her knowledge of the laws of sanitation as applied to buildings. If the result of time examination of any applicant shall be satisfactory to a majority of the board, under its rules, the secretary shall, upon an order of the board, issue to the applicant a certificate to that effect, and upon payment to the secretary of the board by the candidate of a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25), he shall thereupon issue to the person therein named a license to practice architecture in the State, in accordance with the provisions of this act, which license shall contain the full name, birthplace and age of the applicant, and be signed by the president and secretary, amid sealed with the seal of the board. If an applicant fails to pass said examination, his or her fee shall be returned.

All papers received by the Secretary in relation to applications for license shall be kept on file in his office, and a proper index and record shall be kept by him.



SECTION 5. Any person who shall, by affidavit, show to the satisfaction of the State Board of Examiners of Architects that he or she was engaged in the practice of the profession of architecture on the date of the passage of this act, shall be entitled to a license without an examination, provided such application shall be made within six months after the passage of this act. Such license, when granted, shall set forth the fact that the person to whom the same was issued was practicing architecture in this State at the time of the passage of this act, and is, therefore, entitled to a license to practice architecture, without an examination by the board of examiners, and the secretary of the board shall, upon the payment to him of a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25), is sue to the person named in said affidavit a license to practice architecture in this State, in accordance with the provisions of this act. In the case of a co-partnership of architects, each member whose name appears must be licensed to practice architecture. No stock company or corporation shall be licensed to

practice architecture, but the same may employ licensed architects. Each licensed architect shall have his or her license recorded in time office of time county clerk in each and every county in this State, in which the holder thereof shall practice, and he or she shall pay to the clerk the same fee that is charged for the recording of notarial commissions. A failure to have his or her license so recorded shall be deemed sufficient cause for revocation of such license.

SECTION 6. Each county clerk shall keep in a book, provided for the purpose, a complete list of all the licenses recorded by him under the provisions of this act, together with the date of the issuance of each license.

SECTION 7. Every licensed architect shall have a seal, the impression of which must contain the name of the architect, his or her place of business, and the words, " Licensed Architect," " State of Illinois," with which he shall stamp all drawings and specifications issued from his office, for use in this State.



SECTION 8. After six months from the passage of this act it shall be unlawful, and it shall be a misdeamor punishable by a

