	<doctype type="text">140	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Sanitary Committee, composed of Messrs. W. H. Heard, London;



A. Clark, Hamilton; W. Mashinter, Toronto; A. Hall, Peterboro; I. Birch, Kingston. He had organized during the year local associations at Stratford, with five members; Windsor, with eight members; and St. Thomas, with six members. Attention was directed to the necessity of having proper printed matter for the association, and to the laying down of laws and penalties to govern all members. The corner-stone of success, he thought, was secrecy. He found that in London the wholesale men had been































































informed too much of what the plumbers were doing, and as result the latter were suffering.



This report was also referred to the Committee on Resolutions. Mr. J. W. Hughes, as secretary, submitted his report. During

the past year 363 letters had been written from his office, besides the annual reports, circulars and other printed matter. The number of members of the local associations was as follows: Montreal, 82; Toronto, 55; Ottawa 9; Quebec, 22; Windsor, 7; St. Thomas, 6; London, 15; St. Catharines, 6; Stratford, 5; St. John and Fredericton, N.B., 20; Winnipeg, 8, in affiliation with Monttreal; Hamilton, Kingston, and Halifax, not given.

The report of the treasurer, Mr. A. Fiddes, showed the receipts from the secretary to have been $457, while $60 had been received from the Windsor, St. Thomas, Ottawa and Winnipeg associations. The disbursements were $162.60, leaving a cash balance of $365.40.



These reports were referred to the auditors, who reported them correct.



The Committee on Resolutions presented report, recommending the adoption of the reports of the Executive, Sanitary and Essay Committees, which was agreed to by the convention. It further recommended that clauses 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Mr. Smith's notice of motion be filed for future reference, and that clauses 5, 6, 7, 8 and be adopted.



Mr. Briggs moved, seconded by Mr. Burroughes that the report be discussed clause by clause. Carried.



Mr. Burroughes thought the clause to issue a chart was pre mature, as the question of securing incorporation was under consideration.



Both Mr. Burroughes and Mr. Smith produced sketches of the proposed charts. The cost of incorporation was referred to, and eventually it was decided to leave clauses 5, 6 and 7 over for consideration. Clauses 8 and 9 were also left over, pcnding the report of the Legislative Committee.



The Legislative Committee subsequently handed in a report recommending that no action be taken towards incorporation at present, and stating that incorporation under the Dominion Act was considered impossible. This was finally agreed to, but the Executive Committee was instructed to obtain further information and report.



The sub-committee on constitution and by-laws reported, recommending slight alterations, which, on motion of Mr. Heard, seconded by Mr. Borton, were adopted.



The Committee on Resolutions reported that after hearing the report of the Legislative Committee in regard to incorporation, this committee is of opinion that clauses 5, 6, 7 and 8 of Mr. Smith's motion should be adopted.

A secret session in the evening closed the business of the first day.





SECOND DAY.



The meeting resumed at 10:30 on Friday, President Lamarche in the chair.

A letter from a Quebec house regarding members of the association not dealing with local houses caused the following resolution to he passed That this convention desires to impress upon master plumbers the importance of encouraging preference for their local dealers when prices and material are equal, and that the Executive Committee be authorized to notify all master plumbers and wholesale dealers to that effect.

The result of the conference between the committees of the Plumbers' Supply and Master Plumbers' Associations was announced by Mr. Burroughes, who read the following minutes

Messrs. Jos. Lamarche, president ; W. J. Burroughes, vice-president;

J.	B. Fitzsimons represented the National Association of Master

Plumbers, and Messrs. A. A. McMichael, P. McMichel, James Morrison, A. McArthur, W. A. Carrick, A. Anthes, Ed. Gurney, Geo. A.

Booth, of Toronto, and Mr. McLaren, of Montreal, the Plumbers' and

Steam-Fitters' Supply Association.

The definition of the term '' master plumbers was discussed at length, and it was finally decided that the National Association furnish a list of the bona fide master plumbers to the wholesale dealers. The clause referring to iron pipe being placed on the exempt list was discussed at length. President Lamarche announced that he could not consent to make exemptions for any particular city or province, and that it must be largely governed by local conditions. No definite action was decided upon outside of the convention.

Mr. Gurney requested that boilers and soil pipe for green house work be placed on the exempt list. A lengthy discussion ensued, Mr. Gurney pressing his claim, Messrs. Lamarche, Burroughes and Fitzsimons opposing him. Mr. Gurney contended that he had always enjoyed this privilege, and he could not see that any injustice would accrue to the plumber, as the purchaser always did his own fitting up.

"Your committee beg to report they refused to consent to this suggestion, and gave as a reason it would open up the door for manufacturers of other specialties." It was also suggested by the supply men that

10 per cent. margin might be adopted. Mr. McMichael also requested that the committee report back to this association. They think the master plumbers should, in justice to all concerned, confine the purchase of their supplies to the signers of the resolutions.

On motion of Mr. Burroughes, the report was referred to the Executive Committee.

It was reported that nothing had been done with regard to affiliating







































































with the Master Plumbers' Association of the United States. The matter was left with the Executive Committee.



ELECTION OF OFFICERS.



The president named the Nominating Committee as follows: George Perrier, Halifax J. R. Kane, Quebec ; Thus. Moll, Montreal F. J. Johnson, Ottawa A. Purdy, Toronto. This committee nominated the following:



President—Jos. Lamarche, Montreal.

Vice-president---- Wm. Smith, London.

Vice-presidents for provinces—Ontario——-John McKinley, Ottawa. Quebec—P. J. Carroll, Montreal. New Brunswick—J. H. Doody,

