<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAQN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	3



like to make his error KNOWN by billing the proprietor for it, who is not legally, though may be morally bound to do the needful to wards the builder he, the architect, to save himself, is tempted to and does, almost of necessity, make it up to the contractor by exaggerating extras or additions, minimizing deductions for works omitted, allowing the contractor to skimp the work or



portions of it, winking at detects or faulty materials, and even in thinning Out the walls, curtailing the projection of outside cronies of wood or stone, the girth (if inner plaster ones, making molded and ornamental work less salient and thus less effective, and accepting two coats paint instead of three, and in oilier ways not readily to be detected by the proprietor, who rarely, if ever, goes to the trouble of verifying such details, not generally affecting the style of work, the distribution of the building or the comfort of the tenants.

This is no imaginary case, an architect having had to refund to a contractor a stint of several thousand dollars covering a deficit of over half a million in the quantity or number of bricks in a certain building, and which would likely have been double the amount, had not all the walls, in anticipation of such a claim against the architect been, so it is said, made thinner by front to 7 inches, to help diminish the absolute deficit.

Nor should any contractor be allowed to be or act as his owe architect, no more than a notary is allowed to draw on his own deeds or those affecting his nearer relations. This it is which gives rise to lie often repeated assert ion t that such and such a work of building does nut look as well, as effective as it did on the paper. How often has title writer not seen work shirked or skimped in this way, where the detail drawings not being made in advance and signed as a binding portion of the contract these details made to look effective on the general drawings, as in designing the root or vaulting of a church for instance, where moldings and groinings to be effective must be salient and carving deeply cut, are made to look so in advance by deep shades and shadows cast, and are found in execution to be entirely wanting in these particulars.

Nothing but a general association of interests throughout the Dominion is likely to bring about reform under this head, and render country curates and even city ones awake to the true economy of always employing an architect to oversee the work of another architect when acting as his own contractor.

But for self improvement and advancement is a general association of the profession pertinent. See how it is now with the associations in the provinces. The general meetings are held successively and alternately For the Province of Quebec, in Montreal and Quebec city for Ontario, in Toronto and may be Some other prominent city or two of that province This is not sufficient the thing becomes monotonous, and architects lose all interest in thus either meeting continuously in the same city, or alternately in only two cities of the province.

The field of enquiry and observation must needs be developed. Look at the Royal Society of Canada. interest in it and its assemblages is flagging. Members do not attend, except those residing in Ottawa, where the society, with a single exception (once at Montreal) holds its yearly meetings. Nor is this just to outsiders who year after year have to pay their way to and from the capital, and their living expenses while there.

A general association would have a choice of all Canadian cities of sufficient importance to warrant a displacement. In addition to Toronto, Montreal and Quebec, we should then have Halifax to look to, Hamilton, Winnipeg, St. John, N. B.. Victoria, B. C., and other cities. The society might also some day, or now and then, visit the more noted cities of the United States, as New York, Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, St. Louis, New Orleans, etc.

Look at the British Association for the Advancement of Science. If this assemblage of the wisdom of a nation finds it to its advantage to cross the Atlantic to Canada as it did some years ago to Toronto, 1 believe, next year to Montreal surely we who have seen less of the world would benefit by migration now and again.

See the many scientific, professional, architectural, engineering associations of the United States, how they are constantly travelling on invitation from place to place how, iii each city they visit, they are taken hold of, wined and dined and driven around to see everything respectively of' interest to each.

But this must not happen so often to one and the same place as to wear ones welcome out. Montreal cannot without taxing itself too heavily and too often, receive the architects of the rest of the Dominion every two years as at present. Much less can poor Quebec afford to follow suit in such hospitality, but let the thing occur once in five or ten years, and after such an interval there is something new to see, then does the reception become an event, a pleasure e, and the expense comparatively  trifling.

Cities like Quebec and Hamilton can hardly have enough of novelty in less than 5 to  years to warrant a return to them on a mission of self advancement nor can even Toronto or Montreal in one or two years, offer inducements enough to the profession to go about visit the few really interesting structures that may spring up in so short a time, while alter a period of several years, all monotony is dispelled, old scenes are almost forgotten, and the scenery and buildings put on a novel and attractive aspect.

Great benefit is to be thus tad by becoming acquainted with others of the same profession, the mind is developed, new ideas are imbibed, taken hold of, modified and improved on.

The Royal Society has at last come to understand this, and meets in Halifax next year to celebrate the 4ooth anniversary of he discovery of North America by the brothers John and Sebastian Cabot, when a monument will be erected as nearly as known n or near the very land fall of these hardy explorers and navigators new blood is wanted all the time, new scenes, new

climes to revel in so to say, as with the botanist, the geologist the seeker after other forms of fauna

The London Surveyor, a paper devoted to the interests of municipal and county engineers and architects is alive to this necessity of association on an extended scale, and in every one of its weekly or monthly issues are given portraits and biographies of its associates, views of buildings and engineering works completed, views of the town halls or municipal buildings of all the cities visited in turn, accounts of receptions, balls and dinners tendered to the visitors, with full details of all the proceedings and descriptions of all the points and objects of interest the members of the convention are called on to examine, enjoy and become acquainted with.

Hardly' a day passes but what the writer receives some invitation to attend a conversation of the kind in some city or other of the neighboring republic, and this is what so forcibly reminds him of tile advantages of such visits and meetings.

The writer cannot be suspected of any other interest than that of the Association in thus advocating its extension from the Atlantic to the Pacific since lie has pretty- nearly- been about the world and does now but advocate for others what lie has found of advantage to himself.

It must not be all work and no recreation. Our human nature could not cannot stand it. these social gatherings, when made subservient to ones material interests are not only' of advantage to us all, but indispensable so to say', in these day's of rapid advancement in so many sciences, professions, industries amid manufactures, and even in the very and varied modes of conveyance, in palace cars and stately floating palaces. on the way', is there much to be admired, much to leant.





<article title="A group of Winnipeg Architects" author="">A GROUP OF WINNIPEG ARCHITECTS.

WE are pleased to be able to present herewith portraits and brief sketches of several of the most prominent architects of Winnipeg Mr. <person>S. Frank Peters </person>is already well known in Eastern Canada, as is also Mr. <person>Geo. Browne</person>, who for several years has made annual visits to Ontario. If the movement for the formation of a Dominion Association of Architects should assume tangible form, we may entertain the expectation of being privileged to make the personal acquaintance of all these gentlemen in the near future. Meanwhile the ARCHITECT And BUILDER is striving to bring the architects of the Dominion into closer relationship.



<person>CHARLES. H. WHEELER

</person>

was born fifty years ago in Lutterworth, county of Leicester, England and, where he was educated at the grammar school and by the Vicar of the parish. He decided to adopt the profession of architecture, and began t his calling by mastering the rudiments, having





































first served a technical cotters at the carpenter's bench, and in turn on the bricklayer's scaffold, at practical painting, and at the banker of the stonemason. He also learned the art of pattern-making at the Coventry Engine and Art Metal Works, and subsequently was student and clerk of works under two eminent London architects. Mr. Wheeler has carried out many important works in London, the provinces, and on the continent of Europe. He took up his residence in the Northwest in the spring of 1882, since which time he has been actively engaged. He gained the Holy Trinity competition over sixty competitors from all parts of America. Besides building this handsome church he has carried out over two hundred and seventy other works in Manitoba and North-west Territories, including the Home for Incurables, Portage Ia Prairie ; Merchants' bank, Brandon Moosomin Methodist church, Queen's Hotel, Moosomin High School, Port Arthur ; Jail, Portage Ia

