

<doctype type="text">liable for permitting such iron supports of main walls to stand absolutely unprotected, an easy prey to fire, and even if no fire occur, constituting a continual menace to public safety through the action of the weather —the effects of heat and cold—and of rust, which it is now well known eats away the metal under paint.



Another matter which is absolutely overlooked by our authorities in the office for the examination of plans is, sufficiency of exit in the event of fire for the large crowds which frequent the departmental stores. Even where the site has streets or other open spaces adjacent to the outside walls, advantage is not taken of the fact that it would be a simple matter to pierce these walls with doorways and to have outside iron fire stairways from all the upper flats. It has been shown by actual tests exactly how long it takes to empty certain buildings of the crowds frequenting them. It is known exactly what proportion of door space will allow of the escape of a crowd in the event of fire. Surely it is time to insist on the provision of better exits. Had the fire at John Eaton's taken place in the day-time, it is safe to say that in the short time from the outbreak of fire to the collapse of the main walls but few could have escaped, and there would have been a disaster almost too horrible to contemplate.



<article title="BY THE WAY" author="">BY THE WAY.

ALL the enterprise is not confined to this side of the Atlantic. A Bohemian manufacturer is reported to be making roofing tiles by the dry press process. They are said to present an excellent appearance, but are open to the serious objection that they absorb too much water. It is not unlikely that means will be found to overcome this fault.

x x x



THE CONTRACT RECORD formed a feature of an amusing incident which recently occurred on an east bound train. It was during the late heated term that a couple of representatives of Toronto supply houses found themselves on hoard the same train and bound for the same destination Ottawa. With the view of enhancing their comfort they divested themselves of their coats, which, by the way, were much alike in color. After a time the owner of one of the coats was about to resume his garment, when his companion stopped him by saying, '' Hold on there—you've got my coat." "No, I haven't," was the reply. '' Oh, but you have," rejoined the other, "and in proof of my statement there's the CONTRACT RECORD sticking out of the inside pocket." ''That's no proof," said the man with the coat, '' for I too have a copy of the CONTRACT RECORD in my inside pocket." And so it proved to be.

x x x

I HAPPENED to he in a gentleman's business office in Toronto the other day, when the representative of an American firm called to solicit an order for goods. "No," said the gentleman, "I don't want any Yankee goods. I've made up my mind not to buy a dollar's worth of American stuff if I can possibly get what will answer the purpose in Canada or elsewhere." On asking the reason of this unexpected rebuff, the American was told that it was due to the treatment which was being accorded to Canada by the government of the United States under the Dingley Bill. I fully approve of this gentleman's policy. Individually the Americans are good fellows, but as a nation they are given to the perpetration of acts of despicable meanness, especially

towards this country. Notwithstanding the tariff wall which has existed between Canada and the United States for nearly twenty years past, the Americans have found a market in the Dominion for many millions of dollars' worth of goods annually. If the men who are sent over here to sell these goods were for a time to be given the cold shoulder after the fashion described above, protests would soon find their way to Washington from the manufacturers whom these men represent, and as a result no doubt a more neighborly policy would be adopted toward this country. Let those who have been in the habit of buying from representatives of American houses, try this method of securing international fair play. _______________



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE FOR MR. JAMES THOMSON, BAY AND ROBINSON STREETS, HAMILTON, ONT. JAMES BALFOUR,



 ARCHITECT.



GROUP OF DELEGATES TO THE SECOND ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE NATIONAL PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION OF CANADA.



THE	LAKESIDE HOME FOR LITTLE CHILDREN, TORONTO ISLAND.—CURRY, BAKER & CO., ARCHITECTS.



The Lakeside Home for Little Children is the convalescent branch of the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto. It is situated at the Point Park, Toronto Island, and was erected and furnished at a cost of $40,000 by Mr. J. Ross Robertson, of the Toronto Evening Telegram. The plans were drawn by Mr. S. G. Curry, of the firm of Curry, Baker & Co. It was presented to the trustees of the hospital on the condition that the sick children of Freemasons in the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Canada should receive surgical and medical treatment tree in both institutions.

The Lakeside home is about 165 feet long, three stories high, and has accommodation for 125 children,

nurses and other help. It is the largest and best equipped sanitarium for children in the world. The building is provided with every modern equipment

bathrooms, lavatories, gymnasium, reception rooms, parlors, committee rooms, etc. It is lighted throughout with acetylene gas, and is the first building in Toronto to be lighted by that process. Wide verandahs surround the institution, and magnificent views of the lake are obtainable from every point.

FULFORD MAUSOLEUM,	LONDON, ONT.---MOORE & HENRY, ARCHITECTS.



Mr. Robert Fulford has just completed, at Woodland Cemetery, London, Ont., a very handsome mausoleum, to the memory of his wife, the late Annie Pixley Fulford.

The building is in the centre of a large plot of ground on a slight eminence, is built of Stanstead, Que., granite throughout, and has interior walls, ceilings, catacombs, etc., of sandstone. The catacombs are situated in the basement, and are covered over by a granite floor ornamented with encaustic tiling.

The entrance is flanked by two colossal lions. The entrance gates are of solid bronze, handsomely wrought, with carved frames, and surmounted by a bronze medallion containing a group representing Charity, in has-relief. The main arch is supported upon four columns of polished Swedish granite with carved capitals.



The front is supported at either side by massive paneled pilasters, carrying life size granite statues representing Music and Drama, while in the centre, surmounting all, is a large figure representing Victory.

The interior is lighted by three memorial windows from Innsbruck, Austria, is wainscoted in marble, and has a handsome coffered ceiling. Niches in the rear, enclosed by bronze grilles, afford room for two incinerary urns.

Messrs. Moore & Henry, architects, of London, Ont., designed the mausoleum and superintended its construction. The McIntosh Granite & Marble Co., of Toronto, were the contractors, and Messrs. Allward and Sturgeon, of Toronto, made a success of the sculpture. The Tyrolese Art Glass Co. executed the memorial windows, while the ornamental bronze work is from the Toronto Ornamental Iron Works.

