<doctype type="text">	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	159

dirty with soot, and when it does get dirty It IS very easily cleaned. Have a spare flue in each chimney which may be used for ventilating if so desired. Arrange for a soot drawer in every flue; this may be done by leaving out one stretcher brick four or five courses below the stove pipe hole. If it is intended at any time to pipe the house for water, gas, or heating, the breast of the chimney may be extended in breadth, and a "pocket" eight or ten inches wide by the size of the projection of brickwork in the room may be left the whole height of the room. This pocket may be formed by either running a four inch brick wall, flush from the face of chimney breast, with hollow space behind or it may be formed with studding, lathed and plastered on the front, and left open on the side so that a moulded board can be screwed over the opening in order that the piping can be put, and to get at the pipes for rerepairs or otherwise, after they are in place. Chimneys should be built high enough above all ridges or chestings to prevent the eddies of wind caused by these ridges and crestings to make a down draft. It is a question not yet settled as to how high a chimney top should be above the ridges so as the avoid these eddies. The writer has learned from experience that it is not always safe to have the top less than twelve inches above the highest point of the building. Do not narrow or contract the flue at the top. This practice, which is too common, often leads to serious trouble, as many a chimney smokes because of the flue being contracted at its delivery.



<article title=" THE LATE THOMAS WAND " author="">THE LATE THOMAS WAND.

IN the death of the late Thomas Wand the city of Montreal has lost one of its best known contractors and a leading citizen. The whole life of the deceased was spent in Montreal, where he was born 78 years











































ago. He commenced life in a very humble capacity, but eventually achieved a leading position in the business community. In partnership with Mr. Moir Wand the deceased was engaged in many public works, and under the firm name of Phillips & Wand erected many of the public and private buildings in the city. Mr. Wand, however, retired a few years ago from active operations. His death was due to a heavy cold contracted two months ago, from which he never entirely recovered.

During the past fifty years Mr. Wand was connected with many important works of construction, including Trinity church, Mechanics Bank, church of St. James the Apostle, and the Windsor hotel. His last contract was the Bell Telephone Company's building at West-mount, during the execution of which his health failed him.

Deceased was a member of the Episcopal church and of the Mechanics' Institute, and took an active interest in the welfare of the community in which he lived.





<article title=" MR. GEORGE H. PROCTOR " author="">MR. GEORGE H. PROCTOR.

THE subject of the accompanying portrait, a well-known builder and contractor at Sarnia, Ont., was borne in the township of Moore, Lambton County,











































November, 1842, and has since constantly resided in the locality.

After leaving school Mr. Proctor chose the carpenter's trade, at which he served the usual apprenticeship term. At its termination he entered into business as a contractor on his own account, in the townships of Moore, Sarnia and Sombra, and in 1876 removed to Sarnia.

Among the more important buildings erected by Mr. Proctor may be mentioned the Collegiate Institute, general hospital, G. T. R. railway station, the summer hotel at Stag's island, River St. Clair, C. M. Garvey's residence and several large stores.

Mr. Proctor has been a member of the public school board and town council of Sarnia for many years. In the latter body he was elected deputy reeve and reeve, and to his efforts was largely due the erection in Sarnia of the Lambton County house of industry.

Mr. Proctor has also taken considerable interest in friendly societies, such as the Oddfellows, A. 0. U. W. and I. 0. 0. F.



Mr. J. Mason, builder, Brampton, is completing the remodeling of a fine brick residence for Mr. H. Dale.



Messrs. Carter & Co., Elora lime kiln proprietors, state their business is showing very satisfactory increase. The firm now control the output of four kilns.



If you have to paint ironwork that is to be subjected to heat, do not attempt to mix it yourself. You will require specially made paint, Such are on the market and are made in all colors for funnels of steamboats, etc., and in white for reflectors over gas jets.

