



<doctype type="text"><article title=" PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS. 

III.

" author="">PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS. 

III.

B. MOONEY AND SONS.



THE well known and established firm of B. Mooney & Sons is undoubtedly among the largest of those in the contracting line in the Maritime provinces. The subjects of the portraits which are herewith presented are Messrs Patrick and Michael Mooney, the senior members of the firm, of which Mr. Edward Mooney is

















































a third partner, all being sons of the lately deceased Bernard Mooney, whose name the firm still bears.

Mr. Bernard Mooney came to Canada from the north of Ireland in 1861, and settled for a short time at Musquash, N. B., where he practiced the trade of stone mason, which he had learned in Ireland. After a short time he moved to Canton and later to St. John, where he settled permanently in 1877. Shortly after the great St. John fire, he opened a brickyard in Fairville, and engaged in contracting, taking a prominent part in the rebuilding of the ruined city, about two hundred buildings having been erected under his direction. His sons, as they grew up, took an active interest in the work, and since his death, in 1890, have carried on the business alone.

The brickyard of the firm now covers over 10 acres

















































and turns out daily 50,000 bricks. A new 100 h.p. boiler and 150 h.p. engine are being added to the plant. An average of 110 men are employed the year round, and for some time last summer the staff of workmen numbered 180.

Among the large buildings which the firm have erected in St. John are the following Centenary stone church, one of the finest edifices in the Maritime provinces ; the churches of St. John the Baptist, Holy

Trinity and St. Peters ; Miserecordie hospital, Aberdeen school, St. John high school, St. John electric light station, Pender's nail works, and the new high school building, the latter just completed and costing in the vicinity of $50,000. Included in the outside work were a stone church at Nelson ; the immense Chatham pulp mill on the Miramichi, and a large portion of the town of Marysville, largely owned by Mr. Alexander Gibson. They also built the immense Gibson cotton factory, one of the largest in Canada, which occupies an entire block, with frontage of 418 feet, being 4 stories, with 10 foot basement and requiring 8,000,000 bricks in construction.

Over a quarter of a million dollars worth of business has been secured by this firm in the state of Maine adjoining. They built nearly all the brick portion of the town of Eastport, in that state, and during the summer following the fire of 1887, erected seventeen large brick buildings there.

In civic affairs Messrs. Mooney have taken an active interest and are highly esteemed in the community.





<article title=" TORONTO MASTER PLUMBERS'

ASSOCIATION.

" author="">TORONTO MASTER PLUMBERS'

ASSOCIATION.

THE Master Plumbers' Association of Toronto met in their rooms in Pythian Hall on Wednesday, the 12th inst., Mr. W. J. Burroughes, president, in the chair. Nine new members were added to the membership. The principal business of the evening was the election of delegates to attend the convention, to he held in this city from July 1st to 3rd inclusive.

The Palmer House has been selected as headquarters for the delegates, and the meetings will be held in Pythian Hall. It is expected that every part of the Dominion, except probably British Columbia, will send representatives.

Messrs. W. J. Burroughes and A. Fiddes, on behalf of the Toronto association, will represent the National Association, and the following the Toronto Association:

Geo. McGuire, Alex. Purdy, Jas. B. Fitzsimmons, K.

T. Allison, Jas. Wilson, with the following as alternates: C. H. Beavis, Robt. Ross, W. Inwood, J. W. Dram, J. H. Parkes, Geo. Wallis.





<article title=" THE ARCHITECT	IN HIS RELATION TO THE PLUMBER " author="Burroughes, W.J.">THE ARCHITECT	IN HIS RELATION TO THE PLUMBER.

BY W. J BURROUGHES, TORONTO.



IF there is any one thing that we can be said to know better than another, it is the fact that in all ages of the world, and in every state of human development, Man has been subject to the same natural laws—that is, his respiration, assimilation, nutrition and excretion have not been materially changed either by legislation or civilization. True, it does not require a very large amount of knowledge to realize this, but it is always wiser to know a little and know it well than, like a bubble, inflated with too much knowledge, suddenly collapse into ignorance. We are able to assert, therefore, without fear of contradiction, that city ordinances have never been able to control digestion nor change either the quantity or quality of man's excretions, the removal of which must be provided for in some way. We are so certain of this that, while we admire the majestic ruins of ancient cities, and are lost in wonder at their stupendous evidences, not only of the existence of a swarming population, but also of superior mechanical arts, we require no peculiar inspiration to enable us to determine with equal certainty the co-existence of sanitary science; because Natures laws, in every age and among all people, have required that provision be made for the waste and excretion of the body and a proper supply of food, water and air.

We also know from experience that the larger the number of people collected together in communities, the more imperious becomes the demand. But those ancient people, together with their arts and civilization, have passed away, leaving us only the magnificent remains of their marvelous architecture from which to conjecture the extent of the sanitary science required in order to have preserved the general health and supplied their densely populated cities with the necessary water, air and sewage.

We learn of the architects, for many of them put their trademark on their work or had their faces chiseled in the marble, but nobody appears to have remembered the plumber. Is it possible that history has been repeating itself in its neglect of that worthy class of artisans always? Yet, we are confident that the great Teta, the architect of the pyramid of Cheops, and the twenty-two architects whose names are preserved in Egypt, Balibec and Thebes, to say nothing of those who designed the monuments and palaces of Palengue and Uxmal, the hanging gardens of Babylon, or the convenient dwellings of Ninevah, must have had the aid of the sanitary plumber. We say must, unless, indeed, those ancient architects were better or differently educated in sanitary science than many of them are now-a-days. Be that as it may, their sani

