

<doctype type="text">26 

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 

<article title="Vol. X" author="">VOL. X.

THE pressure upon our columns last month precluded mention of the fact that we have reached the tend anniversary of the first publication of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The journal was launched with considerable misgivings in view of the expressed opinion of a number of leading architects that the undertaking could not succeed, but notwithstanding with a certain amount of assurance on the part of the publisher that he had rightly estimated the situation. The cordial reception accorded to the firs number, crude as it was in many respects, proved an incentive to perseverance in the undertaking and to efforts for improvement. For a year each number o the journal consisted of 16 pages of letter press and pages of illustrations 15 by 10 1/2 inches in size. With the beginning of the second volume, the pages were reduced to their present size. Their number has. however, been increased from time to time, until al present the regular numbers consist of 36 pages 01 letter press and sheets of illustrations.

During the first two years of publication of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER as a monthly, the need of more frequent publication of information relating to contracts became apparent. To supply this requirement the publication of the CONTRACT RECORD as a weekly edition of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER was commenced in January, 1890. This weekly edition has, like the monthly, been doubled in size, yet no advance has been made in the subscription price originally fixed for the monthly alone. Under these circumstances it is not to be wondered at that the journal has steadily developed in circulation and influence, so that the principal architects, civil engineers and contractors through. out the Dominion are on the list of its subscribers.

As showing the estimation in which the journal is held by its subscribers, we have pleasure in printing the following testimonial letters received since the publication of our New Year number

I must express my pleasure on receiving the New Year number of your paper as well as testifying to the usefulness o your regular numbers in tiny business, the general information



always correct and the special articles most useful and interesting. I would not be without your paper in my office and trust the coming year may be one of unprecedented success. "—-E. C. ARNOLDI, Ottawa.



"We beg to state that we think the New Year number of your



paper is first class."--ELLIOT & HOPSON, Halifax.



I have a real pleasure in expressing my high appreciation of



the New Year number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER,

—the illustrations, matter and materials, combining to make it a production of which you may well feel a reasonable pride—the large sheet of illustrations of the Parliament and Departmental Buildings being exceptionally good. As regards your regular numbers I have observed a steady improvement ever since it was first published, and I look forward with pleasure to its arrival as giving me the best and most reliable acquaintance with the buildings throughout the Dominion—built, or in course of construction—and keeping me in practical touch with all the ruling rates for building materials, &.c., and also, in this wide Dominion, it is no small satisfaction to find one's self in touch with the best thoughts and ripest experience of professional confreres which is finding so free expression in the columns of your journal. I wish the publication every success." FRED J. ALEXANDER, Architect, Ottawa.

"Your New Year number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT is



credit to you, the illustrations being an evidence that architecture is still a fine art. I hope to see you continue the good work, and strive to attain a better professional feeling amongst the members of the craft. Wishing you every success. "—E. L. HORWOOD, Architect, Ottawa.



are very much pleased with the improved appearance of

the CANADIAN ARCHITECT &, BUILDER this year. We also consider the CONTRACT RECORD a very useful addition, as it gives the current prices of materials for building purposes, which otherwise causes inconvenience to obtain. Wishing you the success you deserve.' THOS. KENNEDY & Co., Barrie.



I have pleasure in expressing my appreciation of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER and the services which it has rendered to the cause of Architecture in Canada, In this widely scattered country it is practically the only means which architects have of knowing what their brethren are doing in the different provinces. It is also a valuable medium of communication between architects and manufacturers. There has been a steady improvement in the literary matter as well as in the illustrations, until now it compares most favorably with any paper of its class. The New Year number I think particularly creditable." — D. B. DICK, Architect, Toronto.



"We have been subscribers to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER since its first issue, and have been pleased to notice it's improvement each year. Permit us to compliment you upon the high character of your New Year number. We think it compares very favorably with the high class American journals. '—WM. & WALTER STEWART, Architects, Hamilton.

Allow us to congratulate you upon the New Year number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. We have noticed with pleasure the continual improvement in the Journal since its commencement, until it has now reached the high literary and artistic standard evidenced by the New Year's number. Every Canadian architect and builder should be a subscriber for your valuable paper. "—~ GORDON & HELLIWELL Architects Toronto.



We take great pleasure in saying	that we have found each issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER of very great interest and are much pleased with the artistic cover of the New Year number. The reading matter is much greater in quantity, and we might also say of better quality, than some of our journals costing three or four times the money. '—BURKE & HORWOOD, Architects, Toronto.

"On receipt of the New Year number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, I was much pleased with the marked improvement over former years, and congratulate you on its success as an up-to-date professional Journal, and with the CONTRACT RECORD, an advertising medium of great scope and a good reference. —Jos. W. POWER, Architect, Kingston, Ont.

Please accept my congratulations upon the handsome appearance of your New Year number. The illustrations I think are excellent, while the reading matter is as usual interesting. Your sustained efforts to provide a journal devoted to the interests of architects and builders, worthy of the importance of those interests, is most commendable, and certainly entitles you to all possible support from Canadian architects and builders. HARRY STAVELEY Architect, Quebec



"We have a complete file of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and consider it a most valuable work. We highly esteem its course in matters relating to the honorable practice and advancement of the profession in this country. Wishing you deserved success for your noble work. —BERLINGUET & LEMAY, Architects Quebec.



Regarding the merits of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, I beg to say, I cannot add anything to my former testimony, that it is a very excellent publication, and I congratulate you upon the artistic appearance of the New Year number, just to hand. Wishing you further success." GEO. W. GOLINLOCK, Architect, Toronto.

The extra quantity of reading matter and illustrations makes the New Year number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER one of unusual interest, but to know the full merit of your valuable publication, one must read it all the year round. This I shall continue to do as well as direct the attention of tenderers on my plans to the advertisement pages. '—D. OUELLET, Architect, Quebec.



"The only words I can say regarding your New Year number are those of pure admiration from cover to cover it is a triumph of artistic production, and the amount of historical matter makes it doubly valuable. The catchy, pithy write up and the design of each "ad" is specially worthy of commendation. In regard to the regular numbers I have always felt that our supply sources are not sufficiently represented in the advertising pages. An architect will invariably refer to those pages and then to the catalogues afterwards. There is always an impression of reliability given by an advertisement in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and personally I have specified many things, such as Steel Clad Baths and Mica Covering on the mere idea of their value I got from your pages. All supply dealers and manufacturers should have a card there, and every contractor should read the paper, and especially that paragon of usefulness, the CONTRACT RECORD.'

—DAVID G. BAXTER, Architect Stratford, Ont.



Regarding the future, we have only to say, that as in the past, a constant effort will be made towards improvement. We earnestly solicit the active co-operation of our readers in an endeavor to further advance the scope and value of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

 BUILDER

