<doctype type="text">The Renaissance of

Wro't Metal.

























































































Qualifications of

Firemen.

THE return to favor of wrought metal work, after a lengthened period of decadence is a noteworthy feature of

the architectural development of the present day. It is also a subject for congratulation, indicating in some measure an improvement in public taste. The manufacture of architectural wrought metal work, which a few years ago bade fair to become one of the lost arts, has kindled into vigorous life again, and is become an important industry. The favor recently bestowed by architects and others on this material has brought to the front men with ability to meet the highest requirements. It is gratifying to observe that we have in this line of manufacture in Canada ability of a high order, and work is being produced here which will favorably compare with the best foreign product. It is likewise satisfactory to learn that most of the leading Canadian architects now specify entirely Canadian material, although a few cling to a prejudice in favor of the foreign made article. We understand that the new court house building in Toronto will contain some excellent examples of Canadian skill in design and manufacture of wrought iron and bronze work. The appearance of most of the new buildings under construction is enhanced by the use of this class of material while the substitution of well-designed wrought iron fencing for wood and cast iron has greatly increased the attractiveness of the residential streets of many of our cities.



THE important changes which have taken place in recent years in materials for building, as well as in methods of

construction, have rendered necessary the possession by firemen, and especially by chiefs and superintendents of fire brigades, of a wider range of knowledge than was formerly considered necessary. When, for example, the electric elevator in a New York building of over twenty stories, fell recently, killing the engineer and elevator boy, causing a water main in the basement to burst, and flooding the basement, there was no one at hand to stop the electric machinery, and the firemen were called out for the purpose. Fortunately they knew what to do, and their knowledge promptly applied, was doubtless the means of preventing a worse catastrophe. It is pertinent to ask how many firemen possess knowledge of this character, for which ten years ago there was no demand? In connection with the recent fires in Toronto, the suggestion was made that the firemen should spend some of their leisure time in making themselves familiar with the interiors of the principal buildings in the business district of the city. The proposal is one which, if acted upon, would aid in preventing the destruction of property and life. Candidates for the position of assistant superintendent of the Dublin fire brigade, were compelled to submit to a competitive examination to test their knowledge of building construction. The following is a sample of the twenty questions which they were called upon to answer " If 29 cubic feet of brickwork weigh a ton, what weight will the supports of a shop front have to carry, exclusive of weight of roof, floors, and contents, the wall being 18 feet in length, 36 feet high and 18 inches thick, making no allowance for window openings?" We have not observed anything which would indicate that firemen in Canadian cities are instructed in subjects such as these, upon a know

Rights of Architects in Competitions.

ledge of which their own safety and efficiency and the safety of others may in some cases depend.





IT is gratifying to learn that a test case is to be brought in the United States Courts to determine the legal rights of

architects in competitions in which the conditions have been violated. This test case is brought against the commission controlling the competition for a State Capitol building at Harrisburg, Pa. Eight architects were invited to enter the competition, with the understanding that one of their number, whose design should he recommended by the expert advisers to the commission, would be entrusted with the work. The commission, actuated, it is supposed, by political considerations, refused to act on the recommendation of their experts, rejected all the designs, and announced a second competition. On this ground an injunction has been applied for on behalf of the competitors " to restrain the commission from acting, and to compel them to perform the provisions of the programme for the selection of an architect, author of one of the eight designs reported to them by the Board of Experts under the provisions of the programme, and such other and further relief as may be proper in the provisions." The result of this action will be looked for with interest by architects everywhere who may at one time or another have suffered injustice at the hands of persons controlling architectural competitions. We trust a check will be put on the practices of those who under false pretensions seek to obtain gratis the benefit of architectural ideas which by right should be paid for.





A PERUSAL of the proceedings of the recent annual meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects,

printed in this number, will show that the organization has not been inactive during the year. The Association has been working in a quiet manner for the furtherance of the interests of Architecture, and is making its influence felt in several directions. To those acquainted with the discouragements under which it has had to labor, the quiet determination with which the leading spirits in the organization put forth effort in behalf of the wellbeing of the profession, is extremely admirable. It is by the unwearying efforts of such men that reforms are accomplished, and we have no doubt that in years to come the importance of the work which this Association is now doing will be abundantly manifest. The improvement of local building laws, the securing of needed amendments to its charter, the appointment of Municipal Art Committees, and the formation of a Dominion Institute of Architects, are some of the important subjects which the Association has had under consideration during the year. While it is matter of regret that none of these objects have so far been achieved, advancement has been made with regard to most of them, and in the case of some there is reason to anticipate final success. Mr. Peachy, the new president, is a gentleman of recognized ability, and being resident at the seat of the local government of the province, will be in a position to help forward the changes which the legislature at its next session will be petitioned to make to the statutes bearing on the practice of architecture.

The P. Q. A. A.

