	<doctype type="text">152	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND 



<article title=" FORMS OF CONTRACT " author="">FORMS OF CONTRACT.

REGARDING the subjoined form of contract, the compilers, Messrs. Hewitt & Maclaren, architects, Brantford, Ont., write as follows

With the numerous forms of contract extant, it seems superfluous to add another to the already long list. In our practice some slight modifications were deemed necessary to suit all classes of owners and contractors, The points to which we more especially call attention are the following, namely The completion of the work of all trades before any contractor can receive his drawback ; the itemized schedule of time limit showing when each contractor will complete his work. This list saves the contractor the trouble of coming to the architect's office to ascertain when one of the other tradesmen's time for completion is up.

It is customary to only allow money payments when the materials have been fixed in the building. The delivery of a large quantity of lumber, bricks or other material on the owner's lot should entitle the builder to the same contract percentage as if it were established in the works, provided that the goods are intended for that structure.

"When the architect is receiving preliminary instructions care should be taken to have a carefully prepared skeleton list of the client's suggestions and requirements. This would overcome in a measure the much dreaded extras. When extras are ordered the architect should give a letter in writing stating the amount to be paid, and the extension of time if needed, or allow the contractor to submit a tender for these additional items and have the former countersigned by the owner and the tender countersigned by both architect and owner. In winding up the accounts the orders will be produced by contractor, and what would otherwise take hours to adjust could be certified to in a few moments. Another benefit from these orders is the fact that the architect cannot make the owner pay for more than his signature is attached to. Some clients are desirous of knowing how their money is being expended. In the commencement they willingly pay thousands of dollars for their work with but a casual inspection of the specifications, yet if called upon to settle for two or three hundred dollars of additional work, which the architect thought trivial, will make as a rule more fuss over the lesser amount than the former, although the value may have been greater and the comforts derived absolutely necessary to the completion of the building.

Through the inability of the contractor to readily finance material or men, his creditors for their own protection institute liens. By reason of this shortsightedness it seems hardly just that the owner should be called upon to pay their law bills, hence the clause indemnifying the owner against liens.

"It frequently occurs and is convenient to employ two contractors of the same trade on one building. The original contractor deems it a hardship to have a brother tradesman doing what might have been his job, although the tenders gave the last contractor the work by fair valuation. The clause permitting the employment of other contractors may not always be exercised, but is for the architect a beneficial one.

"A debate nearly always arises on the question, who shall pay for and maintain the builder's risk and hold the policy. When the insurance is specified, a price is included for it in the contract. If anything is said about it, it is naturally presumed the owner buys.

Whether it is included in the specifications or not, it is certain the owner, in any event, pays for it. Our contention is, that this item should not be included in the tender, but arranged by the owner at the time of signing contract.

The architect in drawing his own contract, either on his private forms or those purchased from the law stationers, embodies therein the special points he wishes to emphasize. There could be no objection to allowing the client's solicitors to peruse and advise upon the documents and make such changes as their experience warrants.

''Some of the American printed specifications give a printed list of conditions. Our idea would be to combine the contract and the conditions under one agreement, and refer in the written specification to the fact that form of contract would be used. This method would avoid much unnecessary work.

We cannot understand why the arbitration clause cannot be wholly eliminated. When disputes arise, the architect's opinion has been given—~ why not let the disputants place their grievances in the hands of their lawyers, where that class of trouble usually belongs and receives attention?"

<article title=" ONTARIO BUILDERS' CONTRACT " author="">ONTARIO BUILDERS' CONTRACT.



This indenture, made this day of	, one thousand eight hundred and ninety

By and between,

of the	of	in the county of	and province	of



Ontario ( hereinafter called the contractor), of the one part,

and

of the	of	in the county of	and province of



Ontario (hereinafter called the proprietor), of the other part.



Except where the context may require a different construction, the words contractor and proprietor respectively shall include and mean the executors, administrators and assigns of the parties respectively and the words the architect shall include and mean any architect who may be substituted for the architect herein named, by notice in writing given by the proprietor to the Contractor.

 Witnesseth	That the said contractor, in consideration of the

sum of $	dollars to be paid to him,

both hereby covenant and agree with the proprietor as follows



First That the said contractor shall and will, on or before the time and times hereinafter mentioned, in the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety now next (18 ), well and sufficiently execute and perform, in a true, perfect and thorough workmanlike manner, the work of every kind required in the erection and completion of

for the proprietor, on lands and premises situate on	street,

in the	of	in the county of	in the province



of Ontario, agreeably to the plans, drawings and specifications prepared for the said works by architect, and under the direction and personal superintendence of , architect, hereinafter called the architect, and will find and provide such good, proper and sufficient materials of all kinds whatsoever as shall be proper and sufficient for the completing and finishing of all the aforesaid works.

SCHEDULE OF TIME.



That the contractor or contractors will each and every one

carry on his or their work with due diligence, so that the building may be handed over to the proprietor on or before the day of

(18 ) complete in all respects, the following- is the time



allowed each trade respectively in which to carry out the work

Excavation completed by	



Stone walls ready for the ground floor joists	



Brick walls ready for wall plate of roof rafters                

The building to be enclosed	



Roof shingled or slated and corniced                      



The building to be ready for lathing on                      



Plastering to be finished throughout                        



The	gas—fitting, plumbing electric wiring, heating apparatus, etc., to work from time to time as required by other trades and complete within the schedule time                       

Joiners work finished                                     



Painting, etc., completely finished	

