<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN A ARCHITECT AND	207



<article title=" ESTHETIC VALUE OF MOULDING AND PROFILE " author="Venne, Joseph">ESTHETIC VALUE OF MOULDING AND PROFILE.*

By Jos. VENNE



THE moulding is, without doubt, one of the most necessary details of architecture It is the prime ornamental feature which appears at thc origin of art. At the outset, simple chamfer, fillet or bead, it has grown into more definite and refined forms with the development of the styles. Did it appear at the beginning principally as a useful accessory or as a purely ornamental detail? This I will not attempt to say, but a thing certain is that it admirably fulfils both functions in all known styles. I will not lay stress on its utility or even necessity. I shall content myself, in these brief notes, with a rapid and incomplete review of the evolution of moulding and profile as they appear on the monuments of different ages.



As an element of style, it possesses a prime importance, and nothing can take its place with advantage, not even the most refined and architectural carving. A structure all covered with carving, without any other element of architecture, cannot easily be conceived, while many monuments exclusively ornamented with mouldings are quite satisfactory, and easily suffer the lack of carving sculpture—in fact, the style and age of a monument can be more easily detected solely by the aspect of any of its mouldings than by any other detail.



The shape of the moulding is not arbitrary in any style; it follows the fluctuation of the style ; it hears analogy to the other details which constitute a style. It is scarce and thin in some of the styles, rich and frequent in others ; it has definite forms, whether situated at the base or at the crowning of a building. At all advanced periods, artists have given particular attention to the effect of light and shade, of softness, lightness, sharpness of mouldings.



Let us consider what are known as the historic styles of architecture, and the value given to mouldings, in accordance with the degree of artistic culture acquired by the nations, and also according to the individual tastes of the artists and the expression they wished to imprint upon their works.



We shall pass by primordial epochs, which would take too much of our attention with researches more curious than useful, and rapidly pass in review the most renowned architectural periods.



The mouldings in Egyptian architecture offer little variety in their forms. A plain bead usually ornates the angles of buildings, and frames the several panels filled with hieroglyphics ; a listel, a large cavetto and plinth make the crowning part to almost all the monuments s actually known. But the least initiated feels the intention of the artist to give a definite aspect to his buildings, by the especial disposition and form of his mouldings.



The Greek architecture is far more expressive in its marvelous examples. One is struck by the infinite care and attention given to each moulding and profile. I take at random a parallel of a few Doric capitals (Fig. 1), covering about the whole period of the development of the Done order of architecture, which will serve In emphasize the admirable care, study and research brought to hear upon the composition of mouldings and the importance given to that detail of architecture. The monument of Lysictates (Figs. 3 and 5) is another striking example of refinement in the composition of profiles. The profile of tire monument as a whole shows how well each value, if I may so call it, is placed. How well balanced are the first steps springing front the ground, and giving a basis quite satisfactory for the most critical eye. The cornice of the stylobate comes after, with its forms, still strong and rather massive, but as a transition leading to the delicate columns. The bases of these columns, the simple profiles of the capitals, and the admirable entablature, stand as perfect models and as a reproach to our haggard profiles and mouldings, lacking not only in taste, but being too often placed without reference to convenience and common sense. Examples might be multiplied in Greek architecture only, which has never been surpassed for grace and perfection of all its parts. I will only refer to a few details of ire Erecteion (Figs. 2 and 5) they speak for themselves with an eloquence I am unable to describe.



The Roman architecture offers some good models of mouldings, but they are inferior to those of the Greek orders, from which they are derived. They are lacking in character, and very often are without refinement. Compare, for instance, the profiles of the Roman adaptation of the Doric order, with all its curves drawn with the compass, to the Greek order, with its swelling and studied forms, full of refinement, and showing a persistent aspiration towards ideal beauty



The first Romanesque period, in its clumsy profiles and mould-



Paper read at the seventh convention of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. For figures referred to in this paper see illustration sheets.

, its inert masses of materials, exhibits a confusion of ideas which has its parallel only in our confused times, and more especially in America.



That barbaric period, the offspring of anarchy and confusion, is followed by another, still Romanesque, but more homonogeneous, the mouldings of which attain a great perfection and diversity— Romanesque of the eleventh, twelfth, and part of the thirteenth centuries, of which Figs. 11 to 13 give an idea.



From this period to the end of the last century the form and expression of moulding follows a definite and normal evolution, in this, that its forms are constantly controlled and studied. It is, without doubt, massive and superfluous—I was about to say heavy—with the beginning of the mediaeval period, and becomes more delicate, even meagre arid scarce in some instances, but it always possesses expression, movement, and is expressive of skill and ingenuity. But it loses with the last period many of its useful characteristics, for winch reason greater value attaches to the architecture of preceding epochs (Figs. 15 to 17).

The Renaissance period has chiefly been inspired by the Roman ruins still in existence, but it retains that diversity and boldness derived from medieval periods.

It has devolved upon our times to return to the barbaric confusion of the primitive periods of early Romanesque architecture. The ease with which one can, in our days, style himself an architect, without having any genuine feeling for the art, and having scarcely any knowledge of it, together with the immense quantity of artistic materials, in the shape of pictures, photographs and the like, which is thrown into the hands of everybody, has brought about confusion in tire minds of many, causing then to mix mouldings at random as they would do anything else. I lately came across a very bad example of such work, and I cannot resist the temptation to illustrate it by Fig. —, and also give a few models of mouldings designed by modern French architects (Fig. 16).

The study of good profiles arid mouldings, outside of any other details of architecture, will well repay the student, assisting him to acquire a power of analysis, which is much required in modern architecture.





<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.

THE new Female Seminary at Washington, Pa., has been designed by Miss Elsie Mercur, of Pittsburgh. The contractor is also a woman, Mrs. Clara Meade, of Chicago. There will be a lively time when women also invade the ranks of the trades unions.

x x x

THERE are in the world persons so dull-witted or lacking in sensitiveness that sarcasm is thrown away upon them. An amusing illustration of this has just transpired in England. With the object of putting a check upon vandalism, the authorities at Darston Head had placed at the entrance to an enclosure containing antiquities, two stone slabs, bearing this inscription

" Persons who are anxious to write their names will please do so on this stone." A number of persons accepted the invitation in good faith, and forthwith proceeded to inscribe their names.

x x x

A PECULIAR occurrence, and one which by fortunate chance, did not result in heavy destruction of life, took place on Sept. 13th last at the newly opened quarries at Windmill Point, Ont., from which the stone is being obtained for the new breakwater at Buffalo. During a thunder storm the guy ropes supporting the derricks served as lightning conductors. At the junction of two ropes the lightning went to earth. One of the six holes, charged with about five pounds of explosive, happened to be directly in the course of the electric current, and was discharged in the midst of a large staff of workmen. Fortunately the other pockets were not discharged and nobody was hurt.

x x x

A GERMAN inventor is said to have constructed a house in which a series of vertical and horizontal pipes are arranged in all the walls, floors and ceilings, so

