



<doctype type="text">cient, but the fresh air supply insufficient. The room was also overcrowded. Increased inlets and outlets, with the use of fans, would produce good ventilation in this room, but the heating would require to be changed to suit the new conditions.

The ventilation of the Police Court, with several doors and windows open, cannot he seriously considered. If doors and windows were closed, the room would be altogether too small for the large number of persons who assemble there every day when business is it ansacted

For services rendered during the preparation of this report your committee desire to express grateful acknowledgements to Mr. W. F. Rutley, secretary of the Smead-Dowd Warming and Ventilating Co.; Mr. R. F. Stupart, Meteorological Observatory, and Mr. C. H. Bishop, Superintendent of Buildings, all of Toronto, and also to Mr. John F. White, State Inspector of Public Buildings, Boston, Massachusetts.

Respectfully submitted,

J.	J. CASSIDY, P H BRYCE.









MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

<article title=" STAINED AND PAINTED GLASS " author="">STAINED AND PAINTED GLASS.

A LECTURE was delivered before the Women's Art Association of Montreal by Rev. Canon Norman on "Stained and Painted Glass." The two terms were not synonymous, he explained, though as a fact most windows were the result of a combination of both practices. White and colored glass was made by the ancient Egyptians at least 3,000 years ago. The Greeks and Romans also excelled in the manufacture of glass vessels, but do not seem to have known anything of glass windows. St. Jerome, in the 4th century, seems to have been the first known author who alludes to glass windows. Colored glass windows were apparently used in the 6th century. It is believed that glass painting took its origin in Limoges, and that the first artists were Venetians. The mosaic character of the very old glass suggests that it was modeled on the style of glass mosaics. The art was generally known as early as the 10th century, and the exact process of manufacture has not undergone material change since the 12th century. The lecturer described the tests for determining the date of any old painted window. He went through the history of the art in England from the 13th century to the recent revival, In the early days there was no attempt at perspective, the designs were conventional but the colors were very rich. Much of this early glass was manufactured in Germany. France is very rich in examples of early glass. As time went on, the drawing of the design was much improved, and the same may be said of borders and canopies. But he quality of the glass began to deteriorate. The Renaissance period witnessed the golden age of painted glass so far as mechanical execution went, but there was a marked falling off in reverence and devotional feeling. In England, soon after the Reformation, the demand for stained glass greatly diminished, and enamel coloring, discovered about that time, was freely introduced and impaired the transparency of the glass. Deficient knowledge in the chemical combination of colors tended to produce failures in effect, and lack of permanence The art in fact nearly died throughout Europe, until within the last 40 years. The revival on he continent owed its existence to the energetic skill of French gentleman at Serves, and the revival in England synchronizes with the introduction of Gothic art. The lecturer next described the process of manufacture, which he illustrated by specimens, kindly furnished by

Messrs. Spence Bros. He recommended, in the selection of a window for any church, that the aspect of the window should be taken into consideration, and the architectural details of the church, and he urged the beauty of stained glass as a decorative adjunct for churches and domestic dwellings. The artists of the present day far excel those of ancient days in their drawing, although they may not surpass them in their treatment of color.



<article title=" THE DUTY ON CALCINED PLASTER " author="">THE DUTY ON CALCINED PLASTER.

THE Albert Manufacturing Company, of Hillsborough, N.B., have submitted the following points to the Tariff Commissioners in opposition to a reduction of the present duty on calcined plaster

"That the average price at mill, now obtainable for sales throughout Canada, is 86 cents per barrel of 300 pounds, front which has to be deducted back charges and interest where credit is given. Calcined plaster cannot be manufactured for less than 80 cents per barrel unless in far larger quantities than the present demand of the Canadian market represents. It is quite impossible to increase the present price owing to competition from the manufacturers of plaster in the states of Michigan and Ohio. A reduction in the duty on plaster from 45 to 40 cents, made at the last revision of the tariff, necessitated a corresponding reduction in price to points in most parts in western Canada. Further reduction would make the business unprofitable. The average cost to the consumer at this time is at least 35 cents per barrel less than before the imposition of protective duties, and the price obtainable is at least 25 cents per barrel less for the manufacturer. We would cheerfully welcome reciprocity in this article, and in conclusion submit that if any change be made it should be in the direction of increase rather than decrease in the present rate, no satisfactory reason having yet been given for the reduction above referred to. The manufacture of this article is important in the locality in which it is made, i. e., in the parish of Hillsborough, county of Albert, N. B. It also affords considerable freight for the Intercolonial Railway, total shipments over this road for the year 1896 amounting to 23,144 barrels, and if not discouraged would in time become a very important contributor in the way of freight to this railway."

The present sales of the company in Canada were shown to be 23,000 barrels. Last year 60,000 tons of plaster rock were shipped to the United States, and each ton of rock makes about eight barrels of plaster.



The McIntosh Granite and Marble Company, Ltd., is applying for incorporation, to acquire the business of P. McIntosh & Sons, Toronto.

Messrs. J. C. Spence & Sons, of Montreal, have executed a handsome stained glass window, for the chapel of St. George's Cathedral, Kingston. The window is being erected in memory of the late Wm. H. K. Macauley.



The Dominion Electric Heating amid Supply Company, are applying for incorporation, to manufacture electric heaters and other electrical appliances. The capital stock is $100,000, and among the promoters are Thomas Askwith, contractor, and J. A. Trudeau, electrician, both of Ottawa.



Mr. Samuel Cabot, of Boston, has issued a handsome half-tone plate of the "Old Pierce House,' at Dorchester, Mass., built in 1635. Mr. Cabot uses this old house as an illustration of the durability and value of eel grass as a preservative material, the walls of this old structure having been found to have been stuffed with this grass. This grass is employed by Mr. Cabot as an Insulating material in his sheathing and deafening quilt.

