



<doctype type="text">mason will place and ram a cubic yard in half an hour. Concrete is generally measured by the cubic yard or by the superficial yard, according to the kind of work, and the cost is gauged by the cost of material and labor. Cellar bottoms and walks are generally prepared by the use of from 2 to 6 inches of concrete, on the top of which is finished from one-half an inch to two inches of top dressing compound, of one part of best Canadian Portland cement, and one and a half or two parts of coarse sharp sand. The cost of this class of work varies from 50 cents to $1.25 per superficial yard, the latter sum being for the best work made, not less than six inches thick, and built in a good gravel or shale base, rating cement at $3.50 per barrel, and sharp, clean sand at $1.00 per cubic yard, mason's wages at $3.00 per day, and laboring man at $1.25 per day. Any change in these prices will, of course, affect the cost per yard of the work.



<article title=" MESSRS. HAWES & MATCHETT " author="">MESSRS. HAWES & MATCHETT.

OUR travelling representative furnishes some particulars of Messrs. Hawes & Matchett, of St. Thomas, Ont., who, he states, are one of the most progressive contracting firms in western Ontario, Their planing mill and factory, of which we give an illustration, is situated on Ross street, and is thoroughly equipped with modern machinery, thus enabling them to manufacture all the woodworking material required in their work, as well as to do a supply trade with other builders. A large lumber business is also done, their yards adjoining the factory being well stocked with the different grades of lumber.

The firm has been organized for about twelve years.

Mr. S. Hawes, the senior member, was born near London in 1846, and after leaving school engaged in several minor mercantile lines until forming the present partnership. Mr. Hawes is held in high esteem by his fellow townsmen, having been elected as alderman for three successive years, then refusing further nomination

Mr. Edward Matchett, the junior member is also a Canadian, having been born in the county of Haldimand

<article title=" THE LATE G. W. REED " author="">THE LATE G. W. REED.

READERS of this journal will regret to learn of the death of Mr. Geo. W. Reed, the well-known roofer and manufacturer of roofing materials, of Montreal, who formed the subject of a biographical sketch in our January number. In this issue we reproduce his portrait, together with some particulars of his active life. Deceased was in his 69th year, was a native of New Hampshire, but came to Montreal as far back as







































1852, when he entered into partnership with Mr. Raynor, another New Hampshire citizen, under the title of Reed & Raynor, in the slate-roofing business, being among the first to introduce that industry into that city. On the retirement of Mr. Raynor the business was carried on by Mr. Reed alone, who succeeded in building up an extensive business. He was an active member of the American Presbyterian church, from its establishment at the corner of McGill and St. James streets, and besides being an elder for many years, taught in the Cross mission for over thirty years. In business circles Mr. Reed always stood in the front rank, having done much to elevate the standard of business integrity in the community.



<article title=" AN AUSTRALIAN ARCHITECT

AND BUILDER.

" author="">AN AUSTRALIAN ARCHITECT

AND BUILDER.

WE have recently been favored with some particulars of Mr. J. H. Garratt, of Sydney, Australia. Mr. Garratt is a brother of exalderman Joshua Garratt, the well-known contractor of London, Ont., and holds the position of architect and superintendent of construction for the New South Wales Fresh Food and Ice Company, a concern of large magnitude, who are constantly adding to their many branch houses. Mr. Garratt states in a letter to his brother that the building trade of Australia very quiet.

in the year 1852. After leaving school he learned the carpenter trade, working as journeyman until removing to St. Thomas in 1880, where he engaged in the building business until 1885, when he became a member of the present firm. Mr. Matchett, being a thoroughly practical workman, gives his supervision to all details.



Mr. j. Fenn, contracting plasterer, of London, reports prospects for season's business very promising. He has recently completed the interior of the Congregational church, Horton street.

He has recently finished a cold storage factory at Grafton, where over $5,000 per week is paid out for produce, while the factory is only working to one quarter of its capacity. He is about to commence the construction of a $150,000 plant and buildings at Sydney, where the head offices of the firm are situated.



The oldest wooden building in the world is a church at Borgund, Norway. It was erected in the eleventh century and frequent coats of pitch have preserved the wood from decay.

