<doctype type="text">

BY THE WAY.

ON the 2nd inst. a Masonic service was held in St. Paul's Cathedral in London in commemoration of the two hundredth anniversary of the opening of that noble edifice. The sermon on the occasion was preached by the Bishop of London, as was the first sermon by Bishop Compton.

x x x

In noticing the numerous effective sketches of ancient work appearing in the pages of the catalogue of the TSquare club, of Philadelphia, the London Builder makes the candid admission that "in the matter of architectural drawing the Americans are heating us, if they have not done so already."

 x x x

IT is a common practice for thieves to enter vacant houses and carry off lead pipe and other plumbing fixtures. A case came under my notice the other day where a theft of this character was perpetrated in broad daylight on one of the fashionable residential streets of Toronto. Architects, builders, owners and agents of property and others interested may take a lesson from an ingenious contractor of New York who has adopted the plan of placing, each evening, at one of the street windows of his building a dummy watchman, in the same manner as the farmer fixes a scarecrow in his corn field. The watchman is apparently leaning against the window casing and looking into the street. In the daytime he disappears, and a curious inhabitant of that neighborhood, who questioned the contractor about it, was informed that the scarecrow saved him a dollar a night.

x x x

OF the authorized expenditure of 100,000,000 francs in connection with the Paris Exhibition of 1900, about 62,000,000 francs will be absorbed by architectural and engineering works. The two palaces on the ChampsElysees, devoted to art will cost 20,000,000 francs. The large palace in the Champ-de-Mars will cost 18,000,000 francs, the buildings on the Esplanade of the Invalides 5,000,000, and the small buildings along the quays 1,600,000 francs. Bridges and other communications across the Seine, including the Pont Alexandre III, are put down for 5,000,000 francs, while the works for utilizing the river will cost 3,000,000. It is estimated that mechanical and electrical power will need 6,750,000. The circular railway is to cost 1,500,000 francs. In this connection mention may be made of the fact that it is proposed to hold an International Congress of Architects at Paris during the progress of the great Exhibition.

x x x

HAPPENING, a few days ago, to glance out of my office window, in the direction of the new Toronto municipal buildings, I saw a workman sliding down a rope from the top of the tower. The great risk of such a proceeding was so apparent that I could not believe the act was performed by instruction from the architect or contractor in charge of the work. I therefore applied to one of the principal contractors for the facts, and was told that the act was the result of the man's own foolhardiness. The contractor further stated that on two occasions he had taken the trouble to expostulate with the man, but his warnings had been disregarded. This foolish recklessness recalls an incident which occurred nearly a quarter of a century ago at the St. Lawrence market building on King street east, Toronto. A painter, proud of his agility, in spite of the

remonstrance of his employer and friends, insisted on climbing to the top of the dome of the building to put a few finishing touches to the flag staff. He safely arrived at the spot where the work was to be performed, but in reaching out with one hand for his paint pot, lost his balance and fell from point to point of the roof until he lodged behind a chimney. When some of the spectators reached the spot from the street below, they found the man's lifeless body. When the unavoidable risks connected with the erection of buildings are so great as to demand special legislation to insure precaution on the part of employers and employees, what shall be said of workmen who deliberately take their lives in their hands in the manner to which I have referred?

<article title=" UNION INFLUENCE ON PUBLIC BODIES " author="">

UNION INFLUENCE ON PUBLIC BODIES.

MR. Meathe, President of the National Association of Builders, in his annual address before the recent convention of that society, expressed himself as follows

"As each year seems to decrease the profits in all business, especially in ours, there seems to be on the opposite an increase of obstacles, mainly those brought on by labor unions. While it is the right of all trades, no matter what they may he, to organize to accomplish something the individual can not accomplish, still they have no right to prevent others from earning their living because they are not members of their organizations. I speak of this to-day because in our fair city we have municipal boards, organized under the laws of the State, who have the audacity to put into the terms of their contracts that none but union labor should be employed on that work, thereby discriminating against those who are citizens and tax payers, whose conscience will not permit them to be members of any organization.

While such a contract is not valid, yet it shows that there is creeping into our municipal boards a species of demagoguery which bodies organized as ours should take cognizance of, and in justice to ourselves we should enter an earnest protest. How would it sound to those gentlemen who comprise a portion- -I am sorry to say they are in the majority on those boards

—if those contracts read that none but members of the Builders' Exchange could build their edifices? The labor unions would be up in arms it such were the case, and justly, too. They might as well put in their contracts that we should employ none but red-haired men or men of a particular denomination. It is a pitiable spectacle, indeed, to see men, reputable gentlemen, whose oath of office is to obey the laws of the State, willingly violate them for the purpose of gaining votes."



PUBLICATIONS.

We are indebted to the publisher, Mr. Wm. T. Comstock, 23 Warren street, New York, for a copy of the fourth annual edition of thc Architects Directory. The price of the book is one dollar.

The pictorial calendar of the Toronto Art League, has won its way into the affections of lovers of art to such a degree that its reappearance is eagerly looked for, In the calendar for 1898, which lately reached our table, thc high standard of artistic excellence of previous years is well maintained, while the motif of the work differs entirely. Thc drawings are suggestive of the every day life of thc past in Canada, and to the mind of the older generation of Canadians will serve to recall a host of memories connected with pioneer days in this country. To the younger generation they will convey a vivid impression of the obstacles with which their sturdy forefathers had to contend in laying the foundations of our present civilization.

