



<doctype type="text">called "liquidated damages, at other times it is a penalty. There is a very fine distinction between these two terms. If it chances to be of the nature of a penalty, but the contract states distinctly it is "liquidated damages, agreed on by the parties, and is not in the nature of a penalty, it will make no difference in the interpretation the court will put upon the matter. Where the amount stated to be paid is evidently what the parties assess the damages caused by the breach of the contract, the stipulation will be upheld as liquidated damages, but where the object is to secure its performance by the imposition of an amount in excess of the loss likely to be sustained it will be considered a penalty and will not be enforced. It will not be difficult in most building contracts to fix beforehand the amount of liquidated damages and if an honest attempt has been made to ascertain the fair and proper amount even where there is more or less uncertainty it will be recoverable as liquidated damages.

In the case of a dwelling the probable amount of the rent that would be received may be taken or the owner may have sold the dwelling in which he was living at the time of making the contract and may have rented another. In any case the object ought to be to put the matter in such shape that there will be little likelihood of an attempt being made to drag it into court. It would seem that if the damages named are in the nature of a penalty, they cannot be enforced without applying to the courts. If they are really liquidated damages there is small chance of the amount being attacked.

At some future time I may attempt to draft a model contract, for discussion on the lines roughly laid down in this paper. For the present, though I have not exhausted the subject, I think I have covered the main points to be embodied in a working contract for everyday use.





<article title="The Credit Forks Stone Quarries" author="">THE CREDIT FORKS STONE QUARRIES.

SITUATED at Credit Forks, Ont., on the Orangeville branch of the C.P.R., about forty miles from Toronto, are the quarries from which the celebrated Credit Valley stone is obtained. This stone has a wide reputation owing to its adaptability for building purposes, and the interest taken therein by architects and builders justifies a brief description of the quarries and the method of developing them.

The quarries were first opened about seventeen years ago by Messrs. Scott & Pattullo and K. C. Chisholm, ex-M.P.P., of Brampton, who operated them in a moderate way for a number of years. In the year 1890 the property was purchased by Messrs. Carroll & Vick, of Toronto, the)' having the contract at that time for the Parliament buildings in Toronto, which were built of Credit Valley stone. This firm proceeded to operate the quarries on a more extensive scale, and as the stone became better known a much greater demand was the result. In the spring of 896 the firm name was changed to the Credit Forks Mining & Manufacturing Company, Ltd., Messrs. Carroll and Vick still retaining the largest interest. The officers of the company are R. Carroll, president ; J. B. Vick, 1st vice-president ; J. H. Mc-Knight, 2nd vice-president F. J. Beharriell, secretary treasurer.

One of the first important buildings to be built of Credit Valley stone was the Hamilton post office, and since the erection of this building the demand for the stone has increased greatly, owing to its fine color and texture. In many of the best public and private buildings, churches, etc., this stone has been used, until to-day we find it being employed in all the principal cities of the Dominion, such as Montreal, Toronto, Hamilton, London, Peterboro', Woodstock St. Thomas, Brantford and others. The Foresters' Temple and the new Union Station in Toronto, which speak for themselves as to beauty of appearance, are two recent buildings constructed of this stone. One of the essential features of the exterior of a building is that the materials should harmonize one with the other, and this quality is possessed to a large extent by the Credit Valley brown stone. It gives the appearance of weight and solidity to the building and does not require dressing to any great extent, a great deal of the beauty of the stone being in the natural rock, while the color is not deadened by the use of the tool.

The quarries are equipped with the best appliances, such as steam hoists, derricks, etc., to facilitate the quarrying of the stone in large quantities The situation of the quarries is about 200 feet above the river bed, and upwards of too feet from the top of the mountain. On account of the great distance from the top, it is impossible to strip to work an open quarry. It therefore becomes necessary to mine by drifting in at the level of

the freestone bed, and on a line with the brown stone, the five or six feet of Grey and off color underneath making the floor of the mine. This leaves about eight feet of brown and two feet of Grey on top. As will be seen by reference to the illustrations printed on another page, it is operated by means of two tunnels or gateways 150 feet apart and 2 feet wide, which permits of a tramway. These tunnels are now about 400 feet long, and at the end of each a drift 30 feet wide and from 75 to 100 feet long each way is mined. This is done by practical miners. First, they remove the shale between the freestone and limestone rock with picks, then break down the layers of limestone for say five feet up, this material being used for building supporting walls in old drifts. Sufficient room is thus provided to place in the timber to support the roof, which is done by placing large timbers across the drift about two feet apart, the temporary props used in the progress of the mining being removed in sections as the timbers are placed and wedged tightly to the roof. The work is then ready for the rock getters, who drill and blast out the rock in the usual way, taking great care in using the powder so as to cut the dimensions required without fracturing the rock. When the rock is cut it is placed on cars by means of wire cables running from the steam hoist through sheaf blocks hung from the timber of roof, the cars being propelled on tramways by steam power. The rock is then lifted off the cars by the derrick outside, and cut up into smaller dimensions b)' the quarrymen. When read)' for shipment it is lowered to the siding by a tramway, the distance being 100 feet. Two trucks are used, which carry about six tons each. The loaded truck is lowered by a large drum with a brake at each end, and as it descends the empty truck is drawn up by a wire cable. About one hour is occupied in loading a car.



<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.

Mr. Benjamin Brick, contractor, of Toronto, is at present Oil a six weeks' trip to the Pacific coast.

Messrs. Jos. H. MacDuff and Ludger Lemieux, architects, have formed a partnership, with office in Montreal.

At Charlottetown, P.E.I., Mr. John W. Morrison, Secretary of Public Works for Prince Edward Island, died on April 12th, at the age of 77 years.

Mr. John Heyman, of John Heyman & Sons, contractors, London, Out., has returned from a trip to England, and appears to be much benefited in health by his visit.

The plumbing firm of Worthington, Garratt & Armstrong, Toronto, has been dissolved, Mr. Thos. Worthington retiring. The business will be continued by Mr. Armstrong under the old name.

Mr. W. H. Powell, architect, who has for a number of years

practiced at Stratford, has formed a partnership with Mr. James Carswell, of Chatham. The new firm will probably have offices in both the above cities.



Mr. J. H. McGregor, who has had charge of the Toronto agency of the Dominion Bridge Company, has resigned, and will engage in the mining business at Rat Portage. His successor is Mr. Geo. Evans, who will occupy the same offices in the Canada Life Building.



Messrs. Henry Simpson and J. A. Ellis, architects, of Toronto, have formed a partnership under the name of Simpson & Ellis. The arrangement will take effect on the first of June, and the new firm will occupy offices at 9 1/2 Adelaide street. We predict for them a fair share of patronage.

Mr. J. Gill, one of the oldest citizens of Montreal, died in that city last month. Deceased was born in Edinburghshire, Scotland, on the 14th of February, 1806. He arrived in Montreal on the 21st June, 1833, and up to ten years ago carried on business as contractor and box manufacturer.

Mr. Alfred Bodley is the latest addition to the architects of London, having opened an office in the Hiscox building. Mr. Bodley, although a young man and a native of London, has already had a large experience both in Canada and the United States, and will no doubt succeed iii establishing a good practice.





The fifteenth annual convention of the National Association of Master Plumbers is announced to take place in New York, opening June 15th and continuing for three days.

Mr. Charles Baillairgé, city engineer of Quebec, is fitting up a room for a museum of samples of building materials, models of paving and mechanical appliances used in corporation works. This will he found a convenience for contractors, engineers, etc.

New plumbing associations continue to be formed in the cities and towns of the Dominion. The latest effort in this direction is at St. Thomas, Out., where Mr. J. Flaherty, assisted by other members of the trade, hopes to succeed in organizing an active association.

