

<doctype type="text"><article title="The Evolution of Architecture in Northwest Canada" author="Wheeler, H. Charles H. ">THE EVOLUTION OF ARCHITECTURE IN

NORTHWEST CANADA.

	BY	<person>H. CHAS. H. W HEELER</person>.



ARCHITECTURE

in Northwest Canada, particularly

alluding to Manitoba and the adjacent territory, has undoubtedly passed its happy stage, has gone through its teens and is now only waiting to develop into vigorous manhood with the advent of settlers and capitalists.

The evolution Of this important section of the fine arts in this part of the Dominion of Canada has been surprisingly rapid-----not excelled even by the mushroom growth of some of the large Western cities of the United States.

Thirty or thirty—five years ago Winnipeg was an aggregation of log houses surrounding Fort Garry, an

Hudson's Bay Company's post the plains of Manitoba and the territories stretching away for nearly a thousand miles westward to the foot hills of the Rocky Mountains, uninhabited, except by Indians and half-breeds.

The year 1870 brought considerable changes. with the influx of settlers came an increased demand for comfort the old style log-built buildings gave way to the '' balloon " structure span roofed dwellings, a single chimney, the woodshed as an adjunct in the rear. Stores sprang up plain frame churches were built, and later a city was formed. At this period architecture must be pictured in its primitive form, every man being his own designer and the level prairie his working foundation.

The ensuing ten years to 1880 was one of steady architectural progress, the closing period of this decade being marked by the near approach of the Canadian Pacific Railway, the opening out of stone quarries and the local manufacture of bricks, of which considerable use was made in many new structures.

From 1880 to 1883 a tremendous impetus was given to the building trades by the passing through the city and province of the above railroad, then reaching out its mighty iron tentacles towards the Pacific Ocean, creating that much—talked—about real estate boom which brought Winnipeg so much notoriety, and with it world-wide fame.

This was in verity a golden period for professional men, and, as a result, architecture received that attention due to one of the fine arts in the palmy days when money was plentiful, and clients kicked not at the percentage demanded.

During these years, and for two or three years afterwards, scores literally scores of architects, from all parts of the world, hung their '' shingles " up to the light of day, and public buildings, churches, schools, stores and residences sprang up as if by magic. New streets were laid out, a system of drainage to the Red River put in, sanitary plumbing began to be thought of, scientific heating and ventilation was introduced, but

and it must be told— solidity of construction was not so much aimed at as the prettily got-lip picture elevation to catch the eye of the "tenderfoot."

The creations of the Greeks, the Romans of Augustus day, the monks and master masons of the middle ages, the Italian Renaissance, were repeated piecemeal, with he addition of redundant modern ornamentation on many of the buildings imitations even of the early Christian basilica surmounted edifices utterly unsuited n style to its use.

It may he taken as a correct statement that profuse and overdone outside details in these days meant flimsi

ness in other ways --hence the trouble to-day in repairing and putting in stone foundations, bracing up and strengthening these very buildings. However, it is a pleasure to be able to praise quite a number of wellbuilt and tastefully designed structures erected in those years, in which considerable attention was paid to proportion, symmetry, and fitness. Amongst the most prominent were the Hudson's Bay stores, post office, <building>Holy Trinity church</building>, <building>St. John's college</building>, Richardson block, Stobart block, the Jail, Court House, Legislative Buildings and in succeeding years <building>Wesley College</building>, Baptist Church, new Court House, <building>Ottawa Bank</building>, Westminster block, <building>Manitoba Hotel</building>, Gait's, Peck's, Ashdown's Sanford's and the Massey warehouses, and many others.

Mulvey, Dufferin, Euclid and Argyle schools are good specimens of later day architecture ; the Collegiate also is a substantial and creditable structure. AII these schools are answering their purposes admirably.

Scores of fine residences have go tie up since the boom years, more or less artistic in design, as the owners were possessed of the artistic taste and the money to gratify their wishes in building for the expression of ideas, and for beauty of form, instead of truckling to that spirit of commercialism which makes itself so on— pleasantly conspicuous in these days of utilitarianism and race for wealth.

The town of Emerson boomed for a while at the same time as Winnipeg, and some handsome blocks were built. The town of Portage Ia Prairie and the city of Brandon were also created the two latter places are flourishing to—day, whilst Emerson is in a decaying state.

The prominent buildings to-day in Brandon are the post office, most of the bank buildings, the in sane asylum, hospital, Fleming block, etc.; at Portage La Prairie the jail, court house, home for incurables and Alleyway and Champion's bank are amongst the leading architectural features. Morden, on the South Western Railway, is also a rising place with several handsome blocks.

Other towns on the North Western Railway could be mentioned favorably as regards architectural progress, and not a few of the numerous towns on the C. P. R. as far as Calgary are following suit. The village of Selkirk also possesses its well-built insane asylum.

Calgary is one of the prettiest places in the Northwest, and contains some well-designed blocks built of local stone.

It will not be denied by intelligent observers that the sister arts, music, painting and architecture, are closely allied— -so close that should one of the sisters languish for lack of encouragement, the others droop their heads accordingly. This brings us without further circumlocution to the plain statement that, although money is said to be the root of all evil, it is absolutely necessary for the expansion of architecture as one of the fine arts, and that there should be plenty of it. Give the architects in the Northwest equal opportunities in this respect with their confreres in the East, and the artistic quality of their work would become immediately apparent. Even as it is, under somewhat unfavorable surroundings, very much has been done in establishing a higher plane in architectural proportion, skill in design, combined with solidity of construction, highly creditable to those professional gentlemen who have stood the heat and burden of the day, and are with us still.

The scope of this article is practically unlimited, but the space allotted to it by the editor of this journal is necessarily cramped. There is still much to say on many important matters, including a closer analysis of a number of blocks and residences not mentioned here at all. However, enough has been written to show that only in progress is there life ; and that we are really progressing, but very slowly, is certainly true. It is fitting, therefore, to reiterate with increased emphasis, the statement that architecture in Manitoba and the Northwest is only waiting to develop into vigorous man— hood with the advent of' capitalists and settlers.

