<doctype type="text">Courts, and it is probable that should an adverse decision be given in the lower Courts, the case will be carried by appeal to the Court of highest resort. The architectural societies of the United States are very properly being urged to support the architects who have entered this action and contribute to the costs, in order that the rights of architects in competitions may be legally established.



<article title=" THE. Retirement of Mr. Thos. Fuller " author="">THE. Retirement of Mr. Thos. Fuller. news of the retirement of Mr. Thomas Fuller from the position of chief architect 

of the Public Works Department, was received with regret by all who enjoy that gentleman's acquaintance. This regret is intensified by the fact that his superannuating allowance has been fixed at a much smaller sum than he is entitled to receive. When Mr. Fuller accepted the position of chief architect, it was with the understanding that whenever he should be superannuated, ten years would be added to the period of his occupancy of the position, and his allowance calculated accordingly. This agreement was made in accordance with section 4 of appendix No. 2 of the Act respecting the superannuating of persons employed in the civil service of Canada, which reads as follows: "The governor in council may, in the case of any person who

entered the civil service after the age of thirty years, as being possessed of some peculiar professional or oilier qualifications or attainments required for the office to which he was appointed, and not ordinarily to be acquired in the public service, add to the actual number of years' service of such person, such further number of years not exceeding ten as is considered equitable for reasons stated in the order-in-council made in the case; and such additional number of years shall be taken as part of the term of service on which the superannuating allowance of such person shall be computed and the order-in-council in any such case shall be laid before Parliament at us then current or next insuring session.

46 V. c. 8, S. 3."



Unfortunately for Mr. Fuller, no written or printed record was preserved of this condition of his agreement, and notwithstanding the tact that Sir Hector Langevin, who was Minister of Public Works at the time the appointment was made, has written a letter vouching for the fact that such was the nature of the understanding between Mr. Fuller and the government of that day, the present authorities refuse to recognize the agreement. Under these circumstances Mr. Fuller will be forced to bring the matter up in Parliament, where it is to be hoped the justice of his claim will be recognized.



IN New York and at the Brooklyn Navy A New Method Of Yard, tests have recently been made of

Cleaning Iron.

the application of the sand blast for the



purpose of cleaning iron prior to painting. The apparatus used consisted of a Blake blowing engine and receiver for compressed air and a sand mixer with flexible pipes connecting to the receiver and a working nozzle. The engine was operated at 100 lbs. pressure from the boiler of a road rolling machine. The gauge showed a pressure of from 18 to 20 lbs. of air. The air at this pressure was forced through the mixer and, taking up the fine natural sand therein contained, forced it through a 2 1/2-inch hose thirty feet in length and 3/4-inch nozzle upon the surface of the iron at a distance of about six inches from the iron. By this method a steel column was cleaned at the rate of nearly two square feet per minute, one-tenth of a cubic foot of sand being used per square foot of surface cleaned. By the same method 25 square feet of the bottom of an iron vessel in the Brooklyn Navy Yard was cleaned in about six minutes. The

estimated cost in the case of the New York test, on a viaduct, was from three-quarters of a cent to one cent per square foot. It is thought that this might be considerably reduced by reducing the amount of scaffolding. The sand blast is said to remove paint, etc., without having any appreciable effect on the solid steel, the surface treated being cleaned of every particle of paint, rust, grease, etc., and the metal being left bright and clear, exposing even the cavities, irregularities and pitting, and edges of cracks and joints being penetrated beyond the limit of accessibility by the brush. The method is said, however, to be very destructive to stone, brick, cast iron, or other crystalline substances.



<article title=" Canadian Cement " author="">Canadian Cement

WE are pleased to observe that the. Dominion government recently awarded

a contract for 20,000 barrels of Canadian native cement. The quality of both the native and Portland cement manufactured in Canada has been proved beyond question, consequently no satisfactory reason can be given for the large yearly purchases of foreign cement which have hitherto been made by the government for use in Dominion public works. Because of the partiality thus shown for the foreign article, the Canadian cement manufacturing industry has to a large extent languished and proved unprofitable. An English contemporary, the Builders' Reporter, in discussing this subject in a recent issue, has obtained an entirely wrong view of the situation, and in consequence, makes improper deductions, as follows: " Canada has to depend mainly on imported cement. During the year 1895, out of 255,000 casks which were used no less than 223,000 casks were imports. England supplies about 45 per cent. and Belgium 25 per cent. Up to March, 1866, the duty was 20 per cent. of the value, now it ranges from 33 to 52 per cent. In some cases the duty is found to exceed the cost of the cement. In consequence, an immense quantity of inferior cement is employed in Canada, and ordinary mortar is substituted for cement. Protection may have its advantages in a country like Canada, but if within a few years bridges on railways and roads and other public works can no longer exhibit sound masonry, the cost of repairs will be more than an equivalent for any gain derived from an excessive tariff. If Canada cannot produce cement there is no native industry to be protected, and therefore, for the sake of a fiction, the country is saddled with the expense of upholding a kind of construction that would not be tolerated in Great Britain." Our contemporary is entitled to pardon for having assumed that the large importations of foreign cement were due to the fact that Canadians did not know how to manufacture the article in a satisfactory manner. The large extent to which foreign cement has been used in our public works would naturally convey this impression to the mind of an outsider. There is, however, no ground for the conclusion—on the contrary, recent tests have shown the home-manufactured article to be superior in some instances to the imported one. We are pleased to see that the present Dominion government has shown a disposition to recognize this fact. There is abundance of the requisite material in Canada for the manufacture of both native and Portland cement. As the result of experiments carried on for a number of years, the requisite knowledge of methods has been gained, and if assured that the merits of the home article will in future receive fair consideration, we have no doubt that the number and capacity of

