<doctype type="text">the plate should very nearly cover the whole stone where possible. ________________________





WHEN a contractor estimates on the Ornamental Work, cost of carving and other ornamental

work, when in stone or in wood, he often runs considerable risk, unless there is a plentiful supply of large scale details to form the basis of his estimate, or unless he is thoroughly familiar with the style in which the architect is in the habit of having his work carried out. In an open competition, where the lowest tender is to be accepted, there is little doubt that the differences between estimates are often largely due to vague drawings or the absence of provisional sums for the ornamental work in the specifications. Margina sketches in the specifications are great aids to the estimator, and ought to be made more use of than they are

—especially in these days of rapid work, when it often happens that there is not time to draw many details before the contract is signed. Contractors should not be asked to spend too much time in figuring on a job they may not get, and to aid them the architect should make everything as plain and as easily understood as possible. An inexperienced man who secures a contract in a competition may well doubt if he has not engaged in an unprofitable undertaking; and because of his lack of knowledge, and hurried figuring, may even come to envy those who have given time and thought to the preparation of estimates which have not been accepted. There can be no successful estimate made of carved work if each piece is not dealt with in detail, and this cannot be done if time is not allowed for the purpose.



THE present manner of laying brick in Walling up. dead walls gives one the impression

that the quantity of bricks laid is of far more importance than the quality of the work done. The only way to obtain good solid brick walling is to either flush the joints solid with mortar every course, or make a shove joint ; the former method takes too much time and material, and the latter is very rarely done except in very heavy buildings. The custom generally adopted is to spread the mortar on the bricks (a portion only of which gets in the joints) and lay the bricks on top, each succeeding course being bedded in mortar, but the longitudinal and cross joints are only partially filled, the butting joint of the brick receiving a little dab of mortar gathered on the point of the trowel by cleaning the surplus mortar from the outside joint. Grouting with cement mortar every two courses in height might be adopted for basements and first stories of buildings when great strength is required. Full headers for face bricks are better than clippings and should be specified for all heavy buildings. The face bricks are often built up fifteen or twenty courses high before the backing up is done, a custom that should not be permitted as it leaves the wall subject to many defects, as it cannot be well bonded or tied together sufficiently strong to be able to resist unequal strains successfully. For good strong work the mortar joints should never exceed five-sixteenths of an inch in thickness.

The annual election of officers of the Toronto Master Plumbers'

Association held early n February, resulted as follows: President,



W.	J. Burroughes (re-elected); 1ST vice-president J. B. Fitz..

simmons (re-elected); 2nd vice-president J. Wilson; secretary,

F.	W. Armstrong (re-elected); corresponding secretary, M. P.

Huffman; treasurer, A. Fiddes (re-elected); door-keeper, W. B.

 Inwood.

<article title="the Late Peter Balfour" author="">THE LATE PETER BALFOUR.

THERE passed away on the 21st of January last one of the best known and most popular citizens of Hamilton, in the person of Mr. Peter Balfour, who had been at the head of the city assessment department for nearly thirty-five years. Mr. Balfour was taken ill about three weeks ago with erysipelas, which finally resulted in his death. During his life-time he had enjoyed ordinary good health, but since a severe illness three years ago his constitution had shown signs of weakening.

The late Mr. Balfour, a portrait of whom we have the pleasure of presenting on this page, was a warm-hearted and generous Scotch man, having been born in Fifeshire, Scotland, in 1819. Coming to Canada when a youth, he settled in Hamilton in 1842, and shortly afterwards, in partnership with Mr. John Waugh, commenced business as builder and contractor. Subsequently he carried on a similar business for himself, and was also the representative of several large milling institutions.

About 1856 Mr. Balfour entered public life, being elected a councilor in the days when the city's affairs were in the hands of aldermen and councilors. In





































THE LATE PETER BALFOUR.





1857, when the construction of the Hamilton water-works was undertaken, he was chosen one of the water commissioners, and served until the works passed into the hands of the city.

Early in the sixties Mr. Balfour was appointed assessor, in conjunction with the late Mr. Tendill. He was subsequently made chief assessor, and in 1883 received the appointment of assessment overseer. Upon the rearrangement of the assessment department in 1890 he was made assessment commissioner, a position which he occupied with much efficiency and credit to himself. He was thoroughly acquainted with every inch of land and every building, and was an expert in calculations. He was noted for his sterling honesty and quiet, genial disposition. Four daughters and two sons survive him, the latter being Mr. James Balfour, architect, and Mr. Peter Balfour, of the Victoria Mutual Fire Insurance Company.

His funeral was attended by the City Council in a body, and by the city officials.



The plumbers of Ottawa are urging upon the City Council the necessity of appointing an inspector of plumbing in order that defective work may not be permitted to enter into building construction. The Builders' Union have also taken steps in the same direction.

