<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	9



<article title="Ontario Association of Architects" author=""><assoc>ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS</assoc>.



PROCEEDINGS OF ANNUAL CONVENTION.





T

HE annual Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects was held in the building of the School of Practical Science, Queen's Park, Toronto, on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week.

On the first day the President, Mr. <person>H. B. Gordon</person>, took the chair at 2.30 p. in., and called the meeting to order, there being then about a score of members present.

The proceedings were opened by the reading of the minutes of the last annual meeting, which were adopted without discussion.

PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.



The President then proceeded to read the following address

In welcoming you to this annual convention of the Ontario associate of Architects, it is not my purpose to weary you with a review of architectural progress during the last year. The hard times that have prevailed so long, still continue their depressing effect upon the number and size of our commissions. works of' any magnitud3e have been few, and the majority of architects have had abundant time for study and reflection. All experience should have an educating influence, so we may expect the result of this lull in the exercise of our constructive powers to be a gain to our reflective faculties. May we also hope that when the wave of prosperity again makes us all very busy

there will be manifest a distinct improvement in our architecture.

Out of the evil of dull times should spring the good of better

preparation for a revival of business.

In our collective as well as individual capacity it is hoped that the lull has not been without its advantages. It has certainly afforded us ample time to reflect upon the weaknesses of present architectural practice and the possibilities of improving it by organization and united effort. In common with many other citizens, some architects are apt to say that they (meaning some— one other than themselves) should get such and such laws passed, or do so and so in regard to the profession, and then things will

be righted. They forget that all have their duty to perform in making efficient our present organization, and also all have their influence in seeking to secure further legislative action. As you are aware we very nearly succeeded in getting the amendment to our Act carried at the last session of the Legislature Having passed the second reading, and to that extent having its principle affirmed, it was referred to a special committee nominated by the Speaker of the House. Owing possibly to the personal opposition of the Speaker, on this committee there several members who were opposed to the Bill. Thus, while the mover and seconder and the Minister of Education spoke strongly in favor of the proposed amendments, the forces for and against were so evenly balanced that it was thought inadvisable to press the matter to a vote at the risk of defeat. The Bill was reported back to the House on the understanding that it be withdrawn for that session

From the necessary interviewing of members of the House, we gathered that the object of the amendment was much better understood than formerly, and that our cause had gained many new friends. With few exceptions the only opposition on the part of members arose from an anxiety as to how such a measure might be viewed by some of their constituents. Not that there can be any reasonable ground for objection when the measure is understood, but they seemed to fear that country builders and others might conclude that the passage of the amendment would limit their practice and ultimately lead to the compulsory employment of architects

We wonder how any such idea could arise in the mind of anyone who carefully reads the proposed amendment. Everyone will be as free after the passage of the amendment as before it, to draw plans for themselves or for others, and make such charges as they desire. No man's livelihood will be restricted in the least The only point of limitation will be, that a man cannot call himself an architect when he is not one It is a question of common honesty, and all who are opposing the amendment are either consciously or unconsciously assisting in perpetuating a fraud upon the public.

It is far more in the interests of the public than in those of present practising architects t , that some compulsory educational Standard should be set up it distinctly to the interest of the public that architecture e should be improved. it is the an whose productions are constantly be fore the eye the one whose practice most intimately affects the health and comfort of the people, and the one whose judicious use of materials is so necessary for the wise investment of capital. As we cannot have good architecture without well-educated architects, and as some compulsory standard of education is necessary to ensure that architects be well educated, the public in t their own interests should desire the passage of the amendment to our Hill.

There is reason to believe that the educational campaign carried on by the Association for the last few years will bear fruit in the passage of our amendment at the next session of the Legislature In order to accomplish this, however, the Association must make a united effort, and the committee who press the matter before the Legislature must not be met with reputed quotations from

members of the association and even Council, opposing the amendment.

The passage of our Bill most unfortunately implies the necessity of taking into the Association all now practising architecture who desire to call themselves architects. Thus the state us of architecture lure in Ontario will not immediately be advanced. The benefits from this legislation will probably only be felt 10 or 15 years hence This is one of the best evidences of the personal disinterestedness of its present promoters, and the fullest answer to all who may suspect some hidden benefit to a chosen few. As artists we desire to uplift our art as patriotic citizens we want to advance our country.

	Meantime	we	consider whether the gaining of sonic present

 title of distinction indicating educational standing and proved architectural ability might not be a desirable stimulus to those in the Association.

In the Royal Institute of British Architects there are three grades of membership, viz., Fellows, Associates and Honorary Members. The first two (except in special cases) have to pass examinations before they are privileged to use the title of distinction  Thus the affix of A. R. I. H. A. means something to a British architect and gives him a definite standing before the public.

	Possibly it might be well for us to make a distinction	in our

membership. For instance, it seems but reasonable that those voting men who have passed the Associations examinations should be placed on a higher level than those who have come in merely because in sonic manner or other they have been practising architecture at the time of legislative action.

It is also evident that young men who have only recently passed their examinations should not be placed in a higher grade than older men who have spent a score or more of years in he honorable practise of their profession and whose works are a testimony to their ability.

The inauguration of any system of degrees is beset by difficulties, but if the general idea met with approval, no doubt some practical method of arranging the matter will be suggested. It might be possible to have the ordinary members distinguished by a simple O. A. A.; those who have passed the examination and thus become graduates, distinguished by G. 0. A. A.; while the older men, whose work and position in the profession justifies the honor, might, by recommendation of the Council and vote of the convention, be elected to the position of Fellows, with the right to add F. O. A. A. to their names.

Apart, however, from all legislative action or degree conferring enactment, it is possible for each member of this Association to do much for the elevation of the practice of architecture in Ontario. During the business depression that has been resting upon the country there has been a strong temptation to even honorable men to adopt the canvassing agent methods to obtain work. This is bad enough even when the solicitor confines him self to the praises of his own wares but generally any departure from tile recognized professorial methods of conducting our business is apt to land the transgressor in the position of Slandering his competitors and trying to steal their jobs such unprofessional Ishmael's may be found even in Ontario and it becomes

every member of this Association to not only abstain from		every

appearance of this evil, but also to keep alive a sentiment that will condemn all such reprehensible conduct.

there are men who will act honorably under all circumstances there are others who will act honorably if under good influences and surroundings our duty is to create such surroundings To this end the society spirit should be fostered amongst us. The members of the Association should meet more frequently for mutual edification. The geographical distances

between	our homes is so great that more than one general al of the association each year seems

meeting	.-	impracticable but

there is no reason why in several local centres there should riot be associations or chapters meeting once a month. the Toronto members have realized the importance of this idea, and a committee purpose placing before you for discussion and approval a general scheme for the establishment of local chapters. There is no reason why the chapter idea should not find fulfillment in several places in Ontario. Some may say that local jealousies and conflicting interests are such as to make the practical carrying on of a chapter impossible. Rather let it be said that because of such local difficulties the need of a local chapter is all the more urgent. To meet for discussion of matters of mutual interest is the best way of dissipating distrust and inaugurating mutual forbearance and respect then there is the distinctly educational advantage of such chapters. The man who thinks he has nothing to learn from his professional brethren is to be pitied for his blindness There are many things we cannot learn from books and those who have experienced the helpfulness of interchange of opinion with their architectural brethren know that many of their best ideas owe much to such association.

Besides the ethical and educational advantages of such chapters, here is their distinct influence in elevating the profession in the eves of the public So long as architects disparage one another and run after one another's clients, so long will the public estimate architects generally by the lowest standard we set up. but let the profession in any town show a united front, help one another professionally and uphold one another's reputation, the public will adopt a highest standard in  opinion of the individual architects. Such chapters wold form a local authoritative body on all public question associated with architecture. They would be ready to assist in the formation or amendment of local building laws. They could deal with local Competitions. They might negotiate with local bodies of builders and others and give seasonable advice upon all matters pertaining to building.

All his would benefit the individual architect would help the

