



<doctype type="text;ad"><article title=" HEATING DEFECTIVE BUILDINGS " author="">HEATING DEFECTIVE BUILDINGS.

SOME buildings are so badly constructed that it is impossible to warm them to a temperature of seventy degrees Fahrenheit, the outside temperature being below zero. When surveying a building for the purpose of making a proposition to heat it, its construction should not be overlooked, says Domestic Engineering. Outside brick walls are sometimes plastered upon the brick. A construction of this description is difficult to heat. It will require a very large heating apparatus to warm a room with walls of this description. The cooling effects of these walls require an abundance of hot air to overcome in fact, it is not overcome with the ordinary furnace work of the present day. Outside stone or brick walls should be lathed upon strips of wood not less than one inch thick, so that an air space may be left between wall and plaster. This will insure a dry and comparatively warm wall, reducing to a large degree the loss of heat that must necessarily take place in a building with exposed walls plastered upon the brick.

Loose fitting doors and windows, a common fault in cheaply constructed buildings, is another cause of failure in house heating. This defect, like the cheap built wall, cannot be laid at the door of the heating contractor, but when he draws the owner's attention to these defects and lays the blame for the non-fulfillment of his guarantee upon the bad construction of the building, he is told that he had an opportunity to examine the building and accepted it in its present condition, therefore he must carry out the guarantee and warm the building as agreed. This is a state of affairs to be avoided, for there is no way out of a difficulty of this kind that does

not entail loss and trouble to the furnace man and considerable annoyance to his customer.

It is perhaps impossible to do a heating business and have easy sailing all the time. Heating men do not expect it, for let them do their work ever so well, there are cranks to be dealt with who would not he satisfied with the best job that money can purchase. Failure in heating buildings is caused by men doing a heating business who are deficient in knowledge of the requirements needed to make a successful heating system, and by experts in the business, through being too hasty in their examination of a building or too cager to close a contract, taking the job at a low figure and trying to carry it through at a profit, with the usual results-- an unsatisfactory heating plant and a condemned furnace.



Mr. Geo. McArthur, a builder of St. John, N.B., is credited with having recently erected a brick building, 60 x 24 feet, two stories and basement, ready for roofing, in thirty-two hours.



The City Council of London, Ont., have under consideration a plumbing by-law, which provides that thc inspector shall be paid by fees. The City Solicitor having given it as his opinion that the Council had no power to provide for payment of the inspectors services otherwise than by stated salary, the Legislature is to be asked to grant the necessary authority to have the inspector paid by fees.



The granite cutters on the new legislative buildings at Victoria, B.C., recently went on strike because some of thc workmen were given "piece-work," and also because of the employment of American labor. The contractor states that he only employed foreign labor when the necessary number of granite cutters could not be obtained in the local market, and that the men who were given piece-work were incapable of earning the rate of wages demanded by the unions. The dispute has been laid before the government. 





To Whom it may Concern

There are no " Seconds" made by this Company. Our Goods are all " Firsts."























The Toronto Steel-Clad Bath &

Metal Co., Limited

125 AND 127 QUEEN STREET EAST

TORONTO

