	<doctype type="text">2	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



<article title="Reasons for a dominion Association of Architects" author="Baillairge, Charles">REASONS FOR A DOMINION ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

By CHARLES BAILLAIRGE. Past President P. Q. A. A.



AND why not



<assoc>Canadian association of

Engineers:

</assoc>

there is strength "—there has always been—and hence the proverb,

United we stand, divided we fall. " This is

true of every calling in

life, of every trade, profession, industry.

The Association wants a tariff; but will any government frame one which will be accepted by every separate province, even if it be expedient to have one? Not at all. To command respect such a tariff must be universal, so to say; it must be a natural or spontaneous one as they live in France, in England. Nor need it in any way be legislated on to be abided by, but be of

general consensus. It must be customary, and custom in the end becomes law; for, on what are all our laws founded, but on common requirements.

The Association has a tariff founded or based on charges current throughout Europe, the United States of America, and among all civilized nations nor would this have any the more the force of law if declared valid by governmental or legislative action of any kind.

This question was debated at our annual meeting at the Florence, Quebec, some two or three years ago, with several members of our Province of Quebec legislators present when, as will be remembered, while the then <person>Premier Taillon </person>seemed to favor government action in the premises, <person>Attorney General Casgrain </person>advanced most Pertinent reasons to the contrary.

Our charges are not disputed, that the writer is aware; and as it behooves him, maybe, to show that such is the case, he may say that in no less than thirteen separate cases, of expropriation of properties for the St. Charles branch of the Intercolonial rail-way, and where there could have been no understanding between the several clients as to fees to be paid for the varied services, (hundreds of dollars in each case), he charged and was paid the regular fee of $3 per hour—say at the rate of $15 for a legal day of 5 hours, or from 10 to 4 with an hour off for lunch ; there never was any dispute, never a word about his charges, though mostly from $30 to $5o per diem, due to double or treble the number of hours work during the 24 hours, as the writer has done during all his long career and only feels the better now and livelier for the extra time put in.

Suppose now we had a tariff, and in special cases where our time is worth $5 to $to an hour, as when dealing with important arbitration cases, where hundreds of thousands are at stake, or in reporting on some subject where long experience has rendered our services invaluable—suppose, I say, that in such a case no agreement has been made, no understanding arrived at as to the remuneration to be received, then if the tariff were legal or binding, the client could say: Sir, you cannot charge me more than such a figure, and we would be forced to abide thereby—this is where the disadvantage of a tariff comes in while, as said before, on important cases the man of great experience may charge his $100 fee or $100 or more per diem, as the writer has often done and been paid without a murmur, as in the case of the Sherbrooke water works, in the calculation of the water power of the Montmorency Falls, as Shanley and Parent charged $300 each for a less than 3 days report in 1883 on the tenders for the new Loretto main; as many architects have done in like cases; as a lawyer will do, a la Osler, $200 a day where a million or even half that is at stake.

Believe me, gentlemen of the profession, Attorney General Casgrain was right in this respect, and so say I with my 50 years experience of the professional and industrial world.

The architect's and engineers ordinary charge of 526154n cost of structure is not too high. On the contrary, in very many cases, it is hardly remunerative, and seems to have been founded, so to say, on, or assimilated to, the rate of interest on capital while in many cases this 557216710uld not begin to pay an engineer in the designing of a complicated piece of machinery, as a pumping engine or a printing press, or an architect in the designing of a pulpit, a reredos, an altar or a tabernacle, or where a whole structure is a mass of intricate composition, as with <firm>Perrault & Vennes </firm>chapel of time Sacred Heart, Taylor's gem of the <building>Diocesan College of Theology</building>, where every detail, to the tiniest molding, each finial and crocket and even to the roof slating, bears the impress of the artists handiwork.

Again, this 5may be too high and is not charged where, for instance, a series of stores or dwelling houses are all built to one and the same design ; since plans alone and specifications are taken at 2 1/2 per cent. and this percentage or a portion of it saved the proprietor or client.

Then upon due consideration, I say, let the tariff be—it will become venerable with age and have the force of law without any of the concomitant disadvantages of its legal surroundings.

This 5tariff has evidently not been arrived at without due consideration, and is certainly founded in practice for in the case of the new Quebec water works, put in by the writer in 1883 and which have cost just half a million dollars, which at 54575200uld have given the engineer $25,000. The writer made a study of the figure of 5by entering in a journal every hour devoted to the work, as taken upon surveys, general and detail drawings,

specifications, estimates, reports on, calling tenders, preparing blank forms, superintending work, and these added and put down at the aforesaid $3 per hour, amounted to within a mere fraction of what the same would come to at the usual on the outlay.

There is another and just as important matter—may be more so, for consideration—when a Dominion Association would be better able to bring about the needful legislation or obtain reform

—I mean, a simple justice, which now we have not, and why? Because lawyers are generally law makers, and while taking care of themselves s in this respect, amid of notaries, and the medical profession on appeal to them by the latter or to the legislature or parliament have ignored and left out architects and engineers, who, it will hardly be credited, have not, under our laws, the right to go into the witness box and testify in their own cases.

This is a matter of the most glaring inequality or denial of justice If, tot instance, through the client's fault, or conveyance of wrong information in time premises, the notary has to draw up new papers for the same thing, the lawyer to plead the same case in another or still another court, he will take care to be paid for all he does, and can, on his own testimony, convince the court that he is right ; or the physician, that he treated his patient for a complication of two or more diseases—while, with the architect, he may be and often is called on, after one design has been made to proprietor's instructions, and though it pleases him in every way, to cut down and absolutely do his work over again to suit his client's purse, who will, on completion of the building, only pay his 52n cost of structure as erected, and leave the poor architect unremunerated for his first or preliminary set of plans, knowing, as lie does, that the architect cannot be heard in court in his own behalf.

The writer called the attention of those present at last yearly meeting of the Association to this important matter, and has had occasion in a recently published pamphlet of his, delivered free to architects for their information, to cite a special case of the kind where, after having planned for a certain institution a $5o,ooo aqueduct to supply two adjacent villages, and finding that these suburban districts would not pay for water such a figure as would materially relieve the institution in its cost for interest on capital expended, reduced its scheme to the supply of only its own precincts thereby paying the engineer his percentage on only $25,000, with not a cent for his six weeks' work devoted to the larger scheme, and when calling on his lawyer to sue for his 2 1/215400406603n first series of plans, quantities and estimates, was met with time discouraging reminder that be could not go into court to prove his own case, and that the proprietors would of course lie sure to

put their case before the court in a way to secure judgment.

Now, is this not a subject for federal legislation, and if it is, or even if only of local import, would not the asking for it be enhance if coming from all the architects eels of Canada, mined into one general association, rather than from merely a provincial body?

Again, is not some legislation imperative the better to define the responsibilities of architects, proprietors amid builders? Where is the justice of rendering the architect responsible for ten years in case a building should fall amid kill some one or subject its owner to time cost of reconstructing it, when so many things may have happened in ten years to bring about a failure of the structure or of a portion thereof, amid the architect or builder may be in no way to blame. Whiny this picking out of the architect or engineer? Why select him for punishment ? Why bold him up to time vengeance of the law? and if he does kill his man or ruin him in what, pray thee, is he more guilty than the lawyer, who, through his negligence or ignorance, loses his client's case and throws him on the charity of the world in what more guilty than the apothecary who deals out poison in mistake for medicine ; the medical man who, as happens every day, kills his patient or shortens his career on earth by mistaking one "algia" or ''itis" for another.

These are vital questions of the utmost importance to the architect, and never will any change likely be brought about except by the combined efforts of all time professionals of the Dominion to amend the laws governing such matters.

Another reform to be advocated, and which should be made general in Canada, as it is in England amid France, is time enacting of a general association of time profession, that quantities be not taken out by the architect himself who plans and superintends any work, but a '' quantity surveyor " or by what

by so-called quantity surveyor

ever name to be designated) some one outside of the firm which designs amid specifies the work to be performed. No architect should, except for his own personal use, and to guide him in keeping within time amount allowed for the building, whatever it may be, take out his own quantities ties and sell them to any imitending tenderer The fact of doing so is not necessarily wrong, as the

quantities may be correct and lead to no difficulty or injustice to any one concerned : the proprietor, the contractor or the architect himself; but quantities very often are either in excess or in deficit, and if so, are necessarily detrimental to the proprietor if high or exaggerated, to the contractor if the contrary.

If the quantities be short, the contractor looks to tile architect for identification, and as time latter can generally ill afford to come against himself to make good the deficiency and does not

