<doctype type="text">

gives a surface of 36 square feet to be carried by the wall, multiplied by 160 lbs. gives 5,760 lbs. to be carried by a strength of only 2868 lbs.

Mr. James Nelson, architect, has visited the building and examined the walls and reports as follows

Area of floor carried by joists	22 ft. x 16 ft. 352 sq. ft. 13 1/2 ft. x 21 ft.= 283 1/2

	Area of roof carried by wall 15 ft. x 37 ft.= 555	"



Total area of floor and roof carried by wall 1190 1/2



Allowing 150 lbs. per square foot for the above case, the total load carried by the wall would be 1190 1/2 X 150= 178,575 lbs. Area of cross section of wall carrying this load is 37 ft. x 8 ins. = 3552 sq. ins.

The above load of 178,575 lbs. distributed over the above area of 3552 sq. ins., gives a pressure of 50 1/4 lbs. per sq. inch. The area of a terra cotta brick laid on the flat is 96 sq. inches. The load on one brick is therefore 50 1/4 lbs. X 96 sq. inches=4,324 lbs. per brick.

According to Prof. Bovey's test the weakest specimen crushed under a load of 46,000 lbs., being 479 lbs. per sq. inch, whilst the load on the wall as above shown would only amount to 50 1/4 lbs. per sq. inch, thus giving a factor of safety of 9 1/2. A factor of safety of 8, which amply provides for weight of the wall itself, is sufficient according to Trautwine and other authorities. Kidder, a standard authority, in his latest edition (1895) gives as the loading for ordinary dwellings, including the weight of floor beams and plaster, 62 lbs. per sq. foot. If we adopt this view, then the factor of safety for the terra cotta walls in this case would be raised from to 24.

Mr. Hector Lapierre, architect, has visited the walls in question, and finds them sufficiently strong to carry the weight placed upon them and his figures agree with those of' Mr. James Nelson. He says further that they have built such walls at different times and they have proved satisfactory, etc.

"Mr. A Fowler, architect, says he has used terra cotta walls for the last 8 years and that they carry floors and are solid.

"Mr. Chas. Chausse, the architect of the houses in question, says he has used this terra cotta for division walls for the last 8 or 9 years in many buildings and in cases where the load upon them was much heavier than in this case, and the walls in the present case are perfectly safe. He says he knows by experience just what they will stand.

Messrs. James Wright and Maurice Perrault, who acted jointly with Mr. Nelson as experts, corroborated Mr. Nelson's report. Mr. Bulman has also used it for division walls and found it good he also produced a sample of a very poor quality of brick which is being used in a building' in this city.

''M. Joseph Brouillette, a contractor, says while he was putting up some buildings last slimmer in which the division walls were of terra cotta, a large quantity of brick and mortar fell upon one of the floors, crashing through the joists, and the terra cotta wall remained intact.

"Other witnesses appeared, and all declared the walls safe.

"Mr. Gagnon. the secretary of the Montreal Terra Cotta Co., said that the difference in the crushing strength of the material is due to the fact that more or less sawdust is put into the mixture as required for different purposes, and that in the last few years there have been great improvements in the manufacturing of the material owing to better facilities and improved machinery and appliances.

"Apart from all the foregoing evidence I have before me letters from architects and others recommending the use of the material also a long list of buildings in which it has been used. All these buildings were erected with the knowledge of the Building Inspector, who on the 12th of March, 1896, gave the company a letter of recommendation.

"In the face of all the foregoing evidence I could not condemn the defendant in this case, and the action is dismissed."

<article title=" TO ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS IN TORONTO " author="">

TO ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS IN TORONTO.

IT is proposed to organize for architectural students in Toronto a class in wood carving. It is thought that such a class would be very helpful to students.

The class would not be an expensive affair, as there would be no tools to buy and the lessons would be very low if a class of eight or ten were formed.

It is hoped that such a class can be commenced about the early part of January, 1898.

If any of the architectural students of the city would care to join such a class, their communications to D. N. S. Nichols, care Burke & Horwood, would facilitate matters.

COMMON SENSE IN HOUSE PLANNING.<article title=" COMMON SENSE IN HOUSE PLANNING " author="">

IT seems to me that a few remarks and suggestions in the way of general house planning might prove interesting, particularly to those interested in house plans, writes J. P. Hicks in the National Builder. First, I wish to call attention to the front halls, which in many cottages, as planned at the present time, are entirely too small. It seems that some plans appear crowded For example, some of the space that should be in the hall is taken for a front bed-room. Closets are very convenient and useful, and, in short, seem to be almost indispensable, yet it is a great mistake to cut a front hall down in size to about 3 X 5 feet. Such halls are a nuisance, as there is barely room to stand inside and open the front door. The side door, of course, opens at right angles to the front door, which makes it extremely difficult to pass in and out with furniture. This kind of hall may suit some people, and may seem to meet all the requirements of a hall, as they pass in and out empty-handed comparatively easily. It is in moving furniture that the great disadvantage of small halls becomes apparent. If there is a piano, organ, book-case, extension table or any large piece of furniture, the chances are that it will not go through the doors, and if it will barely go through it generally comes out with scratches and bruises, as well as the casings in the hallway looking the worse for wear and tear.

I know that many will argue that large halls are expensive, and that they can better afford to put up with the inconvenience in moving than to pay the difference in the cost of construction. Then again it may be that they don't just see how to enlarge the hall in the plan they are building after. It can usually be accomplished easily and with but little additional expense, in the following manner Build the hall out on the front porch octagon shape, and large enough to give the desired amount of room, and, if desired, extend the porch in the same manner; it will add to the outside appearance of the house, and inside will give a large and commodious hall. The front room might have an octagon corner next to the hall, and the entrance front hall through this corner will make the house easy of access and the moving of furniture in and out will be an easy matter, besides almost everybody will remark what a nice large hall yon have.

There are various ways to enlarge upon the hall room after the manner just described. Every plan might not require just the same style and shape in the enlargement, but where the hall is small and more room is wanted, I would suggest a little study in the way of enlarging, as there is a variety of ways to add to the beauty and convenience of a residence in this respect.

The kitchen is another part of the house that should be roomy, but on the contrary we find many of them exceedingly small, with only room enough for a cook stove, a table and a chair or two. These kitchens in size are usually 8 x 10 feet, which must necessarily be a source of great annoyance to the housewife. There is nothing like plenty of room, especially where the most of the time has to be spent in doing the ordinary household work. Everybody knows how hard and inconvenient it is to work in a cramped up place and everybody growls at it. Give the women plenty of room in the kitchen, also in the pantry ; they will appreciate it, and in nine cases out of ten it will make them better natured, and the husband can congratulate himself on the fact that he has given his better half plenty of space in the great workroom of the house, the kitchen.

