



<doctype type="text">is in general use, the main sewers are without ventilation, and a serious condition of affairs exists, as the building being heated to a greater degree than the outer air, has a cupping action, and draws the air from the sewers, into them, beneath the frozen and almost impervious top soil and paved roadways. Where the soil is porous, this is sure to occur, even when the buildings are situated a considerable distance away from the main sewers.

Sewers breathe ! Under certain conditions the air will rush into them ; again it is being expelled, with considerable force. Atmospheric conditions partly account for this, but the varying quantities of solid and liquid matter constantly entering and leaving them has an important bearing on the question. Such being the case, proper breathing places must be provided, and any attempt to bottle up the sewer air will end in failure. What place so suitable as above the roofs of the buildings, where the winds will disperse the foul gases and the light and air disinfect them.





<article title="COUNT THE COST" author="">COUNT THE COST.

Too many painters, like business men in other lines, seem to think that they must be prospering if they are only doing a large business. If they can underbid another man and succeed in getting a large contract from him they chuckle with glee, even though they have figured the price down so close that there is absolutely nothing left for profit, with the chance of coming out on the wrong side of the ledger. It seems a curious phase of the American character that this mania for doing a large business should so often be allowed to run away with good judgment, and the question of whether the business is a profitable one should be so frequently entirely overlooked. Many men, especially in the painting trade, have no idea whatever what it costs them to run their business. They figure that if they employ a man for $3 a day, and can charge $3.50 for his time, that they are making a profit of half a dollar on the work of that particular man, but they fail to take into account all the numerous items of shop expense which must be added to the wages paid to that man to get his actual cost to the employer. There is insurance, rent, interest on the cost of stock, wear and tear on scaffolds, tools, etc., brushes, cartage, telephone, shopman's wages, clerk hire, and numerous other incidentals that must be paid for, somehow, before any profit can be realized from the wages of the workman. In a shop employing an average of from ten to twelve men, these shop expenses, leaving out all question of profit to the employer, will often amount to $7 or $8 a day, or some 75 cents per man. Yet the employing painter goes blindly on, figuring that he is making a profit when he charges his customers half a dollar a day on the wages of his men. Perhaps he thinks he is covering the shop charges by the profit on material, but let him figure it up carefully, and he will find that this is seldom done. Yet he goes right along in the same old rut, taking a job for a low figure because some other painter has offered to do it for that price, without even stopping to figure whether he will make a profit or not. He argues that if the other man can do it for that much money, certainly he can. Like as not, the other man's low figure exists only in the mind of the customer who is trying to beat down the price. This is too often the reason why painters are slow or uncertain pay, and why the manufacturers do

not co-operate with them more readily to grant special trade discounts, or similar favors that thoughtful men believe should be legitimately granted.—Painting and Decorating.



<article title="Mr. William Smith" author="">MR. WILLIAM SMITH.

WE present herewith a portrait, accompanied by a few personal particulars, of Mr. Win. Smith, of London, Ont., vice-president of the Dominion Master Plumbers' Association, and an enterprising member of the trade.

Mr. Smith was born in Toronto on July 27th, 1854, and received a fair education. At the age of 15 years he was apprenticed to the late Geo. Harding to learn the art of plumbing, steam and gasfitting, and served faithfully five years. After working ayearas a journeyman, he decided to see some of the world, and for several years worked in many of the large cities of the United States. He then returned to Canada, and after having worked another year as journeyman, became ambitious to engage in business on his own account. With this idea, he started west, and thinking the city of London was in need of a first-class plumber, stepped off and secured a job there, and after having worked for some time as a journeyman, started business for himself. He









































has now been in business for 12 years, and is classed as one of the most successful master plumbers in the Dominion. His success is attributable to honest dealing— he will not employ anything but first-class labor and material.

Mr. Smith has done the plumbing and heating of many of the large buildings in the west. As above mentioned, he at the present time holds the position of vice-president of the Dominion Master Plumbers' Association, and was vice-president of the London Local Plumbers' Association. His efforts were instrumental in bringing about the formation of master plumbers' associations in London, Stratford, Windsor and St. Thomas, and he was also one of the founders of the Dominion Master Plumbers' Association. Mr. Smith is a young man yet, and has a bright future before him. He has one of the finest plumbing establishments in the Dominion, and is proud to be the possessor of bronze, silver and gold medals secured for his superior workmanship. Mr. Smith's genial disposition and ability have secured for him honors from the Grand Lodge of Canada A. F. & A. M., as well as other fraternal organizations.

