<doctype type="text">	98	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



already built here by Henry, to obtain room the high Altar was moved further west to the position it still holds. This magnificent shrine

erected in 1260, the work, as we are told from the inscription, of Peter of Rome, was splendid with tabernacle work above, supported on beautiful arches springing from twisted columns and sparkling with glass incrusted mosaic, and even now, in its decadence, is still most beautiful.

Beside him lies good Queen Edith his wife, of whom we are told that being well skilled in needle-work, she embroidered the state lobes of her husband. She was the daughter of Earl Goodwin, whose castle once stood on the spot where tile fatal Goodwin sands now are.

Near by is thc tomb of Henry III, who, after a reign of 56 years, a long reign for those troublous times (now eclipsed by tile 6o years reign of our gracious Queen) was drawing near his end. The Crusaders' Temple church was to have been his sepulchre, but his heart's affections had so net wined themselves round the abbey he had almost entirely rebuilt and loved so well, that no other place seemed so fitting.

In marked contrast is the plain tomb of Edward Longshanks. When the tomb was opened in 1774, nearly 470 years after his death, we are told the embalmed body was found in good preservation. Some one had the curiosity to measure the body, and found it to be 6 ft 4 In long.

There are a number of other tombs here, but of lesser importance, and near by are the Crusaders' " beautiful Gothic tombs of the Decorative period, the one to Aymer de Vallance being specially well known, and whilst we are amongst the super-refined dust of kings and queens, we will maintain the royal succession by passing into Henry tile Seventh's chapel. Having previously examined its architecture, we are able now to devote our attention to the Royal Founder's tomb, which is so huge as to defy neglect. Not only in size but in richness and splendor, it compels notice. Pietro Torregiano, a companion and friend of Michelo Angelo and a Florentine, was brought over to execute

it.	The tomb is made of a kind of black marble, on which rest recumbent figures of the king and his queen, and is of great richness. Surrounding it is a high screen of brass or bronze perpendicular Gothic work of the most intricate and elaborate design and workmanship. It originally had 36 statues ill canopied richness, of which only six remain. So heavy and ornate is this screen that the tomb is almost hidden from sight by it.

Must interesting amongst the other tombs are those of Queen Elizabeth in the north aisle, and Mary, Queen of Scots, in the south aisle.. The latter was buried first at Peterboro, and from thence was removed here by James 1st in 1612. Implacable enemies in their lifetime, their dust mingles in neighborly unity.

In the chapel at the east end Cromwell was buried in 1658. With the barbarity of the age, a few years afterwards the great Protector's body was disinterred and hung at Tyburn, whilst his head was placed on Westminster Hall. It is pitiful to think of the petty spite that could

prompt such treatment of the body of one whose shrine-hatchet in his lifetime these men were not fit to tie.

Dean and Lady Stanley lie buried in one of the small chapels. It may be said of them, they were lovely in their lives, and in their last resting-place they were not divided."

Coming hack to the abbey proper, in Sr. Paul's chapel is the monstrous statue of James Watt by Chantry, hideous as his own steam engine, and so heavy, we are told, that in bringing it in, it broke through time pavement into several of tire vaults below, disturbing hallowed dust. In the Chapel of St. John Baptist " is tile large monument of Lord Burleigh, with recumbent figures of the Earl and his Countess Dorothy on his other side is a vacant space which was intended for the effigy of his second countess, but she indignantly refused to divide honors with his first wife, and the space remains vacant to this day.

We must not pass the portion of this chapel called Abbot Iship's Chantry without ascending to the chamber above, to see tile curious wax effigies collected here, suggesting to the irreverent reminiscences of Madame Tassands. It was the custom at all burials in the abbey to have a waxen effigy clothed in the garments usually worn by the deceased, carried in the procession and afterwards deposited in the abbey, a custom which had a precedent in ancient Rome.

From time to time some of these have been destroyed, and now but few remain. On my last visit to tile abbey, quite a number were there, but all rather dusty, ragged, and unmistakably showing the ravages of time. Amongst them were Queen Elizabeth, Charles the II, Queen Anne, William and Mary, Lord Nelson and others, furnishing an instructive commentary on the vanity of rank and pride.

In the next chapel that of St. John the Evangelist—-is the famous monument to Sir Francis Vere, modeled on the lines of that of Countess Nassau at Breda, where four kneeling knights bear a slab with the arms of the dead hero who lies underneath. The story is well known of Roubilliac the sculptor, who was found standing in rapt admiration of one of the knights, and on being accosted, said, " Hush he will speak presently.'

In St Andrew's chapel is the (perhaps best known and intensely dramatic) Lady Nightingale monument, by the sculptor I have just mentioned, where her husband is vainly trying to arrest Death, who is In the guise of a partially draped skeleton issuing from a tomb, from throwing his dart at her. The monument is in the worst possible taste and most repulsive and horrible, and it is a great pity that this and many others ever found their way into the abbey.



As we have already intimated, the North Transept is the Statesmen's Corner, and here are monuments to Lord Chatham, Fox, Grattan, Palmerston, Pitt the Younger, the two Cannings, and Peel. hi tile west aisle of the transept are memorials to Blow Burney and Purcell, time musicians and composers, and also to Cobden of Free Trade fame, and the noble-souled high-strung Wilberforce, who gave his best years to the abolition of slavery.

The Poet's Corner " in the South Transept is classic ground. The founder of this peaceful and quiet dynasty was Chaucer "that well of pure English undefiled," where so many small authors have had their little pitchers filled whereby they have refreshed their day and generation. The next was Spencer of " Fairy Queen " fame, a book in many volumes which everyone has heard about, but I venture to think few have read, lie was followed to the grave by Beaumont and Fletcher,

Ben Jonson, and probably Shakespeare. The latter has the well known monument here, but lie is not buried in the abbey. The Avon rocks him to sleep at Stratford. There was a wish to lay him in the Poet's Corner, and Basse, a poet of that time, quaintly wrote, " Renowned Spencer lies a thought more nigh to learned Chaucer, and rare Beaumont lies a little nearer Spencer, to make room for Shakespeare in your threefold fourfold tomb."

The epitaph '' 0 Rare Ben Jonson " is familiar to all his monument is here, but ire is buried in the north aisle of the nave. The story is that lie asked Charles Ito grant him a modest request, viz., 18 inches square of ground. This was readily granted by the king. When lie learned it was to he in the abbey, the royal giver hesitated, but a king's word is not to be lightly taken back, and so the story goes, that Ben Jonson was buried upright in his 18 inches of ground. When digging at this spot a skeleton in an upright position was actually found, giving a certain color to this story.

Next come Dryden and Butler, and the monuments of Milton and Gray, memorials only however, for Milton's dust reposes in tile fine old church of St. Giles Cripplegate, amid nine bustle of city life, and Gray lies in the quiet remote churchyard of Stoke Pogis which he has immortalized in his Elegy.

The monument of Gray attracts notice from its cynical couplet, put on it by his own desire '' Life is a jest and all things simow it—I thought it once, hut now I know it."

There is also a monument to Addison, but his grave is in Henry the Seventh's chapel.

Southey, Dr. Johnston, Goldsmith and Thompson are not forgotten.

Time would fail me even to enumerate the glory roll of those buried in tins corner. To mention only a few amongst many: Of musicians we have Handel; of historians, Macauley and Grote ; of novelists, Charles Dickens and Thackeray; of actors, Gin Rick of architects, Chambers, Wyatt and Sir Robert Taylor. Curiously enough, no painter is buried in the abbey.

Coming now to the nave and aisles. There is one interesting spot in the middle of the nave, the spot where one of the truest and grandest of Scotland's sons is laid---I mean Livingstone. His heart was fittingly left in the great Dark Continent for which he gave his life.

Not far from him lie the engineers, Teiford and Stephenson, and here also is the dust of Sir Gilbert Scott, who was architect to the abbey for many years, and Iris comrade, George Edmund Street, architect of the Law Courts also Sir Charles Barry, who lies almost under the shadow of his greatest work, the Houses of Parliament.

Amongst naval and military heroes in the aisles are Lord Clyde, Outram and Dundonald. in front of the choir lies Sir Isaac Newton, and amongst the monuments we must not forget the one to John and Charles Wesley, who did so much to quicken the religious life of England ; and in the Baptistry near line western door are two sweet singers

—Wordsworth and Keble.

The incongruities in the memorials in the abbey must strike everyone. It is trimly cosmopolitan in taste, as in creed and nationality. Many names are found of those who reflect little credit on the illustrious edifice, and many names we miss of those who would have added lustre to this National Campo Santa.

For lack (If proper and wise oversight, monuments have been admitted which are felt by everyone to be singularly out of place, and out of touch with the genius and spirit of the architecture of the abbey. Some notorious ones I would have no hesitation in removing, but traditions and vested rights are no doubt obstacles.

The abbey and precincts are now so crowded that many more interments cannot take place, nor many more monuments he admitted.

The necessity of maintaining the continuity of the succession of the memorials and remains of the mighty dead, together with the best means of overcoming the lack of space without incongruity, or disturbing the best traditions of rue abbey, has for some been exercising the minds of those in charge.

Many designs have been made, embodying such ideas as a second large cloister or Campo Santa, a large crypt or chapel adjoining, etc.; all these schemes have found their ardent advocates and vehement objectors. Something must be, and doubtless something will be, evolved, that will he felt by all to satisfactorily meet the difficulty.

I have referred to the absence of many names we might have expected to find here, and I cannot close better than by quoting a sentence by Dean Stanley in reference to this. He says '' Westminster Abbey is, as Dr. Johnston well said, the national resting-place of those great men who have no bond elsewhere ; its metropolitan position has in this respect powerfully added to its fame. But even London is, or ought to be, insignificant compared with England; even Westminster Abbey must at times yield to the more venerable, more enduring claims of home and race. "These quiet graves far away are the Poets' Corner of a yet vaster temple, or may we take it another way and say that Stratford-on-Avon, and Dryburgh, Stokepogis and Grasniere, are chapels of ease united by invisible cloisters with Westminster Abbey itself.





The largest church edifice in the world is St. Peter's in Rome; the smallest is a church ten feet square in the Isle of Man.



His Excellency Lord Aberdeen has accepted the office of patrols of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, as a mark of his appreciation and good wishes for the association and the profession in general. At a recent meeting of the Association Mr. William C. McDonald was elected an honorary member in recognition of his great generosity in endowing a chair of architecture in McGill University.



Judge Ouimet has given judgment in the long-contested case of A. R. McDonald, ex-superintendent of the Intercolonial Railway, against Charles Riordan of St. Catharines, the estate of the late John Macdonald and Ed. Boswell. The plaintiff claimed a large sum as due him in connection with time Temiscouata Railway, and the court gave judgment for $197,000 with interest for seven years at 6 per cent. It is probable the defendants will carry the case to a higher court. 

