<doctype type="text">

	24	THE	CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



and Costs." This memorandum should be for the purpose of noting results and comparing them with first estimate in order to discover lapses or discrepancies. In my own practise, when contracting, I found this system of great utility in giving a definite to every transaction connected with the work in hand, which served me well when making estimates on other buildings. I give herewith a form that is generally employed for this purpose





MEMORANDUM of ESTIMATE— -COST FOR MR. J. DoE's house.









Various Service and Material.







Cost Preparing Estimate and Expenses

Grading and Excavating	

Quarried Stone	

Mason Work                   

Dimension Stone	

Brick and Terra cotta           

Bricklayer                      

Grates                        

Ranges and Set Stoves           

Heater

Heating Pipe Radiators, etc       

Registers

Mantel

Tiles and Tile Floors

Outhouses

Pavement'

Carpenter Work

Lumber

Factory Work

Porches and Verandahs	

Fences                         

Hardware                      

Painting and Glazing              

Plastering                      

Plumbing                       

Gas Pipes and Fixtures            

Electric Wiring and Fixtures       

Roofing                        

Tin and Galvanized Iron Work      

Iron Fencing and Cresting         

Cellar Floors                    

Cement Work                   

Teaming and Carting             

Laborers' work                   

Permits and other Legal Matters    

Paperhanging                   

Personal Expenses                

Percentage                      

Insurance                      

Miscellaneous              





Here the contractor may tell at a glance what any piece of work cost him, and he may be able to judge from this what any similar work is likely to cost him, though, as before stated, it will not do to accept blindly as the probable expense of one piece of work because a similar piece previously cost a certain sum. No matter how much alike two pieces of work may be in style, material and surroundings, there will always exist conditions that will make differences of cost. This is a well-known fact among experienced contractors.

The great leak that is so often found in contractors' affairs is generally to be looked for in the labor department. 'When I say ''labor department" I do not confine myself to the laboring man,----the man who works with pick and shovel,—as a rule he performs his part well and honestly, and his pay is small I mean the loss is mostly found in the pay sheet of the high-priced mechanic, chiefly because he has not been handled properly. After the quality of order in a contractor, should follow a knowledge of men and an ability to lead them to successful endings. There should he no delay in paying their wages. If any portion of wages d tie the mechanic is held back from any cause, that mechanic at once becomes a creditor of the contractor and can not, from the very nature of things, feel bound to do more for his employer than his own ideas and inclinations will permit. Prompt payment of wages does much towards making prompt and industrious workmen. Be prompt and correct in all your dealings with men in your employ, then you may expect to receive prompt and effective service, for you hold the right to exact it.

In letting sub-contracts, it is usual to pay the subcontractor in the same ratio as the contractor is paid. This, in all cases, should be understood in order to prevent disputes. It is always better for a contractor to sub-let the work of heating and plumbing, but in doing so it should be understood that all the work must

be done in accordance with the demands of the main specifications and drawings, but if there are no drawings showing the system of piping for the heating and plumbing, with radiators, registers, baths, sinks, taps, vents, etc., a plan should be prepared before the work is let, and this plan should be approved of by the architect or by the owner if there is no architect employed. I must warn the young contractor here concerning the matter of heating and plumbing, and advise that if he has had no experience or a very little experience in these branches, he should take no definite action about them until he has got the opinions of some person or persons who have had a lengthy experience. Indeed, in preparing an estimate, when much plumbing is to be done and where a system of heating is to be placed in the building, it is always the wisest plan to submit the drawings and specifications to some experienced person in the business, and have him estimate on the work and say what lie wil1 do it for. The figures secured, it is well to add from 5 to 10 per cent. to them to cover the contingent expenses that are sure to arise. If the mason work, painting, and portions of the work are sub-let for fixed amounts, do not forget to add a percentage to the a mounts to be paid to sub-contractors, for it must be borne in mind that you cannot be responsible for another man's work and see that he performs his proper duties, without an expenditure of time, labor, and money.

Having received and accepted the most suitable bids for the various woks, and added them to the figures estimated for the work you intend undertaking yourself, the next thing will be to add an additional 5 or 10 per cent. to the whole amount, which sum should represent profit above all and every expense in connection with the contract. If this amount, or a greater one, does not result from the work when completed, it can not be said that it was a profitable contract, as business matters go.

I would like to say right here that no sensible contractor ever ''Jumps " at the cost of a building and takes the work at the figures he gives, neither will he adopt the method of "cubing" in making an estimate that he intends to use when tendering for a piece of work. Cubing may do well enough in experienced hands for making an "approximate" estimate of the cost of a building, but proves a snare and a pitfall, if relied upon as being exact.

Besides the blank forms presented in the foregoing, there are many others that are used by contractors in their practice, varying according to the character of work and its locality.





At the annual meeting of the <firm>Owen Sound Portland Cement Co</firm>., held at Owen Sound on the 22nd December, the following officers were elected for the current year John Lucas, President ; J. E. Murphy, Vice-President <person>R. P. Butchart</person>, Manager ; <person>W. P. Pierson</person>, Director ; <person>Geo. S. Kilbourn</person>, Secretary—Treasurer.

The <firm>Pedlar Metal Roofing Co.</firm>, of Oshawa, Ont., will be pleased to send architects and others interested illustrated catalogues of their various lines of manufacture, including metal ceilings, shingles, sidings, lath, corrugated iron, sheet metal building fronts, etc. Their book of art ceiling designs is worthy of special mention.

The annual election of officers of the <assoc>London Master Plumbers' Association </assoc>was held on the 17th of December, with the following result <person>W H. Heard </person>(Chairman of Dominion Sanitary Committee), President; <person>Wm. Smith</person>, Vice-President (re-elected) ; Jas. Greenawal2nd Vice-President ; <person>Thos. Partridge</person>, Treasurer

Skelley, Jr., Secretary ; <person>Chas. Walker</person>, Seargent Arms.

Messrs. <firm>F. B. Dakin & Co</firm>., of Iberville, P. 0., have just completed a contract with the <firm>Sanitas Mfg. Co.</firm>. of Boston, to manufacture their patent closets for Canada. Messrs. Dakin & Co. are making some very handsome and nice working closets, among them a new patent syphon wash-down, which promises to supersede the wash-outs now so generally used. Architects, 0011-tractors and plumbers should look into their merits. 

