<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	47



<article title="Sunday School pLanning" author="Wickson, A.F.">SUNDAY SCHOOL PLANNING.*



By A. F. WICKSON.



MY paper this evening will not be so much an attempt to suggest the actual planning of school rooms as an effort to rapidly point Out the requirements of these buildings, the working in of which will, of necessity, depend much on circumstances, such as size, shape of lot and the adjoining church premises, if there are any.



During the past few years the planning of Sunday school buildings, like that of almost everything else, has been undergoing the most radical changes. Although the one large square room, fiercely heated in the neighborhood of a tremendous box stove, and cold enough to paralyze one anywhere else, has long since been superseded by more comfortable rooms, properly warmed, it is only during comparatively recent times that any systematic arrangements for the separation of different divisions of the school have been seriously considered.



Now a well equipped Sunday school building is almost a more complete piece of planning than the church to which it belongs.



It is considered necessary to have both classes and departments









































































































divided, for several reasons, one being that as scholars grow older they have a disinclination to be in the same division, no matter how large it may be, with the smaller children, and another being that to get and keep the attention of the scholars it is desirable to prevent them having unlimited view of the whole room and the other classes; many a boy who would hesitate about pulling another's hair in the same class would be delighted to distract the attention from his teacher of some other boy in another class.



But there are many uses for a school room besides that of having classes on Sunday afternoon ; there are open sessions of public reviews, and it is the place in which are held all the events connected not only with the Sunday school itself, but those also apart from strictly devotional services pertaining to the church besides the usual mid-week prayer meeting, there are lectures, fastivals, concerts, socials, etc., and for all of these a room undivided is necessary.



To plan a building to suit meetings of these different characters, the space must be divisible when necessary and be also entirely open when occasions call for it. To accomplish this double



Paper read before the Toronto Chapter of Architects.

requisite many devices have been tried, apparently the most successful of them being a combination of rolling shutters, either vertical or horizontal, and curtains on poles—the former constituting divisions between compartments and the latter between classes.



In addition to the teaching and lecture room proper, there are many oilier features essential to the well appointed school to which I would draw attention. In so few cases is a school house erected separately from the church that one usually has to provide for rooms other than those solely required by the former.



There ought at least to be two cloak rooms one for each sex



as without these the seats become very much crowded with clothing, thus interfering materially with the comfort of both scholars and teachers, and so long as overcoats are right beside them it is always a temptation to the boys to struggle into them during the closing prayer. These rooms also add much to the comfort of adults at church gatherings of any sort, as wraps otherwise so cumbersome can be thus dispensed with.



The library is an important, though comparatively small room, its location requiring more attention than its size ; it ought to be









































































































near the entrance, but still so planned that pupils will not have to stand in a common thoroughfare and thus incommode others passing.



A very desirable addition is a retiring room at the side or rear of platform, and if the partition at back of platform be a removable one, this retiring room, if just behind it, could on occasions when the children themselves are performers at ally entertainment, be used as a choir gallery by having removable stepped platforms.



The basement of a school house should be well fitted up and the heating, as far as possible, kept from interfering with the clear area of room, so that Boys' Brigade companies can be instructed in it without the necessity of disarranging the seating of the school itself. This room will also be extremely useful for festival teas, etc., and should have in connection with it a very respectable pantry, accoutrements, etc., and a sort of scullery where from a separate meter, in places where the gas is not all one price, a gas stove can be used. There should also be a literary room for the Boys' Brigade, and another for their room for accoutrements.



There must ordinarily be a minister's Vestry, which should be

