<doctype type="text">	174	CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), for each and every week during which said offense shall continue, for any person to practice architecture without a license in this State, or to advertise, or put out any sign or card, or other device which might indicate to the public that he or she is entitled to practice as an architect.

SECTION 9. Any person who shall he engaged in the planning or supervision of the erection, enlargement  alteration of buildings for others, and to he constructed by other persons than himself, shall be regarded as an architect within the provisions of this act, and shall be held to comply with the same ; but nothing contained in this act shall prevent the draftsmen, students, clerks of works or superintendents, and other employes of those lawfully practicing as architects, under license as herein provided for, from acting under the instruction, control or supervision of their employers, or shall prevent the employment of superintendents of buildings paid by the owners from acting, if under the control and direction of a licensed architect who has prepared the drawing and specifications for the building. Tile term building in this act shall be understood to be a structure, consisting of foundations, walls and roof, with or without the other parts; but nothing contained in this act shall be construed to prevent any person, mechanic or builder, from making plans and specifications for, or supervising the erection, enlargement or alteration of any building that is to be constructed by himself or employes; nor shall a civil engineer be considered as an architect unless he plans, designs or supervises the erection of buildings, in which case he shall be subject to all the provisions of this act, and be considered as an architect.



SECTION 10. Architects' licenses issued in accordance with the provisions of this act shall remain in full force until revoked for cause, as hereinafter provided. Any license so granted may be revoked by unanimous vote of the State Board of Examiners of Architects for gross incompetency, or recklessness in the construction of buildings, or for dishonest practices on tile part of tile holder thereof, but before any license shall be revoked such holder shall be entitled to at least twenty days' notice of tile charge against him, and of the time and place of the meeting of the board for the bearing and determining of such charge. And on the cancellation of such license it shall be the duty of the secretary of the board to give notice of such cancellation to tile county clerk of each county ill the State in which the license has been recorded, whereupon the clerks of the counties shall mark the license recorded in his office cancelled. After the expiration of six months from the revocation of a license, the person whose license was revoked may have a new license issued to him by the secretary upon certificate of the Board of Examiners, issued by them upon satisfactory evidence of proper reasons for his reinstatement, and upon payment to the secretary of the fee of five dollars ($5).

For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act relating to the revocation of licenses, the hoard shall have tile power of a court of record, sitting in the county in which their meeting shall be held, and the power to issue subpoenas and compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses. Witnesses shall be entitled to the same fees as witnesses in a court of record, to be paid in like manner. The accused shall be entitled to the subpoena of the board for his witnesses, and to be heard in person or by counsel in open public trial.



SECTION 11. Every licensed architect in this State who desires to continue the practice of his or her profession shall annually, during the time he or she shall continue in such practice, pay to the secretary of the board during the month of July a fee of five dollars ($5), and the secretary shall thereupon issue to such licensed architect a certificate of renewal of his or her license for a term of one year. Any licensed architect who shall fail to have his or her license renewed during the month of July in each and every year, shall have his or her license revoked at the discretion of the board. But the failure to renew said license shall not deprive him or hereof the right to renewal upon payment of said fee.



SECTION 12. Within the first week of December, after the organization of the board, and annually thereafter, the secretary of the board shall file with tile Auditor of the State a full report of the proceedings of the board, and a complete statement of the receipts and expenditures of the board, attested by the affidavits of tile president and secretary, subject to the approval of the State Auditor.



At a recent meeting of the stockholders of the Central Bridge and Engineering Company, Limited, of Peterboro', Out., the following board of directors was elected: Messrs. William Cluxton, John Carnegie, James Kendry, F. J. Rogers and R. A Morrow. Messrs. Carnegie and Kendry were subsequently appointed president and vice-president respectively.



The Toronto and Hamilton Sewer Pipe Company's works at Hamilton were recently damaged by fire to tile extent of $15,000. The loss was well covered by insurance. As the company have another factory in another part of the city, their business suffered no interruption in consequence of the accident. The damage caused by tile fire is being speedily repaired. Meanwhile manufacturing operations are going on as usual.

The construction of a large breakwater at Buffalo was recently stopped owing to the decision of the collector of customs at that port to impose a duty upon the stone, which was being imported for the work from quarries in Canada. Previous to entering into the contract with the government, tile contractors consulted the Treasury Department and received the assurance that no duty would be incurred. After considerable delay and correspondence the secretary of the Treasury Department has instructed the collector of customs at Buffalo to admit the stone pending the final settlement as to the rate of duty and by whom to be paid.

<article title=" GLASS COLORING BY PENETRATION " author="">MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS GLASS COLORING BY PENETRATION.



COLORED glasses are generally produced by fusing oxides with the glass ; the whole mass is colored. Leon Lemal colors tile surface by penetration, and obtains, according to La Nature," colored patterns of striking novelty. A bit of silver salt is placed on the glass, and the glass heated tip to 500 or 550 Centigrade; the excess of salt having been removed, the surface will appear of a more or less deep yellow. The depth to which the color penetrates depends upon the time, the shade upon the quantity of salt applied. In five minutes the top layer of glass, 0.17 millimeters in thickness, was colored; after an hour that thickness was doubled; in t8 hours a plate 1.6 millimeters (1/16 in). thick was colored throughout. The color appears in both reflected and transparent light, and the yellow is said to be distinguished by a fine greenish or bluish fluorescence. Other metallic salts can be used, gold, copper, iron; ; silver with a little copper gives a red. The process is exceedingly simple. To transfer a lace pattern upon glass, it suffices to dip the lace into very diluted solution of nitrate of silver and then into potassium sulphide. Photographic collodion negatives can be directly applied to the surface.





Messrs. Warden King & Son, of Montreal, manufacturers of the Daisy hot water boiler, have recently appointed the Toronto Radiator Manufacturing Co., Limited, of Toronto, as their Ontario selling agents.

The Ontario Sewer Pipe and Brick Manufacturing Company's property at Mimico, Out., was recently purchased by Mr. S. M. Nease, of Pittsburgh, Pa. It is understood to be the intention to form a new company to operate the works under the old name.



It is reported that a company is being formed at Orangeville to establish cement manufacturing works, a large deposit of marl having been discovered in that locality. The deposit is said to consists of about 350 acres, and satisfactory tests of the material are reported to have been made.



Gypsum is reported to have been found in the Lake St. Martin district. A test of a sample about 10 or 12 inches square and 3 inches thick showed it to be free from foreign substances. The end of the vein, where first discovered, is about 6 by 3 feet, amid the vein has been traced for four miles.



Mr. Samuel Cabot, the well known manufacturer of shingle stains, of Boston, Mass., is sending out a very effective color-combination chart, showing sixteen separate and distinct combinations. The chart, which may be had for tile asking, should be of assistance to architects in the selection of colors that will blend harmoniously.



The Ontario Radiator Company, Limited, of Toronto, are negotiating with the city authorities of St. Thomas with a view to the location of their works in that city. They desire that the city should give then $10,000 or $15,000, or that the citizens should subscribe this amount in stock. The company agree to employ from 30 to 100 hands.



Mr. E. E. Sheppard, Government Trade Commissioner to the South American Republics, states in his report recently presented to the Government, that a large amount of school furniture is purchased by the Mexican Government, and that Canada should get a share of the orders in this line. The report also states that Canadian steel clad baths have been successfully introduced into Mexico through the agency of a prominent local plumbing firm.



A deputation from the Toronto Trades and Labor Council recently waited upon the City Council arid asked that in all contracts yet to be awarded on time new City Buildings preference should be given to local manufacturers. They suggested that a preference of 10 per cent, would be sufficient. While it may not be found expedient to restrict the giving of contracts to Toronto contractors, it is very desirable that as few of then as possible should go beyond the bounds of the Dominion.



A timber of' well known engineers and contractors assembled recently at tile Canadian Locomotive amid Engine Company's works at Kingston Ont., to witness tests of steel pipes manufactured from flat steel sheets rolled cold by machinery without the aid of furnaces or beating agencies. The process is the invention of F. A. Williams, of Wolverhampton, England. Two plates are employed in the manufacture of each pipe. They are bound

