	<doctype type="text">14	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



sign," which, with the discussion that ensued, must be omitted for want of space.

Mr. <person>P. B. Dick </person>read the following paper:

THE POSSIBILITY OF A NEW Style OF ARCHITECTURE.



It is now some 350 year since the last living style of architecture reached its culminating point and began to fall away into decadence. These last 3 1/2 centuries have been in some respects

the richest in the worlds history. Greater progress has been

made in discovery and invention in every department of science during these 3 1/2 centuries than had been made in the preceding 30 centuries. And yet, strange to say, during this last period--—which has been so fruitful in the advancement of science—there has nowhere been in existence a true living style of architecture while during the whole time that elapsed, from the earliest dawn of the art to the beginning of this period there has never been a time when there was not being practised somewhere in the world a living and growing style

This fact, however, is sometimes stated in such an exaggerated form as to lead to the very erroneous conclusions that nothing worthy of the name of architecture has been done since the middle of the 16th century, and that everything that was done before that time was good, and everything that has been done since must necessarily be bad. This is far from being the case. But critics seem often to lose their critical faculty when they are dealing with old work, and speak of it reverently and almost with bated breath, merely because it is old. This spirit sometimes leads them to profess admiration for examples of old work, which, if they were the work of modern architects, these same critics would at once condemn and hold up to ridicule. There has been a vast amount of architecture produced during this last period, and much of it has been good and some of it excellent Nearly the whole of the architecture of the Renaissance belongs to this period.

But while this is true it is also true that there is a radical distinction between architecture which is living and that which is not living. A living style contains within itself the elements of growth along the same lines on which it has arisen. As new conditions arise and new problems present themselves, new forms are evolved by a natural process of development from within. This process goes on slowly and gradually. There may be no apparent break in continuity, and no abrupt step anywhere visible, and yet it5 is found that after the lapse of a certain time the style has wholly changed. In short, a new style s been invented. But after a style has ceased to be a living one such growth as this never makes place. Its features and forms may indeed be used with academic correctness, and may be adapted to new situations and purposes. As a new need arises another old feature will be taken and ingeniously made to serve the new purpose. But a style may be made use of in this way for an indefinite length of time without making any advance beyond the point which it had attained while it was still living and growing, because this method is simply imitative and eclectic.

At this point the question what is style ?'' seems naturally to arise. Very few writers have made any attempt to give an explicit definition of the term, but have contented themselves with recounting the history and describing the features of the various styles and pointing out the differences between one and another Such definitions as have been made are more or less unsatisfactory and may convey different meanings to different minds according to their individual predilections and the character of the architectural objects with which they are familiar Owen Jones, for instance, says in his preface to the Grammar of Ornament

Architecture is the natural expression of the wants, the faculties, and the sentiments of the age in which it was created.

Style in architecture is the peculiar form that expression-takes under the influence of climate and materials at command." Both these statements are true so far as they go, but as definitions they do not appear on one hand to cover the whole ground and on the other they seem to claim almost too much. Here is an attempt at another definition Style in architecture consists in the harmonious working out of the construction and ornamentation in a manner so characteristic that the period and locality of the erection of original examples can be determined ( by comparison) from the evidence which t hey themselves furnish.''

All true styles will be found to fill these conditions no matter how much they may differ from each ether, either in method of construction or character of ornamentation. Time number of

styles into which the architecture of the world may be classified is wonderfully small considering the length of time over which they extend, and the variety of conditions under which they were produced—conditions varying with the purposes of particular buildings  with difference of materials of mechanical skill, of climate, and of those peculiar qualities of mind in the builders which go to form what is called the genius of a people.

The first beginnings of architectural design were the fruits of a desire to hand down the memory of some great event or personage to future generations I lie next were inspired by man s religious instincts, amid it only after architectural ideas had become somewhat crystallized by practice in these two directions that they began to be applied to buildings of purely utilitarian character. It would take too long, and it is not necessary for the present purpose, to trace in detail the evolutionary process by which each style advanced to its highest perfection only to be gradually changed into something altogether different. But this point may be noted in passing, that the change from one style to another was always the result of the introduction of new factors

as a change in structural methods caused by the attempt to solve new problems or supply new needs, never from a mere desire to change the fashion of the external form in which architectural ideas were expressed. The most potent of these factors

have been the general use of the arch by the Romans, the development of groined vaulting by the Gothic architects, and possibly the use of the truss. A couple roof and a simple barrel vault both require a straight wall for their support with only this difference, that unless the vault is tied in so as to take the lateral thrust off the walls, they must be made much thicker to resist that thrust than would be necessary to carry the couple roof. But as soon as the principle of groining or trussing comes into play, the continuous wall necessarily changes its character and becomes a series of strong supporting points with a comparatively light en closing wall or screen between them, In the case of the highest development of this idea—the Gothic cathedral—thc enclosure be-conies a mete frame of stonework for the display of the largest possible quantity of painted glass. In effect the side wall is cut into sections which are turned round at right angles and so developed into buttress and flying buttress and pinnacle. This is but one illustration of the principle upon which all true development has taken place.

Two important elements in the formation or modification of style have invariably been materials and climate. The Egyptian and Grecian styles could never have been developed except in a country capable of supplying very large blocks of excellent stone Nor could the type of dwelling house found in Pompeii, with its shady Open air feature so suitable to the south of Italy, ever have come into general use in the climate of the northern parts of Europe

 The course of the historical development of style has been along certain well defined channels or main arteries. There have been many offshoots, amid possibly some indigenous styles but these may all be left out of account because they' have had no influences upon the general historic sequence of styles. This sequence in chides the Egyptian The Assyrian, the Greek, the Roman, the Byzantine, and the Gothic. No style outside of these can be said to have had any influence in forming the great historic chain of styles

One or other of two great principles of construction will be found to be the ruling idea in the formation of every style. And the distinct ion between these two is so great that it is a question whether it would not be proper to say that there arc only two great styles, and that all others arc only sub-divisions of them.

the one of these great root principles is that of the Pillar and beam, and the other that of the arch. All before the Roman period belong to the one style, and the Roman and all that come after it to the other. For although the principle of the arch was undoubtedly known long before the Roman period, it was the Romans who first used it as the leading principle of their construction

Disregarding the intermediate links connecting the different styles, and considering only the most characteristic examples of each, their remarkable dissimilarity is much more obvious than their resemblance. It requires some consideration to realize for instance that the church of St. Sophia is the direct descendant of the Parthenon, the Pantheon at Rome of the Hippostyle hall at Karnak, amid Salisbury cathedral of them all. But since it is so is natural to expect that all these different styles should contain some elements in common. It might even be expected that the elements of which they are composed would be the same in all cases although used in entirely different ways, just as the type in a fount may set up at one time the text of Herbert Spencer's philosophy and at another the wit and humor of Punch, or a work in the English language one day, amid one in French or Italian the next. These elements are oft two kinds, the constructive and the decorative. Time essential constructive elements are very few in number. All that are absolutely necessary to constitute a building, are some sort of enclosure a means of entrance and in most cases a roof. The constructive elements then are walls, piers or columns, and a roof, composed either of lintels, vaulting, or trussed work the choice between the three perpendicular or supporting elements being most frequently determined by the principle of construction of the roof to be carried by them. The decorative elements are more numerous and complex, al— though wonderfully simple after all. Mouldings are the most universally used of all decorative forms, and these, no matter where or in what style they may occur, consist invariably of one or more of four simple elements used either singly or in combination. These simple elements arc the ovolu the hollow, the bead or roll, and the fillet. The ogee is only a combination of the

quarter round and the hollow, and the scotia is only two hollows of different sizes contrasted. The fillet may be used either with its face set perpendicularly or at an angle, in which latter position it suggests the chamfer which may therefore be reckoned as merely a modification of the fillet and not an independent element There is absolutely no moulding or combination of mouldings in any style that has ever been invented that knot made out of these rudimentary elements The possible number of combinations of

these simple elements is practically inexhaustible		through the mere

variation	of the order of their juxtaposition and their relative sizes.

When to this is added the variety obtained by modifications of their profiles the possibilities become infinite. Compare the crude simplicity of the Roman ogee or ovolu with the subtle refinement of the Greek, amid the difference is at once apparent, and yet they are essentially the same There is a great difference in the effect of the ordinary attic base and the common Early English one, which consists of a small roll at the Lop and a large one at the bottom with a hollow amid fillet between, and yet the chief difference between them is the omission in the Gothic base of a couple of fillets. The Greeks sometimes confined their elements in such a way as to produce undercut mouldings and the Gothic architects afterwards seized hold of this idea and used it with wonderful effect in composing their groups of mouldings. But an analysis of the most elaborate groups invariably shows that they

