



<doctype type="text">suffice to cover cost of maintenance and perhaps interest on invested capital as well. When the street railway company's lines shall be extended to the Island, the cost of reaching the public bath houses would only be tour cents, the price of a car ticket, from any part of the city. The sand bar on the west side would probably be the most desirable and convenient location. The City Council have this summer shown their recognition of the necessity of public bathing facilities by allowing boys under sixteen years of age to bath at this sand bar and providing boats for their free transportation to and from the city. This by no means fills the requirements. Proper facilities should next season be provided for all who may desire to avail themselves of them. The health of the citizens who are obliged through force of circumstances to spend the summer within the confines of the city demands that public bathing places should bc provided. _____________







Form of Contract WE print in this number a form of. contract prepared and in use by Messrs.



Hewitt & MacLaren, architects, of Brantford, Ont. This contract is the outcome of considerable attention bestowed by these gentlemen and their solicitor on the subject of forms of contract. No new features of importance are claimed, but in the opinion of the framers this form embodies many of the most valuable features of American and foreign building contracts, and such as are believed to be best adapted to building contractors in Canada. As there are few subjects of greater importance to architects and builders than thc construction of forms of agreement, we trust that the one to which we now call attention will receive critical perusal. Any criticisms which our readers may be disposed to make concerning it will be welcomed as well by ourselves as the compilers. A general expression of opinion on this important subject would be appreciated and would he certain to have a beneficial result.



Employment of

Canadian Plant. WHILE the injustice of employing for	foreign workmen on works of construction built by Canadian capital has received



much attention of late, there is another important consideration which has been almost entirely overlooked, viz., the employment of plant of home manufacture. Particularly in the case of Government work, for which the capital is provided by the general public, should this matter be carefully watched, and a stipulation provided in the contract that, wherever possible, materials and plant of Canadian manufacture be used. In the construction of the Crow's Nest Pass railway, it is stated that Canadian labor has been given the preference, but on the other hand, the claim is made that a large portion of the plant being used on the work was manufactured in the United States. Some years ago it may have been necessary for contractors to purchase foreign plant, but with the improvements which have been made in manufacturing in Canada in recent years, this necessity has to a large extent been removed, and to-day we can compete favorably with the United States both in quality and price.



The eighteen year old son of' Mr. J. Turner, plumber, of Winnipeg, was drowned in the Red river while bathing.



Thc master plumbers of Montreal recently closed their establishments on the occasion of the annual pic-nic of the journeymen Union of Steamfitters and Plumbers.

<article title=" REGULATION OF WAGES ON GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.

" author="">REGULATION OF WAGES ON GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.

A SELECT committee of the British parliament has had under consideration for more than a year the working of a resolution passed in February, 1891, to secure the payment of a fair rate of wages on government contracts, and its administration by the various government departments. The committee have prepared two draft reports, and are about to determine which of these should be taken as the basis for discussion. The chairman of the committee, the Home Secretary, has framed one of these reports, the other having been prepared by Mr. Sydney Buxton. The chairman has come to the conclusion that the departments, as a whole, have loyally endeavored to interpret and carry out the provisions of the resolution ; but he does not deny that, in certain quarters there exists a great lack of confidence in the ability or in the desire of some of the departments to enforce its spirit and letter. Whilst, however, he does not consider this lack of confidence well founded, he thinks it important that the feeling should be removed, and to this he invites the committee to express the opinion that in some ways there is room for improvement, and that there might be greater promptitude and uniformity in the working of the resolution.

As regards such questions as how the current rate of wages of the district is to he discovered, how the area of a district is to be defined, under what conditions a contractor is entitled to ignore the district rate, the Home Secretary advises the committee not to lay down hard and fast rules, his suggestion being that each case should be decided on its merits by the exercise of common sense after careful inquiry. He does not overlook, however, the objects which the House of Commons had in view in adopting the resolution ; and he asks the committee to endorse the recommendation of the Labor Commission that any agreements tending to regulate the rate of wages or the conditions of employment as between masters and men should be, as tar as possible, encouraged and recognized. Other recommendations proposed by the chairman are that, where a sub-contract is allowed, the principal contractor should, as regards the carrying out of the fair wages resolution, be held responsible for his agent ; that a list of thc Government contractors, with the nature of their contracts should from time to time he published ; that contractors should in all cases be required to give no preference as between

unionists " and '' non—unionists."

The alternative report prepared by Mr. Buxton recommends that there should be a uniform fair wages clause in all Government contracts ; that every such clause should specify that the wages paid in the execution of the contract shall be those generally accepted as current in each trade for competent workmen in the district in which the work is carried out ; that every such clause should state that, in the engagement and employment of workmen and others required for the execution of the work, no preference should be given as between ''unionists" and ''non-unionists;" that, when tenders are invited, a notice should be issued in every case drawing the attention of those who desire to tender to the fair wages clause in Government contracts; and stating that the department concerned will enforce the contracting firms to conform to the spirit and intention of this clause ; and that any firm willfully disregarding its provisions will render itself liable to be disquali-

