

<doctype type="text">break Joints, and putting the plank as close together as possible, so that the tar fills the joints of the upper floor and overflows upon the top surface, which is finally well coated with tar. Seven and a half or eight feet will make the length of the floor required, and this should slope about two and a half inches to the rear. This short top floor gives a dry bed for the horse, and the drainage flows off from it to the lower floor, where it may be collected by a liberal coating of dry absorbents. The tar coating is apt to make a slippery surface, but this may be prevented by applying sand on it while soft.



LATHING and plastering are usually Estimating Lath, estimated by the square yard. Local

customs govern the allowance to be made for openings, closets, etc. In some localities it is the custom to deduct all openings, such as doors and windows. In other places half of the openings are deducted, while the custom in still other sections is to measure on all openings and figure them in. Closets presses, etc., would be figured in one place at their actual contents, while in another section of the country the surfaces would be doubled. To find the number of lath required to cover a square yard is a very simple matter. A standard lath is 1 inches wide and tour feet long, and consequently contains one-half of a square foot. It would therefore take eighteen laths to lay a square yard of surface if the laths were laid close together. As a rule, however, the laths fall short in width, enough to allow for the spaces which are left between them. Each bundle should contain 500 feet, or 100 laths. As some bundles fall short of this, and as there is more or less waste in cutting, it is necessary to make due allowance for this falling off, and to meet it, it is the just thing to allow when estimating twenty-one laths for every square yard to be covered. Experience has proved that this figure is the nearest possible to being correct.



IN these days, when native hardwoods Veneering are coming into general use for inside

finish, it is necessary that the workman shall have some knowledge of the art of veneering, for such a thing as solid hardwood doors or sashes should not be permitted in a well finished house. Those workmen who have had any experience in veneering, are aware of the irritating difficulties that beset the new beginner when attempting to prevent the veneering side from going hollow as the glue sets ; in fact, to prevent this is a very difficult job unless the workman is well up in his art. Many methods to avert the "hollowing up" have been devised, such as joining ends in several places, veneering on both sides, the one to counteract the other, and fixing before and after veneering. A good method, which has the two advantages of being simple and inexpensive, as regards material and time, is as follows: Prepare the heart side of the stuff to be veneered, then swell the other side by placing a layer of damp sawdust on it over night ; it will then be in the morning quite hollow on the face side. Then size the face side, keeping the back damp until the size is sufficiently dry for the cal and veneer, when it will be found to be slightly round on the veneering side, and it may be kept so by placing the veneered sides of two piers face to face and clamping them up, and allowing them to dry gradually. Of course, after trying- this

experiment, it will not take long to be able to determine how long the material will require swelling; generally one night will be sufficient.



To make good brickwork the following Bricklayer's Rules. rules should be observed 1. Reject

all misshape, broken and unsound bricks. 2. Place all the beds of the courses perpendicular, or as nearly perpendicular as possible, to the direction of the pressure they have to bear, and make the bricks on each course break joints with those of the course below and above by overlapping to the extent of from one-quarter to one-half the length of a brick. 3. Cleanse the surface of each brick and wet it thoroughly before laying it, in order that it may not absorb the moisture of the mortar too rapidly. 4. Fill every joint thoroughly with mortar, taking care at the same time that the thickness of mortar shall not exceed one-quarter of an inch. In order to prevent the use of too great a thickness of mortar, it is usual ·in specifications to prescribe a certain depth which a certain number of bricks shall not exceed. For example, if the bricks are 2 3/4 of an inch thick, it may be specified that four courses of bricks, when built in the wall, shall not measure more than one foot in height, a condition that implies the average thickness of mortar in the joints shall be not more than one-quarter of an inch. 5. Use no bats or pieces of bricks except when absolutely necessary in order to make a "closure," that is, to finish end or corner of a wall, or the side of an opening, and even then no piece less than half a brick should be used.





GROUND floors for stables may be made Ground Floors. in a variety of ways. The best are, no

doubt, made of concrete, or of gravel and hot tar mixed, and laid down hot, or of Portland cement and sand, or of wood blocks laid down on end and saturated with hot tar. The first, second and third make exceedingly durable and solid floors, non-absorbent, non-conducting of heat, and are therefore warm for the animals, cool for the feet and wholly impenetrable by rats. The manner of laying down these floors is very simple, and with the exception of the tar floor, should be laid down the same as a cellar floor, with coarse gravel, broken bricks and broken stones as a first tier, three or four inches thick, well pounded down ; on this a layer of regular concrete or cement should be laid, of sufficient thickness to meet requirements. The tar floor should first have a foundation of gravel, broken stones or bricks, laid down and well pounded to give it a solid start, on this should he poured grout, made of common lime cement, sand and fine gravel. When set hard and dry coat over with about an inch of coal tar sand and fine gravel, which must be spread evenly over the whole work. Whatever gutters or drains are required should be moulded in the floors as the work progresses, or a piece of timber, wrought to the shape required, may be laid down, and the floor built around it, and which may be taken up as soon as the work is done, and such repairs made to make the drain complete as may be apparent. For making a floor of blocks on end the earth should be removed to a sufficient depth, and a proper bottom prepared. of broken stones, gravel or plank, the former being preferred. The blocks should he soaked in hot tar and laid as close together as circumstances will permit. When the whole surface is covered and the blocks

