<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	'75



together by means of two bars of steel rolled to a channel section. These bars are placed internally in the pipe and the edges of the ribbed plates set into the recesses in the channel bars. The pipe is then bound by two concavo-convex bars, which run the entire length of the pipe and fit into the channel between the nibbed edges of the plates. The pipe, when fitted together ready for rolling down, is shipped on a cast-iron mandrel on the rolling down machine, which exerts great pressure upon the two Wedges and flattens them in such a manner that they are securely locked in the channel bars, and bind the edges of the nibbed plates so effectively that the pipes, when tested, are found to be absolutely water-tight. At the test above referred to, the pipe was closed at the ends by caps and filled with water. A large pressure was then put on by a testing pump; the gauge is said to have registered 300 pounds without any sign of leakage or weakness.





<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.



Professor Butler, of King's College, Nova Scotia, has been appointed Professor of Civil Engineering at the Royal Military College, Kingston, Ont.

The announcement has recently been made in the daily press that Hon. Win. Hart)', Minister of Public Works for Ontario, is rapidly improving in health.

Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell, architects, have recently removed their offices from 26 King Street east, Toronto, to the third floor of the Confederation Life Building.

Mr. J. H. Tromanhauser, architect, while superintending the erection of a grain elevator at Kingston, Ont., had his foot severely crushed by a falling timber.



Mr. J. W. L. Forster, the well-known portrait painter, has recently returned to Toronto, after an absence of five months spent in Europe, principally in the Channel Islands.



Professor Sparkes, principal of the Government Art School at the South Kensington Museum, London, recently paid a visit to the Hamilton Art School, and delivered an address to the students.



Mr. E. Coatsworth, City Commissioner of Toronto, was deputed by the City Council to attend the convention of the National Association of Building Inspectors of the United States, which has just concluded us sessions in Detroit, Mich.



At a recent meeting of the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association, the resignation of Mr. Burroughes, the president, was accepted. Mr. J. B. Fitzsimmons was elected to the position. Mr. James Wilson was elected vice-president, and Mr. J. E. Nott second vice-president.



Messrs. H. Simpson and J. A. Ellis, architects, of Toronto, recently formed a partnership. It is now learned that Mr. F. T. Hodgson, of Collingwood, has also become a member of the firm, which will be known as Hodgson, Simpson & Ellis, with offices at Collingwood and Toronto.



Mr. Joseph Wright, president of the Canadian National Association of Master Plumbers, and Mr. F. H. Herbert, architect, of Toronto, were recent visitors to New York. Mr. Wright is said to have been in consultation with the officials of the National Association of the United States with a view to bringing about the affiliation of the Canadian Association with that organization.



At the Foresters' tent on the Industrial Exhibition Grounds, Toronto, on Sept. 6th, Mr. Geo. W. Gouinlock, architect of the new Temple Building, was presented with a gold Maltese cross, representative of the Chavelier Order. The medal bore the inscription, Presented by the Supreme Court to Brother G. W. Gouinlock for distinguished services, September, 1897." The presentation was witnessed by a large company.





Let me ask, says Mr. Andrew Carnegie in a recent address, under what conditions does the employer of labor make profits and become prosperous? Only when labor is prosperous, is his reply, and in great demand when wages are the highest, and when the demand for his products are the greatest. Then, and then only, is the employer prosperous. On the other hand, when labor is not fully employed, and can be obtained for the lowest wages; when there is little demand for his products, then the employer can never be prosperous. In most cases he must not only make profits, but he must see his capital impaired month after month; he cannot gain, he must lose. Before the employer be prosperous, prosperity must exist throughout the land.

<article title="Legal" author="">LEGAL.



IT is an unwise course for a builder to act in defiance of local by-laws, says the Builder's Reporter. Courts of all kinds generally support the latter, and when a decision is given in favor of a builder the advantage is rarely worth the expense. A case has just been heard in Plymouth in which a builder announced that he intended to establish a test case, and an ambition of the kind is sure to be expensive. He was summoned for erecting small houses at the rear of other houses without leaving the 15 feet of open space between the houses and the boundary wall required by the local by—laws. His defense was that he had substantially complied with the by-laws, of which the object was to secure an open space of not less than 50 square feet. Put the space was obtained by an increased width, although the length was diminished by about a foot. The defendant was fined £z and costs in each of the five cases, but what is worse, the corporation can Insist on the removal of the buildings or on the infliction of an additional penalty. So far the course of the law is not favorable to the contention of the contractor, and it is doubtful if the case be brought into a higher court whether a different decision would be obtained.

LAST week, says the Builders' Reporter, a case which should serve as a warning to architects was tried at the Bristol assizes. It was another example of how little value is now attached to ones acting as well as judgment and experience dictate. The plaintiffs, Rogers & Co., Limited, who are brewers in Bristol, opened a branch on the Power Estate, in Newport, Mon. Mr. Watkins, the defendant, is an architect practising in the latter place, and he was asked to estimate the cost of a new building. It appears he returned the sum as between £600 and £700. The actual cost of the building was £1,163 178. The plaintiffs brought their action to recover a sum equivalent to the difference between the two amounts, viz. £463 178. The defendant said he worked out the cost at 5d. per cube foot, and it was £674. He found it ought to have been 7d., which would be about

£900, and he wrote stating this. He wrote the letter at his house, and the letter produced was the original from which he wrote the letter to the plaintiffs. No mention was ever made to him as to the limit of the price. He admitted he made a mistake in the first estimate. Mr. Justice Day, who heard the case without a jury, said he was not satisfied that the defendant had informed the plaintiffs about the extent of the expenditure, and that was negligence. His lordship assessed the damages at £150. Mr. Watkins had claimed £56 commission on the amount expended, but the sum was reduced to £35. A verdict for L115, with costs, was, therefore, given for the plaintiffs. It will be observed that the defendant has been doubly punished. His commission was not determined by the amount of expenditure, and he has had to contribute a large sum towards that expenditure, as if be had bound himself that his estimate would not be exceeded. In fact, Mr. Watkins had stated that a larger amount would have to be met, but apparently the letter went wrong in the post.





<article title="Obituary" author="">OBITUARY.

We earn of the death at Chicago on August 3rd, of Mr. Thomas Watson, who in the past carried out important railroad contracts in Canada.

The death is reported at Los Angeles, California, of Mr. Edward Langley, at one time a member of the firm of Langley, Langley & Burke, architects, Toronto. Mr. Langley went to California with the object of benefiting his health.

Mr. George Pirie, a well known and highly respected contractor, died recently at Pembroke, Ont. Mr. Pirie was a member of the town council and board of education, and was held in high esteem for his reliability and enterprise as a contractor and citizen.

THE death is announced at Hamilton, Ont., of Mr. F. J. Rastrick, architect and civil engineer. Deceased was born at West Bromwich, Staffordshire, and came to Canada in 1852, locating at Brantford, but removing to Hamilton the following year. He has designed many public and private buildings, and has also been employed by the Dominion Government as inspecting architect. For a number of years he served on the council of the Ontario Association of Architects.



When using wax and oil in shading colors, it is absolutely necessary that the color should become perfectly dry before applying the varnish. It is also equally necessary that the varnish be a good elastic oil varnish, devoid of resin gums.

