

<doctype type="text"><article title=" THE LITTLE CHURCH OF ST. MARTIN " author="Hodgson, Fred T.">THE LITTLE CHURCH OF ST. MARTIN.*

By FRED. T. HODGSON.



(Concluded.)



IN the transept of the Martyrdom, a small, square stone marks the spot where Becket was murdered; but nothing now remains of the magnificent shrine that was erected to his memory. In the sixteenth century, when crafty Henry the 8th sat on the throne, he issued a proclamation abolishing all high festivals in the month of July, his plea being that holidays during that month interfered with the harvesting, but his real object was to suppress the pilgrimages that went to Canterbury, and to strike a blow at the Church. Henry's next step was to destroy all the Becket relics and to scatter all of the mortal remains left of the saint to the four winds. This was followed by confiscation of all the gold and jewels that had been offered up at the murdered bishop's shrine. It is recorded that two large coffers were filled with gold and precious stones, and that it required eight men to carry them out of the church, and that twenty-six carts were loaded with the other spoils, among which were many works of art in metal, tapestry and other valuable works. "The Regale of France," the most costly jewel in Europe at that time, was worn by the king on his thumb for a long time, and was last heard of among the precious stones of his daughter Mary, '' Bloody Mary."

Following Langdon came a number of able archbishops, who added much to the cathedral. Chicheley in 1414-1443 ; Morton, 1449-1517, with their priors, Goldstene and Chillenden, who were architects and builders. These men finished many portions of the work that was previously incomplete, made restorations, added art treasures of many kinds and left an impress for good on many portions of the venerable structure.

It will be impossible for me in a single paper to either name the long line of archbishops who have governed here, or to mention, ever so briefly, the many points of interest, or describe the art features connected with the building. I may say, however, that although the soldiers under Cromwell made a barracks of the building for a time, and actually stabled their horses in it, it contained some things that commanded their respect and veneration. The tomb of the Black Prince, in which sleeps all that is mortal of the brightest flower of English chivalry, was left untouched, but many of the most beautiful painted windows on the Island were smashed by the Puritans, and as their captain ' Blue Dick " remarked, they had a good time " smashing Beckett's glassy bones." Several of the old windows were left, however, among them one containing a picture of King Edward the 5th and his brother the Duke of York. These windows are the admiration of the whole world, for their beauty of color, accuracy of outline and prefection of workmanship. They were made and put together in the city of Canterbury, and remain an evidence of the high artistic abilities of the native painters and glass workers.

So far this paper has dealt with matters historical, and I may he pardoned if I now somewhat digress and say a few words on the aesthetic character of Christ Church and the influence this quality had on English art.

As we have no knowledge of the style or the fitness of the first building erected by the Romans where the

'A paper read before the Collingwood Fortnightly Club.



The paper was illustrated by lime-light views of the Church of St. Martin, and of the great cathedral.

cathedral now stands, only what we can gather from the few remaining portions left in the foundation walls, and but little knowledge of the more recent buildings down to the time of the Norman invasion, I am not in a position to give any opinion as to the influence those early structures may have obtained over contemporary art and artists.

Whatever may have been the faults of the fire-eating Normans, they had the quality of being devoted to their Mother Church, and every possible sacrifice was made to advance her interests and strengthen her position, and it is not surprising to find William, who was one of the most Superstitious men of that superstitious age, putting forth his efforts to benefit the Church for the assistance he imagined he had received from her in placing him on the throne of England.

Canterbury, the second city in the realm, the seat of the primate, as acknowledged by Rome, received his attention at once, and his ablest churchman, Lanfranc, was made archbishop and primate, and money was appropriated for the re-building and enlargement of the cathedral, and a large Norman building rose upon the ashes of the old Saxon one, that became the example for hundreds of other churches and domestic buildings. It would perhaps he out of place to describe the peculiarities that belong exclusively to the Norman style of architecture. Its main features, however, put tersely, were semi-circular arches, massiveness, large openings for doorways, windows and entrances. Another peculiarity is the richness of the entrance arches, while their columns, walls and jambs were usually plain. The interior of their churches, while not so massive as the Anglo-Saxon, gave the appearance of great strength, and the ceilings being low, had the effect of giving a fort-like aspect to the buildings. Indeed, their castles and their churches were somewhat similar in appearance. In details, however, the Nor— mans excelled the Saxons very much, and gave to their work a finer and a more artistic finish, and the best artists in England during the reigns of the 1st and 2nd Williams, Henry, Stephen, Henry 2nd, and Richard 1st were trained in Canterbury. With the partial destruction of the church by fire in 1174, a new departure in the style of the building took place, and Gothic, as we now know it, was introduced, and the cathedral became a new example. At this time the cathedrals of Rochester, Winchester, Norwich, Peterborough, Durham and several others, along with York Minster, West Minster, St. Pauls, and dozens of abbeys and monasteries, were either nearly completed or well on their way. When the new and more appropriate style of architecture was introduced, work on those buildings was suspended, changes were made, and the new style was adopted, as if by order of the king or primate. It was this sudden change of style that has given to a number of English cathedrals and dozens of parish churches that peculiar quaintness and delightful piquancy that makes them so dear to the hearts of all who love the beautiful in architectural art.

The difficulties of solving these problems were wrestled with, to make those changes in the half completed buildings, to dovetail the new into the old style, and evolve from their admixture the gems those old builders have left us, can only he understood by those who have wrestled on a smaller scale with problems somewhat similar. During the Canterbury pilgrimages, the cathedral became rich in money, in patronage and in the

