<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



he the first conditions. An acknowledgement was received from the Minister of Public Works saving that the suggestions would be duly considered by thc government when they come to make the appointment.

ASSOCIATION SEAL.—The committee having in charge the competition for a seal for the Association experienced some difficulty in completing its task. Although the honorarium offered was reasonable, only two competitors presented designs, and the council having accepted one of them, has had the seal made as it now appears On our letter headings, etc., the regular raised seal being kept in the offices of the Association. Your council trusts it will have your approval.

STANDING ART COMMITTEE.—Your council regrets to say that in spite of repeated and renewed efforts, the City Council of Montreal has not yet accepted our suggestions for the appointment of a Standing Art Committee, to advise and assist the

council in matters affecting the		beautifying of the city. A large

number of names of leading citizens of Montreal was obtained and appended to the petition. Your council hopes, however, to be able soon to announce that this is nit accomplished fact.

	NEW BY-LAWS FOR THE CITY	MONTREAL.----Your council is

glad to be able to report that although the new building by—laws are not yet law, still they have advanced several stages this year. The sub-committee composed of aldermen, builders and a representative of the Association appointed by the City Council completed their arduous labors of going over the drafts prepared by us. A few amendments were made, some of which we accepted. The by—laws are now in the hands of the City Attorney, and it is hoped that at our next annual meeting your council will be able to proclaim them as law and in operation.

BENEFACTIONS The benefactors of the profession have not been numerous, but have distinguished themselves by their generosity. Chief amongst them must be mentioned the name of Mr. W. C. McDonald, not that his donations directly or immediately benefited the Association, but we recognize that the creation and endowment of a Chair of Architecture at McGill University is amongst the most potent helps given to architectural education in this country.

LIBRARY.---The additions to the library have not been numerous during the year. Four volumes were presented by Mr. XV. H. Dawson, through our President, on building construction, by A. Breyman, in German, and for which the thanks of the Association were tendered. In accordance with a desire expressed, books were allowed to be taken out of the library by members, but this

privilege has not been taker: advantage of to any great extent. Notwithstanding its actual usefulness, which has been especially proved in the case of a dispute on the use of some French words in a specification, it is very desirable that the hooks in the library should be increased so as to make it more valuable to the members.

MOUNT ST. LOUIS INSTITUTE. —The correspondence opened with Mount St. Louis Institute for the admission to matriculation of their pupils upon special lines, tailed to materialize

PORTRAITS OF PAST PRESIDENTS.---A gallery of photographic portraits of the past presidents of the Association has been commenced, and it is hoped will be continued. Nearly all ex-presidents have so far contributed personally to this object.

HONORARY MEMBERS.---His Excellency Lord Aberdeen, Governor General of Canada, having graciously intimated his pleasure to accept the office of patron of the Association, was duly elected to the office by acclamation at a special meeting of the Association. W. C. McDonald, Esq., was also, at the same meeting, elected honorary member for his generous help and benefactions in aid of architectural education in this province and throughout the Dominion.

OFFICIAL LIST.---Sixty-three members are actually inscribed upon the Official List.

NEW MEMBERS.---Three new members were admitted upon presentation of satisfactory credentials, and one new member by passing t he registration examination.

STUDENTS' EXAMINATION.---Three students have passed the examination for matriculation during the year.

Your Council are glad to state that the Association has lost its members by death during this year.

There were ten regular meetings of the Council, seven special meetings, and one general meeting.

ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.---A. T. Taylor, president, IS; A. Raza, second vice-president, to Jas. Nelson, 16 E. Maxwell,

A.	C. Hutchison, it Jas. Wright, 7 R. Findlay, 8 ; Jos. Venne, 18. Messrs. J. F. Peachy, Chas. Baillarge and F. X. Berlinguet, being residents in Quebec, do not appear on this roll.

The Council cannot close this report without acknowledging its indebtedness to the newspapers for the many friendly and helpful notices they have given of the good work which our Association has at heart.

TREASURER'S REPORT.---The total receipts till September 7th, amounted to $783.47 and the expenses, $748.00, leaving on hand $35.47.

The whole respectfully submitted 

	(Signed)	A. T. TAYLOR, President.

	(Signed)	J. VENNE, Secretary.

SECTION OF QUEBEC.

Jos. VENNE, ESQ., Secretary, Province of Quebec .Association of Architects, Montreal

SIR,---The undersigned beg to present the annual report of' the Section of Quebec. On November the 19th, date for election of our officers, Mr. Charles Baillarge was elected President for a third term, and Mr. J. G. Bussieres as Secretary.

Mr. Baillarge was requested to ask His Worship the Mayor of Quebec for a room in the new city 11411 in which to hold the meetings of our section. Mr. Baillarge made the demand as requested. but the hall that was offered was not accepted by the members of this section, and we consequently decided to hold our meetings, as in past years in the offices of Mr. F. X. Berlinguet.

On February the third our section thought proper to indemnify our confrere, j. 6. Bussiere who is it this day had incurred some expenses as Secretary. It was decided to pay him $13. 65 in addition to his annual hottorarium of ten dollars.

On December 15th, our section asked the Secretary of our Association to obtain from the Council a copy of the "Gallery of Portraits at Past Presidents of our Association to decorate the rooms of the Quebec Section, but did not receive these portraits.

Our section thinks it necessary to refer back to the resolution concerning the amendments to our charter, as proposed at the last annual meeting held at Chateau Frontenac, as follows: "The first paragraph of Section 13 of Victoria, Ch. 59, is amended in striking off "registered before the word "architect,, in the third hue, and to substitute "1898" for the figures "1891 " it the first line of said paragraph." That Art, 2a be added at the end of Art. 2 and shall read as follows.:" The architect is believed under oath as to the requisition length and nature of his services. Art. 2 is amended in adding after the words "and all other persons" "and only such.' Art. 5 is amended in striking off" a Secretary-Treasurer" and replacing them by a ''Secretary" and a "Treasurer." The last paragraph of the 7 15 amended by adding after the words " five years' the words " preceding the 1st of July 1898 " Art. 19a is added at the end of Art. 19, and shall read as follows: "All architects ditty authorized to practice as such in this presence shall be obliged In keep and preserve, in a convenient place and proof against deterioration, the original of all plans and specifications made and prepared by them." Art. 19b----Added to the exemption decreed by Art. 556 of the Civil Code of Procedure, "the safes, mathematical instruments, libraries, books of architecture and treat seem on matters relative to the profession of architecture are not sizable, except for their purchasing price."

The whole report respectfully submitted

(Signed) CHAS. BAILLARGE, President Section of Quebec.

(Signed) j. GEO. BUSSIERE, Secretary Section of Quebec.

QUEBEC, September 9th, 1897.





After the adoption of the report, the members were immediately invited to proceed with the election of their new officers the result being as follows President,

J.	F. Peachy ; vice-president, A. Raza; 2nd vice-president, Prof. S. H. Capper; treasurer, E. Maxwell, re-elected ; members of Council, A. T. Taylor, C. Baillarge, A. C. Hutchison, J. Nelson, O. Mailloux and

L.	R. Monthriant.

Mr. A. T. Taylor, in retiring from the President's chair, spoke as follows

During the last sixty years in science and engineering, old methods have been revolutionized. We are so accustomed to the steam engine, the telegraph, the telephone, gas, electric light and power, that we sometimes forget that these were almost unknown before the Victorian era. Has there been a correspondingly progressive note in architecture? There has been progress, but of another kind. Perhaps I should say movement rather than progress sometimes forward, sometimes retrograde.

The Gothic revival has come and gone, its chief influence being felt in Great Britain, but influencing it a lesser degree the continents of Europe and America. It forms an interesting chapter in architectural history. Its results have been fruitful. Initiated and fostered by the enthusiasm of Augustus Welby Pugin, and taken tip by others it was lifted up to an equality with the best old work by such men as Sit George Gilbert Scott, George Edmund Street, John L Pearson, Burgis and their followers. It is for these present nut a spent torte in civil architecture, but in ecclesiastical work it is erecting new cathedrals and churches that for knowledge of style, beauty of form arid detail rivals mediaeval work, and in the restoration and reparation of old work is on the same high plane. Not the least of the results is aim abiding' reverence implanted for the old Gothic heritage, and I trust that never again shall we see Gothic shrines degraded, neglected amid effaced.

Since them we have had a carnival of styles, Queen Anne, neo-Grec, Egyptian, Jacobean, Florentine, Japanese, Moorish, Romanesque, all attempted in turn, with more or less success, according to the skill of the designer. At last the tide is selling in all over the world for a free classic style, a reissued renaissance, with adaptations from Italian Florentine, French Francois premier and English Elizabethan.

Its France Goilsic stone with a sunset glow by the perfervid and eloquent writings and utterances, and the consummate draughtsmanship of such great masters as Viollet le Duc and his associates, but since their a renaissance of a distant French type has obtained complete ascendancy, marked by a certain refinement and originality, but somewhat lacking in warmth and verve. A country which cats boast such buildings as the Louvre and the Tuillerics, the Hotel de Ville at Paris, Versailles and Fouttainbleu, the great Chateau of the Valley of the Loire, to be a perpetual inspirations to her sons, can never be devoid of a succession of buildings of merit.

In Germany, in Austria, in Belgium and event in Italy, the tendency is indisputably to dignified classic forms, rather than to more picturesque styles.

his the United States the Victorian era has been an interesting house. The old colonial buildings scattered over the country, many of them possessing great charm, were neglected and superseded by a growth of abortions, so outrageous in their design, so corner to all t he best accepted traditions of art that is thing but time crassest ignorance on time part of the profession and the public could have brought them into existence, or suffered them to continue. Within the last fifteen or twenty years, however, a great change for the better was inaugurated, the younger members went over to study in Paris amid in England and ret timed with educated tastes, and many English architects settled in different parts of the States. The result was not always satisfactory, often incongruous and Isybrid. Still the trend was decidedly towards vitality

