

<doctype type="text"><article title="LEGAL" author="">LEGAL.

J.	RAWSON GARDINER v. MICHAEL C. FOLEY.—This was a case argued before Mr. Justice Davidson, at Montreal, October, 1897, in which Mr. Gardiner, an architect practising in Montreal, sought to recover from defendant the sum of $384 for professional services rendered in connection with and in preparing plans for certain alterations and additions to two houses on Victoria street, Montreal, at an estimated cost of $6,000, and also in connection with and preparing- two sets of plans for a new building to be used as a hotel on the same site—the old buildings to be taken down. The first set of plans was to cover two lots and the second set of plans was to cover three lots. This last set of plans was for a building 4 stories in height and estimated to cost (at 12 cents per cubic foot) $38,400. The plaintiff in this case was billing defendant for 1 per cent. on the estimated cost of the last building— that is for preliminary sketches for this building—which is $384, and not charging for the other drawings which he claimed he was legally justified in doing. Defendant filed a confession of judgment for $100, with interest and costs for a like action, which plaintiff refused. Plaintiff in his evidence showed that the plans produced were made by him, and had taken over a month to produce, and claimed that he was undercharging rather than overcharging the defendant for the work done, besides claiming his right, according to the custom of the profession to charge 1 per cent. on the estimated cost for preliminary sketches in case of the abandonment of such building. In support of his claim he also called three other architects, Mr. A. T. Taylor and Mr. Nelson, past presidents of the Architects' Association of Quebec, and Mr. Findlay, who each stated that the plans as produced were fully worth the charge made. Mr. Taylor also stated that plaintiff had a further right to make a charge for his time on the first two sets of plans and that the plans produced were even more than what was usually given as preliminary sketches, and explained that the reason why per cent. for such services was fair and just was that in preparing those preliminary sketches the architect used his knowledge and experience, and that the rest of the work could to a large extent be worked up by draughtsmen from these sketches and by more or less mechanical means, but it was from these preliminary sketches that the planning and designing, or otherwise the art and talent of an architect, were shown. The judge dismissed the defendant's plea and said that he had not proved by his own evidence that the work was not done according to his wishes, or that the plaintiff's charge was contrary to the custom of the profession. He therefore maintained the action—pro tanto- -and condemned the defendant to pay plaintiff the sum of three hundred dollars with interest from May, 1897, viz., the date of service of process, cost of suit, etc.



Mr. Singleton Isn't that the house that Planns, the architect, has just been building for his mother-in-law? Mr. Gotwun It can't be ! don't you see there is a lightning rod on it?

The attractive feature of the Trans-Mississippi Exposition, to be held at Omaha in 1898, is to be silver palace, to be used entirely for the display of mineral and other products of the west. Thc building will be 400 feet square, surmounted with ornamental towers, and the entire structure covered with rolled silver.

<article title=" CHICAGO	ARCHITECTS' BUSINESS ASSOCIATION " author="">CHICAGO	ARCHITECTS' BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.

THE Chicago Architects' Business Association has adopted the following rules of practice

DRAWINGS.



SECTION 1. All drawings forming a basis for contracts shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-eighth of an inch to the foot, in ink or by some other process that will not obliterate. General dimensions shall be accurately figured and the drawings made explicit and complete.

SCALE DRAWINGS.



SECTION 1. All portions of the work that require a larger scale to illustrate the same shall be drawn full size or to a scale large enough to make them fully set forth what is required by the architect. No architect shall ask for bids on any work until all general drawings are complete and sufficient details made, which, in connection with the specifications, will settle all questions affecting the cost of work.



SUPERVISION OF WORK.



SECTION i. The supervision of an architect shall bc such as shall require the faithful execution of the work according to the true meaning and intent of the plans and specifications, but such supervision does not cover the duties of a clerk-of-the-works. In case there is no clerk-of-the-works provided by the owner, contractors must refer any questions about which there can be any doubt to the architect for decision before proceeding to execute the work.

 SPECIFICATIONS.



SECTION 1. Specifications must be prepared in ink or by some permanent process,. and shall clearly explain the kind and quality of materials and methods of construction, and give such further information as may be needed to definitely supplement the drawings.

SEC. 2. Everything that will be required in the work must be mentioned in the specifications as far as practicable, being classified and grouped under appropriate headings, and work called for by the plans and not referred to in the specifications and vice versa, shall be included same as if mentioned by both plans and specifications, provided such work comes clearly within the branch of branches covered by the contract.



RULES FOR LETTING CONTRACTS.



SECTION 1. Written invitations for proposals will be forwarded contractors for work to be let, stating when bids will he opened. This does not apply to public work requiring advertisement for proposals.



SEC. 2. Contractors desiring place upon the roster of an architect's office shall turnish reference to mechanical ability and fidelity and be prepared to furnish a good and sufficient bond.



SEC. 3. Proposals shall be presented on the day set for opening same and will be opened in the presence of a representative of the bidders.



Proposals shall be opened, read and posted at the time specified before such bidders as are present. Contracts shall be awarded by owners or architects within a reasonable Lime thereafter.



Bidders shall not be held on proposals retained longer than ten days after date of opening.



SEC. 4. The lowest bidder will not be permitted to change the amount of his bid, but must sign contract or withdraw. The rigid is reserved to reject any or all proposals.



SEC. 5. If, after the opening of bids, changes are made in the plans and specifications amounting to not more than ten per cent., the lowest invited bidder shall tender a detailed proposition for said changes, subject to the approval of the architect and owner, and, if found fairly detailed, the contract shall be awarded to him upon his bid so changed.

SEC. 6. Lack of ability to carry out the work in a proper manner, want of fidelity, or disposition to render less than is due the owner in strict conformity with the terms of contract, shall lay the contractor liable to be dropped from the roster of the architect temporarily or permanently, as in the judgment of the architect is just and right, and in the interests of his clients.

SEC. 7. Final certificates of payment on a contract shall not be issued by the architect until thc contractor has returned all plans and specifications to the office of the architect.

H.	B. WHEELOCK, President.

C.	R. ADAMS, Secretary.

Adopted September 9,1897.

