<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	37



corner King and Bathurst street, cost $25, 300, besides executing several other commissions,

Thc Dental College on College street, erected from thc plans of Mr. D. B. Dick, architect, was commenced in 1895 and completed last year. It is quite an important building of brick and stone, costing in the neighborhood of $40,000. The contractors were stone work, Jas Crang carpentry, Wm. Simpson plastering, C. R. Rundle plumbing, Maguire & Co. tinsmithing Douglas Bros. painting, R. J. Hovenden.

The principal factory building was that for the Cobban Manufacturing Co., on the Esplanade, executed from the plans of Mr.

F. J. Lennox, who was also engaged during the year with the new city hall and court lioness.

Additions were made to the T. Eaton Company's warehouses,

at a cost of $25,000.	Simpson, archi—

Among the buildings erected by Mr. Henry

tect, were a neat little factory and office on King street west for the Metallic Roofing Co., cost $7,000. Contractors, James Crang, brickwork Young & Co., carpenters; James Casey, painter Wheeler & Bain, tinsmithing; Keith & Fitzsimmons, plumbing. Hotel for Jethro Worden, Adelaide street west, cost $10,000; bricklayer, Robt. Robertson carpenter, Wm. Simpson ; plasterer, F. P. Lockwood ; plumbers and steamfitters, Purdy, Mansell & Mashinter. Mr. Simpson also erected a Presbyterian church at Hillsdale, cost $5,000 ; Amos Train, of Flos, contractor.

Mr. G. W. King completed the town hall and fire station at Carleton Place, built of local stone, cost $23,000 ; Mr. Ryan, of Smiths Falls, contractor also the Methodist church at London, cost $35,000 ; Robert Robertson, bricklayer Coxhead & Co., carpenters both of Toronto.

Messrs. Curry, Baker & Co.'s work was largely residential, among which he following are worthy of mention : Brick residence for F . B. Johnson, 0. C., on Spadina road, cost $7,000; bricklayer, Jos Yorke; ; carpenter, G. B. Clements heating, Maguire & Co Residence for Mr. Geo. Ross, Madison avenue, cost $5,000, brick and cut stone; masons, Davidge & Ltinn; carpenters, Baumhard & Co. ; heating, Maguire & Co. ; painting

and decorating, J. W. Knott heated by Gurney Oxford apparatus. Sante architects also had charge of the alterations to the Collegiate Institute on Harbord street, and a new wing to the General Hospital, Guelph

The local work of Messrs. Burke & Horwood included remodeling the residence of Dr. j. B. How, alterations and new elevators in the Simpson building, cost $10,000, alterations to the armory for the Cold Storage Company. The contractors for the latter were:

mason, Cannon & Son: carpenters, Moir & McCall iron work, St. Lawrence Foundry Co.; piling, Medlar & Arnot. Also improvements to the east wing of Osgoode Hall, the contractors being C. C. Witchall mason ; J. C. Scott, carpenter; W. J. Hytmes, plasterer ; steamfitting and elect tic lighting, Keith & Fit

simmons. Of the outside work Knox church, Woodstock, cost $35,000, Mackintosh & Griffiths, contractors, and a residence at Sackville, N. B., for Prof. Hammond, are worthy of mention.

Two good residences in Rosedale for Messrs. A. E. Walker and II. H. Ardagh, cost $5,000 each, were erected from the plans of Mr. J. Wilson Gray, who also finished another pair on Jameson avenue for Messrs. J. H. Ford and Alex. Hay, at the same figure, and a $3,000 house on Broadview avenue for Mr. David Selway.

Mr. C. J. Gibson was architect for a large four-storey warehouse on the Esplanade for the Toronto Knitting Works: brick by day work , R. Johnson, carpenter ; C'. Davies, painter; R. Rennie, roofer ; also for two residences in Rosedale, amid one in Parkdale ; St. George's church, Lowville; ; bank and business block, Gananoque ; St. Thomas' church at Bracebridge, and a residence in Orillia for Mr. W. B. Tisdale T. A. Ouderkirk contractor for the last two works.

Messrs. Langley & Langley completed a residence iri Rosedale for Mr. Jas. George, brick and stone, cost $8,000 ; and two residences on Lumsley place for Mr. R. Elmsley, cost $5,500 and $6, 500.

A modern residence was built in Rosedale for Mr. Hermann Simmers, the architects being Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell; mason, W. J. Hill ; carpenter, Thos. Robinson, The same architects also erected a residence at Goderich for Dr. Holmes, amid an Episcopal church at Woodlands, Man.

Among the principal works executed by Messrs. Strickland & Symons, architects, were Additions to warehouses on Bay street for Geo. R. R. Cockburn, cost $4,000; stable and driving house for the Verral Cab & Baggage Transfer Co., cost $7,000; additions to residence of O. Macklem, Esq. ; additions to Bay street fire hall ; Methodist church, Grand Valley, cost $8,000 additions to MacGowan & Kents' warehouse, Front street ; remodeling of National Club, cost $15,000; ; remodeling and decorating residence of J. L. Morrison, Jarvis street ; pair houses, corner Bloom' & Jarvis streets for J L. Morrison, cost $16,000

The Page departmental store on Yonge street was rebuilt by Messrs. Gregg & Gregg architects The alterations represent a value of $15,000.

Mr. F. H. Herbert, architect, has contributed very largely during time past year to the domestic architecture of that largely built-up section situated north of Bloor street and known as "the annex." Among other work may be mentioned the residence on Madison avenue for W. Rein Wadsworth, Messrs. Dancy Bros., contractors ; detached residence, Bedford road, for Mrs. Annie Hill, Messrs. J. Bedford & Son, contractors; both being works which reflect credit on our local builders. Other residences in this neighborhood finished during the year include a detached residence on Walmer road for Rcv. Thos. Goldsmith ; a semidetached on Spadina road for A. Nelson, arid a detached on Huron street for Mr. Caleb Evans. R. C. Clute, Q. C., will soon

he in of his residence amid stable on Walmer road amid Castle avenue, built by lie same architect, who is also completing the residence immediately to the north of' this estate for William Wellwood. The remodeling of the recently acquired property on Walmer road for B. Homes Dixon, and of the residence on Prince Arthur avenue for Emilius Jarvis must also he included iii the year's work. Mention might also he made of the recently finished bijou residence on Bloor street west, occupied and owned by T.

A. Rowan, and that of his legal prater, Mr. J. L. Ross, who has under construction a new home on Lamport avenue, Rosedale. These are sonic of the buildings entrusted to the skill of Mr. Herbert, which, added to the many store and other buildings carried out under his supervision, make a good year's record. The coming season, we are also informed will see the commencement of some more important works, amid the present prospects are very encouraging.



OTTAWA, ONT.



The year 1896 was one of rapid progress in Ottawa, the number of residences erected amid the character thereof going to show that the citizens have determined tin) provide homes for themselves

Altogether	318 new buildings amid substantial	 alterations were

completed,	totaling in value about $500,000.	Time residences

were principally brick, brick-veneer, amid frame.

Among the most important structures erected during the year were A J Stevens' brick block on Sparks street, cost $14,000; Orme's brick block on Sparks street., cost \ $18,000; three buildings on Sparks street for Currie & Slater, cost $30,000 ; and W. H. Rowley's residence on Queen street, cost $15,000. Early in December last, fire destroyed C. Ross & Co.'s large building on Sparks street, at a loss of $225,000; Holbrook's building, loss $55,000; and E. P. Hartney's building, loss $25,000. Contracts were let during the month of January for replacing the burned structures amid this has brightened the outlook for 1897. Among the other new buildings projected are a large opera house to cost $100,000, and in addition to the Protestant Hospital, contracts for which have just been given. It is also probable that a system of main drainage will be arranged for. Taken altogether, there is reason to and participate prosperous building season in Ottawa this year.

HAMILTON, ONT.

In Hamilton, according to the report of the Building Inspector, the number of building permits issued in 1896 was 214, having a total value of $414,455, an increase of $117,385 as compared with the previous year. Of the buildings erected 142 were brick and i6 frame, while there were 82 alterations to existing structures.



Time principal building constructed during the year was the Ontario Collegiate Institute and Normal School, from plans prepared by William & Walter Stewart, architects. It is a three-story building, 460 X 280 feet in size, to accommodate ,1000 scholars. The basement and first story is built in Credit Valley brown stone, and the interior finished the black birch amid red pine, cost $120,000. The contractors were: Brick and stonework, Geo. Webb; carpenter work, Reid & Halliday ; plastering,  James McKee ; electric work, Lowe & Farrell; ; cast iron work, R. G. Olmstead ; slate boards, '1'. Irwin & Son ; galvanized iron, slate amid tile work, Irwin & Son ; steel structural work, Hamilton Bridge Works; ; steam heating, Fairley & Stewart ; plumbing,

W.	J. Walsh; painting and glazing, K. J. Sculley. A large number of average-sized dwellings were erected, the work being pretty evenly divided among the different architects. The construction of sewage interception works is now under way, and will cost, when completed nearly $100,000. Prices of materials have been higher than in 1895, and labor was also iii better demand.

LONDON, ONT.

The permits issued for the city of London show a value of $476,150, a slight increase over 1895. There has also been considerable building done for which permits were not taken out, amid 20 per cent. could fairly be added to the above estimate. Brick has predominated. Residential buildings represent $173,850, business $73,300, and public $229,000. In the latter is included the Grand Trunk car shops, which will cost, when completed, $100,000 Geo. Mills, of Hamilton, is the contractor The Hiscox office building, H. C. McBride, architect, cost $40,000, and the Y. M. C'. A. building, Moore & Henry, architects, cost $25,000. The prospects for 1897 are looked upon as promising.



GUELPH, ONT,



Guelph has not fallen behind in the matter of building, as the total value of $120,000 for the year 1896 would show. Some of the principal buildings were New brick wing to General Hospital, 40 X 60 feet, three stories and mansard; Curry, Baker & Co., architects: ; contractors, plumbing, gasfitting amid ventilating, Purdy, Mansell & Mashinter, Toronto; , stone amid brick work, T. Irving ; carpenter work, Dominion Ait Woodwork Co., Toronto

Junction:	; plastering, Edge & Son, Toronto: ; painting, Moffatt Bros.; tinsmithing, J. M. Jackson & Co., roofing, R. Rennie, Toronto Estimated cost $20,000. Chemical laboratory to 0. A. College, white brick, two stories and basement, 75 x 50 feet contractors Mr. Matthews brick ; Wideman & Clemens, carpentering; Mahoney Bros plastering; J. S. Moffatt, painting;

J.	R. Jackson & Co tinsmithing; Brown Bros., Brantford, slating; College men, plumbing and heating; Douglas Bros., Toronto, ventilation. Cost $10,500. Two-story business block for

McLean &	McLean, 30 X 78 feet., pressed brick with white stone

trimmings ,	architect	John A Trimble, Brampton ; contractors,

T.	Matthew brick and stone work ; G. Steven, carpenting; Mahoney Bros., plastering ; J. S. Moffatt, painting; roofing, Brown Bros., Brantford; Feck & Phillips, plumbing amid heating; Guelph Light & Power Co., lighting ; Goldie & McCullough,

