<doctype type="text">136	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





<article title=" National Association of Master Plumbers

SECOND ANNUAL CONVENTION

" author="">National Association of Master Plumbers

SECOND ANNUAL CONVENTION



HE early days of July witnessed the opening in Toronto



T

 of the second annual convention of the National Association of Master Plumbers of Canada. In point of attendance, business progress and social features, it was a pronounced success, and would seem to mark the beginning of a new era for the plumbing trade of Canada.

On June 30th a secret meeting of the Executive Committee was

held at the Painter House, the headquarters of the delegates.



At 10.30 o'clock on Dominion Bay the convention proper opened, in the rooms of the Toronto association, Queen and Victoria streets, the president, Mr. Jos. Lamarche, of Montreal, in the chair.

The president appointed Mr. Wm. Briggs sergeant—at—arms, and the following gentlemen a committee on credentials Messrs.

W. II. heard, London M. H. Dunbrack, St. John, N. B.; A. Forest, Quebec. This committee reported the following delegates present

London, Ont.---W. H. Heard, Wm. Smith, E. Holland.

Quebec, Que.-—R. Sampson, A. Forrest, J. R. Kane, 0. Matte, A. Pickard.

Montreal, Que.—Jos. Lamarche, j. W. Briggs, C. E. Thibault, P. J. Carroll, E. C. Mount, Arthur Martin, P. C. Ogilvie, John Watson, J. XV. Harris, Thos. Moll.

Toronto, Ont.---Jos. Wright, II. Beavis, 1. XV. Burroughes, J.

B.	Fitzsimmons.



Ottawa, Ont.—John McKinley, F. j. Johnson.

Windsot, Ont.---M. B. Squire.

Halifax N.S.—John Borton, Geo. A. Perrier.

St. John, N. B.—J. H. Doody, M. hi. Dunbrack.

St. Catharines, On t.—A. Chatfield.

Stratford, Out. —J. A. Cast lake.

St. Thotnas, Ont.—W. Flaherty.

Peterboro', Out. Adam Hall.

Winnipeg, Man.---Represented by j. XV. Hughes.

Toronto Junction, Out - Represented by Toronto delegates.

There were also present as visitors Messrs. Chas. 3. Hull, St. Thomas ; B. Noble, London ; M. J. Laronx, Windsor; ; and a number of Toronto members, as well as representatives of the wholesale supply houses.

President Lamarche welcomed the wholesalers and manufacturers. He referred to he good feeling which existed between the supply houses and the plumbers, and thought their presence was an indication of willingness to continue to co-operate in the future. He announced that the next business was he appointment of a committee on resolutions.

It was moved by Mr. Burroughes, seconded by Mr. Martin, that a commit tee of five be named. Carried. The president then appointed Messrs. Jos. Wright, J. XV. Harris, J. H. Doody, R. Sampson and Wm. Smith, to act in this capacity.



The president stated that any motions to be put before the meeting should be submitted. Motions amending the constitution would go to this committee.



At the desire of the delegates, it was decided to transact the business in English only.

Mr. Wm. Smith, vice-president for Ontario, submitted a notice of motion amending the constitution, which, be thought, would place the Association on a more solid foundation, and in which the following recommendations were made:

That there be a set of supreme officers, to be composed of the president, vice-president, treasurer, secretary, and sergeant-alarms. That each province be formed into what shall be known as the Canadian Master Plumbers Association of the Province of

to be composed of all the local	associations in said province, and the local association to elect delegates to attend the provincial convention instead of the Dominion, as at present. That at each provincial convention three representatives yes be elected to attend time supreme convent ion, which would be held once a year. That a chart be issued to local associations by the supreme power, and that each local association be managed under the number system. That a certificate of membership lie issued to each member of the local associations, said certificate to be forfeited upon his withdrawal from the association. That a seal be procured and adopted by the Dominion Association.

Moved by Mr. Mount, seconded by Mr. Hughes, that the

following changes be made in the constitution and bylaws

Article a, page 20, after the word ''plumbers '' add '' and steam— titters.' Article 4, page 21, erase the words in the third line ''at or 1st meeting in May and substitute "next convention." Bylaws, article 7, add to fourth line after the words ''convention ''the words '' unless otherwise decided by the convention," and article 17 to by—laws which shall be the order of business—'' Montreal Resolutions —to amend the interpretation of the term '' master plumber " so as to include steam and hot-water fitters.



The above resolutions were referred to the Committee on Resolutions.



REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.



The Executive Committee, composed of Messrs. Lamarche, Hughes, Burroughes, Mount, Doody and Fiddes, reported that three meetings were held during the year, one each at Montreal, Quebec and Toronto. The meeting in Quebec was rendered necessary by the accumulation of business which it was impossible to bring to a satisfactory conclusion by writing. The signatures of the Quebec wholesale dealers to the resolutions were secured, and at the Toronto meeting time long existing difficulties between the plumbers and the Plumbers' Supply Association were amicably settled. At the meeting in Montreal, a sub—committee was appointed consisting of Messrs. Lamarche, Hughes and Mount This sub-committee held forty-six meetings, besides a number of conferences. During the year local associations were fortified in Winnipeg, St Thomas, Stratford, Windsor and St. Catharines, arid negotiations for the notion of an association were in progress at Vancouver, B.C. A number of towns were still unorganized, and it was urged tit it special efforts be made to get these places enrolled Appreciation of the efforts of Mr. Wm. Smith, of London in association work was expressed. The Executive strongly urged the necessity of delegates impressing upon their local associations the desirability of the members treating the association as an integral part of their business organization and to look upon time money spent in keeping up and organization as a



paying investment.	They recommended the convention to consider time advisability of making a fixed annual charge instead of time present practice of making regular per capita tax calls nit time members.



This report was also referred to the Committee on Resolutions.

REPORT OF SANITARY COMMITTEE.



Messrs. heard, Hall, Mashinter, Clark and Birch, comprising the Sanitary Committee, reported that two meetings were held during the year, one at London on 3rd December last, and one immediately preceding time present convention. The meeting at London was called to assist the London plumbers in time in efforts to obtain a plumbing and inspection law, which was now it a fair way of being accomplished.



Aim earnest effort had been made to answer some of the many difficult questions relating to sanitary construction and apparatus, and much care and deliberation were exercised to arrive at a satisfactory form of inspection law, and the results are shown in the annexed specifications. The question of license and regulation was also carefully considered. Reference was made to the



progress which had been made in sanitary science in late years, amid to the valuable assistance rendered in this connecting it to the Plumbers' Association by t tie trade press. In the opinion of time committee, riot higher was so conducive to time good of the plumbers of Canada as a uniform specification, involving a close inspection and a good workable amid effective license and regulation by—law. The Committee therefore recommended:



1.	That a united effort should be made by each local association of master plumbers throughout time Dominion to have a bylaw enacted, similar to the on herewith submitted, thereby guaranteeing uniformity, which is thought to be the best way to agitate for a Dominion sanitary plumbing law.

2.	'That at least one member of the local Hoard of Health should be a practical master plumber, to lie nominated by time local Master Plumbers' Association, arid, where inspectors exist, they also to be members.

3.	That at least one member of each provincial Board of Health should be a master plumber, nominated by time national Association of Master Plumbers, or Provincial Board where one exists.

4.	That at least one member of the Dominion Board of health should be a master plumber, nominated by your Association.

5. That there should be, in each town or city or municipality of sufficient size, a board of plumbing examiners, whose duties shall be to advise the Council or Board of Health upon all matters relating to time construction of sanitary plumbing amid advise such changes as may be necessary to keep specification abreast what time times.

6.	That directors should be under the control of this Board of Plumbing Examiners who should also be empowered to decide upon and adjust alt disputes arising from the operation of time bylaw.

7.	That the constitution of the Board of Plumbing Examiners

