



<doctype type="text">a Committee on Building By-laws. For instance, it was proposed now to extend the Toronto Street Rail-way along the lake front to the Island. They might have an opinion, in that connection, as to how the Island should be laid out ; and for that reason alone he thought they should have the Committee on Municipal Improvements continued.

<person>Mr. Langton </person>said that the Committee was appointed in 1894-5, and consisted of Messrs. <person>Billings</person>, <person>Baxter</person<person>>, D.

B. Dick</person>, <person>W. R. Gregg</person>, <person>Post</person> and <person>Aylesworth</person> ; and last year it was moved by Mr. Gregg and carried that the Committee be continued with powers to add to its numbers. He (Mr. Langton) seconded Mr. Gregg's motion that the Committee be continued with power to add to its numbers.

Mr. Gregg What is the name of that Committee?

Mr. Langton It is called the Committee on Municipal Adornment.

Mr. Paull remarked that the Committee might bring forward something next year.

Mr. Langton suggested that Mr. Gregg be the Chairman of the Committee, and with this embodied, the resolution was declared carried.

The Registrar then read a letter from the Secretary of the Am. Inst. of Architects saying that he had had enquiries from Canadian architects as to the possibility of entering the American Institute, and asking if the Ontario Association desires connection with the American Institute, and also a letter from the Secretary of the Province of Quebec Association asking for co-operation of the Ontario Association in the establishment of a Dominion Institute.

Mr. Gregg said that he supposed that if there was an affiliation it should be between a Dominion Association and an American Association. He did not go into the question as to the desirability of affiliation at present, but simply moved that it be left in abeyance pending the consideration of the question of the establishment of a Dominion Association.

<person>Mr. Simpson </person>seconded the motion, and it was declared carried.

The President Now we have the other question, with regard to the Dominion Association.

Mr. Simpson asked to what legislature would they have to apply for their bill in case all the provincial associations decided to amalgamate. Would their bill have to go to the Dominion House or through the several local Houses?

The President said it would depend altogether on what they were as king for.

Mr. Simpson Well the same as we are asking now from the Provincial House.

The President replied that he understood the matter of the regulation of the professions in the various provinces was in the hands of the Provincial Legislatures. There might be a sense, however, in which the Dominion House might exercise an authority of which he was not cognizant.

Mr. Simpson said that the reason he asked was that it occurred to him that if amalgamation took place there might be a possibility of their getting the hill through the Dominion house which they might not succeed in getting passed through the Provincial House.

Mr. Gregg said that he saw one advantage that might result from having a Dominion Association: that was, that such an association would be in a better position than they were to deal with the question of duties on plans from other countries to deal with it better than it had ever been dealt with in the past. If they were to have a tariff in this country, it should be fully enforced as regards foreign plans, but this had never been done hitherto.

Mr. Langton did not think they were in a position to know what the proposition meant. They did not know whether the carrying of it out would help or hinder them in obtaining the legislation they were now asking for. As far as they knew at present professional associations were incorporated by the local legislatures and not by that of the Dominion ; so he supposed this Association should also seek for incorporation from our local legislature, They were so far without the suggestions

or notes which the President of the Quebec Association had promised should be sent to them. The question as to the duty on plans was an interesting one ; but it was not the most important question they had to deal with. It alone was not sufficient reason for desiring to have a Dominion Association.

Mr. Henry remarked that the formation of a Dominion Association would not prevent the existence of local associations working under their own Acts.

Mr. Langton said he had thought there would be difficulty in carrying on two associations.

<person>Mr. Henry </person>suggested that they communicate with the Quebec Association for the purpose of finding out more definitely what their proposal was

<person>Mr. Darling </person>said he would like to know what effect amalgamation would have on the course they were now pursuing. He thought they might continue as at present, and at the same time make enquiry of the Quebec people what they meant. He thought that at present this Association had its hands full enough. He would certainly be very averse to merging it in a Dominion Association.

The President As I understand, the purport of Mr. Henry's motion is simply that we ask for further information before doing anything. Is that it?

Mr. Henry Yes. I quite agree with Mr. Darling that our efforts should all be concentrated on the one thing, the securing of legislation here.

<person>Mr. Power </person>thought a resolution was hardly necessary. In the first place, it was scarcely a suggestion even that they were dealing with. They had not got the information that was spoken of in the communication that had just been read. lie thought it would be a decided mistake to do anything in the matter until they had that information and even if they had the information it would, he thought, be unwise for them to undertake anything more than they had under way at the present time. He could not see that amalgamation would help them much just now and it might do them a good deal of harm. He thought they had better just centre their efforts on what they had under consideration at present, and when they got the further information that was spoken of in the letter they could discuss the matter further.

The President Has anyone got a motion, then (No one responds.)

The President Then we will pass on to other business. Seeing that we have arrived at that stage, I suppose we are now in a position to consider the proposition from the American Institute.

Mr. Gregg said that when he made his motion he had not had the least idea that a Dominion Association could be arranged for within this year, and he thought that a Dominion Association would be the proper body to receive and consider such a suggestion as that coming from the American Institute. That body being a national one, it would not, in his opinion, be proper that affiliation should take place between it and an association which was merely provincial.

<person>Mr. Currie </person>thought, nevertheless, that the American Association should receive an answer from this Association in reply to their suggestion. How could this body affiliate with the American Institute? He understood that the latter had themselves offered no suggestion as to how to bring the thing about. For himself he saw no reason why an association ~n this country should not be in affiliation with one in the States. In joining the latter they need not necessarily throw up their own organization. If some way could be arrived at by which this Association could become affiliated with that of the United States, and by which they could derive the benefit which must constantly result therefrom, he thought it would be a very good thing. He saw no reason why there should be a dividing line between the architects of the United States and the architects here. At the same time, he was entirely in favor of maintaining their own association. In any case, he thought such a suggestion coming from the American Architects Association should receive a courteous answer.

Mr. Darling said there was no question the communication from the American Association should be cour

