<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	97



good. and also their mass and proportion, but the details are poor and mixed and strike a jarring note in thc harmonies of the exterior of the Abbey.

We turn, however, with unmixed pleasure to the splendid restoration of the north transept, the finest work that has been done on the exterior of the Abbey for the last 300 years. begun by Sir Gilbert Scott and carried on and completed by Mr. Pearson, it stands almost unrivalled as a perfect piece of restoration, showing an insight into the spirit of the best Gothic work, and a knowledge of detail with a mastery of workmanship not surpassed by any old work that has come down to us, In the hands of ignorant men who are credited as having been pupils of Sir Christopher Wren, this great north transept had been utterly spoiled and vulgarized and it is a matter for rejoicing to see it now. I hope to be able to show you presently on the screen the two fronts so that you can compare them. Mr. Pearson has also done some good restoration work to the south transept and part of the south aisle and cloisters.

At the cast end of the Abbey, challenging notice from its titter dissimilarity to the rest of the fabric, is the famous Henry the Seventh's chapel. Like the Abbey, however, its glory is in its interior and not in its exterior. Outwardly it is a tour de force in architecture—a stone framework for immense mullioned bay windows, and covered with restless paneling and pinnacles that tease the eye and worry the mind, and give no rest to body or soul.

There is no good point of view from which a complete and comprehensive view of the Abbey can he obtained on the south side it is hemmed in with houses at the east end it was similarly shut in, but recently some old houses have been pulled down, so that tile chapter house and Henry Seventh's chapel can now he seen.

On the north side it is more open, and the tide of busy human life and traffic flows past it day and night, surging up almost to the portals. here stands the parish church of St. Margaret's close under its shadow. Some have urged its removal, but its presence is so time-honored and it gives such scale and perspective to the Abbey that it were better left.

But we must not linger longer outside. Let us cross the threshold and enter it.

It is pleasant to lay aside the cloak of criticism and don the robes of praise and admiration. If the exterior lends itself to disparaging comparisons, the interior disarms and overwhelms us by its unique beauty, tender grace and lofty magnificence. The nave and choir soar up as if into illimitable space, and are unusually high for their width, reminding one again of French influences, although in detail they are thoroughly English. The suburb arching and piers lead us up to the magnificent triforium, with its beautiful fenestration, which has been said to he tin-equaled elsewhere, and then still upwards to the great clerestory windows, and above that to the groined stone arched roof.

We cannot he too thankful that the builders of the western portion of the nave had the great good sense and magnanimity to sink their individuality and complete the nave on the lines and with close similarity to the four eastern bays of the nave built a century before. The whole nave has thus a unity and harmony which it would not have had if they had built it in a later style as was usual and commonly done in so many other places.

The only difference is in the details of mouldings, in the shafting of the nave piers, and in the absence of the beautiful surface diaper work of the earlier time, differences which (10 not affect the general appearance, and arc most interesting as serving to maintain a distinct yet harmonious personality.

The transepts are as fine as the nave, and have special features distinguishing them, such as the great rose window and the carved angels in the spandrels of the triforium, reminding one of the beautiful angel choir at Lincoln, The triforium space is unusually ample and large in the Abbey, and forms in reality a continuous gallery round the church, from which large concourses of people could view ceremonials below.

The ritual choir is brought down four bays of the nave, and is divided off by a modern screen erected by Blore. On the top of this screen the organ used to stand, but was removed, divided up, and placed at the sides souse years ago.

At the east end of the ritual choir is the grand screen, a noble piece of work, the eastern side of which dates from the 15th century and has carvings illustrating incidents in the life of the Confessor. In front of this, and also behind it, is a very precious and unique piece of mosaic pavement called Opus Alexandrinum, formed of rare marbles. These is but one other piece of pavement of this kind in England, namely, at

Canterbury.

A series of chapels cluster around the east end, culminating in the Chapel of the Kings, lying immediately behind the high altar. Here is the famous Coronation Chair and stone on which all the Kings and Queens of England have been crowned since the time of Edward the First. This " Hammer of the Seots " brought the famous stone from Scone, the old Scottish capital The chair enclosing this stone was originally intended to he of bronze, and we are told the workmen had actually begun it, but for some reason or other in was made of English oak and decorated by one Walter, a famous painter at that time.

A nimbus of legendary fame encircles this stone. The legend runs that it is the stone which Jacob took for his pillow at Bethel, and was transported by his descendants to Egypt. The son of the King of Athens who had married the daughter of Pharoah, alarmed at tire fate of Moses, fled to Sicily or Spain with it. From thence it was carried to Ireland, and on the sacred hill of Tara became the stone of Destiny, and on it the Kings of Ireland were crowned. Fergus bore it from Ireland to Dustaffnage, and as the Scots went eastward Kenneth II. in 840 removed it and set it on a raised mound its Scone. There, incased in a chair of wood, the Kings of Scotland were crowned. Such is the legend I cannot vouch for its troth.

The other Coronation Chair which stands beside it is much more modern, and was made for the Queen at the time of the accession of William and Mary.

Addison, in one of the numbers of his "Spectator," gives an ensuring account of a visit of Sir Roger de Coverly to the Abbey. lie says, "When they came to the chair, having heard that the stone underneath the more ancient of them which was brought from Scotland was called

Jacob's pillow, sat himself down on the chair and, looking like the figure of an old gothic king, asked the interpreter what authority they had to say that Jacob had ever been in Scotland, The fellow, instead of returning him an answer, told him that he hoped his Honor would pay the forfeit. I could observe Sir Roger a little ruffled on being thus trepanned, but our guide not insisting on his demand, the knight soon recovered his good humor, and whispered in my ear that if Will Wimble were with us and saw these two chairs it would go hard but he would get a tobacco stopper out of one or t'other of them."

This cutting and scribbling mania seems to be a disease not confined to the present day, and the Coronation Chair is almost covered with names cut arid scribbled on the back and arms, many of them of some antiquity.

One cannot take the most cursory view of the Abbey without being impressed by the monuments that obtrude themselves at every point, but as I desire to give you some idea of the architecture of the Abbey first, permit me to complete our round before raking up the monuments.

Between the chapels of St. Nicholas and St. Paul you enter by a flight of steps under a frowning arch and through beautiful brazen gates into the famous Henry the Seventh's Chapel. It has been called a

"miracle in stone," and in spite of its dehisced Gothic it fascinates you by its bold daring, its reckless exuberance of ornament and detail, its triumph over what arc generally considered the limitations of stone.

This chapel is almost itself a miniature cathedral, for it has a nave, two aisles and five apsidal chapels, and is considered the finest perpendicular or ecclesiastical Tudor building in England. Its chief wonder and glory is its fan traceried roof. Washington Irving speaking of it says "Stone seems by the cunning labors of the chisel to have been robbed of its weight and density, suspended aloft as by magic, and the fretted roof achieved with the wonderful minuteness and airy security of a cobweb." We have somewhat similar roofs in King's College Chapel, Cambridge St. George's, Windsor, and a few places elsewhere. It us difficult to describe this roof, but I hope to show you on the screen the construction of it. In the meantime I may just say that the main groining ribs spring front the caps of the columns and form flat, slightly poirsted arches studded all over are stalactite pendants, through which the ribs seem to go, and these spread hike the branches of a tree until they meet each other in bewildering paneled and espied reticulations. They appear most puzzling, but they follow certain well-defined lines of construction which when mastered give the key to time puzzle. To strengthen the haunches of the springing arches the space is filled in with cusped paneling. We have to thank Sir Christopher Wren for the preservation of this roof, as in his time it was threatening disintegration, but owing to the steps he took and his wise care, this disaster was averted, and it still remain, a wonder to each succeeding generation.



The Abbey, unfortunately, is not rich in old or even good modern stained glass. In the Trifornan of the Presbytery there is still a little grisaille of the 14th century. In the east window of Henry 7th's chapel is a figure of the four ruder. Here and there we find fragments of old glass have been worked in. The great Choir of Amiens seems butt a framework for its glorious glass, but Westminster derives no glamour from '' storied windows richly dight."

One of the most exquisitely beautiful parts of the abbey is the Chapter House it was the council chamber of the monastery and is almost peculiar to English cathedrals. It is a detached octangal building, about 52 ft. in diameter, somewhat similar to those at York, Lincoln and Salisbury, with a slender central clustered pillar of Purbech marble about 35 feet high, from which the ribs of the vaulted roof spring, branching out like a tree to a height of about 50 feet from the floor, arid drooping to the angles of the walls.

The double doorway entering from the cloisters is singularly beautiful. All round the walls under the large windows is a stone seat and areading, behind which arc some old and remarkable paintings of subjects from the Apocalypse found at thc time of the restoration by Sir Gilbert Scott, and supposed to have been painted by Brother John in the reign of Edward 4th.

The Chapter House has passed through very trying vicissitudes it was erected in 1250. The House of Commons cause into existence in 1265 they first sat with the Lords in the great hall of the palace adjoining, but in 1252 they parted, and the Commons used this Chapter House until time death of Henry VIII 10 1547. Then it became national property and was used for storing the public records, and to obtain more room the groined roof was taken downs and galleries erected. In thus remained in this state of humiliation until 1865, when it was restored to its original beauty as it now us.

The Jerusalem Chamber is part of the Dean's house and originally of the Abbott's house, and obtained its name probably from tapestries or pictures depicting the history of Jerusalem, on the walls. This chamber us a Mecca for all good Presbyterians, for here the Director)-, the Larger and the Shorter Catechism and the Confession of Faith were drawn up while the famous Westminster Assembly sat from 1643 to 1649, and here also more recently the revisers of the Bible carried on and completed their work.

Retracing our footsteps, and passing on the way the Chapel of the or the treasury where the Royal regalia was kept for years, we

again enter the abbey to glance at the monuments.

The abbey in its illustrious dead is very cosmopolitan. Here churchmen and nonconformists lie side by side the dust of the foreigner mingles with that of her own sons. Kings and queens, statesmen, philanthropists, poets, preachers, musicians, warriors, men of science, architects, all are there.

Victory or Westminster Abbey has must alone been Nelson's watchword it has furnished the incentive for many an heroic struggle against the elements of evil.

In course of time there has grown up a rough classification in the position of the monuments. Thus we have Royalty in the Chapel of the Kings and in the chapel of Henry the 7th statesmen in the North Transept poets and literary men in tire South Transept, called the "Poet's Corner." Even to these, however, there arc exceptions. Our steps instinctively turn first to the heart of tire abbey—the Chapel of the Kings, and to the tomb of Edward the Confessor, for whom the abbey was intended by Henry the III as a magnificent mausoleum. It had to be placed to the east of the Highs Altar, and as the Lady Chapel was

