<doctype type="colophon">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

(Price of this Number, 35 Cents)

	VOL. X.—No. I	JANUARY, 1897	PRICE 20 \CENTS

			 $2.00 PER YEAR.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

A Monthly Journal of Modern Constructive Methods,



(With a Weekly Intermediate Edition—The CANADIAN CONTRACT RECORD).



PUBLISHED ON THE THIRD THURSDAY IN EACH MONTH IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,

DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND MANU-

FACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILDING

MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

Confederation Life Building,	-	TORONTO, CANADA.

Telephone 2362.



Branch Office: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE BUILDING, MONTREAL.

Bell Telephone 2299.





SUBSCRIPTIONS 

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages paid.



A ADVERTISEMENTS

Prices for advertisements sent promptly on application. Orders for advertisements should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS

Contributions of value to the persons in whose interest this journal is published, are cordially invited. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings are written items of interest from their respective localities.





Subscribers who may change their address should give prompt no/ice of same. In doing so, give both old and new address. Notify publisher of any irregularity in delivery of paper.





TO ADVERTISERS.



For the benefit of Advertisers, a copy of this journal Is mailed each week to persons mentioned In the CONTRACT RECORD reports as intending to build, with a request to consult our advertisement pages and write advertisers for material, machinery, etc.





IN presenting this, the fourth New To Our Readers. Year Number of the ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER to our readers, a word of explanation seems necessary. After the contents of this number were arranged, it was learned that an earlier date than usual had been decided upon for the annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects. It seemed highly desirable that the proceedings of this convention should appear in this number. In order that this might be accomplished it was necessary to defer publication of our annual Building Review and a number of other articles which were designed to have a place in these pages. For the reason mentioned there is scarcely the variety of contents that we could desire, but it is believed that the interesting character of the proceedings of the 0. A. A. Convention will in a measure compensate for this. We take this opportunity of thanking those who have assisted us in any way during the year '96, as well as in the production of this number. In this connection we are indebted for our frontispiece design to Mr. <person>T. R. Johnston</person>, of New York, formerly of Toronto. The work itself witnesses to the skill of its author. We ask the kindly co-operation of our readers

during 1897, and trust the year may prove a happy and prosperous one to all.





THE pressure upon our space forbids The <assoc>O. A. A. </assoc>more than brief mention of the work



accomplished by the O. A. A. at the annual convention held in Toronto last week. Two or three points, however, may be emphasized: One is, that those members who between the conventions are heard to complain that the control of the Association is too much in the hands of the Toronto members, were conspicuous by their absence from and lack of interest in the convention. Several of the Toronto members were re-elected to the Council in spite of their earnestly expressed wishes to withdraw, because we presume it was felt that it would not be safe at this somewhat critical juncture to entrust the Associations s welfare in the hands of men who had shown but a lukewarm interest in its affairs. The decision to permit Chapters to be formed in Toronto and other cities, seems to be a step calculated to awaken interest in architectural matters throughout the province, and one which should bring added strength to the Association. The suggestion made by the President, in his address, that it would be desirable to classify the members of the Association into Fellows and Associates, with appropriate titles, is one which it was wisely decided to take no action upon at the present time. Other matters of vital interest to the welfare and usefulness of the Association should have precedence and receive the most careful thought and attention during the present year. The Association expressed in no uncertain language its opinion that unless the government take action to render the Ontario Architects' Act workable, it should ask to be released of the responsibility and expense of conducting students' examinations. By voluntarily establishing a Department of Architecture in connection with the School of Practical Science, the Minister of Education recognized the need for the proper education of architects in the future. The architects of Ontario have given every possible assistance to make this Department of Architecture a success. What assistance have they received in return from the Minister of Education and the govern-meat? It may confidently be stated that without the co-operation of the architects of the province the Department of Architecture cannot achieve a satisfactory measure of success, and in future that assistance can only be depended on in the event of the Architects' Act being amended in the manner proposed. The architects are tired of spending effort to no purpose for the object of protecting the public against the blunders of incompetent " architects" in the future, and are still more tired of being asked by the government to make bricks without straw.

