



<doctype type="text">then should any architect who has the least respect for himself or the profession he has adopted, object to undergo the examination he so earnestly wishes to have imposed on the rising generation?

You mistake the import of my previous letter—I do not claim to be able to turn out students fully prepared to enter upon the practical work of superintending architects, but I do profess to be able to train young men to become efficient architectural draughtsmen in less time than such takes by the obsolete method of doing ordinary routine office work supplemented by the picking up of wrinkles as chance favors.

The clause in the Bill exempting two year's services in an architect's office to students of the School of Science looks as if that institution is in need of State crutches as well as of State funds for its continuance. If the object of the Bill is to ensure that well-qualified men, and those only, may practice the profession of architecture, I say by all means -1st, have the examinations ; 2nd, have them conducted by either the government or the university in conjunction with specialists elected annually from the

members of the profession and 3rd, have different degrees; 4th, have the examinations open to all and honestly conducted ; but, 5th, having a committee to investigate appeals.

It is not just to compel all students in the province to attend a school in Toronto for three years, but examine them there if no better place can be found, and grant the diplomas to all who can do the work without questioning where or from whom their information has been gained. You state that mine is a gloomy picture of a student's work in an office but if space would permit I would give the statements of those who suffered, and the picture would be gloomy indeed.

You object to the word " self-dubbed " ; so does every worthy member in the profession. Here is an example only last week a carpenter enquired of me how long it would be before

he could draw a plan ; he stated his trade was not a desirable one, and as he was out of work he thought when building begins in the spring he would "'hang out his shingle as ha harchitek." This man has evidently more ambition than knowledge; perhaps he may be a good workman under supervision, but as a supervisor he must fail. He further stated "that as a boy he disliked educational work and that it Tom can make money as a harchitek, he could." On enquiry I found he had never worked a problem of geometry, he knew nothing of drawing, and virtually nothing of any building trade but his own. If his shingle appears, is the term " self dubbed " too expressive of contempt ; if so, let it be " self styled."

You mention ''vested interests" ; kindly compare that to vested interests in cesspools. If the public demand their abolition he has to do away with them and adopt a system of sewage approved of by the public. Where safety is concerned vested interests often mean interests lost ; all reforms press on some sore corn.

The statement I made in reference to students fares being paid to the United States is correct, as is also that in regard to obstacles being placed to prevent students from practising in Canada. If you wish for these details I will give them privately ; it is inadvisable to publish names. You also inter that I have not

shown due respect for the Ontario architects ; on the contrary I have the highest respect for every educated man whose actions are above suspicion.

Yours respectfully,

S.	JOHN IRELAND,

Principal Hamilton Art School.



<article title="The President of the R.C.A." author="">THE PRESIDENT OF THE R. C. A.

THE Royal Canadian Academy of Arts, which includes in its membership a number of architects, was founded in 1880. In 1893, Mr. Robert Harris was elected President, and still occupies that position. We are pleased to be able to present to our readers the accompanying likeness and particulars of this interesting personality.

Mr. Harris, when a young child, came with his parents from Wales to Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, where, at the Prince of Wales College he received his education. He qualified as a Provincial land surveyor, but manifested a strong inclination and adaptability for art, facilities for the proper study of which were altogether lacking at that period. After drawing and painting for several years without an instructor, direct from nature, he determined in 1877 to devote his life to art, and in pursuance of this purpose, entered the Slade School University College, London, under Legros, and afterwards the Atelier Bonnat, Paris. As might have been expected, his progress was rapid, and his style free and strong.

Upon his return to Charlottetown in 1878, Mr. Harris painted a number of pictures, some of which were sent to the Exhibition of the Ontario Society of Artists, of which society he was afterwards elected vice-president.

He removed from Charlottetown and for two years

had a studio in Toronto.

From 1880 to 1883 was spent in further study in Paris and Italy. In the latter year Mr. Harris returned to Canada, and opened a studio in Montreal, which city has since been his home.

Mr. Harris was a member of the Committee of Arrangements appointed to prepare a basis of organization for the Royal Canadian Academy, and the present prosperous condition of the society is in no small measure due to his labors on its behalf.

Mr. Harris was formerly an exhibitor at the Paris Salon, the Royal British Academy and other European art exhibitions. He was likewise an exhibitor at the World's Fair, where he was awarded a medal. Since 1893 he has not exhibited outside of Canada. He has given us many excellent Canadian landscape pictures, as well as historical and ecclesiastical pictures, but it is as a portrait painter that he has gained his chief distinction.



<article title="Examinations  of the O.A.A." author="">EXAMINATIONS OF THE O. A. A.

The examinations of the Ontario Association of Architects for 1897 will begin on March 15th at 2 p.m. Students who intend to come up for examination should send their names to the Registrar without delay. ________________________





The annual meeting of the Iron Founders' Association, of Montreal, was held on Thursday, the 14th January. There were

present Messrs. H. R. Ives, W. Laurie, Wm. Greig, J. H. Garth,  Jos. Amesse and Wm. Rodden. The following officers were

elected for 1897 :—Wm. Laurie, president Jos. Amesse, 1st vice-president W. Davis, 2nd vice-president H. R. Ives, hon.

treasurer; Wm. Greig, secretary Geo H. Weaver, sec.-treas.

