<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT " author="">STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.



<article title=" O. A. A. EXAMINATIONS " author="">O. A. A. EXAMINATIONS.

THE examinations of the Ontario Association of Architects, for the year 1898, are announced to take place at the School of Practical Science, Toronto, on March 14th, 1898. The requirements for admission will be the same as in former years.

Candidates must send their names to the Registrar at least one month previous to the date of examinations, and in the case of those presenting themselves for the first time, a certificate of status with reference to the requirements for admission.

The percentage of marks required to pass will bc 45 per cent. for the following subjects: Foundations, Structural Iron Work, Strength of Materials, Nature and Properties of Materials, Practical Knowledge of Building Trades, Sanitary Science, Elements of Construction.

For the following subjects the percentage required to pass will be 30 per cent. :—Architectural Jurisprudence, Design, Technical Terms, history of Architecture, Mouldings, Features and Ornaments, Heating and Ventilation, Euclid, Algebra, Slatics, Trigonometry. 

No supplemental examination will be allowed to candidates for the final examination. Candidates for the first and second intermediate examinations will be allowed a supplemental examination in one subject.

The fee for each examination is ten dollars, and for each supplemental examination two dollars.



FIRST EXAMINATION.



Each candidate for the first examination must, at least one week prior to the date fixed for the examination, send to the registrar the following drawings, which must be certified by his principal to be his own work

Five sheets of drawings, one of each of the Roman orders; one

sheet of the mouldings and ornaments of these orders drawn 10 a

larger scale. (Each sheet to be of the size of a half sheet of

Whatman's Double Elephant Paper, i.e., 20 in. by 26 in.) The subjects for examination will be

ELEMENTS OF CONSTRUCTION.---Text book: Mitchell's Building Construction. 

MATHEMATICS.-----Euclid:	Books I, II and Ill. Plane Trigonometry: Including thc solution of plane triangles. Algebra In-chiding quadratic equations.

TECHNICAL TERMS.---A knowledge of the terms necessary to understand the description of a monumental building and its parts.

HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE.----To the close of the Roman period. Books recommended: Stevenson's House Architecture Vol. 1, as an introduction Banister Fletcher's history of Architecture Fergusson's History of Architecture; Statham's Architecture for General Readers.



SECOND EXAMINATION



Every candidate for the second examination must, at least one week prior to the date fixed for the examination send to the registrar the following drawings, which must be certified by his



principal to be his own work:

One sheet of Romanesque architecture two sheets of Gothic architecture; one sheet of drawings measured from existing examples; one sheet of constructional details. (Each sheet to be of the size of a half sheet of Whatman's Double Elephant Paper, i. e., 20 in. by 26 in.)

The subjects for examination will be:

	STATICS, GRAPHICAL	AND ANALYTICAL.



STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.----Textbook for both the above neads:



Lessons in Applied Mechanics, by Cotterill & Slade; Part II.

PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE OF BUILDING TRADES.----Masonry (excluding cut stone work), Brickwork and Plaster. Text books Kidder's Building Construction and Superintendence. Clark's Building Superintendence.

STRUCTURAL IRON WORK.---The candidate will be required to draw details of the forms of iron construction in use in ordinary practice, viz. the construction of columns and girders, and the framing of beams and trusses. Text books Mitchell's Building Construction. Advanced course. Kidder's Architects' and Builder's Pocket Hook.

HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE.---From the close of the Roman period to the present time. Texts books recommended Fergusson's history of Architecture Banister Fletcher's History of Architecture ; Parker's Introduction to Gothic Architecture Statharn's Architecture for General Readers.



FINAL EXAMINATION.



Every candidate must, at least one week prior to the date fixed for the examination, send to the Registrar a perspective drawing which must be certified to be his own work. Drawings to be on a sheet of paper, 20 in. by 26 in., and not mounted on cardboard.

Thc subjects for final examinations will be

HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE.---The candidate will be expected to know the history of the development of Architecture.

MOULDINGS, FEATURES AND ORNAMENTS. - The candidate must be able to draw the characteristic mouldings, features and ornaments of any style.

DESIGN.—AS illustrated by drawings for a building of moderate dimensions, or a portion of a building, from particulars given, with details of construction and ornament. In addition to the study of architectural style, which will be necessary for this examination, Osborne's House Planning should be read. (The aspect compass in this book is incorrectly subdivided.)



NATURE AND PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS-- Limes, cements, stones, bricks, timber. Text book South Kensington Notes on Building Construction.



FOUNDATIONS.---Text book Kidder's Building Construction and Superintendence.

ARCHITECTURAL JURISPRUDENCE.— Text book: The Law Relating to Civil Engineers, Architects and Contractors, by Macassey

& Strahan.



PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE OF BUILDING TRADES.----Sufficient for the purposes of ordinary building. Text books: Kidder's Building Construction and Superintendence; Building Superintendence, by T. M. Clark.

STRENGTH OF MATERIALS. —Designing structures of an ordinary kind from data, with computation of the strains involved.

HEATING AND VENTILATION.---Text books: Ventilation and Heating, by John S. Billings Steam Heating for Buildings, by Wm. J. Baldwin.

SANITARY SCIENCE.---Text books: Gerhard's House Drainage; Bayles' House Drainage and Water Supply.



STEEL AND IRON CONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION IN BUILDINGS.



—Text book recommended Skeleton Construction in Buildings,







<article title=" A WORD ABOUT SKETCHING " author="">A WORD ABOUT SKETCHING.

"If any apology is needed," says Mr. John A. Begg, in Architectural Association Notes, "for laying the birch on the back of a much-thrashed subject (but what subject is not much thrashed ?), it is but this. A change seems to have crept into the way of students, and the time has come when a word about sketching may be said in the light of such change.

It is not that we are sketching much more or less, not that we are sketching better or worse (though I think we are sketching better), but that there is a tendency to split sketchers, elder as well as younger, into opposite camps.

These camps are pretty well defined, and it is plain to be seen they are opposing camps, having little in common, for seldom is a member of the one a member also of the other; and when a man changes camps—as does happen—he usually renounces entirely his former ways. The two are plainly at cross purposes—they appear to do their sketching for different reasons, and from different principles that seem to lie at the root of their whole conception of the architect's function.

Look at them. On the one hand, there are those to whom our improved or should 1 say cheapened?

methods of reproduction are a banner to rally' round, and on the other, those who go forth to war armed with a two-foot rule and accoutred with a big note-book —or rather who go a-hunting (pot-hunting is it called?) with

