<doctype type="text">	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	131



<article title="Students' Department" author="">STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.

<article title=" ADVICE TO STUDENTS OF ARCHITECTURE " author="">ADVICE TO STUDENTS OF ARCHITECTURE.

THE following remarks by the president of the R. I. B. A. are as applicable to Canadian as to British students :—No teaching will give genius or parts to learners, but I think I may say, without fear of contradiction, that untiring diligence is an absolutely necessary qualification, and this has been so evident to those who possess genius, that Buffon defined it " as the art of taking trouble, which we all know it is not but diligence is so absolutely necessary for the development of genius, that it is excusable to confuse the necessary servant with the master.

Necessary as an indefatigable diligence is, the longest life is only too short for the attainment of even a competent knowledge in the master art we profess, which embraces so many various arts, and requires a knowledge so wide and so various, and qualities of mind that are rarely found in one person. It is a great saving of time on have a map, a compass, and a knowledge of the streams and currents, (if the reefs and sandbanks, before we embark not only to prevent shipwreck, but also to avoid deviation from our course, so that there may lie no waste of labor, however strong and indefatigable we may be. Some of the wiseacres of the last century, during a dearth, employed laborers to dig holes in the ground and fill them up again, and although this kept the laborers' muscles in training and prevented the loss of habits of diligence, the crop that should have resulted and rewarded the laborers for their exertions was non—existent nothing is more disheartening than useless labor. Many of my own early years were wasted in inking in drawings, and I could not help wishing at the time that I had been a shoemaker, for stitching shoes could not he more irksome, and would have prevented some people from getting their feet wet or worn. The creation of something useful would have mentally compensated me for the irksome labor, while no one was benefited by my inking in drawings.

The wisest saying of the Delphic oracle was, Know thyself," and it can be as usefully applied in themselves by those who study architecture as by others in the various exigencies of human life. It is obvious that if one knows oneself one can best choose the part of architecture most fitted to ones aptitudes, and one can map out those parts that are essential to he learnt by this means not only is much useless labor saved, but that worst of all shipwrecks is averted, the having embraced a profession that is not congenial, and for which one finds ones capacities are not fitted, and this, too, when it seems too late to throw up the profession. I recollect hearing a pupil of Laing's The Laing who built the Custom House---who found architecture so uncongenial that lie embraced the law, and became a vice-chancellor; as Alfieri the barrister became a celebrated architect. It is within the knowledge of most men that many of those who have become distinguished have changed their profession but these men have mostly had a natural aptitude for the subject they eventually embraced and excelled in.

To those unfortunates who have embraced architecture but have no aptitude for it— for, as far as they know, for anything else—I can only recommend the behavior of Scotchmen under the circumstances. I think I may say that Scotchmen are the only people of the United Kingdom who have a good education, and by this I mean a moral education ; each man who finds himself in this position says to himself ''this is my only chance in life I have no natural aptitude for it, but I must try by application and striving in season and out of season to make up for my lack of aptitude ' and you rarely find that they fail in whatever walk of life they have embraced, for they mostly gain a good position.

Youth is naturally enthusiastic and ambitious, and would fair know everything connected wit Ii its occupation. Most students have probably read Baeon's programme of mastering all human knowledge hut we are not all Bacons, and had Baeon lived now, when the memory wanted for one branch of science is greater than that given to most when, he would never have set out of so impossible a quest.

A student, for example, has to see what a column or stanchion will safely bear and so he wants to know the laws of flexure, and finds himself referred to Poisson ; he gets Poisson's book, but finds that to understand it lie must master the different calculus he gets a treatise on that, but finds it would take him his whole life, if he could learn it then yet as the multiplication table is to arithmetic, so is the different calculus to the higher branches of mathematics he therefore comes to the old conclusion '' that everybody cannot do everything.''

It is, perhaps, a laudable ambition to take one of the great architectural geniuses as a pattern, but you should have common sense enough to calmly and dispassionately review your own

powers and capacities before entering on a serious attempt at imitating his achievements. There is only one genius in several millions of people who is blessed with the capacities of the great architects, who has time making of a Brunellesco, an Alberti, a Peruzzi, a Bramante, a Leonardo, or a Wren, and I only wish more of those who find themselves incompetent would abandon the profession. The average capacity of mankind is not great, and yet each one wishes to be the bright particular star of the world. Each unit of man kind cannot endure the idea that his capacity is not equal to that of the greatest genius but he will admit that he is deficient in industry, and in that judgment which guides a man to concentrate himself on the principal aim of his life. This shows us one of the weaknesses of humanity, to be ashamed of admitting that which is a pure accident, over which we have no control and to admit, without blushing, our neglect of those things that are in our power. It is the fashion to encourage the belief that all men are born with equal capacities, as it is to suppose that every epoch is equal in mental and moral power, and that the difference depends on teaching, as if cutting and polishing a flint stone would turn it into a diamond. I recollect Roebuck talking this sort of nonsense at Sheffield, and after pointing out what John Stuart Mill could do at thirteen years of age, who had then mastered Greek, Latin and mathematics, he said :—'' But if John Mill could do what he described, why may not John Brown do as much, or nearly as much?"

The subjects that seem to me to be of the utmost importance are---firstly, the recognition by students and their teachers that architecture is a structural art, and that until that is realized and acted on no great improvement is likely to take place. All the materials we use have weight, and in their ultimate position have size too, and in the positions they are placed have, as well as downright pressure, cross and diagonal strains. All these strains occur iii almost every building, and most balance one another, or else the building- becomes deformed or ruined, or tumbles down The theory of the strains that produce equilibrium are called statics. The architect within the keenest observation, the strongest memory, and the greatest experience us a mere child, compared with one who is a masters of statics and the strength of materials; secondly, we all admit that without proportion buildings and their parts are unsightly, amid we endeavor to train time eye to good proportions by studying classical buildings ; their proportions, however, mainly give the statical results gained by experience at the time buildings were erected ; if these studies are pursued too long they are apt to make us fall in love with a state of knowledge inferior to that which we now possess.



That friend of our youth, Mr. Ruskimi, partially enlightened us

	on	pointing-	- proportions

this subject by	out time infinite variety of 



in nature, most of which we find agreeable to the eye, and we now know that what may be called the fundamental proportions depend on the weight to he carried, the strength of the material, amid its height and size. Statics allow us to go further, for, knowing the strains to be borne, and where they come, and the strength amid peculiarities of the material, we may mould it into various forms, either by cutting away useless parts, or by adding to the bulk in certain directions. By statics we know where there is a change of function, and where various strains are concentrated, and these parts call for some expression, amid the only way of expressing them architecturally is by moulding.

The proper arrangement of each chamber for the duties it has to perform, the collocation of the different chambers, and the access to them by means of halls or passages without unnecessary waste of room, is commonly denoted by time word '' "planning," and in reality it includes much more, as, for instance, their proper lighting, aeration, ventilation, and warming; in fact, the enabling us to make the different portions fulfil their ends is the foundation of all good architecture. But man wants more than this ; he wants not only certain parts to be more striking than others, but to make the whole have such an external appearance that it tells us the use of the building amid evokes time emotions proper to its use. All we have to deal with outside are walls and roofs, but we may want porticoes and porches, towers, lanterns, spires, and domes for certain uses and tinder certain circumstances.

Inside we have much the same elements, but we have as well, floors, ceilings, and staircases, and although we always want floors to be flat, there are circumstances where steps are required to give elevation and dignity to certain parts, amid there are also certain shapes which add beauty or dignity to time rooms,

