

<doctype type="text"><article title=" THE LATE MR. F. J. RASTRICK " author="">THE LATE MR. F. J. RASTRICK.

IT is with deep regret that we chronicle the death of Mr. F. J. Rastrick, of Hamilton, one of the oldest and most highly respected architects of Canada, In the early days of the Ontario Association of Architects, Mr. Rastrick was one of the most enthusiastic and useful of its members. In recognition of this tact he was appointed by Order-in-Council a member of the first Council, Of late years, owing to advancing years and physical infirmities, he was unable to take an active part in the work of the Association.

The deceased was the third son of John Urpeth Rastrick, civil engineer of Layas Court, Surrey, England, and was born at Westbromwitch, Staffordshire. He received his education in Yorkshire and London ; then entered his father's office to study civil engineering, and afterwards was articled to Sir Charles Barry, F. R. I.B.A. At the expiration of his term of five years he was elected a student of the Royal Academy. He then went to Belgium to measure and make drawings of St. Jacques church, Leige, for Weale's Quarterly. He afterwards studied in Paris, Rome, Vienna and Munich, and traveled over Europe, Asia and Egypt, perfecting himself in his profession. He returned to England in 1848. In 1850 he opened an office in London, and in 1852 came to Canada and located in Brantford. From that city he removed in 1853 to Hamilton, where he continued to reside during the remainder of his life, and designed and superintended the erection of many important buildings. He was also largely instrumental in establishing the Hamilton School of Art. He was a Past Master of Acacia Lodge, A. F. & A. M.;















































President of St. George's Society during four years President of the Mechanics' Institute for a like period Past and Vice-President of the Sons of England, and a life long member of the Church of England. Mr. Rastrick was married on the 21st of July, 1857, to Anna Mary, daughter of Capt. E. L. Stephens, R. N., of Southampton, England. He leaves a family of one daughter and four sons, one of whom, Mr. E. L. Rastrick, succeeds to his practice.



Messrs. Brown & Temple, Brockville, state that the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER and CONTRACT RECORD is the best $2 investment any firm connected with the building trade can make.

THE LATE MR. ROBERT MITCHELL.

THE recent death of Mr. Robert Mitchell, brass founder, removes a prominent landmark from the ranks of business men of Montreal. The accompanying portrait will recall to the minds of many of our readers his familiar features, as well as his long and useful business career.

The late Mr. Mitchell was at the time of his death in his seventy-sixth year. He came to Canada from Scotland, his native land, in 1848, and engaged with Messrs. Bryson & Ferrier, of St. Paul street. In 1851













































he commenced business on his own account on St. Henri street. Six years later he removed to the corner of Craig and St. Peter street. In 1889 these premises had become too small and a commodious factory was erected at St. Cunegonde, the former premises being used as offices and show rooms for gas and electrical fixtures and other lines of brass goods. In 1893 the offices and show rooms were removed to their present location at No. 8 Bleury street.

Subsequently the business was merged into a joint stock company, under the name of Robert Mitchell & Co., Limited.

In addition to many first-class private residences, Mr. Mitchell fitted up the following public buildings City Hall, Post Office, Street Railway offices, Y.M.C.A. building, Imperial and Standard Insurance buildings.

The late Mr. Mitchell took no active part in public affairs beyond serving as governor of the Montreal General and Western Hospitals, and being connected with the Board of Trade. He leaves a widow, two sons, Messrs. Richard and Norman Mitchell, both of whom are connected with the company, and three daughters.



Mr. W. A. Reynolds, of Hensall, Ont., in remitting his subscription, writes I am well pleased with the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER and CONTRACT RECORD, and wish the paper every success.

Under section 74 (2) of the London Building Act it is necessary that in every building exceeding 10 squares in area used in part for purposes of trade or manufacture and in part as a dwelling house, the part used for purposes of trade or manufacture shall be separated from the part used as a dwelling-house by walls and floors constructed of fire-resisting materials, and all passages, staircases and other means of approach to the part used as a dwelling-house shall be constructed throughout of fire-resisting materials.

