<doctype type="text"><article title="Building in Canada in 1896" author="">BUILDING IN CANADA IN 1896.



REVIEW OF OPERATIONS IN MANY OF THE LEADING CENTERS,





To give our readers a fair idea of the extent to which building operations were carried on during the year 1896, a brief review of the principal centres will be found below. The conditions which prevailed throughout the year were not favorable to any great expansion in the building line, and taking the Dominion as a whole, it must be admitted that very little progress was made. In the two principal cities, Montreal and Toronto, there was very little money available for investment, and projects which early in the season seemed almost a certainty, failed to materialize when the expected time was reached. At other Ontario cities, on the contrary, there has been quite a revival in the building trades. The report from Ottawa is most favorable, and shows a large increase in the number of residences erected by persons for their private purposes. To a less extent this is also the case in London, Hamilton and Guelph. Winnipeg passed through an unusually quiet year, and in the cities of the Pacific coast province the season is regarded as only an average one. No improvement is reported from the maritime provinces. Brick has been largely used as a building material where wood was formerly employed, resulting in the erection of a better class of buildings. Prices of both material and labor were slightly lower than in 1895.

What conditions will prevail during 1897 is as yet regarded as somewhat uncertain. Architects have considerable work in prospect which may or may not be carried out, but it is earnestly hoped that the period of depression has been passed and that funds will now be forthcoming for long-projected undertakings.

MONTREAL, QUE.



The building trade in Montreal, in common with all other lines, has suffered from the financial depression and the showing for the year 1896 is not one of entire satisfaction There were erected several buildings of some prominence, but unfortunately for the profession of architecture in Canada, many of these were designed by American architects. Additions and alterations to

existing buildings were an important factor, a fact which h would

seem to	illustrate the desire of capitalists to obtain modern	 buildings

 with as little expenditure as possible. Building has been more prosperous in the suburbs of Montreal, particularly in Westmount, where several new structures of neat design were erected. Less of the speculative spirit entered into building operations in

1896 than for some years, and this is regarded as a source		of con

granulation, and will result in the erection of more substantial and properly-constructed buildings.

The proposed east end depot for the C. P. R now in course of construction, and the Victoria College for Women in connection with McGill University, the latter of English architecture and built of limestone, were constructed from the plans of Mr. Bruce Price, of New York. Time masonry contractors were P. Lyall & Son. The Canada Life building, corner St. James and St. Peter streets, built in Ohio sandstone, was also erected from the plans of an American architect, Mr. Waite, of Buffalo. Mr. P. Lyall also executed the masonry contract for this building, Mr. II. Beaumont being the sculptor.



Among the most important buildings designed by Montreal architects may be mentioned the following

The Montreal Diocesan Theological College, of English architecture, constructed in yellow sandstone and pressed brick, and English in character the chemical and mining buildings, McGill University, now in course of erection. These buildings were designed by Mr. A. T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A., of Messrs. Taylor & Gordon.

The Bell Telephone Company's building, corner Notre Dame and St. John streets, and R. J. Tooke's building, St. Catherine street are two of the many business blocks erected by Mr. Edward Maxwell. The former has its ground floor built in terra cotta, and the other stories of pressed brick. It is five stories high, and the whole crowned by a well-studied and artistic cornice of Renaissance style. The ground floor will be utilized by the Bank of Halifax, and the other stories laid out as offices. Mr. Peter Wand and was the contractor for the terra cotta and pressed brick work. R. J. Tookes block is a three-storey building of yellow sandstone. The contractor for the masonry was Mr. J. H. Hutchison.

The Ogilvy dry goods store is one of the most extensive establishments of the kind in the city. It is situated at the corner of St. Catherine and Mountain streets, built entirely of limestone and designed by Mr. David Ogilvy.

The Lachine Rapids Hydraulic & Land Co. s power house, a brick and steel structure, was designed by Mr. W. McLeaWalbank.

The Young Women's Christian Association building, corner of Dorchester and Stanley streets, has been entirely remodeled. A front of red sandstone was added, as well as an addition to the rear. The interior is specially designed and elegantly finished.

Mr. A. C. Hutchison was t he architect. Mr. Hutchison also built Messrs. Watson & Foster's wall paper factory and warehouse at Maisonneuve, and made additions to Dr. H. B. Yates' residence on Peel street.

Messrs. J. 13. Resther & Son were the architects for Mr. J. M. Fortier's cigar factory on St. Maurice street they also erected two handsome cottages in Gothic style for Estate Masson.

Among the ecclesiastical and educational buildings erected during the year may be mentioned the St. Louis of France church, situated at the corner of Laval avenue and Roy street,

and built of limestone.	 It is of Romanesque style, and was

designed by Messrs. Roy & Gauthier. The convent of the holy Cross on Mount Royal avenue is also of limestone, and was erected from the plans of Messrs. J. B. Resther & Son. Messrs. Brown, McVicar & Heriot were the architects for the Protestant School at St. Louis du Mile End. A public school at Westmount was constructed from the plans of Mr. Edward Maxwell.

The number of residential buildings erected was not large,

principal among which is the residence of Mr. C. Faucher, corner of Dorchester and St. Matthew streets, built of limestone, of Romanesque architecture and elaborately decorated. The inside is elegantly finished in Renaissance style. The plans were  prepared by Mr. A Raza architect. Mr. Joseph Levy's house on Laval avenue is a home residence in red and buff sandstone and pressed brick. Messrs. J & H. C. Nelson, architects Mr. Robert Findlay designed the residence of Mr. W. R. Miller, on Stanley street built in sandstone and brick, of domestic Gothic architecture The interior is finished in the old colonial style. The house of J L. Morris, on Drummond street, is in French

chateau	Messrs.	Wrighton & Morrison were the con

tractors for t he masonry. Apartment houses have been erected on William street for Mr. H. B. These buildings were constructed after the design of Mr. Robert Findlay. Other residences were those for R. J. Pringle, H. Watson, C. Stevens and

J.	A. Prevost.

The prospects for the building trades in 1897 are considered better than a year ago. It is probable that some large commercial buildings will be erected, as architects have already been commissioned to prepare plans for considerable new work.



TORONTO, ONT.



The total number of building permits issued by the City Commissioner of Toronto last year is given as 4 to, having a total value of $657, 168 against a value of $1,346,810 in 1895. These figures, however, cannot be taken as a fair comparison for the two years, inasmuch as the permits for 1895 contained $550,000 for the buildings erected to replace those destroyed by the great fire of the winter of 1894, as well as $130,000 for the Foresters temple. The only work of signal importance executed last year was the large extension to the Foresters' temple on Bay street, which is down on the permit book for $100,000 Below are the complete figures of permits granted



BUILDINGS PERMITS GRANTED, 1896.

			Cost.

	83	Brick dwellings	$236,900.00

	9	Brick-front and rough-cast dwellings	6,650.00

	2	Frame dwellings, Island	1,500.00

	186	Alterations to dwellings	55,695.00

	10	Brick stores	20,400.00

	38	Alterations to stores	67,823.00

	4	Factories	42,000.00

	13	Alterations and additions to factories	27,400.00

	1	Warehouse	7,000.00

	7	Alterations to warehouses	10,000.00

	7	Office buildings	4,950.00

	2	Schools	6,500.00

	5	Additions to churches	4,540.00

 Hotels			24,800.00

		Addition to brewery	1,500.00

		Addition to bank	1,500.00

	2	Club buildings	10,500.00

		Power house	5,000.00

		Cold storage building	7,000.00

		Dining hall	1,500.00

	26	Stables	8,935.00

	2	Additions to fire hail	4,500.00

		Addition to Foresters temple	100,000.00

	3	Miscellaneous	575.00

	410	$657, 168.00



A visit among the architects furnishes the information that the dwellings erected were of a substantial and modern character, the absence of speculative building so common in the days of the

boom " being a feature of the year. In church and school

building the sum of	$11,000 represents the total expenditure,

which is less than one—tenth the cost of such buildings in 1895. The few buildings erected in the city has necessarily restricted the amount of work secured by local architects. Many of them have, however, erected buildings at outside points, and in the particulars which follow some of these are referred to.

The addition to the Foresters' temple, above referred to, was erected by Mr. Geo. W. Gouinlock, architect, who has had charge of the entire structure The contractors were Messrs. Oakley & Holmes, the Dominion Bridge Company supplying the structural iron and steel work The building stands out some— what unique, in that it is the highest building in the city. Mr. Gouinlock also remodeled a large residence on St. George street for Mr. Geo. R. Warwick erected conservatories, storehouse, etc., for the Steele- Briggs Seed Co., at a cost of $15,000, and completed the Toronto Lithographing Company's building, 

