































<doctype type="text"> <article title="The Builder" author="">THE BUILDER

 THERE is 100 much looseness in this



Studded Partitions,	country in the construction of studded partitions, both as to the manner of

finishing up, and as to the dimensions of material used. It is not good construction to run up a partition in a ten-toot ceiling with 2" x 4 scantling. Anything over nine foot in height should be studded with scantling not less than 2" x 6", and these should be made parallel and straight. At all door or other openings, the studs should be doubled, the two thicknesses spiked well together. This method is better than having the door studs 4" x 6" as the larger timber is more apt to shrink, check and cripple, conditions which may injure the plaster much, and interfere with the fine working of the door more. There should be cross tracing over the head of each doorway if t he plastering is to be kept intact, and lines of tracing should be drawn from the center of the room to the side walls wherever possible, to assist in transferring the weight of partition from the joists to foundation walls direct. Trimmers should be cut in snug between studs to make the wall solid,

about half the height of the ceiling, if ten feet or less, but if a ceiling is more than ten feet, there ought to be not less than two lines of trimmers in the wall. These trimmers should be the full width of the studding in fact, they should be cut from stuff the same dimensions as the studding itself. It is not a good plan to run the studding to the floor and nail them to it. It is better always to put down on the floor a piece of dimension stuff and plant the studding on it. Doorways and other openings may be cut out after the partition is firmly secured in place. The same rules hold good for partitions formed of 2' X 4 scantling, only in the latter more care should be observed in tracing and cutting in trimmers, and making the whole solid and firm. Nothing destroys plastering more than the vibration of a wall caused by the slamming of a door or the jar caused by some body suddenly coming in contact with

it.	A wall should be firm enough to stand the sudden closing of a door without jarring. When a wall shakes from any of the usual everyday causes, the end of the plastering on that wall is within measurable distance. In estimating for studding when the lathing is to go directly on to them, it is well to allow one stud for each running foot to be studded, whether it is for partitions or outside walls. This will allow for doubling studs at windows and doors, and will leave stuff enough to ''cut in " trimmers and braces and ribbon pieces for the floors. Studding, when possible, should be put up in lower floors first, and if it can be done, a slight crowning should be given to the floors above, and as much of the weight as possible should be discharged on the side walls. A little attention to these rules will insure

good lasting work, when their being neglected would lead to everlasting trouble and discomfort.



THERE is often much dispute as to the

Painter's Measurement

		proper way to measure up painters'

		work, owing to the fact that the 

uninformed do not think that a moulding or a return has any more surface on it than the distance across its face. As a matter of tact, every portion touched with a brush should be measured, and a tape line should be forced into every curve, quirk and corner of the work. Returns, panels, mouldings, architraves, heads, sashes and projections, should have the line bent around all their parts in order to get the exact surface measure. Turned work should have the line bent around it at its average diameter, but, if beaded or moulded, the largest diameter should be girdled and the stretchout of this should be multiplied by the length of the turned article to get the dimensions. In grille work, the usual custom is to measure one surface and multiply it by four, which will give the surface of the whole grille nearly. For doors, shutters and iron fencing add one inch for each panel, and one inch extra for each 1/2 inch bar in the railing ; add thickness of doors, and when calculating length of door or shutter, add thickness to length. Thus, a door 2 in. thick and 3 x 7 ft., will measure for painters' work, ft. 2 in. x 7 ft. 2 in. for each side, and if recess of panels and bends of mouldings are added

which should be the actual measurements may be much more according to the number of panels and style of mouldings in the door. The number of feet obtained divided by nine will give the number of yards. All painting under twelve inches wide, such as base boards, cornices, corner-boards, water-tables, etc., should be measured up as being one foot wide, nine feet in length making one yard. Gutters, conductor pipes and similar work are charged double their outside measurement. Sashes are painted by the piece according to the number of lights ; the same for glazing them. Work requiring a ladder must be charged extra. It requires about one-third more time to paint from a ladder than from the ground. Brackets, etc., are charged by the piece ; if in place and a ladder is required to get at them, then add double price to what the cost would be if the work was done in the shop. Outside work should be painted every five years and inside work every seven years at least. Grained out-door work should be varnished every two years to save fresh painting. Inside grained work may run four or five years without being re-varnished. Hard finish should be re-touched every few years if it is desired to have it look fresh. It flattens and dulls in five or six years.

