<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



inches deep. One-half of this hail is taken up by a semi-circular stairway, which runs to the top-floor. From the hail a passage-way 14 feet long and 3 feet 8 inches wide leads to the one room on each floor, which room about 18 feet long by 9 feet 8 inches wide, is formed by the expansion of the second bay. Beyond the room another apartment, 3 feet 8 inches wide and 7 feet long, is used, on the first floor, as a bath-room, and on each of the three upper floors as a closet. Thus there are in each house five fair-sized rooms, five large closets, five passageways and five halls. The passages and stairways occupy rather more than half the available space.

x x x

I FIND in the Engineering News an interesting description of the methods employed to move 51 feet and raise feet 6 inches the Emmanuel Baptist Church, of Chicago a stone structure 93 X 161 feet, with two gables, each 100 feet high, and a tower, 225 feet high. Tests were first made to determine the loads the earth would bear without settling. Over the space to be traversed a floor of 12 by 12 timbers was laid. On this floor a superstructure of jack screws, timbers and Beams was constructed. Altogether sixteen hundred rollers and 135 tons of rails were used. It was calculated that the ground and timber supports would settle as the load came on to them and an up-grade of two inches in thirty feet was given the track. Care was taken to have the rollers and steel of the same hardness as the track rails, so they would not flatten and wedge. To prevent the rollers from twisting out of line, the lining was so constructed in plates that after a foot or so of travel each roller was released, and could be put in again in exact line. To apply the power for moving the building a strong timber was fastened as an anchorage. From this anchorage chains extended back to hold the timbers which acted as a footing against which the jack-screws pushed. Altogether sixty jacks were used. They were so arranged as to distribute evenly the pressure along the side of the building. The average progress was nine feet per day. No damage was done either to the interior walls of the building or any other part, not even a crack being discovered from top to bottom.



<article title="Correspondence - Montreal" author="">MONTREAL.

[Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.]



COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES OF THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC.



The Schools of the Council of Arts and Manufactures of the Province of Quebec are closed till November. The classes devoted to the building arts established in 1873 have steadily increased in numbers and interest, showing that the system of instruction has been appreciated in this and other cities where these schools are established. The work has been distributed for the best advantage of the country.



In visiting the annual exhibition held recently in the Lecture Hall, Monument National, I was much astonished and interested at witnessing the progress achieved by these classes, and cannot too highly recommend the system of instruction.



The cities represented are Montreal (where the exhibitions are held), Quebec, Levis, Sherbrooke, St. Hyacinthe, Sorel and Three Rivers.



The Free-hand Drawing class had a complete collection of free-hand drawings well studied and rendered. This class comprises 130 pupils, under the supervision of Mr. E. Dyonnet,



A.R.C.A.



The Architectural Drawing department is under the charge of Messrs. H. J. Peters and G. A. Monette, architects, who teach geometry and projections, plans and elevation of buildings, etc., to 45 pupils. This class exhibited some finely executed drawings.



The Mechanical Class is conducted by J. V. Graham, and has

contributed a fine collection of drawings. The attendance comprises 43 students.



The Modeling Class is very creditable to the instructors, Messrs. L. P. Hebert and Jos. Gratton. Mr. J. Piche exhibited a Chimere," a very nice piece of work M. J. Leprohon, "A Female Bust" and M. E. Soucy, a "Venus de Milo," in which was displayed artistic and creditable modeling.



M. J. Peard is the Professor of the Plumbing Class. Very creditable work done during the last season was exhibited. The attendance at this class number 48 pupils.



The Lithographing department was well represented by creditable examples. The attendance during the last session was



pupils, having at their head Mr. J. A. Harris. I have had the privilege of seeing the diploma which the Council of Arts and Manufactures are to give in the future to the pupils who will attend regularly the courses. This diploma has been executed by the lithographing class.



I may further mention the exhibit of the Pattern Making Class for boots and shoes, of which Mr. C. A. Payfer is Professor, In the Stair Building and Building Construction Class, conducted by Mr.



S. H. Blouden, and composed of 18 pupils, the work of Messrs. L. H. Tremblay and E. Desormeau are worthy of mention. The results of the last session, as shown by the character of the exhibits, have been very satisfactory to teacher and pupils. Every young man and workman should take advantage of the opportunity offered by these classes to qualify themselves to become intelligent and skilled artisans.





















































The Committee of the province of Quebec Association of Architects to consider designs submitted on different occasions is composed this year as follows: A. T. Taylor, president; J. F. Peachy, 1st vice-president; A. Raza, 2nd vice-president; Jos. Venne, secretary.



The Association have recently presented to the Mayor and City Council of Montreal a petition to appoint an Art Standing Committee. Few will be inclined to question the beneficial results that should follow the appointment of such a committee. Employment of artistic thought for the beautifying and embellishment of a city ought to be represented in the erection of monuments, statues, etc. Unfortunately, at present there is no special committee of this kind. I hope the petition will meet with approval. The appointments will be purely honorary and with no emoluments attached. This petition has received the hearty approval of prominent citizens, and their signatures should be a guarantee of success.





Messrs. Albert Guesnard and Theo. Daoust, architects, have formed a partnership with office in Montreal.



The City Council have again under consideration the paving question. During ten years the expenditure for pavement alone has amounted to $2,651,740. In 1896 the Road Department expenditures were $251,435. It is to be hoped that if further expenditures in this direction are undertaken, past experience will lead the Council to secure a guarantee from the contractors of the durability of the work.







Mr. C. H. Acton Bond, a promising young architect who served a large portion of his studentship in Toronto, has entered into partnership with Mr. Sandford Fleming Smith, The new firm will have offices at 185 St. James street, Montreal,

