<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	53



<article title=" WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT " author="">WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT.

IN addition to thc complimentary references by subscribers to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, which were printed in our February number, we have since received the following

"The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is a credit to the proprietor, being both artistic and very useful to all architects and builders. We wish you every success for the future.'— MOORE & HENRY, Architects, London, Ont.



"I am pleased to say something in favor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. I have been a subscriber for a number of years and have carefully marked its progress, which I consider has been in excess of my expectations. I find it very useful generally, arid think that if all the materials going into a building were advertised in the paper it would still further enlarge its usefulness. —Jos. VENNE, Architect, Montreal.



"I consider your journal, the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, a very useful medium amongst architects and builders for the exchange of ideas, practices and methods, &c., conducing greatly to the knowledge required by both architects and builders in every clay work. The New Year number is good and excellently illustrated, and should be in the hands of every Canadian architect, builder and artisan. I understand somewhat the difficulties of the last ten years in introducing your journal, and have noticed the gradual education of the public in matters architectural, due in a great measure to the influence of your paper, and heartily wish you success in the coming years.

CORNELIUS J. SOULE, Architect, Victoria, B. C.



I take it that, in addition to the illustrations, the interchange of ideas, theoretical and practical, between members of the profession, the object of a journal devoted to Architecture is to afford its readers some information as to where the appliances most needed in the building trades can be obtained. I consider this feature of primary importance, and if manufacturers only knew how thc pages of trade journals arc scanned by architects and builders living in out-of-the-way places, there would be a considerable increase in (lie number of their advertisements The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is doing a good work, and its influence should be spread to a greater extent than now obtains. This can easily be done if every architect and builder in Canada will send their subscription of two dollars each for the current year. The January number is an interesting one, and well worth perusal. It will bear comparison also in its make-up with any other architectural and building journal published in America. You have my best wishes. '— CHAS II. WHEELER, Architect Winnipeg, Man.



<article title=" WORKS OF CONSTRUCTION " author="">WORKS OF CONSTRUCTION.



A new hotel, known as the Arlington, has been completed at Tavistock, Ont., from the plans of Mr. D. G. Baxter, architect, of Stratford. The building is 47 X 44 feet, three stories high, with basement, of Romanesque design, and built of white brick with stone trimmings. The ground floor contains bar, dining-rooms, sample rooms, etc., well lighted and arranged. On the upper floors are eighteen large bedrooms and a ball room, and throughout the building is finished in polished hardwood. Safford hot water radiators are used for heating. The contractors were Messrs. Wilker and Wolfe & Quehl, of Tavistock. The interior furnishings were supplied by Messrs. Kalbfleich & Krug, of Tavistock, and J. A. Duggan, of Stratford. The cost was in the neighborhood of $14,500.



THE new wing of the General Hospital, al Guelph, was formally opened last month. The addition was constructed from the plans of Curry, Baker & Co., of Toronto, and is a white brick structure, three stories high, with a frontage of 63 feet and extending back 83 feet. The cost, including interior fittings and permanent furnishings, was $20,000, and accommodation is provided for 30 additional Patients. Adjoining a large solarium is a semi-public ward, and in the north end of the first floor are two private rooms which have been furnished for the exclusive use of the nurses. Besides these there are five private wards, pantry kitchen lavatory, baths, etc., while opposite thc pantry is the electrical room, where apparatus is kept for medicinal purposes. The basement contains the heating arid ventilating system. Two large boilers are used, one for direct and the other for indirect heating, the former being done by steam and the latter by hot air. A small boiler is also used for the heating of water for the baths and other purposes. In the basement are also four private rooms.

On the second flat are several wards, and solarium, with a large maternity ward in rear. The feature of the third floor is the operating room, 18 X 26 feet, located in the north-east corner. Corrugated glass in the roof, and 88 incandescent lights provide ample light at all times. The nurse's private quarters are also on this flat.



<article title="Legal" author="">LEGAL.



Joseph Ferry, contractor for the Giles avenue sewer, Windsor, served a writ on the city in an action for $3,000 damages for canceling his contract. The case will be tried at the assizes.

Judgment has been given in the case of Henry Macfarlane vs. Chas. N. Armstrong, of Montreal. This case arose out of con tracts in connection with the building of the Baje des Chaleurs railway. The plaintiff claimed the sum of $417,142.29, with interest thereon at eight per cent., alleging that by a contract entered into in June, i886, between himself and defendant, the latter undertook the construction of that portion of the Baie des Chaleurs railway between Metapedia and Paspebiac, under the direction of the railway company's engineers. After completing some 40 miles of the route defendant suspended operations for want of funds. Mr. Justice Mathieu gave judgment for the plaintiff for $168,964. 10, with costs and interest.



Judgment was recently given by Mr. Justice Walkem at Victoria, B. C., in the action brought by Mr. McDonald, contractor, against the trustees of the Pandora Methodist Church, to recover certain moneys alleged to be due him in connection with his contract. The plaintiff claimed a balance of $1,245 for excavating and completing the basement of the church, damages to the amount of $3,000 for alleged failure of the defendants to furnish him with suitable plans, drawings and specifications and delays on the part of the defendant in paying him as the work progressed, and $3,624. 10 for alleged extras. In respect of the first claim the jury and judge found in favor of the defendants on the ground that there was no contract with the plaintiff for the work. Regarding the second claim, it was shown that defendants had originally made a contract with another contractor to construct both basement and superstructure of the church in brick, but subsequently decided to have the superstructure done in stone. Thereupon the name of the plaintiff in this action was substituted in the contract for the superstructure for that of thc original contractor. The Court held that the plaintiff having thus assumed the contract, had consented to and was bound by its provisions. On this ground the jury and the Court found against the plaintiff's claim for damages for delays in furnishing necessary plans, etc. With regard to the plaintiff's claim for extras, the jury recommended the allowance of a number of items. On this point the judge remarked: " Building contracts, like all other contracts, have, according to a well known rule, to be construed by the Court; and as plans and specifications when referred to in the contract, form a part of it, they are, of course, included in this rule. Hence the question of what are and are not extras in the present case, depends on the contract and the specifications, and is a question for me to determine; and even had I left it to the jury, their opinion, however sound, would have been inoperative. My object was to get their valuation of the work charged for, so that if the plaintiff should be entitled, according to the construction of the contract, to the benefit of any item so valued, I would he enabled to give it to him. Before dealing with each of these items, as I propose to do in their order, it may be useful to quote the first paragraph of the contract, which speaks for itself, viz.:

'The specifications and drawings are intended to co-operate, so that any works exhibited in the drawings, and not mentioned in specifications, or vice versa, are to be executed the same as if mentioned in the specifications and set forth in the drawings.'" The Court refused to allow a number of the allowances recommended by the jury on the ground that the work was specified either in the drawings or the specifications, and therefore came within the contract. In deciding the action the judge gave judgment for the plaintiff for $130 and for the defendants on counterclaim for $300. A portion of the costs were allowed to the defendants, as to the remainder each party to bear his own.



Mr. George C. Morrison, of Hamilton, Out., has patented a hot water boiler. The claim is for a vertical boiler constructed with one tubular piece having threaded or screwed ends, and faced in combination with heads having inner true face to engage with ends of said boiler when screwed in position, with water inlet and circulating tube or pipe and water heating reservoir connected by means of pipes.

