

<doctype type="text">sanitarians, are working hand-in-hand trying to overcome an almost insurmountable difficulty—sewer gas. But this is too large a field for me to enter upon now.



<article title=" PRESIDENTS OF CANADIAN PLUMBERS'

ASSOCIATIONS.

MR. J. A. CASTLAKE.

" author="">PRESIDENTS OF CANADIAN PLUMBERS'

ASSOCIATIONS.

MR. J. A. CASTLAKE.



IN the city of Stratford, Ont., the master plumbers recently organized fur the improvement of the trade, and elected as their president Mr. J. A. Castlake, whose countenance is portrayed on this page. Mr. Castlake was born on November 16, 1864, in the city in which he now resides. He was apprenticed to learn his trade with W. R. Anderson, of Collingwood, in 1883. After the completion of his apprenticeship he worked for Mr.

J. C. Gilpin, of St. Marys, for a short time, and then with Mr. Climo, Jeffrey Bros. and F. Dunsmore & Son, of Stratford. The latter firm was changed to Dunsmore Bros., and upon the retirement of one of the partners, Mr. Castlake became a member of the firm, which partnership continued for two years. On the first of July, 1883, he started in business for himself, and by close attention to the details of his work has worked up a good trade. Mr. Castlake is enthusiastic







































in association matters, and states that although all the plumbers in the city have not yet joined, they have started out with good prospects of success.



<article title=" THE PLUMBERS' CONVENTION " author="">THE PLUMBERS' CONVENTION

ARRANGEMENTS are now well completed for the second annual convention of the Dominion Master Plumbers' Association, which will be held in Toronto on July 1, 2 and 3 next. The programme, both from a business and social standpoint, is sufficiently interesting and varied to warrant a large attendance, and every member of the Association should endeavor to be present to assist in promoting the interests of the trade. A meeting of the Entertainment Committee was held last week, at which the following programme was outlined

The Executive Committee will meet at the Palmer House on June 30th. The convention proper will open in the rooms of the Toronto Association, Pythian Hall, at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday, July 1st. Three sessions will be held that day, and probably a short session on the morning of the following day. On Friday afternoon an address of welcome will be belivered by the Mayor on behalf of the city, after which a tally-ho drive will be given the delegates. In the evening a banquet

will be held in Webb's parlors, Yonge street. On Saturday an excursion to Niagara will take place, to which every master plumber in the Dominion is invited. Reaching Niagara Falls, dinner has been arranged for at the Dufferin Cafe', and the afternoon will be spent in viewing the beauty of the Falls and vicinity, returning to Toronto at eight o'clock.

Arrangements have been made with the railway companies to give a special rate of fare and a third for the round trip to members of the Association, good from the 30th of June to July 5th. The headquarters of the members will be the Palmer House, which has given a special rate of $1.50 per day.

The master plumbers of Toronto are sparing no effort to make the Convention a success, and no doubt a very large number of plumbers from different parts of the Dominion will avail themselves of the opportunity thus afforded to visit Toronto. Mr. J. B. Fitzsimmons is chairman of the Entertainment Committee.



<article title="Chips" author="">CHIPS.

The McClary Manufacturing Co., of London, Ont., contemplate the establishment of a branch of their works in Montreal.

A return brought down in Parliament recently shows that the bounties paid on iron and steel manufactured from Canadian ore since February, 1896, is as follows: On pig- iron, 42,404 tons, $84,809; iron puddled bars, 4,353 tons, $8,708; steel billets, 757 tons, $71,514.



Under the microscope, a surface painted with zinc oxide shows no porosity in fact, it is almost a perfect enamel. Consequently, if damp wood be painted with zinc, there is no way for the moisture to escape except by forcing off the coating of enamel. A certain per cent. of silica added will, however, render it porous, so that any vapor or steam may pass through.

We regret to have to announce the recent failure of Messrs. Tallman & Son, proprietors of the Beamsville Pressed Brick Co. An assignment has been made to Mr. W. G. E. Boyd, assignee, Hamilton, Ont., for the benefit of creditors. The long-continued inactivity in building enterprise was a leading cause of the failure. The firm had an expensive plant, which it is hoped may shortly be put to use again.

A new cement, called petrifite, has been introduced in the market in England. The composition of the material is not known, but it resembles Portland cement in its general action. While it is employed chiefly in the manufacture of piping, slabs, tiles, conduits, etc., in conjunction with cement, yet, if powdered, it will bind together in a solid, stonelike mass a number of substances, such as wood, paper, pulp, earth material, sea sand and powdered slate.

" American Plumbing Practice" which has just come from the press, is a compilation of illustrated descriptions of plumbing installations in modern buildings of every character, together with Notes and Queries touching interesting points developed in practice, from articles which have appeared in the Engineering Record. The book is a well bound quatro of 259 pages, and contains over 500 illustrations. Published by the Engineering Record, 100 William street, New York.

A discovery of black granite is said to have been made at Welsford, N. B. The property has been acquired by a Bridgewater, Nova Scotia, firm, and they will commence the erection of polishing works. There is an excellent water power on the property for the working of hydraulic drills and polishers. The owners of the quarry have secured a contract for 2,000 of rough stone which will be shipped from St. John to Aberdeen, Scotland, during the summer and winter. The getting out of this stone and the opening up of the quarry will take most of the summer, and in the fall the polishing works will be built and equipped.

The Halifax Chronicle says that a new industry is soon to be started in Halifax county. Nearly two months ago an English syndicate sent an agent to Nova Scotia for the purpose of searching for a suitable material for the manufacture of terra cotta, and as the result of his research it is understood he has been instructed to purchase some property in Halifax county, build a factory and manufacture terra cotta. The output of the factory will be sold both in the United States and Canada. It is said that terra cotta made there can be sold cheaper in Boston and New York by this company than by the companies who are supplying those cities at the present time,

