<doctype type="text">

	230	THE	CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER

<article title=" THE NEW MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, TORONTO " author="">

THE NEW MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, TORONTO.

IN the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER of October, 1888, was published the first illustration of the flew municipal buildings at Toronto. These buildings, which at that time had their only existence in the mind of the architect and on paper, are to-day an almost completed structure, in the Romanesque style, massive and imposing, yet graceful and pleasing in color and design.

Pursuant to a purpose formed several months ago, we present to our readers in the present number, photographic reproductions of the architect's plans, showing in detail the heating and ventilating systems, accompanied by letter press description of the same, and some particulars of the structure as a whole, which we hope to supplement at a later date.

We can do little more than briefly touch upon the history of the enterprise. When the agitation for proper accommodation for the various municipal departments first arose in 1880, the purpose was to put up a building which should meet these requirements only. After the purchase of the site at the head of Bay street at a cost of $210,000, and the acceptance of the competitive design submitted by Mr. F. J. Lennox, the whole question was reconsidered in 1887, and it was then decided to provide a building for joint occupation by the city and county officials. The estimated total cost of the property, based on tenders received from the various trades, and including cost of site, furniture and architect's fees was $1,632,034.

The contracts were signed by the mayor on behalf of the city in August 1889, and in September, following, the contractors for the masonry, Messrs. Elliott & Neelon, took over the building, and remained in charge for three years, when they were dismissed by the architect on the ground that they were using an inferior grade of stone, and in other respects were not fulfilling the terms of their contract. The courts having sustained the action of the architect, the latter then took personal charge and proceeded with the work by day labor.

The buildings front on Queen, James, Albert and Terauley streets, the principal facade being on Queen street, with the chief feature, the tower, in a direct line with Bay street. This tower is 35 feet at the base and will rise to a height of 260 feet.



The main entrance is formed of three large arches, supported by clusters of columns, the whole being elaborately carved. There is a main entrance to both the east and west facades, flanked by small towers 16 feet square and 100 feet high, relieved by windows and ornamented. The north facade, while in keeping with those of the south, east and west, is plainer in character, and contains the entrance to tile police court.



The eastern wing will contain the city offices and the western wing the county offices. At each entrance to the ground floor of both wings, and on both sides of the hallways there are handsome staircases, with marble treads and landings, wrought-iron grille balustrading and nickel-plated hand-rails. The main hallways will be finished with marble dados and tile floors, and the remainder trimmed in polished oak. The ceilings are richly paneled.

On the second floor is the city council chamber, 50 X 40 feet, the ceiling of which, in one span, is 30 feet in height, extending through two stories. On the corresponding floor on the county side of the building are four court rooms. The third floor on the city side affords accommodation for the officials of the Public School Department. On the county side this floor will be devoted to reading rooms and law libraries and janitors quarters.

Since the first inception of these buildings two different sets of plans and specifications have been prepared by the architect, E.

J.	Lennox, for the heating and ventilation. The first set was prepared in 1887. As there was at that time a strike in progress in the plumbing and heating trade, and it was expected that there would be many developments and improvements in connection with this work by the time t he building would be ready far it, the Council wisely decided that it would not be advisable in the interests of the city to take tenders at that time. The complications that were likely to arise, and the large additions that would necessarily require to be made to the original contract, if let at that time, in changing the system to comply with the modern requirements of the times, after the work was let, would not be in the best interests of the city. An approximate estimate was therefore obtained for heating, plumbing and gas fitting, of the best description at that date, which aggregated $80,000, and was for a low pressure gravity system of direct and indirect heating, without provision for steam power of any kind.

After the acceptance of the original tenders, nothing further was (lone about estimating upon tile heating, plumbing, etc., work, until the Fall of 1896, when the architect, Mr. E. J. Lennox, was instructed to prepare new plans and specifications for the very best and most approved system of heating, plumbing, gas-fitting and electric lighting, and other requirements that had come into existence in connection with these branches since the building had been in progress, thus bringing the building up-to-(late in these particulars.



The preparation of plans and specifications for this work in a large building such as the New City Hall and Court house, to combine all the latest improvements in heating, ventilation, plumbing gas-fitting and electric lighting, etc., so as to reduce the cost of operation to a minimum, was a work of no small moment. It meant to say the least many months of careful calculation and investigation, and in this connection it should be said that, judging from an inspection of the work at the building and from the drawings and specifications, the plans and specifications published in this number have never been surpassed, if equaled, for completeness by those of any large building in Canada. Indeed they appear to be as near perfection as possible for contractors to estimate upon. This is conclusively proved by the fact that although the lowest tender amounted to the sum of $187,000, the highest acceptable tender was only five or six thousand more, and it has been stated time and time again by contractors who figured on the work that the plans were the most complete, accurate and easily figured on of any they had ever seen, facts which certainly speak well for the care exercised by the architect in their preparation.



We propose to give here a short resumé of the plans and specifications as finally adopted by the City Council for the heating, plumbing, ventilation, gas and electric wiring, and other work of tile building as now being carried out under contract by the Ben-net & Wright Company, Limited, under the direct supervision of the architect, E. J. Lennox.



A glance at the plans in our illustration pages will give a fair conception of the magnitude of the work, but a far more explicit idea could be given if space could be spared to fully set out the specifications in as comprehensive a manner as the plans would indicate.

For this system there have been constructed large boiler and machinery rooms situated below the level of the ground in the court yard. The location of these rooms was decided upon, tile architect informs us, for several reasons—first, on account of fumes, gases, dust, etc., which rise from a plant of this size, and which, if tile plant were located ill t he basement, would work their way up through the building. It is also considered better for light, the prevention of noises, etc.; in fact a great many other reasons might be given to show time advantages of this location.



Two batteries of boilers have been provided ; one battery located in the east boiler house, commsists of four large Heine boilers with a capacity of 700 horse-power. These boilers are provided and fitted up with what is known as the Hawley Down Draft. This battery, practically speaking, is the battery that will supply all power for heating and ventilating the building, running all appliances in connection with same and furnishing power for generating electric current for all purposes. The other battery of boilers which is called a "supplementary battery" has been placed in the west house, and consists of four large tubular boilers. These are fitted with the "Jones Mechanical Under Feed Stokers. There are also contained in these boiler and machine rooms, the pumps, exhaust tanks, feed water heater, oil separators, blow off tanks, steam distributing tank, hot water heater, electric light switch boards, and the apparatus in connection with

