<doctype type="text">





























<article title=" High or Low Ceilings ?" author="">

High or Low Ceilings ?

IT is not many years since it was given out as a canon of health by architects, doctors, and sanitary engineers, that

high ceilings were absolutely necessary. The arguments in support of a generous space were numerous, some of them referring to the exterior effect of the structure, but mostly referring to the healthfulness of the room itself. Recently, however, it seems that scientific arguments are being offered in favor of low ceilings. Low walls to rooms, it is said, are being advocated in England as really affording better ventilation throughout, in preventing the formation of upper strata of all but immovable foul air, and tending to prevent draft. A room with a low ceiling is more easily kept warm than one with a high ceiling, and in this country this is quite a consideration. There is an artistic value in the low ceiling that is not found in the higher one, besides a cosines that is impossible with the more pretentious room. In the time of Good Queen Bess, the ceilings were low and the walls wainscoted. More comfortable houses were never built, and while the exterior may not have been as striking as the dwellings of later times, their interiors were artistic and better suited to the wants of the occupants than were the interiors of the houses erected 150 years later, when high ceilings became the fashion. For country dwellings ten feet should be the maximum height, and for cottages nine feet, and in some cases even less than that would be plenty high enough. As a matter of economy, low ceilings should be preferred, for every foot in the height of a building, be it wood, brick or stone, means quite an addition to the cost thereof.



THERE is no disguising the fact that the medium and hardwoods are rapidly crowding Out the soft woods for inside

finish. Pine, which is the most useful of woods, is scarcely used in finishing the better class of buildings to-day. Maple, birch, cherry, when available, ash, red oak and elm are the woods now in use, the latter being used for wainscot, mouldings, panelings and similar work. Speaking to a builder of experience the other day, who also owns a woodworking factory, he insisted that a house can be finished in plain red oak as cheaply as in pine when the latter is of good quality. This comparison is made of course when hand finish is contemplated. He added, that when the work is completed the superiority of the oak is so obvious that nothing more need be said in its favor. Red oak doors, if made solid, will twist out of shape, but if veneered on a pine or white cedar core, they will stand well, and if the oak be quartered, and properly finished, they become very handsome, and they may, if desired, be made to imitate

Interior Finish.

antique oak with very little trouble or expense. It does not add much to the beauty of the wood, however, to make it darker. A natural color seems to give the best effect with red oak. With birch and cherry the case is somewhat different ; these woods stain mahogany color readily, and for finish, look the better for

it. Canadian cherry is of a kindly nature, is straight grained and works freely, and has the quality of staying where it is put, therefore makes good doors and sashes, worked from the solid, but better of course if cut into veneers and glued on to pine or cedar cores. In flooring the Canadian hard maple has no superior. It is better than the best of oak, as it is firmer in grain, less porous and less liable to splinter or wear to a fray grain ; it will wear longer, and if kept dry will last as long. Next to maple for flooring comes birch· indeed, there is but little difference if conditions are the same. Birch will not last quite as long as maple, but is equally firm and will stand as much wear. Red beech is a very handsome wood, and when properly seasoned, makes a fine finish and requires no stain as the color is rich and mellow, and when properly polished, the surface gives off an effect. similar to shot silk. For stair treads birch is preferred. It is not so slippery as maple and appears to be more yielding to the feet. For balusters, newels, hand-rails, and similar work birch does handsomely, but, of course if other work in same room or hall is of oak, or other wood, rail and whole of balusters and newels should be formed of the same wood.



A BALLOON frame with 2 x 4" studding set two feet apart, and boarded on both sides of the studding with one

inch boarding, will sustain any weight it may be forced to bear, if the structure is used only for domestic purposes. For small churches, chapels, or even schools of small sizes, this sort of a wall may be found ample if the roof is properly constructed ; but where buildings are intended to be used for manufacturing and storage purposes, a square timber frame, stone or brick should be employed in forming the outside and bearing walls. The strength of a wall is dependent on a number of conditions, the first being the materials employed; second, the way of combining them ; third, the shape and dimensions of the wall. Walls of brick or dressed stones may be made thinner than if uncut materials were used. Practice has taught that when a wall of brick is to be nine inches, or one brick thick, the stone foundation carrying it must be over twelve inches thick; and a fourteen inch, or one and a half brick wall must have foundation of quarried stone not less than eighteen inches thick resting on footings fully two feet wide. With ordinary walls, the height of which does not ex

Strength of Walls.

<article title=" Strength of Walls " author="">