



<doctype type="text">MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

<article title=" CANADIAN HEATING APPARATUS IN

EUROPE.

" author="">CANADIAN HEATING APPARATUS IN

EUROPE.

REFERENCE was made recently in these columns to the perfection to which heating apparatus and methods have been brought in Canada of late years. It is gratifying to Canadians to know that the good qualities of Canadian manufactured goods in this line are finding appreciation abroad as well as at home. In this connection we print on this page an illustration of the White Star Steamship Company's new office building in Liverpool, which is heated with Oxford Duet radiators manufactured by the Gurney Foundry Co., Toronto.



<article title=" ASBESTOS AND ASBESTIC " author="">ASBESTOS AND ASBESTIC.

AT a recent meeting of the society of Arts, of London,

The company has already been favored with several important commissions, among them the following: Memorial window, Chapel of St. John the Divine, Toronto numerous windows for the Foresters' Temple ; large classic figure window for the Department of Education, Toronto memorial window, First Congregational Church, Kingston ; decorative glass, Bank of Montreal, Newfoundland; three-light memorial window for St. Patrick's Church, Hamilton ; memorial windows for St. Paul's Church, Charlottetown, P. E. I., and Yarmouth, N. S., besides several minor works.



<article title=" CRUSHING STRENGTH OF WHITE PINE " author="Harkness, A.H.">CRUSHING STRENGTH OF WHITE PINE.*

BY A. H. HARKNESS, Grad. S. P. S.



THE tests, the results of which are given in the following tables, though not extensive enough to permit of any very definite conclusions being drawn, may prove of interest as serving to show the relative crushing strength of pine transversely and longitudinally placed,

Eng., a paper was read by Mr. R. H. Jones entitled Asbestos and Asbestic," in which allusion was made to the recent discovery of asbestic at Danville, Quebec. Mr. Jones defined for his hearers the difference between the two materials. The name

'asbestic" is applied to a purely fibrous material which forms the residue after the richer veins of asbestos have been extracted from the serpentine rock. It is used for a variety of

purposes in the building trades, being capable of being pulverized and being converted into fire—proof cement or plaster. This material is a non-conductor of heat and sound, and

being elastic will adhere to metal or glass. Asbestic paper, which is another product of this material, will in future be a competitor of paper made from wood and straw pulp for building purposes.





<article title=" AN IMPORTANT CHANGE " author="">AN IMPORTANT CHANGE.

AN important change has occurred in the old firm of  Jos. McCausland & Son, stained glass workers and decorators, Toronto. Mr. Robert McCausland, who for many years conducted the memorial and art glass departments of the business, has withdrawn from the firm and will continue these branches at 87 King St. West, under the name of The Robert McCausland Stained Glass Company, Limited. The office, showrooms and works are uncommonly well arranged. Mr. McCausland, who is an experienced designer for glass, has equipped the new firm with improved materials and appliances to aid in producing the best possible results.

that is, with the load applied to the sides of the fibres, and with the load applied to the ends; also the effects of moisture on the longitudinal crushing strength.

The specimens used in the tests were cut from pieces of white pine about three and three-quarter inches square, and are from the heart wood of small trees. Although they were not all cut from the one piece, the material in them was so similar in quality that the different tests will admit of comparison.

The pieces from which the specimens were taken were purchased from a city lumber firm 21st October. 1896, and re

present fairly well the average quality of pine from which 4 X 4 inch pine is cut. They were stored in the laboratory of the school of Practical Science, until the tests were made.

The first table gives the transverse crushing strength tested on March 17th, 1897. The specimens were all cut in four-inch lengths from one piece, the specific gravity of which was 37.25, and which contained 12.2 per cent. of moisture calculated on the weight after being dried. This is about the normal amount of water contained in thoroughly seasoned wood protected from the weather. The loads required to produce a compression of three per cent. and of fifteen per cent. respectively, are given in table No. 1 in the fourth and fifth columns. The second column gives the thickness of the block, and the third the dimensions of the area subjected to pressure. Figs. (a), (b) and (c) show the

Paper read before the Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, and reprinted from the copyrighted report by permission of the Society.

