<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	231



Paul and Johnson systems, which will be more particularly referred to at a later stage in the description also many other apply

instances which space forbids		Accommodation	is also

provided for the electric dynamos	generate	current	for the

purpose of lighting the building, running the elevators, etc.; in fact an inspection of the plans and the work as far as it has gone in connection with these apartments shows them to be most complete even to the hydraulic appliance for lifting ashes up to the level of tile court yard above and a dumping trolley that is provided to convey the coal from coal-house and deposit same in front of the boilers.

Extending off the boiler-houses is the coal-house, also under ground, so conveniently arranged that the coal call be carted into tile yard and dumped directly into the storing bins. The "supplementary battery of boilers in the west side has been provided in case the city and county should see fit to separate in tile matter of running expenses of the building in such case the city and county would each have their own heating appliances, to he managed and run according to their own wish and direction, and in case of accident to one battery the other may be used by operating the valves provided for that purpose. It will thus be seen that by no possible chance or accident will the building be left without necessary power for heating or supply of steam for all  appliances.

The heating and ventilating plant is so far completed that the architect is now utilizing the same for heating the building, and although not completed, it gives every assurance of being a very perfect working plant when finished.

The system of heating as adopted is what is known as tile One Pipe Overhead Low Pressure System, tile steam being conducted through large mains i5 ins. diameter running tight and left from tile boiler house and extending tip to tile top of the building and there connecting to the horizontal circulating mains which supply the drop feed mains to the Safford Patent Radiators which are fitted up exclusively throughout these buildings. These drop feed mains are continued to the sub-basement where they are connected to the return mains which convey the condensation back to the receiving tank, where it is automatically supplemented with the required quantity of hot water and pumped back into boilers, the pumps being regulated by a self—acting governor. The steam used for heating the building consists of the exhaust steam from tile engines and pumps, etc., which, after being passed through a receiving tank which is known as Tile Excelsior Combined Feed Water Heater, Purifier, Tilter, Oil Separator, Expansion and Receiving Tank, to exhaust all oil and grease, etc., from same, is passed into the heating mains and

 automatically		supplemented	through a pressure	reducing valve



with live steam as required.

The objection to this method formerly was that the pressure required in the heating mains to force the steam through all the radiators was sufficient to cause considerable back pressure 011 the engines and pumps, thereby reducing their efficiency and consequently wasting fuel. This drawback has been entirely overcome by the architect, who has adopted the " Paul Vacuum Exhaust System," which system exhausts the air from all the radiators and mains and maintains a vacuum, thereby enabling them to be filled with steam without ally back pressure whatever. The great advantage and saving by this method is evident. This system has gone beyond the experimental stage, and is being installed in most of the important buildings recently constructed. In every case it is said to have proved a great economizer and was adopted by the architect. only after numerous and careful investigations of its value.

Another important addition to this plant is what is known as the " Johnson System of Automatic Heat Control." This system regulates the heating of the apartments and maintains any desired temperature that may be required. Thermostats are placed in the most suitable positions in the rooms or halls these thermostats are connected with the automatic steam valves attached to the radiators, and are so sensitive that they will open Or close the valves at a variation of one degree, so that the temperature of an apartment equipped with these contrivances will not vary more than one degree in a day.

The saving in the adoption of this system must be apparent, inasmuch as the steam is only on the radiators when beat is required, and is automatically shut off when the apartment is warm enough and further, it does away with the trouble, annoyance and expense of regulating the valves by hand. This iii itself must be of great value from tile standpoint of economy, as well as in avoiding tile necessity of opening and closing of windows on account of an apartment being overheated, with consequent draughts. This is riot an experiment with the architect, but is

one that has been adopted by him in other large buildings in the city of Toronto within the last few years, and which in every case has given satisfaction.

VENTILATION.

<article title=" VENTILATION " author="">

Ventilation, as a branch of sanitary science, has within the last five or six years received much attention, with the result that more progress has been made in providing healthful conditions than ill any 25 preceding years. The amount of ventilation obtained by the old style direct and indirect heating system is not constant, but is subject to outside conditions, such as direction and velocity of external air currents, etc., and it is impossible to plan or construct such a system to supply a volume of ventilation based on known requirements that would be constant and controllable

The system adopted in this building is what is known as the Plenum method of mechanical ventilation. The fresh air is brought down in the tower arid after being passed through cleansing screens and all impurities removed, is blown by large Fans through the heated surfaces in the fan chamber and distributed throughout tile building. The warming of this air is also regulated by the Johnson System of Heat Control, the air being automatically subjected to just sufficient of the heated surface to maintain the desired temperature—the air being forced in, and its quality, quantity arid temperature are completely tinder control all spaces are filled with air under a slight pressure, the leakage being outward prevent the drawing of polluted air into tile rooms from any source. The removal of the foul air is amply provided for by the construction of special flues in connection with the system, arranged so as to produce the best results. This ventilating apparatus will completely change the air in all offices, council chamber, court rooms, judges' rooms and other apartments, every tell minutes. Any one who has sat in the present City Council chamber or in any of the present court rooms for any length of time will readily understand the great advantage of such a system.

THE ELECTRIC LIGHT WIRING. <article title=" THE ELECTRIC LIGHT WIRING " author="">

The electric wiring is another important addition to this part of the work. After careful investigation by tile architect to ascertain the best and safest method to install, lie decided to adopt the iron armored conduit system throughout the building. This system possesses so many important features that it is worth of special mention. It consists of highly insulated water-proof steel tubing connecting to all outlets, junction boxes, etc., through which tile electric wires are run. These tubes are all concealed, nothing being shown but the outlets and junction boxes. At any one of these outlets a fishing wile can be inserted into the conduits and readily pushed through to the next outlet. The electrical conductor can then be attached and drawn through at any tulle. This can be repeated from outlet to Outlet until tile end of each circuit is reached, the conduit all being completed and the wires drawn in afterwards. These wires are always accessible thereafter for renewal or examination, rendering it unnecessary to destroy wails 01' ceilings or disturb flooring, or, as is generally the ease with the ordinary plan of wiring, to abandon entirely the connected conductor that has become deranged and resort to surface wiring; there is also no danger of nails being driven through the insulation, as is often the ease, with serious results, where this system is not used.

This system, although comparatively new in this country, has been and it being adopted in all large and important buildings in tile United States, it being regarded as being absolutely safe against fire under all conditions.

THE PLUMBING.

The great developments and improvements in the science of plumbing within the last few years are fully demonstrated in the work on this job, which is the most complete and perfect from a sanitary point of view that can very well be imagined. All the most modern ideas for securing perfect ventilation and a complete sanitary job have been employed, The plumbing fixtures of tile different best known makers were put to a thorough and careful sanitary test by the architect, both as to strength of materials and perfect working qualities, before being adopted ; only those of the highest class being selected. The piping arid fittings used are all of extra heavy weight and are arranged so as to be accessible in case repairs are needled.

The plumbing fixtures are all left open, and all partitions, linings, etc., are constructed of marble supported on metal legs, lie this of woodwork in the lavatories or any other materials that would absorb moisture being entirely done away with.

The Bennett & Wright Company, Limited, of thus city, are the contractors for the heating, ventilating plumbing, gas-fitting and electric light wiring.

Not until we review this work ill all its many trades and details can we understand the magnitude of the undertaking, and t lie immense amount of architectural skill and labor necessary to carry it to completion.



At the Caledonia iron works in Montreal recently, was given a practical demonstration of a new process of jointing pipes. The process of making and fixing the ring joint is an entirely new departure from the customary methods employed in jointing pipes, and overcomes the difficulties incidental to pouring and caulking lead into pipe joints ill wet trenches. The ring joint is made with cold sheet lead, which is circumferentially contracted and indented by the pressure of a contractible tapering wedge and an external compression ring. Tile experiments were witnessed by a number of pipe manufacturers, contractors and other interested persons, arid created a most favorable impression. The invention is protected in twenty-four countries, Messrs. James W. Pyke & Company being sole agents for Canada.

