	<doctype type="text">234	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



it is gratifying to learn that the necessity for organization on the part of the building industry of this city has at last been recognized. At a meeting recently held in the club room of the Windsor Hotel to consider the subject, Mr. James Simpson, of Simpson & Peel, was voted to the chair, and Mr. G. J. Shepherd appointed secretary pro tem. The secretary stated the object of the meeting to be to consider the advisability of organizing a Builders' Exchange for the city of Montreal, on the lines of similar organizations in the principal cities of thc United States. Such an organization should afford opportunity for an interchange of views on matters affecting the building trades, and through the medium of a representative Board of Directors, having power to arbitrate, would be of great assistance in the adjustment of differences between employers and workmen. Further titan this the idea of the promoters of tire Exchange was that the headquarters should be in a central location where members desirous of doing business with one another or with outsiders could meet at certain hours of the day for that purpose. In addition to these objects he organization of a Builders' Exchange would place the building industry on a footing consistent with the growth of tire city.

After an expression of opinion had been obtained from several of those present at tire meeting, it was unanimously resolved on motion of Mr. Peter Lyall, that the meeting be organized into a Builders' Exchange. On motion by Mr. Stephenson, a provisional board, consisting of Messrs. Simpson, Lyall, Fournier, McLean, Cowan and G. J. Shepherd, was appointed to obtain information regarding a charter and suitable rooms, and to report at a meeting to be called for that purpose, as well as for tire purpose of appointing a permanent board of directors, if the charter of the former Builders' and Contractors' Association shall be found to be yet in existence, there will not be tire necessity of applying for a new one.

Tire following firms have expressed their intention of co-operating in the movement for the establishment of a Builders' Exchange, and thus the bulk of the funds required for expenses are at the outset guaranteed Messrs. E. Fournier, Peter Lyall, W. A. Stephenson & Co., Peter C. Wand, Castle & Son, Jno. Murphy, Wm. McNally & Co., The Montreal Roofing Co., T. A. Morrison & Co., Geo. R. Locker, Oliver Deguise, Alexander Bremner, Geo. W. Reed & Co., Wm. Rutherford & Sons, Miller Bros & Toms, Jas. Walker & Co., H. R. Ives & Co.. Jno. A. Boomer & Co., Dominion Bridge Co., E. F. Dartnell, A. E. Wand, Wm. Swan, G. A. Grier, John McLean, Montreal Lime Co., Geo. J. Sheppard,

A.	P. MeLaurin, Jno. Morrison, Jr., & Son, Simpson & Peel, Heggie & Stewart, A. Cowen, W. W. Scott & Co., Laird, Paton & Son, J. W. Hughes, J. E. Bulmer, J. H. Huchison, James Cochrane, Thomas Forde, W. P. Scott, Wm. Briggs, Wighton & Morrison, Beckham & Scott, Isaac Lewis, McLaurin Bros., The Jas. Shearer Co., McArthur & Co., J. N. Hickey, Knott & Gardiner, Charles Sheppard, Wm. McArthur & Sons, John Watson and tire Laprairie Brick Co.

ARCHITECTURAL COMPETITIONS.



The following circular was recently sent, by direction of the Council, to each member of the Province of Quebec Association of

Architects:

DEAR SIR,—Several complaints of grave abuses existing in the practice of our respected profession having recently been brought

before the Council, it has resolved, so far as it is in its power, to continue to protect the interests, and especially to use every endeavor to maintain the integrity and honor of the profession.

It has come to the knowledge of the Council that there are members of tire Association who do not scruple to take part in competition with self constituted architects on the most humiliating conditions for honorable men; agreeing to make designs and obtain tenders for work without any assurance of art expert report and without any promise of remuneration.

The Council would earnestly remind the members that the cure is it their own hands, for as long as the public can get reputable members of the profession to join in competitions on such an urn-satisfactory and unworthy basis, so long will they continue to make such conditions.

Such self-depreciation on the part of the members of the Association can only have one result, viz., that of lowering the status of the profession generally, and bringing it into contempt in the eyes of the business men of the community.

The Council trusts that each member will refrain from having anything to do with such competitions, and do all in his power to have competitions arranged on a fair and equitable basis and such as will be honorable alike to tire public and the profession.

By order,

	(Signed)	JOS. VENNE, Secretary.

<article title=" AN IMPORTANT DECISION " author="">

AN IMPORTANT DECISION.



Following is tire decision in full of the Recorder in the action brought by the Building Inspector' of Montreal against Contractor Paquette for alleged violation of the City Building By-law, brief reference to which was made in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for November:

" The defendant is prosecuted for having, on the 21st of August, neglected to conform to a notice of the Building inspector, Montreal, ordering him to demolish some division walls in a building on Cherrier street, the property of the Tourville Estate, said walls not being of brick or stone, as required by sections 12 and 14 of By-Law 107, but of terra cotta.

"Section 12 of By-Law 107 says that 'it the case of a row of terrements, stores or warehouses, each tenement, store or warehouse shall be divided by a wall of brick or stone.' Now section 14 says : ' Brick are supposed to measure 8 inches it length by 4 inches in width and 2 1/2 inches in thickness.'

"Sections 11 and 13 of said by-law say, 'brick or stone or other incombustible material, arid the city does not complain of tire substance, which is incombustible, but contends that it is not  strong enough to support the load placed upon it. Furthermore, this terra cotta is commonly called brick, and is incombustible, so it answers the requirements of the by-law as far as that goes. The whole question now rests in the fact of its strength and resistance. Many witnesses have been heard on both sides. I will only consider those who have based their evidence upon scientific and practical experiments. Tests of this terra cotta were made at McGill College in 1894 and 1897. The last test took place September 9th, 1897, on two different pieces -one crushed at 46,000 lbs., equal to 479 lbs. to the sq. inch ; the other crushed at

67,000 lbs., equal to 677 lbs. per sq. inch. Architect Taylor has figured the weight tire walls had to carry, but did trot believe they were strong enough.

" Jos. Beland, contractor, said he had riot seen tile walls, but was of opinion they were not strong enough, and was prepared to condemn them.

"M. Huberdeau said he had seem terra cotta used for walls and other purposes in many buildings. When asked by the building inspector if he did not know of a case where terra cotta had crushed under a beam, be said in one case in a building for the Masson Estate tile end of a steel beam resting on the lining instead of on the wall, the block being on edge, had failed, but this was no fault of the terra cotta, as a beam resting in tire same condition upon the solid brick would have brought similar results; the fault was in the construction and not in the material.

M.	Brunet produced tests of pressed brick, showing it was much stronger than terra cotta, etc.



Mr. Lacroix, the City Building Inspector, admitted that there were many buildings in Montreal in which terra cotta was used, such as the Canada Life and other's, butt that they carried no load, being protected by steel construction, etc. Mr. Lacroix says that judging from McGill College tests the brick is trot strong enough, having crushed under a load of 46,000 lbs. upon a surface of 96 square inches, giving a factor of safety of only 239 lbs. Multiplying this factor by 12 inches, the square of the brick, gives 2868 lbs. as the weight it cart safely carry. According to this estimate this brick will riot carry the weight placed upon it. The floors are supposed to weight 160 lbs. per square inch as a factor of safety. The house being 25 feet wide, the joists are 24 feet long, each wall carrying one-half. The joists being 3 feet apart

