	<doctype type="text">132	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



and if the ceiling is vaulted or domed we may want it made striking or beautiful.

One particular point is usually missed in speaking of architecture—the skill in combining the junctions between forms of diverse or opposed shapes, and of marking the different changes of function where they occur, or of marking the concentration of strains. These, as I mentioned before, are accomplished by mouldings, and these mouldings are to give us varieties of light and



in their forms. The

shade, and to have a sort of logical	their 

	sequence	forms.

Greeks were the first and the greatest masters of mouldings, which were, of course, shaped to be played on by brilliant sunshine and in a clear air. The Roman mouldings were only badly— designed Greek ones with infinitely less variation. The second masters of moulding were the Gothic architects, who designed them for the misty climates and feeble sunshine of the countries they lived in. They were as logical as the Greeks, though destitute of their refined artistic sensibilities and since then the study of profiling has been abandoned.

I say nothing of sculpture, in which I include naturalistic as well as vegetable and animal forms, for this is another art but it must he exercised with due regard to the architecture, and must neither be incongruous nor destroy the scale of the part, the chamber or the building. You cannot expect sculpture from architects, as it fakes the life study of an artist, and architecture alone may he said to embrace the life studies of many men—men of science, men of ingenuity, and men of art. When, however, the architect is so transcendent a genius that he can master his own art and that of another artist, lie excites our wonder and our admiration but to be a bad architect and an execrable sculptor too is not a combination to he admired, and still less to be proud

of.	It merely entitles t he possessor to Martial's compliment, who called the amateur who did so many things a great meddler.

There are one or two more points that I must mention, but perhaps the influence of the age is the most important ; this in one direction is what we call the taste of the nation, and it inevitably modifies the individual taste of the artist. The old proverb says,

The mind of man is greedy of novelty,' and novelty in itself has, no doubt, a certain charm, but it should only he that difference from what has gone before which must inevitably follow from those thousands of things, circumstances and temperaments that distinguish one age from another. If shows us too, how ridiculous antiquarianism is when it takes the place of architecture. We are not Greeks, Romans nor Byzantines; our age is not Romanesque, not Gothic, nor Renaissance, and if the architecture of the day is to charm the age it must discover and embody the desires of the age. The paraphrasing of deceased styles only charms us in so far as our civilization approaches that of the date of the building paraphrased, and the building wants novelty too. We naturally do not admire Gothic paraphrases, as the desires of those times are so far removed from our own inclinations. The Gothic architects' passion for geometry is very far from being ours.

Architects can but slightly modify the desires of an age, as there are so many thousand things, conditions and influences that combine to mould public taste. All they can do is to have the attainable knowledge and skill required for their art, and if invention in architecture is extinct we must try to recreate it. I hope it is not extinct, but if it be we still have f he mountains, rocks, amid peaks, the caverns and grottoes, the woods, the trees, and he plains, the rivers and seas, the clouds and the heavens, to stimulate us to embody the lessons we ran learn from these natural effects; not to speak of the lessons we can learn from the

past architectures of the world. I cannot help thinking that if the born architect should arise and be single—eyed in his devotion to this grand art we might hope to see it again flourishing, as in the grand epochs of the past. Antiquarianism is not content with gnawing out the vitals of architecture, but is destroying our faith in its being still alive.



Another of the points that wants attending to is the study of the means employed by the great architects of the world to evoke the emotions proper to the use of buildings, and particularly to those dedicated to the adoration of the Almighty. Students are naturally a Pt to seize upon features that they admire amid use them in the most incongruous way, as if the adornment of a temple or a palace were appropriate to a laborers cottage, a coal store or a tailor's shop, whose owner makes the human form divine ludicrous and ignoble. Elegant simplicity of appearance should be the architect's aim for most of his buildings, as his aim should be to produce horror and repulsion in a prison.

Our great object now is to be sure that we have done our best

to learn all that we ought to learn. How delightful it would be if we were as sure of our progress as were the Gothic architects, and instead of being as careful of every scrap left by a semibarbarous age, as if it had come from Heaven, and were sacred, we could use with a light heart a good stone, as they did, for our own work, and build in their worked part which we have surpassed. I may say this was not confined to Gothic days ; the Greeks used the sculpture they had surpassed for filling in holes and trenches, and Mr. Purdon Clark showed me a Saracen wood block that had once formed a door-head in a destroyed mosque, the back of which had been used for flue work of the clay, while the carved part, worked in a former age, had been built in.





<article title=" BUILDING COVENANTS " author="">BUILDING COVENANTS.

BUILDING covenants are inserted in building agreements, lenses and conveyances with the object of providing for the building' of houses of prescribed description and value, restricting users of the hand in prescribed manner, the making of roads, sewers, drains, and other similar objects, says the Contract Journal. Although the vendor purpose to sell the whole of his land absolutely, yet if he does so in several lots it will be important to insert restrictive covenants to an-event the laud being used for purposes other than those for which it is sold, for otherwise some lots may be used in such a way as to decrease the value of the remaining lots.

A covenant by a person to build such a house as he should think fit binds him to nothing-, as a promise cannot hue conditional on the mere will of the promiser. Where a lessee covenanted to repair buildings comprised in the lease, and, further, within the first fifty years of the lease to take down the demised messages as occasion might require, and in their place erect not less than four other good and substantial brick messages, it was held that, if the lessor had the original houses substantially as good as new in the course of fifty years by being repaired, time covenant would be satisfied, and the lessee need riot actually rebuild ( Evelyn v. Raddish, 7 Taunt., 411). But where certain premises in a state of dilapidation were demised, and the lessee covenanted to new build the brick houses within three venurs, lie must rebuild the whole, it was held that making extensive repairs by pulling down and rebuilding the fore and back fronts was not a performance of the covenant (city of London v. Nash, 3 Atk, 512). A covenant entered into by time owner of certain land with a purchaser that an adjoining plot should never be hereafter sold but left for the common benefit of both parties and their successors," is enforceable, amid does not contravene any rule of law (McLean v. McRay L. R. P.C. 327). When land is sold in lots, and there are mutual restrictive covenants by the purchasers that time land shall not be used so as to create a nuisance to the original vendor, or the occupiers or proprietors for the time being of the " adjoining" property, the word adjoining'' means the property adjoining each lot, and not merely the property adjoining the whole piece of land originally sold; and the owner of any lots is entitled to enforce the covenant against the owner of any other lot. By reason of the doctrine that a conveyance of land impliedly also includes the subsoil of an adjoining street '' even to the middle of the way" houses on the opposite side of the road may be within a covenant relating to premises adjoining or contiguous" (Haynes v. King, 1893, 3, Ch. A covenant for the free use of the newly intended road whenever time same may he made,'' will not apply to a road which, when the parties contracted, was newly intended to be made, hut was executed and complete before the scaling of the deed (Crisp v. Price, Taant., 548). Laud having been laid out for building, and streets projected across it, the defendant bought one plot with a right of way over the projected streets, the vendors reserving a similar privilege over the street in front of the plot sold ; and the defendant covenanted with time vendors that he would not erect any building on the plot within the distance of six feet from the intended streets. It was held in the case Child v. Douglas (1 Ray, 560) that a subsequent purchaser of a neighboring portion of the land might obtain an injunction against time first purchaser to restrain him from infringing his covenant, and this whether the plaintiff at the time of his purchase knew of the existence of the defendant's covenant or not, as the plaintiff must be taken to have bought all the rights connected with this portion of he land, especially if he has bound himself by a similar covenant. An owner of building ground upon which time houses of uniform height and depth had been built sold it in plots, and conveyed each plot in fee, subject to a perpetual rent charge, arid each purchaser covenanted with the grantor that there should be no trees or any building whatever in the garden that should exceed the level of the parlor floor ; it was held (Western v. McDermitt, 2

