<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences" author="">

MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



LECTURE BEFORE THE ART ASSOCIATION.



ON the evening of Fob. 18th, Mr. Robert Harris, A.R.C.A., lectured to a large and appreciative audience at the Art Association rooms, on "Some Early Florentine Painters." The lecture was accompanied by a number of illuminated views illustrative of the work of the various artists.



MONTREAL HARBOR IMPROVEMENT.



The accompanying plan, known as plan No. 12 A, for which we are indebted to the courtesy of the Montreal Gazette, shows the improvements which are to be made to the Montreal Harbor.































































































































The Harbor Engineer, Mr. Kennedy, was unable to see eye to eye with the government regarding the character of these improvements, and the present scheme is a compromise as between conflicting opinions. It shows three piers, 300 feet wide, one being 850 feet, one 1,000 feet and the other 1,020 feet in length, on the centre line, designed to give 9,770 lineal feet of wharf

front, and to afford accommodation for sixteen ocean steamers, 500 feet long. The cost of the improvement is to be entirely borne by the government.





<article title="Deterioration as Affecting the Value of Buildings." author="Curry, S.G.">

DETERIORATION AS AFFECTING THE VALUE

OF BUILDINGS.*

By S. G. CURRY.



THE reason I wish to have a discussion on this matter is because in arbitrations one finds such varying opinions on the part of professional men that it is somewhat astonishing, and it seems to me it would be well for the profession to discuss, as far as possible, these problems, in such a way that we may arrive, if we can, at some definite principle.

Depreciation may be divided into three classes. First there is the depreciation due entirely to wear and tear of the material, irrespective of any other deterioration ; then there is the question of depreciation which must be looked at from the financial aspect, and in addition to these there is the depreciation which is the result of changed conditions. In the first place, then, we have the depreciation of material by reason of wear and tear, which simply means that if you erect a building, that building will be good for its purpose so long as the material in it will hold out, and, of course, that is merely the question of finding out what is the average life of the different materials used in the construction of a building. There are tables with regard to wear and tear, doubtful, of course, to some extent, but at the same time giving a fairly reasonable basis of calculation. I have not thought it worth while to bring any of these tables forward, because that, again, is very largely a question of the kind of material. You cannot say that all brick will last seventy years, because some bricks may be hard and some soft; it is a question of how long the particular brick in question will last, so after all there must be various opinions with regard to the life of the material itself.



On the basis that materials have a definite life according to quality and position certain individuals have worked out tables which they support, on the principle that the first year there is no wear and tear, the second year 1/4 per cent., with an increasing



percentage each year until 100 per cent is reached in sixty, seventy or a hundred years, as the case may be, based entirely on the wear and tear of the material. Then there is the other side of the matter, the financial question. If you put $5,000 into a building you must figure on receiving sufficient return on the money invested to return you a fair interest and the principal money before the substance in which you have placed it disappears, because, after all, a budding must disappear in time. You must get such a rental as will give you not only fair interest on your investment, but return you the principal before the value of the building has gone. The question is, what amount is that per year? Some figure the wear and tear the first year as nothing, and only ask for a return to cover interest, but I think the first year is the very year in which a building should give the best returns, and pay forth the greatest proportions per year of the principal money. If you figure out the financial result on the basis that the wear and tear is light in the earlier years you are going to have a building when dilapidated making better returns in the form of rent at the end than at the beginning, which it certainly will not do. So that in any case you must first figure the interest you require, and then add to that sufficient to cover the loss of the principal, and that must be made during the earlier years, because during the later period you will find some difficulty in doing it.



Then there is the third question, of changing locations. You may erect a building in a certain part of the city today in which it at present serves its purpose perfectly well, but after a time, owing to changed conditions, it becomes practically valueless it may be in ten years, fifteen years, twenty years or fifty years, and then you get no return for either interest or principal. The fact of the removal of the Courthouse and city buildings from where they are now to another site will affect the value of the property down near the City Hall, and what was at one time worth $10,000 you may not after a time be able to get a purchaser for at $2,000 or even $1,000, so that these things all work through the value of a building. Now, I think these are all matters that should be considered in arriving at the value of a building, or in ascertaining the deterioration in value of buildings.





Mr. Cecil 13. Smith has resigned his position as assistant professor in Civil Engineering at McGill University, to join the engineering staff of the C. P. Railway.



*	Introductory paper read at the annual convention of the O.A..A., January, 1898.

