<doctype type="text">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



1 5/8 thick, and about 2' 10" long ; run a gauge line down the centre of both edges ; this done, cut a saw kerf along the gauge lines, leaving a solid piece about 10 inches in the centre; this, of course, necessitates the kerf to begin at each end of the stick. The square is then inserted in the kerf, the blade on one side of the solid centre and the tongue on the other, the fence itself forming the third side of a right-angled triangle, the blade and the tongue of the square forming the other two sides. The next step is to make some provision for holding the fence tight to the square. This is best done by putting No. 10 1 1/4" screws in each end of the fence close to the blade and tongue. The next thing will be to apply the square in its present condition for the purpose of obtaining the lengths and bevels of braces and rafters. Adjust the square and fence as shown at Fig. 2, and place it on the prepared stuff as shown in

ment of the square and its application, for should there be any departure from truth, that departure will be repeated every time the square is moved, and where it would not affect a short run it might materially affect a long one. Let us lay out a brace for an angle when the run in the beam is three feet and the run down the post four ; proceed as follows Prepare a fence of thin stuff for a pattern same as before ; run a gauge line on it ; lay the square on the left-hand side ; keep the 12-inch mark on the blade over the gauge line; place the 9-inch mark on the tongue on the gauge line, so that the gauge line forms the third side of a right-angled triangle, the other sides of which are nine and twelve inches respectively. Proceed as on the former occasion, and as shown at Fig. 5, taking care to mark the bevels







FIG. 2.





Fig. 3, in such a manner that the mark 12 on both blade and tongue coincide exactly with the gauge line o, o, o, o. Hold the square firmly in the position now obtained until the screws are tightened over it. We are now ready to lay out a brace. The gauge line o,o,o,o, over which the figures 12, 12 stand, is 3/8 of an inch from the edge of the stuff, and is intended to admit of a flat or bearing point on the end of the brace called "the toe of the brace," as shown in the diagram. Slide the square to the left as shown by the dotted lines at X, mark with a scribe or fine pencil on the outside edges of the square, cutting the gauge line. Slide the square to the right until the 2-inch mark on the tongue stands over the knife mark on the gauge line. Mark the right-











Fig. 3.



hand side of the square, cutting the gauge line as before ; repeat the process four times, marking the extreme ends to cut off, and we have the length and exact bevels of a brace for a four-feet run. Square over, with a try-square, at each end from the gauge line, and we have the toe of the brace. The lines S  shown at the end of the brace represent the tenons that are to be left in the braces when such are necessary. Where a number of braces are to be cut, as is often the case in heavy timbered buildings, such as barns, workshops, saw mills, etc., it is always best to make a pattern out of a piece of thin pine or other suitable wood for each

run," and nail a strip or fence on the working-edge of it as shown at K. The pattern can then be used from either side, and being the exact length and the bevels being correct, one man can lay out braces faster than six men can cut. In order to show the principle on which this rule is based, the brace is shown in place at Fig. 4 ; the dotted lines show the position the square was in when the pattern was laid out. It may be necessary to state that the square as now arranged will lay out a brace pattern for any length if the angle is right and the run equal. Should the brace be of great length, however, additional care must be taken in the adjust-

FIG. 5.





at the extreme ends. The dotted lines show the positions of the square as the pattern is being laid out. Braces for any unequal runs, if the angle is right, may be obtained by taking proportional figures on the square as gauge points, to suit the conditions. Fig. 6 shows an unequal brace in position, the dotted lines showing

	Fig. 4.	FIG. 6.



where the square was placed when the pattern was forming. There are many other things, equally important to laying out braces, that can readily be performed by the use of the steel square, and in future issues attempts will be made to describe some of them.



SILICA PORTLAND CEMENTS.*

By M. J. BUTLER, OLS., M. Inst. CE., M. Am. Soc. C.F., M.Can. Soc. CE.

Deseronto, Ont.



MR. Chairman and Gentlemen: If it be true that the man who makes two blades of grass to grow where one formerly grew is a public benefactor, then in that case F. L. Smidth & Co. should be considered public benefactors, for they have discovered a means by which it is possible to take one barrel of cement and make two of it with increased strength at the same time.

The first thing to bear in mind is this, that in the grinding of ordinary Portland cement it is practically impossible to reduce it to such a degree that less than 10residue will be left on a sieve of 10,000 holes to a square inch that when tested on the 40,000 mesh sieve, not more than of it will pass that sieve, leaving 25residue; that the residium on any sieve, however fine, has no cementitious property whatever. This is the fundamental principle which underlies sand-cement; that is to say, the unground portion of Portland cement is sand to all intents and purposes.

Now taking advantage of this fact, F. L. Smidth & Co., of Copenhagen, Denmark, who are the inventors and discoverers of the process, substitute for that unground portion of the Portland cement pure sand it must be silicious sand, free from mica or earthy matter and feldspar and other soft or friable substances.

It is important that the cement itself be of the very highest  Paper read before Ontario Land Surveyors' Association March, 1898.

