<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BY THE WAY." author="">

BY THE WAY.

THE report comes from England that a woman is to be admitted for the first time as an associate to the Royal Institute of British Architects. She is said to have passed with honors the entrance examination. We are not given the name of this clever pioneer in the ranks of the feminine architects.

x x 



A NEW method of preserving an old brick building which showed signs of early collapse was recently adopted by the authorities of the South Dakota State Asylum. The structure was encased with a heavy coating of cement, which has rendered it impervious to the weather. An antique Tyrolese finish has been given to the cement coating, which is described as very pleasing. What the effects 01 frost and unequal expansion and contraction between the two materials will be remains to be told.

)< )< )<



A WELL known tea company have inquired of the Mayor of Toronto if they might rent for advertising purposes the clock tower of the new Municipal Buildings, pending the arrival of the clock. They offer to pay a reasonable sum for the privilege. Doubtless the citizens would like to hit on a plan to make a revenue out of these buildings, in which a couple of millions of their hard cash have been invested, but it is just possible that they would consider the above-mentioned method as being rather infra dig.

)< X X



THE Philadelphia Record purports to describe the origin of the elevator, which is to-day so necessary an adjunct of all important buildings. The earliest mention of the elevator, which is said to have been invented in Central Europe, is declared to have been made in a letter of Napoleon I., addressed to his wife, the Archduchess Maria Louise. He writes to her that, when in Schoenbrunn, then the summer residence of the Austrian Emperor, near Vienna, he used the ''chaise volante" (flying chair) in the castle, which had been constructed for Empress Maria Theresa to save her the annoyance of climbing up the long flight of stairs. It consisted of a small square room, sumptuously furnished with hangings of red silk, and suspended by strong ropes, with counterweights, so that it could be pulled up or let down with great ease in a shaft built for the purpose about 1760. The great Corsican mentions that when he first entered the '' flying chair" he was asked for his weight and that of his two companions, probably in order to employ the proper counterweights, since it was difficult for the operators to stop at the right point unless weights were about even. A similar elevator was built in the castle of Duke Charles of Lorraine about the same time, but this one was simpler, consisting only of a chair on a platform.

)< X x



LIGHTNING rods seem to a large extent to have passed out of favor of late. No doubt this is in a measure due to the sharp practices of the lightning rod vendor, who after securing the order cared but little whether the rod was put up in a proper manner or not. Mr. Thomas

A.	Edison, writing to the Popular Science News recently on this subject, says '' There is no doubt whatever that the lightning rods are a source of great protection when buildings are properly equipped with them. In doing this it is necessary to have good metal

conductivity and a perfect connection with the earth at the bottom of the rod. If you refer to a book published by Sir William Snow Harris, who first introduced lightning rods into the British Navy and mercantile marine, you will find this subject discussed at length. Before the introduction of lightning rods in the British Navy, disasters were quite frequent, and the subject of protecting their ships from this element of danger presented itself in a very serious light to British naval officers. When Harris proposed equipping these ships with lightning rods, he was almost alone in the belief that they would afford such protection as was desired. After a great deal of trouble he succeeded in having them adopted, since which I do not think there has been a single serious disaster from lightning in the British Navy, which is conclusive that Harris's theory was correct. The same applies to buildings of inflammable nature erected on land, and when these are properly supplied with a sufficient number of lightning rods, dependent upon their size and the extent of ground covered by them, I believe they are absolutely safe from all danger." It is worthy of note that in New York City the electric wires and the metal so largely employed in the construction of large buildings, serve to attract and as it were absorb the electricity in the atmosphere, so that it has become almost an unheard of occurrence for a building in that city to be damaged by lightning. It is adduced in support of this theory that it is no unusual thing for the shipping in the harbor to be damaged by lightning.



<article title="METHODS OF PREPARING SPECIFICATIONS." author="HEWITT, D.A.">

METHODS OF PREPARING SPECIFICATIONS.

By D. A. HEWITT.



MUCH has been said and experienced in the length of time it requires to draw a thorough and comprehensive description of the several things that go to make a complete specification. The drudgery could be lightened somewhat and delegated to a junior clerk who writes a good hand or can operate a typewriter, by a system of cataloging or cypher code alluding to the architect's private collection of choice architectural phrases.

In taking instructions from a client it is well to have a sheet on which to note the various and minor requirements which really enter into and form a very important part of the specification. By a judicious arrangement of the " Wants," this list may form a part of the specification skeleton, from which a concise and well arranged description is obtained for drawing the final specification. From the numerous pamphlets and books published on this subject, a good many clauses suited to the particular phraseology of the architect can be had, and

erous



clippings are most conveniently sorted into an "invoice" book, the pages of which are numbered, and an index of contents in the back aids a rapid search.

Each paragraph usually refers to but one item of the work, as Strapping," '' Casings," " Hardware,"

Lathing," First Coat of Plaster," or other things, according to the special department of work. The intention is to number the different paragraphs in each trade, as 25, " Strapping," 58, "Casings," and so on consecutively. A "skeleton list" of the aforesaid specification, giving the number and name of each paragraph, would assist the memory of the specification writer and be a check on the items that it should contain. When the architect is desirous of getting up a

