<doctype type="text">

the City Council should give immediate attention to the project for establishing a public square at the south-east corner of Queen and Bay streets, opposite the new Municipal Buildings. A square in the heart of the business district is a conspicuous and attractive feature of most cities, and is no less a necessity in Toronto than in Montreal, Hamilton and Detroit. What would New York be without the series of squares adjoining Broadway at intervals between 14th street and Central Park? They are a source of untold pleasure and comfort to the citizens and to visitors. The present opportunity to secure at an extremely reasonable cost for the purpose of a central square what is beyond question the most desirable site in the city should not be allowed to pass. We hope the Council will take immediate and definite action to secure this much needed improvement.



THE complaint is heard that the comPainters' Profits, petition of unskilled labor and departmental stores is ruining the business

of painters and paper hangers. It is said that many men deprived by female labor of their occupation as clerks, office assistants, etc., have turned their attention to paper hanging as better suited to their tastes and acquirements than outdoor employment. The result is that prices for paper hanging have been reduced from 15 cents to 8 cents per roll. It is difficult to understand how work can be done by skilled labor at less than 12 cents per roll, and events will prove that those who give the preference to unskilled workmen because they offer their services cheaply, will in the end find that they have made a poor bargain. Painters who desire to be free from this unfair competition should seek to attain to a higher standard of artistic knowledge and skill, thereby placing themselves in a position to cater for a better class of work, such as no amateur would be allowed to undertake. The painter and decorator who follows this course will find that as he ascends the ladder of knowledge and ability his competitors will grow fewer in number— in other words that there is room at the top.



THE columns of our weekly edition, the

Building Conditions. CONTRACT RECORD, afford evidence that



the building industry is feeling the pulsations of steadily increasing activity at present distinguishing every branch of commercial enterprise in Canada. Building projects large and small are numerous in all parts of the country, and the coming season promises to be marked by an unusually large expenditure on construction account. Even in Toronto, where, owing to overbuilding arising out of the real estate boom, stagnation has been the prevailing condition for five or six years past, considerable work is in prospect. In sympathy with this improved condition of affairs has come a rise in price of several classes of building materials, notably bricks and cement. Brick manufacturers in the neighborhood of Toronto have allowed their works to stand idle for two or three years past, owing to lack of demand and consequent low prices. With the renewed activity in building operations comes the announcement that stocks are at a low ebb, and in consequence prices have already advanced to a point where it is claimed undertakings are likely to be checked by reason of the substantial increase in cost. It is to be hoped that this point has not and may not be reached, as the city is greatly in need of the stimulus which a season of activity in building would

impart. Prices of cement have advanced considerably, and the prophecy is made that they may be expected to rise still higher. The reason given for this opinion is that the Canadian government has already invited tenders for a quantity greatly exceeding- the total production of the Canadian factories, while the British supply will be largely reduced by the requirements of Imperial government works. The fact that on the first of July the advantages accorded to Germany under the preferential tariff will come to an end, is likely to lessen the supply from that quarter, and help to stiffen prices.



THE communication which we publish Professional in this number from a young architect

Ethics.

in the Northwest, following several of



similar character addressed to us recently, indicate that many of the younger members of the profession are at variance with the policy of the Ontario Association of Architects, as well as with the individual conduct of gentlemen who occupy a prominent place in the Association and the profession. These criticisms in some respects appear to be well founded, in others the position assumed by the authors seems not to be capable of being successful defence. Honest criticism, whether well founded or otherwise, is calculated to accomplish good rather than harm. To see oorsels as others see us tends to rid us of our faults and induce us to strive after improvement. The remarks of our correspondent in the present issue anent the wide gulph separating the preaching and practice of some prominent architects on the ethics which should govern the practice of the profession, especially in relation to architectural competitions, are timely and deserving of consideration. Until prominent members of the profession hold aloof from improperly conducted competitions and in other respects conform to the principles which should govern honorable practice, it is quite useless to lecture the younger men on architectural ethics or expect them, to uphold the dignity of the profession. There can be 110 improvement in this regard until those who are regarded as representative architects are willing to forego the chance of securing temporary financial benefit at the expense of the status of the profession. So long as greed of the almighty dollar continues to be the chief impelling motive, the status of the profession may be expected to sink lower and lower until it shall become entirely lost to public esteem. There must be a closer agreement between preaching and practice on the part of those who claim to constitute the respectable element if the profession is to regain the ground already lost and attain to a higher standard. If legislation could be secured similar to that which now obtains in Quebec, we might reasonably hope to see the standard of architectural practice in Ontario at least raised to a higher plane than at present. To secure this legislation seems to he the most important object to which the efforts of the Ontario Association of Architects can be directed.



WE commend the action of the prop- 

The Safety of Building.	erty committee of the Kingston City

		Council in securing the advice of Mr.



Power as to the safety of the public buildings of that city. With the recent disasters at London and Oshawa (which might have been avoided had those in charge of the public buildings in these towns acted in a similar manner) fresh in mind it behooves all who have the public safety in their keeping to look well into such

