<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MURAL DECORATION." author="Reid, G.A.">



Hindoos, and many other interwoven nationalities.

The ideal age of decorative art as well as of architecture is generally said to belong to Greece. The conditions which produced its civilization were such that art became freed from being the mere glorification of dynasties and was the expression of individual freedom and of a self-governing people, and this is the spirit which, surviving every dark age, returns and shows itself in the revival of the arts. It is a vivid realization we receive of the myriad forms of Greek art at the time of its becoming fused with that of Rome when we visit the museum of Naples, where are kept the vast quantities of objects of familiar use—statues, bas reliefs, bronzes of all sorts, and wall paintings dug from the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum—and great as our interest always is in works of art separated from their original surroundings, when we walk the streets of Ponipeii and notice the ruts worn by the wheels of the chariots, and the myriad feet that have trod the stone sidewalks until they hollow away from the walls of the houses ; when

is making itself felt among painters and sculptors and is directing their attention towards the more adequate decoration of architecture. This movement among painters is shown in the permanent wall decorations of all classes of buildings, but mainly of those of a public nature, their purposes requiring a more heroic treatment. That the more enlightened architects have also felt the movement has conclusively been shown in that dream-like wonder, "The White City," which sprang up in a place the name of which has almost become the synonym of the sordid and ugly, and that the conception of such a congruous art creation was possible in such a commercial age and in such a place should raise our hopes for the future and stimulate us to work for the higher possibilities of all phases of art.

When it had been determined that the treatment of the site, architecture and decoration of the World's Fair should be an attempt to obtain a harmonious effect, instructions were given the architects in general charge to call a meeting of the principal architects of the United States, together with engineers and landscape gardeners,

DOR OF NEW CITY BUILDINGS, TORONTO.	SCIENCE—By G. A. REID, R.C.A.



we walk through the dwellings, factories, bakeries, shops, temples, and up the worn stairs to the high seats of the theater, we begin to form such a picture of the art and life of that remote time that enables us to take in its meaning and realize their vital connection. Art had even then begun to wane; it was a foreign element, though produced in Rome. The Greek artist had been transplanted and was a hireling and if we would believe Pliny, painting was a dying art.

Throughout the different periods of art, whether it is the heroic age of Greek architecture and sculpture, which the Parthenon and its decorations represent, or the golden age of painting developed by Christianity, of which Michael Angelo and Raphael are the leading exponents, it s as we have already seen, only the rebirth in art of that spirit which alone gives it vitality— that it should express the life, not only of the individual, the community, the nation, but eventually become the expression of the aspiration of all humanity.

As there have been from time to time revivals of art activity of various kinds and degrees, due to enlightenment and the development of an individual and national spirit, so in our own time has arisen a movement which

to discuss a rough plan. When this was adopted the work, which was to follow a general style, was allotted. Chiefs of decoration in sculpture and painting were then appointed who employed the first sculptors and painters of the country to execute decorations which in most cases could have only a temporary existence. We all know what a success this union of the arts was, and there can be no doubt of the effect of it on the minds of all who saw it. The results of it are being seen now on all hands. New York has realized that to protect itself from the erection of all kinds of inartistic monuments and public buildings, and to unite the arts in the process of beautifying the city, a board of art commissioners is necessary, and a federation of all societies of artists, sculptors and architects has been formed, which nominates these commissioners. Boston also has its commissioners, and other cities are moving in that direction. For many years France has had its Minister of Fine Arts, and a special budget which belongs to that department, and the city of Paris has its own art officials. Among the many cities making efforts to attain to a high ideal of civic adornment, Toronto has taken her first step, and an organization is at work in our midst

