<doctype type="text">

<article title="By the Way." author="">

BY THE WAY.

A QUEBEC paper has an account of the narrow escape of an architect of that city from drowning. While attempting to escape from the pranks of acquaintances on the wharf, the architect is said to have precipitated himself and a lady companion into the water by overturning the boat. The names of the principals in the adventure are not given.

xxx



IN designing porches a young architect of my acquaintance has recently introduced a feature which is recorded with favor. The usual railing between the

b



supporting posts at the corners is omitted, and the floor between these posts carried out two or three feet, the sills being extended to support it. The swinging of hammocks between the supporting posts of the porch or verandah is thus rendered possible, and the comfort of the occupants of the house during warm weather thereby greatly enhanced.

xxx



THERE is said to be a large granite quarry about fifty miles from St. Johns, Newfoundland, where granite has been hewn, by some convulsion of nature, into rectangular blocks of different sizes, so conveniently assorted that schooner loads of selected stones have been brought to St. Johns, and used in some of the public buildings and warehouses, with little or no handdressing by masons. The new post-office and custom house built after the great fire which practically wiped out all the business part of the town, are, says Stone, partly constructed of these granite blocks hewn by nature.

)< XX





INDIAN Engineering relates how the authorities of a certain eastern state imported an expensive road roller, without having taken the precaution to see that the weight of the machine was proportioned to the strength of the high way bridges over which it would be required to pass. The working weight of the roller proved to 15 tons, and it turned out, says our contemporary, to he a veritable Invecta," for its unsuitability for the numerous bridges and culverts intersecting the main roads, was soon discovered in a manner better imagined than described. The sad alternative is to either take the roller to pieces at every bridge or culvert, or to dismantle the latter and rebuild them to suit the former.



xxx



WHEN the builders on the island of Crete are in want of stone, they go to the peasants, who excavate half a meter below the level and help themselves to ready-made material from the walls of the ancient cities. The peasants and the sale of this second-hand material more profitable than the cultivation of the land. The stones are sold to those who are building houses in the villages near the ancient city and also exported to the other villages of the Massara plain and to the neighboring provinces. The Turkish government, so zealous in preventing the work of explorers who come to carry on scientific work or excavations, pays no attention whatever to the work of destruction daily going on under its eyes. In fact, when it has public constructions to erect, it goes so far as to procure its material by the very same system, thus often tearing down important monuments, which disappear without leaving a trace of their former existence.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

STORE AT BERL IN, ONT. r. —W . A. LANG TON ARCHI TECT.



RESI DENCE FOR MR. CAMERON, FORT WILLIAM, ONT.



SIMPSON & ELLIS, ARCH ITECTS.



The building is frame on a stone foundation, the outside being clapboarded and the interior finished in quartered oak. It is designed in the Colonial style.



CLUB	HOUSE OF THE TRITON FISH AND GAME CLUB, LAC A LA CROIX, QUE. HARRY ST AVELEY, ARCHITECT.



The club house, which is situated on the shores of Lac a la Croix, about one hundred miles from Quebec, is built of wood, clapboarded, the gables in rough cast, using large pebbles taken from the beach some of them quite bright in color. The building contains 30 bedrooms, besides club lounging room, dining room, photo room, writing room, guides' dining room, etc., etc. Cost about $7,000.



DRILL HALL, QUE. E. E. TACHE, ARCHITECT.



The Quebec drill hall, erected on Grande Allee, presents thereon a facade of 345 feet in extent, the main building measuring 265 feet and the two pavilions flanking the same 40 feet. It is designed in the early French Renaissance style, constructed in front of Beauport rock face masonry ; the plinth base of Terrebone cut stone the cornices, moulded string courses, door and window dressings, etc., of Dechambault cut stone the back and side exterior walls and inside divisions of Canadian brick.

The drill hall itself measures inside 260 by 90 feet. A continuous gallery supported by wrought iron brackets extends around the whole room. Staircases in the turrets and on each side of the rear entrance give access to this gallery, which also communicates with the second flat of each of the pavilions.

The armories, which occupy the rear and sides of the building, open on the main hall.

This edifice was erected by the Department of Public Works, Ottawa, from plans prepared by E. E. Tache, Assistant Commissioner of Crown Lands, P. Q., under his supervision and that of W. J. Peters, Clerk of Works, and was built by Costelow & Lortie, contractors.

The original contract price thereof was 862,000, and its actual cost $66,722, of which $15 5,000 was defrayed by the local government and $15,000 by the city corporation—the building being also designed to accommodate provincial exhibitions when necessary. The operations of construction began in 1884 and were closed in 1887.

The complete project comprises also an outer castellated wall, extending from the pavilions So feet on each side, returning hack 235 feet, and in the rear having a total front development of 505 feet. The space thus enclosed is intended to serve as parade grounds, and contains (resting back on the outer walls) open sheds for field guns, artillery trains, etc., and intended as well for exhibiting purposes. This part of the project has not yet been realized.



The Prince of Wales has approved of Mr. Lutyens to design the English pavilion for the coming Paris exhibition. The pavilion is to be in the style of an old English manor house. One wing of the building will be particularly ornate in furniture and fittings, for the prince has signified his intention of residing there while in Paris.

