<doctype type="text">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS.

THE eighth annual convention of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was opened, pursuant to announcement, in the rooms of the Association, New York Life Building, Montreal, at 10 o'clock, a.m., on Thursday, the 3rd inst. The President, Mr. J. F. Peachy, of Quebec, presided.

Amongst those present were Messrs. J. S.

Archibald, H. L. Auclair, C. Baillarge, A. Blouin,

D.	R. Brown, C. Brodeur, J. P. Barner, S. H.

Capper, J. A. Chausse, A. J. Cooke, W. E. Doran,

J.	E. Duquette, J. A. Deschamp, H. R. Falbord, S. A.

Finley, C. E. Fournier, P. A. Gamelin, J. A. Godin, A.

C.	Hutchison, M. Hebbronner, J. E. Huot, J. C. A.

Heriot, J. A. Karch, A. H. Lapierre, S. Lesage, P. A.

Lefort, J. E. Larochelle, J. L. Lafrenier, J. H. Lamoureux, L. Lemieux, Ed. Maxwell, C. Latond, G. A.

Monette, XV. S. Maxwell, J. H. McDuff, J. A. Morin,

J.	Nelson, D. Ouellet, J. Perrault, M. Perrault, J. F.

Peachy, A. Raza, H. Stavely, A. M. Sigouin, C. J.

Saxe, J. S. Smith, A. Sincennes, A. T. Taylor, J. E.

Tanguay, J. 0. Turgeon, J. Venne, A. Venne, G. W.

Woods, R. Findlay.

After the reading of the names of the qualified members, the Secretary proceeded to read the minutes of the last annual meeting.

Proposed by Mr. J. A. Chausse, seconded by Prof.

S.	H. Capper, that the minutes be approved. Carried. The Treasurer then gave in his report, approved by

the Auditors, Messrs. W. E. Doran and M. Perrault, as follows

TREASURER'S REPORT.



Receipts from October 5th, 1897, to October 5th, 1898.

	Balance from 1897	$ 110.95

Subscriptions (annual) and examination fees ... 1270.00

	Registration fees	2050.00

	Rents	212.50

	Total	$3643.45



We, the undersigned Auditors, have examined the books and vouchers, and find the above statement correct.

		W.	E. DORAN.

	October 19th, 1898.	M.	PERRAULT.



Disbursements from October 5th, 1897, to October 5th, 1898:

	Salary account	356.50

	Rent paid New York Life Association Co	200.00

Printing, typewriting, stationary and advertising. 129.09

	Architectural Journals	16.00

	Telephone (2 years)	30.00

	Sundries	43.58

	Civic taxes	13.58

	Examination fees	45.00

	Refund of subscriptions to Quebec members	105.00

	Expenses of amending charter	630.58

	$1,569.33

	Receipts	$3,643.45

	Expenditure	1,569.33

	Balance on hand	$2,074.12



The report of the Council was then presented

REPORT OF COUNCIL FOR 1898.



Your Council beg to present the eighth annual report of the work of the Association.

In the last annual report reference was made to the depression in the building trades, and hopes were expressed that soon there would be a more satisfactory condition of things. This hope has only been partially realized. Although trade has improved it still leaves much to be desired, and we have still to echo the hope that the coming year may be a busy and profitable one for the profession.

In one respect, however, this has been the most eventful year since the incorporation of our Association. We have at last obtained what we desired as much for the welfare of the community as our own, but which we failed to obtain at the inception of

our Association, namely, the right to prohibit unauthorized and unqualified persons from calling themselves architects.

Your Council was authorized by you at the last annual meeting held in Quebec to take steps to secure this measure together with other amendments, the time being considered by many as opportune, and the result has justified this conclusion.



Your Council lost no time in taking this matter up and it absorbed most of the time devoted to the regular and many special meetings, as will be seen by the following resume:



September 30th, 1897. -- Resolution of the general assembly authorizing the Council to study the amendments desired as expressed in the report from Quebec members and to report to a general meeting.

October 5th, 1897.—Regular meeting of Council where a special meeting of the committee for and at the general assembly and Council was called for October the 7th.

October 7th, 1897.—The special committee took legal advice as to the possibilities of success and considered ways and means.

October 27th, 1897.—The special committee reported favorably and presented a draft of the procedure to follow as prepared by the lawyer. A special guarantee fund was started to meet the necessary expenditures.

November 3rd, 1897. —General meeting was held conformably to the resolution passed at the annual meeting. A draft of the proposed amendments was approved by the meeting. Upon the advice of the lawyer the official notices were immediately issued in the Official Gazette of Quebec.

November 9th, December 7th, 1897.——Routine work pertaining to the amendments.

January 4th, 1898.—The Council was informed that our lawyer with the committee in Quebec were actively engaged with the representatives in connection with the bill, also that they had been compelled owing to some opposition to admit as architects students having regularly served in an architect's office during four years.



February 8th, 1898.—The bill as assented to by the Lieutenant-Governor was received from the legal adviser of the Association, Hen. Sen. R. Dandurand.



February 15th, 1898.—Our lawyer was consulted as to the best course to follow to carry these amendments contained in this bill into effect.

February 21st, 1898.—A general meeting of the Association was held in conformity with the advice of our lawyer, arid elections of a secretary and a treasurer separately were carried out. The amendments to the charter were read and explained arid received the approval of the meeting. The notice to be issued in the Official Gazette, as prepared by our lawyer, was also read to the meeting.

March 1st, 1898.—The Council drew up the formula of registration and ordered them to be printed.



April 19th, 1898.—The first applications were considered, and from this date the sittings of the Council have been largely occupied by their consideration.

As actually constituted, the Association numbers one hundred and thirty-eight old and new members included.

The profession is now closed to unqualified practitioners, and only three alternatives are left to outsiders who wish to qualify themselves to practice.

1st. Old members having allowed themselves to be disqualified may re-enter by paying their arrears, subject to the action of the council.



2nd. Members of a well-known sister society who come to settle and practice regularly in the province, by presenting their credentials.



3rd. Those who shall pass the examination prescribed by the charter and by-laws. The arduous task of the material organization is now nearly completed, and the Association can congratulate itself on having secured an authority much coveted by many similar and more influential associations than ours. Not only the interests of the profession, but more especially those of the public, are now protected against incompetent and doubtful practice. The time has now come to put into practice the ideal formulated in the constitution, and aiming to foster the dignity and integrity of the profession, to encourage a better companionship and mutual respect between architects, and last, but not least, to promote the progress of the art, without which all the rest will be useless.

In view of the above mentioned action, the scheme for a Dominion Institute of Architects has for the present been abandoned.

The Council has with great regret to chronicle the decease of our confrere, Mr. Ovide Mailloux, who was one of the original

