<doctype type="text">

<article title="Electricity in Modern Buildings" author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



ELECTRICITY IN MODERN BUILDINGS.

IN the construction of a certain class of building a steel framework, filled in with stone or other material, is being very largely used, and as electricity is rapidly becoming the means of distributing light and power, and to some extent, even heat, throughout the halls, corridors, offices, etc., of any building which proposes to offer all the best modern conveniences, it may be worth while to consider whether there will take place any interaction between the steel framework, considered as a conducting network of comparatively low resistance, and the electrical circuits which distribute the lighting and power currents. It is, of course, evident that such a steel framework will offer a path of comparatively low resistance to any current that may be set up in it, and it is the purpose of this article to formulate those conditions which will tend to the setting up of such currents, and their physical effect on the building materials.



Regarded as a conducting network, currents may be set up in the steel framework by either induction or by direct contact (leakage being included as a contact). The diagram shows in section an electric light wire "a" through which a current is flow-

































ing, and a conductor "b" of some kind of conducting material— "a and "b" being fairly close to each other, and more or less parallel during their length. At the instant of starting a current through "a" the whole space around "a" becomes an inductive field of rapidly increasing intensity, which will include the space surrounding ''b," and this is a necessary and sufficient condition for the setting up of a current in '' b, so that it will appear that actual contact is not required in order that a current may flow in



b ''. Similarly at the moment of stopping the current flowing through '' a, " a current will be induced in '' b ". If the current in ''a" be stopped and started, or reversed in direction rapidly, or even made to wax and wane- that is, to merely fluctuate without actual reversal—currents will under all these conditions be induced in "b," and their strength will be proportional to The conductivity of" b" the strength of current in "a" the rate of variation or fluctuation of the inductive field the length of the conductor '' b " that is in thc inductive field—their distance apart. lt. is therefore conceivable that very considerable currents can be made to flow in "b" without any contact with "a." They will probably be currents of low voltage, but still capable of effecting considerable electrolytic damage. It is sufficiently obvious that contact between a conductor carrying current and a steel beam, whether it be direct mechanical contact or indirectly through a leak caused by damp, etc., will result similarly.



Suppose we have a steel frame building with a complete system of electrical distribution—for lighting, elevators, fans, heaters, etc—it can easily be imagined that there may be set tip inductively a most complicated and interlinked system of active currents in the various uprights and horizontals forming the frame, and that they may be of quite considerable magnitude. This can occur not only in the steel frame itself, but in the piping for the heating or auxiliary gas lighting services. With a direct current distribution for lighting only, these induced currents would probably have a negligible effect, as it is only at the moment of make and break that inductive action would take place, although even in such a case a direct current, though continuous in direction, will have sufficient very small fluctuations in Strength (owing to the fact that the number of coils in the armature is not infinity) to keep up a continual alternating current in all the pipes and beams parallel to it and within the sphere of its influence. But in very many cases current is distributed for elevator and motor purposes, and here we find not only the small fluctuations due (as mentioned above) to the armature construction, but also that fluctuation due to the varying demands of the elevator and motor services, which, while not so rapid, will have an enormously greater amplitude, and so a much greater inductive influence. There arc very many buildings, moreover, that employ an alternating current for lighting, the influence of which requires no pointing out. So that it

appears that there will always be some circuits induced in such buildings, whether in the frame or the piping.



An electric current flowing in a circuit must produce one effect arid may produce more. It must heat the conductor and may decompose it. The heat generated in the conductor depends on the amount of current flowing, and on the resistance offered to it, and in a circuit of varying conductivity the greatest heat will be generated at the point of greatest resistance. In a circuit composed of beams the points of junction will he those of highest resistance, and will therefore be the healing points. Just how far the expansion and contraction due to heating and cooling may be expected to work with the natural vibration to loosen the joints, is a matter- that affords a very interesting field for discussion and experiment. But if it be granted that it does have the effect of so loosening them, then such loosening will tend to promote the decomposing action of t lie current flowing, with the assistance of whatever slight amount of moisture has condensed out of the atmosphere (or elsewhere) on the opposing faces of the loose joint. This latter action of the current is probably of greater importance than the former, as its tendency is to loosen by decomposition, and just where the utmost rigidity and permanence is desired, viz., in the foundations. The electrolytic injury would take place just at the base of a steel pillar, where the current was able to escape to earth, and thc effect would be to eat away the metal, as the iron of water pipes is eaten away by the passage of railway currents. The electrolysis is of gas and water pipes might be even a serious matter unless precautions be taken to minimize its effect.



While it seems impossible to so arrange as that there shall be 110 induced currents in framework or piping, still it is possible, and in most. cases would be well, to adopt such precautions as will confine them within such small limits that they may become negligible. It would be well to thoroughly ground the entire steel structure by copper wires of large section leading from various points to the earth, and making good contact there with permanently moist soil. It would also be advisable in laying out circuits to so arrange that all those wires carrying the main current shall be as far removed as possible from any part of the structure, and as close together as insurance regulations will permit. If it be necessary for the main wires to be close to a pipe or pillar, arid to run parallel to it, then they should bc placed one on each side of it so as to neutralize each other's effect.







PERSONAL.

Mr. F. F. Foley, of the Stratford Bridge & Iron Co., died at Stratford, Ont., 011 January 24th.



Mr. George W. Gouinlock, architect, has recently removed his offices from King street east to the seventh floor of the Temple building, corner Bay and Richmond streets, Toronto.



We very much regret to announce the death since our last issue of Mr. D. G. Baxter, of Stratford, Out. For at least two years previous to his death Mr. Baxter was in such a precarious condition of health as to be unable to devote the required attention to his profession. His death was due to consumption. The late Mr. Baxter was one of the best known amid most talented of the younger architects of the province. He was the first architectural student to pass the examinations of thc Ontario Association of Architects, and was ever ready to declare the advantage derived from the necessary course of study.







THE "DUPLEX BATH.

IN the advertisement of the Toronto Steel Clad I3ath Company appearing on back cover of our January number, the list price of the "Duplex" bath should have been given as Si7, instead of $18. This price includes ash or cherry finish rim and combined overflow amid waste. The Duplex is a sheet metal bath, lined with sheet copper, which is deposited directly on to the steel by the electrolytic process, by which met hod the electric current acts as a refining agent, this being a guarantee of purity.







A business man of Portland, Oregon, is said to have invented a paper house that should find a ready market for camping expeditions, etc., as it weighs complete but 400 lbs., and is 9 by 2 feet in size. The material of which it is built is spruce, covered by heavy building paper. It goes together in sections or panels, each being tongued and grooved so that, when put lip, each part fits so closely as to be absolutely air-tight and rain-proof.

