<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



are accepted by the council to furnish at the request of the council full plans and specifications and detail drawings necessary to enable the contractor to erect and complete the building, which are to become the property of the council on their paying the architect two per cent. of the $32,000, less whatever sum he may be awarded by the council as a prize for his plan, and every architect submitting plans shall be considered as submitting the same subject to this condition, and in case of his failure to furnish such

plans, specifications and detail drawings within one month from demand made by council he shall forfeit any prize to which be may have become entitled for his plan.

March 18th, 1898.

RICHARD SANDERS, ESQ.,

Chairman City I Hall Committee, St. Thomas, Out.



DEAR SIR,—I am instructed by the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects to send you the enclosed Conditions of Competition which have been adopted by the Association as a standard of fair conditions, and to respectfully advise you that the conditions of competition for the St. Thomas new City Hall, which have recently been received, are not such as to induce the best class of architects to enter the competition.

The requirement of complete specifications for each trade implies also drawings so complete that the time front March 14th, when the conditions were received, to April 14th, when the drawings must be sent in, is not sufficient to allow for making the work required to be bona fide as intended by your committee.

There is no provision made for judgment of the plans by a person of professional training and experience, and without such provision there is no certainty that the best plan will be known to be the best.

There is no provision made for secrecy as to tile authorship of the plans, without which, even with the best intentions on the part of the promoters, there is no guarantee of a perfectly unbiased judgment of the merits of the plans.

The commission offered is not sufficient to make it worth while for an architect in good practice to do the work, even apart from the risks of a competition.

The Council of tire Association will be glad to give you any assistance necessary to make a competition which will be acceptable to the better portion of the profession, and have instructed me to offer you their services and assure you that the interests of the public and that of the profession are one in a matter of this kind.

Public buildings ought to be convenient and attractive, hut they can only be made so by putting their design into the hands of a good man. The same mass of materials becomes either a good building or a poor one according to the skill of the architect who

plans it. For this reason, good work is worth its price. But more than this, want of skill always means waste of money, arid to make your competition an interior competition, involving the choice of an inferior architect, means not only a loss in the quality of the building erected, but an actual outlay which the saving effected by reducing the commission paid is not likely to cover. So that you are likely in tile end to spend more money rather than less, to have certainly more trouble and, for it all, a worse building.

I remain, yours truly,



XV.	A. LANGTON, Registrar. March 19th, 1898.

W.	A. LANGTON, ESQ.,



Registrar 0. A. A., Toronto, Out.



DEAR SIR,—In answer to your favor of March 18th, re competition of city hall plans I beg to say that when the committee prepared the information to send to architects they did not know that your Association had any standard conditions of competition. I they had known that such was the case it is likely that they would have taken them into their serious consideration, but as a certain amount of the time has now elapsed, and as you say it is too short anyway, I do not see that anything can now be done to improve the matter.

There have been a large number of applications for the conditions, and as yet only two architects have raised any objections. As to the question of judgment of the plans that may be considered later on by tile committee, and probably the advice of your Association may be asked for.

Yours truly,

RICHARD SANDERS, Chairman of Committee.



March 22nd, 1898.

RICHARD SANDERS, ESQ.,

Chairman New City Hall Committee, St. Thomas, Out.



DEAR SIR,—In reply to your letter of March 19th, I regret that you find yourself unable to amend your conditions of competition.

It will give me pleasure to report to the Council of the Association tile good will shown in your letter and the suggestion that you may wish to ask their advice when it comes to the judgment of tile plans, but regret that I can only inform you that it will be impossible for the Council to take part in the affairs of a competition which is not acceptable according to tile standard fixed by

tile Association.	Yours truly,

	      W. A. LANGTON, Registrar.



The names of the following architects have recently been published in the daily press, as having submitted drawings in the competition N. R. Darrach, two sets;

J.	Z. Long & Son, three sets; E. T. MacDonald, New York ; A. W. Rush & Son, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Wilkinson & Stewart, Montreal ; Radins, Garrett & Cellar, Detroit ; Harry J. Powell, Stratford ; Thos. Kennedy & Son, Barrie; Robt. Thorn Brooks, Detroit; Geo. R. Harper, Toronto ; Geo. Craddock, London.

It is announced that the council have accepted the plan submitted by Mr. Darrach, and that the second prize has been awarded to Messrs. J. Z. Long & Son.



STRATFORD COMPETITION.



The conditions drawn up by a joint committee, called the Market and Police Citizens' Committee, consist in the first place of a specification of space to be occupied, cost, accommodation and material. Then follow these conditions under a separate heading called '' Terms of Competition."

Two sets of plans will be selected, one for time restoration of tile 01(1 building amid one for the erection of a new building.



If tile architect furnishing such a plan and the Market Committee call agree 1113011 the terms upon which the architect's work is to be done, he will be engaged to furnish along with such plans tile necessary specifications and such details as will enable the different classes of tradesmen intelligently to tender for time work to be done.

In the event of failing to agree upon terms, the committee may discard for that reason the plan selected and take the one next most suitable or advertise for another.

Upon agreement between the committee and ally such competitor, the plans and specifications aforesaid will be supplied and tenders got for the work, and plans with, tenders be submitted to time ratepayers for their choice between tile plan for restoration and that for new building at the tile of voting for time by—law authorizing the issue of debentures for building or restoration.

If either plan is adopted by the ratepayers, time architect whose plan is so adopted will be retained as architect for tile furnishing of further plans amid detail drawings and superintendence of the work upon tile terms agreed upon as aforesaid.

In such event, time architect whose plans have been so selected but rejected by tile ratepayers will receive the sum of $200. In the event of both plans being rejected by the ratepayers by the defeat of the by-law, the sum of $300 will be equally divided between the architect whose plans have been submitted for the approval of the ratepayers aforesaid. (There is evidently here a typewriter's error.)



The following is the correspondence between the Registrar of the Ontario Association of Architects and the chairman of the Market and Police Committee

May 5th, 1898.

GEORGE F. INGRAM, ESQ.,



Chairman Market and Police Committee, Stratford, Ont.



DEAR SIR,—I have been requested by a member of tile Association to send you the enclosed Conditions of Competition, which have been adopted by this Association as a standard of such conditions, and to request that your read them with a view of amending, if it is not too late, your conditions of competition, so that in essentials they may not fall below this standard.



I trust you may not consider my intervention an impertinence, as I have no doubt you desire to make a competition which will secure a good design for your building, and in writing to you I represent a number of architects of the best standing, who would be glad to contribute plans if time competition can- be made such as to ensure the selection of the best plan-n and fair treatment of tile architect.

The conditions I enclose were drawn up so as to cover the most important competitions, arid there are a number of clauses devoted to making a fair judgment easy by enforcing uniformity in the

