<doctype type="text">

<article title="Suggesttions on House Planning." author="Helliwell, Grant">

formed a pleasant and useful room, fairly well lighted, partly from the stair well and partly by borrowed light from the adjoining rooms. But it was in the artistic effect gained that the great attraction lay, the new arrangement being capable of an exceedingly beautiful treatment.



In New York and other large cities, where, on account of the high value of laud, the attached house almost universally prevails, this type of plan, modified, of course, by circumstances, is still commonly adopted. (See Fig. [2.)



An excellent plan is that shown in Fig. 3 of a modern house by McKim, Mead & White, of New York. The entrance is on the

	FIG. 12.	FIG. 13.



floor below that shown, being but a step above the ground, through a vestibule into a large hall occupying the whole front portion of the house. In this is the stair up to the principal floor (the one illustrated). There is a simplicity of treatment about both these plans that is most admirable and well worthy of study.



One difficulty common to the city house is in connection with the reception of guests. During an entertainment late comers are forced to rim the gauntlet of the assembled guests to the central stairway before they can reach the dressing rooms, or the same inconvenience arises in the case of a person calling unexpectedly, it may be on a matter of business. An ingenious attempt to over-























FIG. 14.





come this drawback is shown in Fig. 14, where we see a private stair is carried from the lobby off the vestibule for use under such circumstances.



In conclusion, there are many other points in connection with our subject both of interest and importance, but the paper is already too long, and the writer can only hope that the suggestions on house planning herein offered may not have been without some slight value to those who have heard them.





The Amherst Red Stone Quarry Co., of Amherst, Nova Scotia, start the season with excellent prospects. A large area has been cleared and the indications are that the stone improves steadily in quality as it extends westward. The company have put in a new boiler and have a steam drill at work. The latter is proving a great saver of labor; with it a hole can be made in five minutes that by the drill and hammer process would take three men two hours. The company, which at present employs 21 inert, have been invited to tender on sonic of the best buildings now in contemplation in the lower province cities, and have already been awarded a number of important contracts.





<article title="Test of Quick-Setting Cement." author="Smith Cecil B.">

TESTS OF QUICK-SETTING CEMENT.

ON this subject, Prof. Cecil B. Smith, of McGill University, writes to the Brickbuilder as follows

Because of the abuse which our quick-setting cements (the natural set of which may be in ten or twenty minutes) receive at the hand of careless or ignorant users by frequent retempering in order to use large batches of mortar extending over a period of several hours, the following tests were made

The proportionate reduction of strength would probably hold true for mortars as well as neat tests.

In the tests a large batch of mortar was mixed up and briquettes were molded from it. At the end of one hour the remaining mass had become appreciably stiffened and was retempered by adding sufficient water and by vigorous working. The same process was gone through each hour, but very soon the activity of the cement was so greatly killed that the setting would not take place for many hours, and very little extra mixing was required.

The "Quebec Natural," corresponding to such United States cements as ''Cumberland," "Round Top," etc., has an incipient set of about 30 min. and a full set of 2 to 3 degs. The "Peacock Portland " is a sound, well-burnt, but coarse English cement, having an incipient set of about 20 mm. and a full set of 1 to 2 digs.

QUEBEC NATURAL.

Neat Tensile Strength per square inch

	Time of Set	wk.	m mo.	to mos.

Original test	3 hrs.	157 lbs.	278 lbs.	520 lbs.

1ST	retempering	4	"	[23	"	210	"	485	"

2nd	"		"	80	"	t63		435

3rd	"	19	"	73	"	153	"	405

	"	t9	"	92		157		380

5th	"	19	"	72	"	172	a	295

6th		2t	" . . .		.	73	"	290	"

7th				.	. 



PEACOCK PORTLAND.

Neat Tensile Strength per square inch.

	Time of Set.	  wk.		mu.	2 mos.

Original test	2 hours.	407 lbs.	515 lbs.	596 lbs.

1st	retempering	5	202	34 t a	425 '

2nd	"	 4 "	[84	290	"	382	"

3rd	"	\'crv Slew.	t "	365	"	388	"

4th			. ..	165		308	"

5th	"	  "	2t3 "	347		383

6th	"		180 "	310	"	402

7tli	"		220 "	332	"	367	"



This table seems to point out one or two things rather clearly

1. That the first and second retempering do all the injury, the subsequent ones being merely the reworking of a mass which has not set.

2. That the strength of retempered cements is roughly one-half of those not thus treated.

3. That time does not "heal all wounds," as the strength at ten months with the natural cement, and two months with the Portland, has not recovered to any very appreciable extent. This last deduction does not agree with the student thesis paper on the subject published about two years ago in the Engineering News, which claimed a recovery of strength in course of, say, six months.

I trust that such a memorandum as this will bring out some discussion on the matter from men whose experiences on the subject will be of value to the profession.



A.	C. Hutchison, architect, Montreal, recently had tests made of the new Kingsley water tithe boilers in the Ottawa General Hospital. These tests are said to have given highly economical results, exceeding the makers guarantees by 10 This type of boiler was used in nearly all the recent Ottawa work, including the American Bank Note Co.'s works, and the C. Ross Co.'s building.

