<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences." author="">

	THE CANADIAN  ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



manner of making the drawings. This part of the conditions, which might in any case be modified according to the size of the building proposed, would in this case have to be dispensed with altogether, as some competitors may already have drawings under way.

The two conditions to which I wish to direct your attention, and which I think are essential if the best men are to he induced to take part in the competition, are that which requires expert judgment of the plans and that which provides for fair payment of I he successful competitor.

If I understand correctly the article entitled " Terms of Competition '' in your conditions, the plans in this competition a are to be judged by your committee. I do not know who else compose your committee, and know yourself only by name, so that I am sure you will accuse me of no disrespect in suggesting that there is no assurance in this arrangement that the best plan will be known to be the best.

I suppose I may assume that your committee is composed of practical business men, and as such, you are probably pretty well posted in the law as it applies to your affairs, far more so than you are with either the practice or the art of architecture; yet you would not think of taking any new and important step in business without consulting a solicitor about any legal question involved. Here, however, is an important step of another kind in which the same need is not recognized. Yet I think the position of the average business man with regard to judging the merits of a plan is fairly represented by a client of mine-—a successful man of affairs who had also had previous experience in building who, in employing me, showed me a plan which he had had made some time before, intending to build from it. "When I saw this " he said ''I thought this is just the very thing we want, but after looking over it ail winter I have come to the conclusion that it is not what we want at all."

In a competition of this kind, there is no time for the judges to supplement want of experience by lung continued study and the only way to ensure that the best plan will be known to be the best is to employ an expert to judge the plans.

I am, of course, speaking from the point of view of the architect, who, before spending time and money in producing a good plan, wants some assurance that his plan will be known to be a good plan ; but of course the interest of architects and of the municipality are one in this respect. You also want to have the best plan recognized and built and not to be in the position of finding out for the first time after the building is up that it is neither attractive nor convenient.

With reference to the second point of which I spoke, us essential to a competition acceptable to the best members of the profession, I do not think you will find any good architect willing to make

plans first and afterwards debate with a committee what his fee is to be, with the understanding that the amount he will consent to take as commission is to be made a factor in the judgment of his  a plans.

I am sure it is unnecessary to point out to you that it is riot good policy to cut down the remuneration for services below the point that a reputable architect will accept. The difference between the recognized commission and a reduced commission is a very small saving in an undertaking of this kind, but, if it keeps the better class of practitioners out of your competition it may be a source of serious expense, not only in the process of building, but afterwards in the form of an annual drain for running expenses, which would soon mount up to many times the saving in the architect's fee.

Yours truly,

W.	A. LANGTON, Reg. O.A.A.



STRATFORD, May 9th, 1898.



XV.	A. LANGTON, Esq., Toronto.



DEAR SIR,—--The City Hall Building Committee have considered your letter of the 5th inst., and do not feel free to make any changes in the conditions already agreed upon. We have already received from Toronto and other places applications for particulars, and are persuaded that there will be a large number of plans and specifications from reputable and experienced architects.

Yours, &c.,

G.	F. INGRAM, Chairman M. & P. Coin.



The Chairman of the Committee seems to he under the impression that every applicant for particulars relative to the competition will he a contributor of plans, hut it remains to he seen what '' reputable and experienced architects " will take part in the competition.

A REJOINDER.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:

SIR,—Mr. Langton's very tolerant letter states clearly his grounds for faith in the 0. A. A. and its programme. Mr. Langton believes (first) that the public can be best protected from building accidents by making compulsory a higher education for architects, and (second) that this higher education can be best secured by an enactment conferring on the Association powers of examination and proscription.

Still Mr. Langton admits the importance of municipal supervision and inspection of buildings, but considers this the small end of the affair.'' Mr. Langton considers t that in view of the fact that in 1895 the Building By—law Commit tee of the Association made certain recommendations to city and town councils in Ontario, the Association has done its duty in this direct ion, hut Mr. Langton nevertheless thinks that good might come of my writing to the daily papers.

Mr. Langton, THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and every one who has considered the matter, agree with me that the building accidents that have occurred in various parts of Ontario are but signs of tile general insecurity that results from methods of building that are now permitted.

Granting for the sake of argument that all the advantages that can be claimed by the most ardent backer of the Association's programme would follow its sanction by law, this higher education " of the architect, which Mr. Langton feels sure the proposed legislation would foster, could come—if it came at all—only after years of organized work.

Now, I submit that those dangers of which I have spoken, and the existence of which we all admit, demand the immediate application of rigid measures of inspection and regulation, measures that shall be prompt and positive in their action. To find precedent for this sort of legal restriction it is not necessary to g-o to Illinois or Quebec. Such control of building operations is sanctioned by almost universal custom. Cities far larger than any Canada can boast have long had their building departments, not all of which can be accounted failures. Toronto should have a Building Department worthy of the name. As Mr. Langton very truly says, this is the small end of the affair. It is tile handle end.

According to Mr. Langton the "elevation of the profession of architecture " is the large end. " Elevation of the profession us a somewhat vague term, but with it, in Mr. Langton's mind, the idea of an association that has power to bind and loose seems to be closely associated. Against the view that the currying out of the Association's programme must make for better architectural design, there is, I think, much to be said.

Many of the younger men now practising architecture in Ontario have had their best training in England or the United States. It is significant that amongst them the Association finds few supporters. To what is this to be attributed ? The reasons are no doubt various.

The Association believes that the profession is to be raised by an act of Parliament, or by use of the privileges to be conferred by that act. Some of m he younger men have seem architecture practiced on a high plane without legal bolstering. The Association stands for the old-fashioned apprenticeship idea; some of the younger men have seen in its place a more enlightened system. The Association has been seeking government authorization for its examinations, and this authorization being withheld, it has been threatening their abandonment ; some of the younger men have profited by the examinations of an architectural body that asks no government favors. The Association professes to believe that the safety of time public can be secured only by applying tests to the architect and placing those found wanting under certain disabilities ; some of the younger men have seen the building operations of a metropolis regulated successfully by means of tile inspection and revision of plans and specifications, and the public supervision of buildings. The Association stands for ''protection"



—protection to native talent protection of the public against the awful corrupting art of the United States architect ; some of the

younger men believe that Canadians can care for themselves in the talent market of the world. Or, if they can't, then so much the worse for them And some one or two of the younger men may even be heretical enough to think that a Toronto Board of Trade building here or there in Canada will not prove a very



positive injury to public taste, or a very ill example to time Canadian student. In short, some of the younger men believe that competition is not without its use in time '' elevation of the profession,'' if  that phrase is included the idea of the betterment of architectural design. Finally some of tile younger men feel that such legislation as the Association has been seeking cannot be justified on any broad economic principles that it breathes the



spirit of the trade guilds of more than a century ago, and that the time for that sort of thing is gone by.

Much respect as the personal qualities of mammy of the influential members of the 0. A. A. must command, I question if the young men in the profession can work tip much enthusiasm for what seems to them like "old-fogeyism" in the Association's programme.

Yours truly,	ARTHUR E. WELLS.





COMPETITION	FOR PLANS FOR ARTIZANS' DWELLINGS.

THE attention of Canadian architects is directed to the notice appearing in our advertisement pages of a competition for plans for artizans' dwellings, by the Massachusetts Mechanics' Association, Boston. A single prize of $500 is offered for the plan which shall best meet the requirements. We regret that at t lie time of going to press the conditions and other details of the competition had not reached us. We are therefore unable to do more than call attention to the advertisement.

