<doctype type="text">

<article title=" DANGER OF INTERCEPTING TRAPS." author="Hughes, J.W.">

DANGER OF INTERCEPTING TRAPS.*

BY J. W. HU GHES, Montreal.



AT the meeting of our association held last year, a paper from my pen was read, in which the fitting of the intercepting trap in private sewers was condemned, and reasons given for such condemnation. My study and observation during the time that has since elapsed have fully confirmed and strengthened the opinions then set forth, and I am indebted to an able paper by W. M. Watson, in a recent issue of the Canadian Engineer, for results of a series of experiments bearing upon this question, conducted in the city of Cologne, Germany.

The city fathers of that place, finding their by-laws, which were up-to-date and called for an elaborate system of back vents, intercepting traps, fresh air inlets and the usual accompaniments, had not given the expected results, appointed a committee to investigate, and associated with it Herr Maniewski, the leading architect, and Herr Unna, the famed sanitary engineer. These gentlemen went thoroughly into the question, erected complete apparatus with glass pipes for practical demonstration, investigated the condition of existing apparatus in daily use, and, in short, gave the matter that careful and painstaking attention so characteristic of the German. Their report has been published in detail in Nos. 4 and of the Gesundherts Ingenieur for 1898, and been republished in English papers.

I can only give brief extracts taken from W. M. Watson's paper bearing more particularly on the

question of the intercepting trap, although the results of the experiments bearing upon the question of back vents are of equal importance, and may be taken up at a future time. It was shown that when a main intercepting trap was used that it not only modified the speed and partly obstructed the flow of sewage, but it prevented any of the air carried down by the soil and other waste water pipes from discharging into the street sewer, where its aerating functions are so necessary to commence the purification of the sewage in the drains and assist in preventing sewer gases generating in the sewers. It was also shown that when the main intercepting trap is omitted there is a superior and selfcleansing flow of sewage, and that large volumes of air pass forward to the street sewer, creating a healthy atmosphere, and circulation of air down the soil pipe through which the fluid is passing and up other soil pipes that are at the time standing idle.

These experiments, especially those that show air is carried down with waste waters, and that the main trap is a dangerous obstruction, fully explain the reasons why those towns that do not use back air pipes, and that extend their soil pipes tram the crown of the drains to the highest point of the roof, and which make every rain water leader and waste water pipe to pass to the street sewer without any obstructing trap or sharp angle or interceptions of any kind, are almost free from odors in the houses and streets and free from diseases that can be traced to sewer gas poisoning, while, on the other hand, those cities which have adopted the principle of intercepting traps, back air ventilation pipes, with all their intricate complications, are often quite the reverse; and of disease, a great deal is found among the inhabitants who happen to live in the modern built houses, where the obstruction system has been installed. This is in spite of the fact that the same towns often spend



Paper read at the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, held at Ottawa.

large sums of money in flushing drains and artificially ventilating the street sewers, a thing which is never necessary if the sewers are laid down properly and the straight unobstructed system is adopted.

The city of Cologne has now had enough of the complicated system of plumbing and draining, and, in future, will avoid such expensive luxuries, and again allow their sewage water to leave inhabited premises with as much expedition as possible, and secure all the aeration it can through the journey to tile outfall, without making itself a nuisance to the public.

The Cologne investigation has bearing on sewage purification. It will be remembered, more than twenty years ago, Dr. Pasteur, of Paris, and Dr. Warrington, declared that sewage contained the necessary organisms for its own purification.



Dibdin, of London, England, has shown us the way to compel sewage to clean and purify itself. Adney, of Dublin, has proved that domestic sewage requires three times its own bulk in air, regularly and evenly supplied, and distributed to every particle and atom of the sewage to enable the friendly bacteria to destroy the poison, etc., the sewage contains. Lowlock, of Birmingham, has shown us a method of applying the atmospheric air to the sewage, and Reid, of Staffordshire, recommends that all sewage should be purified while fresh, before putrefaction sets in, or sewer gas begins to generate. The fathers of Cologne have shown us, by their experiments, that the sewage will split up with fine threads, arid spray and take up atmospheric air in larger quantities even than, Adney tells us, is needed, during the time it is following vertically down the waste pipes.

If all house rain water leaders and waste water pipes were made to form street sewer ventilators, and the water coming down each of the pipes will bring down four times its own bulk of air, which will go a long way towards providing all the air that is needed to do the necessary work of cleaning the sewage, and, in that case, the public sewer will be changed from a gas generating chamber to a receptacle for the aeration and purification of sewage and dirty filters.

While under obstructive plumbing by-laws, and private drain arrangement of interception traps, no aeration of the sewers can take place, therefore, putrefaction sets up, and the sewage gas is generated abundantly, which poisons the dwellings and the atmosphere of densely populated towns. The Cologne investigation has demonstrated that most sanitary appliances can, and ought to be, made of glass.

I have quoted so copiously from Mr. Watson's paper, as he has put the matter much better than I could, in confirmation of the objections I gave against the intercepting trap in last year's paper.



a brick fell from a carriers hod it knocked down a Spanish 1-lag displayed from a store front below. That must have been an American brick," said a passer-by. "Yis," said the hodearner above, but it was of Oirish descint. '—(Ex.)



The James Smart Mfg. Co., Brockville, Limited, have published their first catalogue of hot water heaters, which contains a de— script ion accompanied by numerous illustrations of their Perfection horizontal sectional hot water boilers.



The master plumbers of Halifax, Nova Scotia, had a most enjoyable picnic at Heffler's Grounds, Bedford Basin, on Sept. 1st. The important features of the occasion were the series of athletic sports and a bountiful luncheon. The prizes were presented to the winners of the various athletic events by Mr. Geoffrey Morrow.

