<doctype type="text">

<article title="Ontario Association of Architects." author="">

would like their Registrar to go round collecting fees in that way. The clause of the report might be added to the effect that if after a certain time the fees were not paid the member's name would be dropped.

Mr. Curry said the matter had been considered by the Council, and it had been found difficult to do anything. It was not desired to drive people out of the Association, and yet they did not pay their fees. lie thought for the time being they would have to be simply a nominal association. He would propose an amendment to the clause under discussion, which he thought would answer the purpose " The committee recommend to the Council that all members in arrears for more than three years shall be dropped from the list after notification by registered letter, but with the understanding that such member will be reinstated on the payment of all past fees."

Mr. Gordon seconded the amendment, remarking that it appeared to him to be the wisest course.

Mr. Burke also expressed himself as in favor of Mr. Curry's amendment.

Mr. Gregg stated that the committee willingly accepted the amendment, which was then declared carried.

An adjournment was then had for luncheon, which was served in the building.



AFTERNOON SESSION.



Proceedings were resumed at 2.30 p.m., when that part of the report of the committee dealing with " The Future Working of the Association," was taken up for discussion.

Mr. Gregg explained that the first clause under this head might be regarded merely as a preamble, it was merely giving credit to the Council for work done in the past under adverse circumstances, and expressing the opinion of the convention that they should not be discouraged but continue in their efforts. He moved the adoption of the clause.

Mr. Siddall, in seconding the motion, said that it was felt by the committee that while it was not desirable to abandon altogether the idea of securing the legislation to amend the charter of the Association, yet it was not necessary that object should be immediately pushed forward. By too much persistency in an indiscriminate manner the Association might make itself a nuisance, and it might be better to cease action in that direction for a period, until at some future time, under improved conditions it might be pushed to a successful conclusion.

The President suggested that as the clause was, as Mr. Gregg had said, merely a preamble, a separate motion was not necessary, but it might be taken in connection with the next clause, and the two passed under one motion.

Mr. Gregg assented to the proposition, and proceeded with the next clause of the report "Your committee would recommend that the word "ten" in clause No. 2 of the by-laws passed by the Association at the annual meeting be struck out, and the word "five" be substituted." He explained that this would make a member who had been five years in practice eligible to a seat on the Council.

Mr. Dick said he had been looking over the by-laws, and found there was no provision for amending them.

The Registrar, having been asked whether any amendment had hitherto been made to the by-laws, stated that in 1895, just before the election of officers, the President presented a recommendation from the Council that retiring members be not eligible for reelection for one year, and this recommendation was passed at the same meeting as a by-law.

Mr. Curry, while personally in favor of the proposed change felt it would be a mistake to alter a by-law at a meeting when notice had not been given to all members of the proposed amendment. lie thought the proper course was to give notice of motion now and let the matter go to the Council.

Mr. Gray explained that it was simply a recommendation to the Council, and the committee had not expected that the by-law would be changed at the present meeting.

The Registrar explained that it was not within the scope of the Council's functions to deal with this portion of the by-laws, which were passed by the Association in convention.

The President suggested that the clause be amended by adding "And that this recommendation stands as a notice of motion to be discussed at the next convention"

Mr. Gregg having accepted the amendment suggested by the President the clause was then adopted.

Mr. Gregg then proceeded with the last clause of the report "Your committee strongly recommend the united effort of the members of the Association to encourage and maintain by their counsel, advice and personal attendance, the local chapters inaugurated by the Association."

This clause was adopted without discussion, and on motion of Mr. Gregg, seconded by Mr. Gray, the report as a whole, as amended, was then received and adopted.

On motion of Mr. Wickson, seconded by Mr. Dick, a vote of thanks was then passed to the committee which prepared the report.

On motion by Mr. Gordon, seconded by Mr. Curry, the Committee on Building By-Laws was reappointed, the members being Messrs. Gordon, Burke, Pearson, Dick, Hall, Strickland and Wickson.

Mr. Gregg said that, referring to the Committee on Municipal Adornments, he observed that there was now a committee in Toronto for that purpose, and he would move that that committee of the Association be dropped.

The Registrar said he had been requested by the Advisory Board of the Toronto Guild of Civic Art to extend an invitation to any Toronto architect to become a member of that guild. The treasurer was Mr. James Bain, Public Librarian, and anyone who desired might become a member by sending his name to that gentleman, together with the sum of one dollar, the annual subscription fee. The Advisory Board of the Guild of Civic Art consisted of nine laymen and three architects, and had been accepted by the City Council of last year as an independent body that might be referred to in the appointment of experts, or to act with a committee of their own members in judging of competitive drawings and assisting in the decoration of the new City Hall. The guild was an absolutely independent body, and under its rules no member could receive in any form any emoluments for his services.

Papers were then read by Mr. Wickson on '' The Supporting Strength of Different Kinds of Soil; by Mr. Pearson on "The Supporting Strength of Stone Rubble and Brick Walls ; by Mr. Curry on " Deterioration as Affecting the Value of Buildings," and by Mr. Gordon on " Wooden Posts and Beams." Reports of these papers and of the discussions following will appear in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER later.

In concluding his paper Mr. Gordon moved the following resolution

Whereas there exists no satisfactory compilation of the results of tests of Canadian building materials. And whereas no exhaustive or even relatively complete system of tests has been made of Canadian woods used in building. And whereas the architectural and engineering professions arc thus left without accurate information about the materials they are constantly required to use. And whereas the safety of the public and economical use of our native building materials require that such tests should be made. And whereas the Ontario Legislature has emphasized the importance of this matter by providing the School of Practical Science with expensive and efficient testing apparatus. And whereas thc benefit of having such apparatus is largely nullified by lack of funds to select and prepare suitable specimens and carry on a complete system of tests.

The Ontario Association of Architects in annual convention assembled respectfully petitions the Ontario Government to place at the disposal of the School of Practical Science an adequate fund for the purpose of selecting and preparing specimens of Canadian building materials and making extended tests of the same for the purpose of preparing reliable data for use in the building trades. And the convention is of opinion that a sum of not less than $5,000 should be given to institute such tests.



It was pointed out that a motion to the same effect. was carried on the previous day, but the mover of the previous resolution (Mr. Langton) said that Mr. Gordon's resolution was more exhaustive, and he would second Mr. Gordon's motion as a substitute for his own, The motion was carried.

