<doctype type="text">

BY THE WAY.

DR. Manning had a strong sense of humor, and delighted in telling Irish stories, says the Westminster Gazette. One related to an Irish laborer, who was thus addressed by a passing Englishman " What's that you're building, Paddy?" '' Shure an it's a church, yer honner." '' Is it a Protestant church ?

No, yer honner." '' A Catholic church, then?

" Indade an' it is that same, yer honner." '' I'm very sorry to hear it, Pat." " So's the divil, yer honner."

xxx

THE legal mind has been taught to depend largely on precedents in deciding upon any given course of action. This legal characteristic found its way into the practice of a Winnipeg architect recently. The architect had designed a house for a lawyer and was submitting the same for approval, when his client made objection to the manner in which the roof was curved on a corner tower. He pointed out that there wasn't another house in town with a similar root, and without such a precedent he would not approve of this feature of the design. In deference to his wishes the architect was obliged to forego a feature on which he had felt disposed to pride himself, as being a departure from old and commonplace methods.

xxx

ARCHITECTS and householders in Hong Kong have two betes noir, viz., typhoons and white ants. To guard against the first of these many special forms of construction have to be resorted to, especially as regards roofs, the scantlings of the timbers employed being very heavy, and the covering, consisting of curved plain tiles with tile and mortar ridges, being laid double with a space between the layers. What are known as white ants constitute a most persistent scourge, and from their habit of eating away at the centre of a baulk of timber without revealing their presence on the surface, are a source of continual danger where wood beams are employed for constructional purposes.

	x	x x

A BRITISH Columbia correspondent requests me to sound a warning for the benefit of persons in Eastern Canada who may have gained the impression that employment at good wages is plentiful in that province. Lie says '' We have a great many unemployed, as hundreds are flocking in here from all parts of the world, and this (Vancouver) being only a small town they soon fill up any vacancies. We are trying to raise our wages from 25 to 30 cents per hour, hut I fear it is impossible, as we can get all the men we want at 25 cents. This morning before 9 o'clock we had 7 men asking for work, and when the boats get finished in about a month we shall have 300 more thrown on the market. There are several big jobs spoken of, but the owners are rather backward on account of the rise in lumber and the proposed rise in wages."

xxx

AMONG the odd trade advertisements displayed at the recent Stockholm exhibition, the Lilietolmens candle played a prominent part. The lower part, which was intended to represent an old Swedish candlestick, was in reality an enormous structure of bricks and mortar, in which was established a perfectly equipped candle factory, where employees worked six hours a day. The base of the candle-stick covered a space 40 feet square. The candle-stick itself was 47 feet high, while the candle -—a real stearine specimen was fully 50 feet

its diameter was 8'2 feet. The appearance of this extraordinary trade trophy was at once remarkable and imposing. The colossal candle stick was painted with an aluminum powder until it shone like well polished silver. At night too, an electric searchlight of 7,000 candle power cast its beams from the lofty summit of the wick over the whole of the exhibition grounds. The cost of the structure was about $10,000.





UNSAFE BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.

A CORRESPONDENT writing to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER from British Columbia anent the recent building disaster at London, Old., alleges the existence of an unsatisfactory condition of affairs in the city of Vancouver. He states "The Board of Works, composed of one alderman from each of the five wards, has not had a practical man upon it since Alderman Franklin quit in 1894, and plans of buildings submitted to the board are passed at once with the formulae, 'subject to the approval of the city engineer,' the consequence of which has been failure after failure. The Metropolitan Club building (corner Hastings and Homer streets), erected four or five years ago, has been recently repaired at a cost of over $6,ooo. In this case two stories and gable 50 feet wide, of brick work, were carried on three brick piers and four wooden posts 5½ inches face and 16 to 18 inches deep. The posts were from 25 to 27 feet high on the Hastings street front, taking in both ground and entresol floors, above which the brickwork begins, carried on wooden bressummers. As a matter of course, and in a very short time the bressummers began to sag and the posts to buckle. The architect then discovered that times were becoming dull in Vancouver and left for Australia, and Mr. Parr (now Parr & Fee, architects) was called in just in time to prevent a general collapse and the whole Hastings and part of the Homer street front from falling right into the street. Mr. Parr enclosed the wooden posts with cast iron on three sides, substituted rolled steel beams for the wooden bressummers, strapped and bolted the brick work together, etc., etc.

Another nearly similar case is that of the Inns of Court building (corner of Hastings and Hamilton streets) by the same architect, now at the antipodes. In this instance the same construction has been followed, only, the roof being a flat one, there is no gable, and consequently less weight to be borne by the woodwork, so that it will stand out a while longer. The projecting octagonal tower on the north-east corner, however, had to be shored up, while the stone corbels were being strapped and bolted back and the brickwork of the tower itself tied back with a steel wire rope. After this had been satisfactorily accomplished the shoring was removed, and a moulded and soldered covering of zinc painted to represent stone now conceals the real corbels below, with the straps, etc., etc.

A very nice question, it appears to me, would be, how far the city which passes these plans could be held liable for damage done in case of failure. It is certain that the way in which Vancouver has hitherto escaped is little short of miraculous, all things considered—only it may not continue so and if 'the safety of the people' be ' the highest law,' surely the man who does something to secure that end is deserving of some commendation. I might add a great deal more on a matter of so great importance, but think I have said enough for the present."

