<doctype type="text">

<article title="Bicycle storage house." author="">

BICYCLE STORAGE HOUSE.

WE reproduce from Engineering- News the accepted plans of a bicycle storage warehouse, submitted in a competition recently instituted by the Prussian '' Ingeneur und Architekten Verin." Those taking part in the competition were instructed to design a low building, occupying a minimum area and having a storage capacity for 200 bicycles ; these latter to be so stored that they could be put into place and removed again with the least confusion and loss of time on the part of the workmen. As seen by the drawings, two parallel floor strips a, end posts b, and two inclined struts c, keep each bicycle in place and these racks are So spaced as to take up the least room on the floor. The separate passageways, each with its own entrance door for wheelmen, permit access to the racks without confusion and separate exits at the opposite end of the building further facilitate this ease of movement. It will be noted that the entrances are provided with steps for the men with an incline at the side for the bicycles. The exits have a common platform with but one stairway. The plan calls for a two-storied structure, with 100 wheels on each floor. The difference in the floor arrangement of the racks is made to facilitate the location.





<article title="Air Insulation in Buildings." author="">

AIR INSULATION IN BUILDINGS.

WE are told that nothing keeps cold and heat out better than a layer of air ; hence the use of horizontal and vertical air passages and of hollow walls in our buildings. When Russner published an account of some experiments a year ago which contradicted this view, he found, says the ''Zeitschrift fur Architectur und Ingenieurwesen," very few supporters besides men like Astfalck and Nussbaurn, who had come to the same opinion from other considerations. Russner s experiments were not unobjectionable. He has now repeated his experiments, and he seems to have established his case. He fixed auxiliary walls more or less close to the outer walls of a room, heated the inside surface of the inner wall, and measured the temperature on the other face of that wall and of the air between the two walls. The partition walls were solid or hollow they were heated by placing heated iron boxes against them, and the temperature of the other surface was determined with the aid of little pockets containing mercury and thermometers, and further of thermopiles. It resulted that the heat penetrated walls one or half a stone in thickness, whether they were solid or hollow, almost equally quick, while the propagation through



































DESIGN FOR BICYCLE STORAGE HOUSE OF 200 WHEELS CAPACITY.



 of the entrances three stairways giving access to the upper floor and two stairways, placed between the others, descending to the basement floor. The successful competitor was Mr. Carl Bernhard, engineer arid architect.



<article title="Province of Quebec Association of Architects." author="">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS.

THE Quebec Architects' Act came into operation on the 1st inst., on which date the period allowed for registration under the act expired. It is understood that upwards of one hundred applications have been received from persons desiring to register and thereby be authorized to use the title '' Architect." The Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects have been busily engaged of late with these and other matters pertaining to the operation of the new law. Arrangements are also in progress for the annual meeting of the Association, the exact date for which has not yet been fixed but which is expected to take place towards the close of October. More detailed information with regard to these matters will be printed in our October number.



Mr. Wilmot Fitzsimons, of the Keith & Fitzsimons Company, Toronto, was recently married to Miss Clara Maud Deasse, of



Port Rowan,

hollow walls packed with sawdust and other insulating materials was much slower. The experiments continued for eleven hours. The propagation of the beat through the air was, of course, the work of radiation, and if the conditions were favorable for radiation, then insulation was not much good. Kieselguhr, slag wool, even peat and sawdust are much better than an air space, but the latter are too hygroscopis, and therefore unsuitable. Astfalck has rejected narrow air spaces because they favor sweating, which spoils the walls and woodwork, and makes them unhealthy. To keep your walls warm in winter, we may clothe them inside with cork, paper stuff, of kieselguhr, especially if the walls consist of hard burnt bricks or natural stones which are fair conductors of heat.





The medical officer of the Brantford, Ont., Board of Health in a recent report to the Board recommended that the owners of more than three hundred houses be required to connect same with the city sewerage system, sixty days being allowed for carrying out the order. The report was confirmed.



Shipments of plaster from the Cape Breton mines to Philadelphia have been on an extensive scale since the close of the Spanish-American war. This industry is an important one, and has been increasing for several years. The shipping facilities have been improved, and the company have now a locomotive in connection with the mine.

