<doctype type="text">

<article title="The City Garden." author="Langton, W.A.">



THE CITY GARDEN.

	By W. A.	LANGTON



IT is hard to over-estimate the importance to a building of the treatment of its site. In fact, the buildings that occur to one as impressing the minds of travellers with their idea have all some characteristic advantage of site. St. Mark's of Venice would always be a wonderful study if one had to go up a lane to see it; but how much of the impression it has made upon the world is due to its beautiful site? Every traveller in search of impressions prefers the English cathedrals to the French, though no one doubts that the French cathedrals have greater architectural perfection. The French cathedrals stand on the street like warehouses, and there is nothing about them to tune the mind to harmony with the purpose of the building but ''the reverend smell of incense" that sometimes greets one on entering but before entering an English cathedral, one turns out of the streets into the venerable Close, where, except at service time, when the place is full of the sound of bells, the church is surrounded by a solemn quiet. There is nothing in France so full of religious feeling as an English cathedral and its close. Indeed the actual buildings might, with such surroundings, be less noble than they are and still produce their effect. In the Inns of Court in London there is, except for the Temple Church and a hall or two which date from the time of the Templars, no architectural pretension whatever. What building has been done, since the district fell into the hands of the lawyers, is of an unrelieved plainness ; built in the dullest period of architecture, of the commonplace and monotonous London brick, now dingy with age. Yet the Temple Courts have a charm because they are courts ; they are a conception and have a place in literature. To turn out of Fleet street with its crowds I will not say noise lest it might be thought to compare with the roar of the trolley car, beside which the London hum is velvety, like the sound of a city heard in a dream - but Fleet street is bustling, and to turn out of it into these quiet courts is to receive an impression which architecture might increase but which is there without it. These are large illustrations of the importance of site. For this reason they first attract attention to the question, but, when the lesson is learned, one sees abundant illustrations of it on a smaller scale ; the village church in its churchyard is just as much a conception as the cathedral in its close, and the courtyard of an inn as the Inns of Court. The lesson appears to be that it is not unusual beauty in the site that emphasizes a building so much as harmonious character. When the site has great natural beauty it is necessary that the building should adorn it, and it is the character of the site that governs the character of the whole. Durham Cathedral, on the edge of a bluff overhanging a winding river, is beautiful and worthy of the situation ; but a castle would have become the situation as well or better. The ideal cathedral, as a cathedral, is not Durham but Salisbury, set down upon a plain, with no natural distinction of site from any other building in the same county, but made so distinct by the environment made for it by its builders that it is cited as the ideal English cathedral. This is the kind of site that we have to consider under the head of gardening. This is the everyday problem, to create an environment, and it is a problem for the architect to include in his plan.

Because it is said that God made the country and man made the town it is sometimes supposed that towns should try to look like the country ; but God made man too, and to the artist, the poet, to whom it is given to enjoy truth, pure country and pure town seem to be equally objects of delight. In villages, which are a sort of border-land between town and country, one admires a certain freedom that leaves it in doubt how much is due to nature and how much to man, but in towns there should be no such doubt we want to feel the hand of man everywhere, and, of the two great divisions under which gardening is classed and about which there has been much controversy, whether landscape gardening is right or formal gardening right, there is no question but that formal gardening has a place in towns. To many people the term

"formal gardening" brings only a vision of trees cut into the shape of cocked hats and teapots. It was formal gardeners who committed these follies but they are not an essential of the art. Landscape gardeners committed follies too. The judicious designer follows neither one nor the other exclusively but adopts the principle of each when it is suitable. In the parks of a city there is room for landscape gardening, but for the small amount of ground connected with private houses and for streets formality is the key. The picturesque is impossible for us because our work is new ; we want a treatment that will give us beautiful streets at once, and the picturesque which delights cannot be fabricated. In all beauty there is an appeal to the mind as well as the eye, and the deviations from the regular which constitute the picturesque must, in order to please, be recognized as accidental. To be recognized as done

accidentally on purpose" is to weary instead of please. The picturesqueness that pleases us in older countries is, besides the mere charm of novelty, either the result of a freedom from regulation which is out of the question now-a-days, or of the adaptation of ancient arrangements to modern uses, and the resulting character in either case appeals to the mind in a way that no purely modern work can. But the appeal of formality is direct. What meets the eye is arranged to please the eye, and the intention is part of the pleasure. There may be some controversy as to whether, when trees are full grown, the approach to a house is more pleasing if winding through an accidental arrangement of trees or by an over-arched avenue of trees with tree trunks closing up in perspective ; but there is no question that an approach winding among scattered saplings is nothing, while there is some effect of dignity in the formal arrangement of the youngest trees. It is the intention which is gratifying.

For a young country, then, formality is freedom. The hand of the designer, which must be apparent in modern work, can here appear freely. The mere effort, so long as it is properly directed, counts for something. But the proper direction is everything. The effort must be an effort to dignify some need which is recognizable. The adherents for formal gardening in England, when writing on the subject, occupy most of their space in quoting from ancient works on the subject and in referring to old examples still existing, and this not as illustrations of principles but as examples of what ought to be done now. The same mode of life in the man still goes on in England, substituting for ancient terms, such as the bowling green, modern terms such as the tennis lawn, so that no doubt these guides are reasonable ; but to us who live in cities the whole arrangement of these gardens for country mansions is foreign. We are more likely to get direct examples of what we want from an English cottage, or a not too-French French garden. But the essential thing is to regard no example as an example of anything but the principle, and of methods in handling details.

The leading idea is bound up with the word "garden" in its original sense rather than in that which we usually attach to it a place of trees and flowers or vegetables and fruit. The original form of the word is said to have been ''garth," an enclosure, still in use to describe the space enclosed by cloisters ; and the essence of the formal garden is the enclosure of a space about the house which is connected with the house rather than with what is beyond it, and partakes of the character of the house. For this reason, walls, gates, paving, steps and balustrades form as great a part of the consideration of gardening as do growing things.

A wall of some kind one might almost say is essential. This statement will stand for the present century. When the brotherhood of mankind, typified by the American elimination of boundaries, is accomplished, it may be necessary to modify it. At present we love one another as members of a grown-up family, who are better in separate apartments; and the American system serves chiefly to display as much as possible of one s own house and to make one's neighbor's lawn look as if it were our own which is being artful rather than artistic.

A mere curb will answer the purpose of marking

