<doctype type="text">

<article title="Master Plumbers of Canada." author="">

of Vancouver, B.C., forged the connecting link that makes our Association complete from the Atlantic to the Pacific oceans. While not extending our Association as fast as we anticipated, it is very encouraging to be able to report that steady progress is being made, which is well known to be the surest way of attaining solid and lasting construction. While expressing our hearty appreciation of the achievements of our President, there is necessity of having some Executive officer specially appointed for the purpose of organizing every master plumber and fitter in the whole Dominion under the banner of our Association. Although we can look back with pride on the results of the labors of our predecessors, much more remains to be done before we can rest on our oars and feel satisfied to hand over the reins of control to our successors with that feeling of contentment that our labors in the past have not been wasted, and that we can relinquish our active effort with that feeling of satisfaction that they have not put forth for selfish or harsh purposes, but for the improvement of our Association, and for the trade protection of the interests of all master plumbers and fitters throughout the Dominion.

We regret to have to say that some of our larger cities and towns still remain unorganized, but with the proper person entrusted with this work, we can freely say that there need not be a city, town or village unrepresented at our next convention, and we strongly urge that special consideration be given to the subject of organization this session.

Jos. WRIGHT, President.

W.	MANSELL, Secretary.



On motion of Mr. Denman, seconded by Mr. Penning-ton, the report was received.

Mr. William Smith, Dominion Vice-President, then presented his report, as follows

VICE-PRESIDENT S REPORT.



GENTLEMEN,—-One year ago you honored me by placing me in the position of Vice-President of the National Association, of which I am thankful and justly proud, and the time has now come for me to give an account of what I have done during my term of office. In all matters of importance I have consulted with the Executive Committee before acting, and in all cases I have found them prompt and painstaking and conservative in their advice, and as a member of your Executive I might state that your Executive acted upon a number of important matters during the year, which I leave to be dealt with in the committee's report. During the year I have had occasion many times to explain to the wholesale trade the full meaning of the resolutions, and in each case my explanation was satisfactorily received. I might also inform you that through the efforts of your Sanitary Committee of last year and the Association of this year, we have been successful in getting the Board of Health of the city of London to pass a Plumbing By-Law. I now call your special attention to the great evil that is caused by local associations forming themselves into what I call a combine to get better prices for their material and work. In our London Association it was formed against. my wishes, and it resulted in nearly wiping out our Association, and from what I can learn it has ruined thc St. Thomas Association. I am satisfied that the time has now arrived when we should stand together to get all that we are legally entitled to, and I hope the day is not far distant when we will enroll all the good-thinking plumbers of the Dominion under our banner. I am sorry to say that the increase of membership for the past year in the west has been very small, but the outlook for the coming year is encouraging. I now take pleasure in thanking the officers and members for the kindness shown me during my term of office, and in closing it is my earnest hope that the coming year will dawn brighter for the plumbing and heating fraternity.

WILLIAM SMITH, Dominion Vice-President.



On motion of Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Day, the report was received.

Mr. T. J. Carroll, Vice-President for Quebec, presented his report for the year as follows

REPORT OF VICE-PRESIDENT FOR QUEBEC.



GENTLEMEN,—A year ago I was honored by being chosen your Vice-President for the province of Quebec, and I respectfully beg to lay before you my report for the past year.

My relations with the master plumbers in my jurisdiction have been most cordial, and I desire first of all to return to them my sincere thanks for the aid they rendered me in the discharge of my (in some instances) unpleasant duties; to the Executive officers of the National Association I also owe much gratitude for their many kindnesses rendered me during the past year.

We had many occasions for anxiety during the past year for the future of our Association, owing principally to the open disregard of the solemn promises made to us by the wholesale trade, and to the unfortunate and demoralizing indifference of the members of our trade. As to the differences between the Master Plumbers and the supply houses, it is gratifying that they have been very satisfactorily arranged by the meeting between us held on February 2nd in Montreal. As to the indifference of our members, how much has been said on the subject and how little good has been effected. Would that we could instill into the minds of our members the benefit to ourselves and to the public at large that would arise from constant and devoted interest in the affairs of our Association.

I have endeavored during my term of office to enthuse the members of our trade into more active support of our local associations, both by conversations and much correspondence, and while the measure of success has not, been as great as I wished, I trust that the few results so far will have lasting effects, and

that during the corning year the efforts put forth by your officers will bear fruit an hundred fold. As to the members of the craft

our province who have not yet joined our ranks, I can assure you that it is tot because the members of the local association have not by all means endeavored to have them join us; bow-ever 'there are none so blind as those who wont see."

in the city of Montreal, it is indeed gratifying to the trade to see the City Council taking a new and very active interest in the heretofore sadly neglected Plumbing By-Laws. There now seems to be in the City Council aldermen who recognize the importance of a proper supervision and inspection of the plumbing of dwellings, shops, etc., and we have reason to hope that in the near future, owing to representations made by the Master Plumbers, we will have a Plumbing By-Law second to none on the continent.

We have often been reminded at former conventions of the absolute necessity of secrecy as to our actions at meetings. I cannot do more than recommend it at once. Let us be true to ourselves, and we will compel others to be just to us.

We should communicate one with the other as frequently as possible, because it creates a friendly feeling between us, and by the exchange of ideas we become more proficient in the discharge of the duties we owe to the public as Master Plumbers. Also the Executive officers should be prompt in replying to communications, so that our members will feel that their interests are being attended to.

In conclusion, I trust that you will pardon me for the many suggestions I have made, instead of giving you a complete resume of the work accomplished by us during the past year, but in my opinion it is better that the work we have accomplished should be given in detail by word of mouth rather than in writing, particularly when the work done is pretty well known to all present.

The whole respectfully submitted.

P.	J. CARROLL, Vice-President, Quebec.



On motion of Mr. Higman, seconded by Mr. Allison, the report was received.

Mr. John Barton, Vice-President, representing Nova Scotia, presented the following report of the work in Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island

NOVA SCOTIA AND PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.



It is with great pleasure that I now make my second annual report as vice-president of this association, representing Nova Scotia, which includes Prince Edward Island, and to state that all matters pertaining to the benefit of the craft in our section of the Dominion are satisfactory. Our trade relations still continue amicable with the wholesale houses, and are carried out satisfactorily to both plumbers and themselves. Any difference arising at any time is settled at once by myself arid our local associations. As you are aware that the arrangements made with us and the trades, manufacturers and supply houses, and which is signed by the majority of manufacturers and dealers from Halifax to Toronto, is such that they cannot sell to any but association members. This has been the rule since our local organization, before the national association was formed, and still works satisfactory to all parties, and, in my opinion, should be adopted by the national association.

I am only one in the matter, but the clay will come when this association of master plumbers of the Dominion of Canada will find that steps will have to be taken in this respect if we want to live.

Our membership is about the same as last year, the majority of whom are in good standing, but I must again mention that we have Nova Scotia plumbers on the list of New Brunswick. This should be changed, and those plumbers and members of New Brunswick association who live and do business in Nova Scotia should be transferred to our association. This requires the co-operation of our brother plumbers in New Brunswick, who, I have no doubt, will be only too willing to meet us in this matter.

I am sorry to state that we have not yet been able to get the western master plumbers with us (by this I mean western Nova Scotia), but have hopes that if our national association can co-operate with our brother associates in the United States, that this can be arranged satisfactorily. As long as the western plumbers can buy in the United States market, they will not be with us.

Speaking of our trade relations with our confreres in the United States, I can only reiterate what I stated in my report last year, namely, that this National Association of Master Plumbers should take some action whereby we could co-operate and have better trade relations with the association of the United States, both for our own protection as well as all the local associations of the Dominion.

On behalf of our association I would ask that some action he taken in the matter at the forthcoming convention.

In conclusion, gentlemen, I must express my regret at not being able to attend the convention, but hope in the near future to be able to be with you as in the past.

Respectfully submitted,

JOHN BARTON,



Vice-President representing Nova Scotia.



On motion of Mr. Forest, seconded by Mr. Lesperance, the report was received.

The report of the Sanitary Committee was next presented as follows

REPORT OF SANITARY (:OMMITTEE.



Your committee have pleasure in reporting that during the past year considerable progress has been made in the most necessary of all sanitary work, viz: the general education of the public. The pulpit, the press, the school, the platform, and last, but not least, the master plumber, and the master Plumber's associations, have all contributed their share, and slowly but surely the general public are awakening to the fact that it pays to be healthy. Once this view of the question becomes the general belief of the masses, there will be no difficulty in making, and what is of more importance, in the carrying out of sanitary laws and by.

