<doctype type="text">

<article title="Ontario Association of Architects." author="">



Mr. Gregg explained that no slight whatever was intended toward the Council, indeed he thought they had been careful to guard against even the appearance of such a thing.

Mr. Curry said there was not the slightest objection to the Council conferring with the gentlemen named in regard to this matter, if desired, but the request should be made in a regular and proper manner.

Mr. Gregg thought the committee would be quite willing to change the wording of the motion, so that it should read That the subject be referred to the Council with a request that the following committee be consulted."

Mr. Curry said that in that form he had not the slightest objection to the motion. He was not raising any objection except on purely technical grounds, as to the way in which the matter was put. He also wished to remind them that there would be three new members appointed to the Council at the present meeting, which afforded an opportunity to place on the Council some of the gentlemen with whom the committee recommended that the Council should act. He felt sure the Council was willing to receive suggestions from any member, their only desire was to carry out the will of the majority of the Convention.

Mr. Gregg then changed his motion to the following:

''Your committee beg to recommend that the suggestion of the President, re examinations, degrees, etc., be referred to the Council, and that the Council be respectfully requested to consult with the following members."

The motion in the amended form, being seconded by Mr. Gray, was then carried.

Mr. Gregg read the clause of the report dealing with finances, as follows ''This Committee beg to recommend to the Council that Clause No. in the by-laws, under the heading ' Salaries of Officers' be altered to read as follows 'The salary of the Registrar shall be fixed by the Council from time to time, and also recommend that the salary shall not exceed $100 for the duties of Registrar and Librarian. The Committee strongly recommend to the Council that the Registrar be instructed to make every effort to collect the membership fees outstanding, and that clause No. 4 on page 5 under the heading, ' Members Fees' be enforced."

Mr. Dick pointed out that while the report recommended the reduction of the salary of the Registrar it made no provision for lessening his duties, but, on the other hand, rather added to them because they urged that no relaxation be made in the efforts of the Council to procure legislation, and also recommend further effort in getting in the outstanding fees, which, of course, meant an increase of correspondence, etc., for the Registrar. He could only say if there was any member of the Association who, for the sum of $100 per year, was willing to undertake duties hitherto devolved upon Mr. Langton as Registrar, that member would have to be prepared to make very great sacrifices.

Mr. Curry agreed that there ought to be no cutting down of the Registrar's remuneration without a corresponding reduction in the volume of his work, which, in connection with the efforts to secure legislation had been tremendous.

Mr. Wickson thought it was quite likely the work of the Registrar for the coming year would be comparatively light, and as the Council would be fully informed of the nature of the duties performed by him he thought it would be well to leave the matter in their hands that the salary of the Registrar be fixed by the Council.

Mr. Kennedy said he felt sure the efforts of Mr. Langton had been very highly appreciated by those who, like himself, lived in places outside of Toronto, and he deprecated the idea of any reduction being made in his salary, at all events for the present year.

Mr. Baker explained that the members of the committee recognized as fully as anyone the value of the past services of the Registrar, and the sum of $100 had only been inserted in the report after much deliberation on the part of the committee. The intention had been to place the members on their honor to make an effort to extricate the Association from the position in which it was, and the committee had thought there would not

be wanting members who would be willing- for a year or two to sacrifice their time in carrying on the duties of the Registrar. With practically no examinations and a small membership they would for a time be not very heavy.

Mr. Gregg said that in order to save time and simplify the matter the committee would strike out the recommendation as to the amount of the Registrar's salary, and leave it as follows: "That the salary of the Registrar shall be fixed by the Council from time to time." That would make the three clauses in the bylaws in regard to salaries of officers all read alike.

The President thought that would have to be put in the form of a notice of motion.

Mr. Gray pointed out that the clause in question was only a recommendation to the Council to consider the matter of salary.

Mr. Curry said it was not within the power of the Council to change the clause in the by-laws referred to.

The President thought it could be done in the way proposed, as a recommendation to the Council. The Council could report at the next meeting and take a vote of the convention.

Mr. Burke said that part of the difficulty could be eliminated. That was with the library. He felt sure there were a dozen members in Toronto who would undertake the labor incident to the small number of lendings of books and the care of the library. He felt sure the Council would loyally endeavor to carry into effect the wishes of the convention. He had no doubt Mr. Langton himself would be willing to continue the duties of librarian gratuitously. That would obviate the difficulty at least to the extent of $100.

Mr. Curry said if the futile efforts at securing legislation were abandoned, which were the source of so much labor for the Registrar, in the way of preparing reports and dancing attendance at the Parliament Buildings, the salary might be reduced, but not otherwise.

The clause as amended was then carried, unanimously.

Mr. Gregg then read the next clause "The committee strongly recommend to the Council that the Registrar be instructed to make every effort to collect the membership fees outstanding, and that clause No. 4 on page 5 of the by-laws, under the heading 'Members fees,' be enforced."

Mr. Wickson called attention to the fact that if the proposed action were taken at least two thirds of the members would be stricken from the roll. Although it might be advisable to have a temporary cessation of the attempts to procure amended legislation, it did not follow that the effort was to be finally abandoned, and in any future efforts, if the proposal of the committee was adopted, there would be a very small membership and a by no means unanimous spirit in the profession to support it.

Mr. Gregg pointed out that the recommendation did not call for immediate action, but only that after every effort to collect the outstanding fees had been made clause 4 of the by-law on members fees should be enforced. The Council might give any length of time they thought proper.

Mr. Dick thought that clause in the report ought to be made more specific. If the Registrar had repeatedly written to the delinquents and his letters had been unanswered, what further efforts were proposed? Then they ought carefully to consider what would be the effect of the proposed action. There were now 132 members ; if they dropped the 100 and retained the 32 what would be the position of the Association?

Mr. Siddall said that in most cases the notices sent out by the Registrar were laid aside and lost sight of, though members were willing and meant to pay. He thought if it could in some way be impressed upon members that if these notices were not attended to they would be dropped from the Association, many of them would pay up. He knew that in his own case that was the position, and he had no doubt there were many others the same. He thought in some cases a personal application would be successful.

The President said he did not think the Association

