<doctype type="text">

<article title="Proceedings of the Tenth Convention" author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



ing capacity of an 8 1/2 inch porous terra cotta wall, which was eventually taken to the courts and there decided. The judgment I think from actual facts might not have resulted the same. We in this province are in much the same dilemma for the want of a standard test of these materials. It might be wise for this convention to consider the advisability of asking the government to make an official test of our Canadian materials—stone, timber, cements, &c. Such tests could be conducted by the School of Practical Science and a co-operating committee of this Association. One of lie best works done by this Association was the publication, a few years ago, of tests of Canadian building stones, the only trouble being that they did not go far enough.



The Treasurer, Mr. Edmund Burke, then read his report of the finances of the Association for the year, which, on motion by Mr. Siddall, seconded by Mr. Gregg, was received and adopted.



THE TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS.

	1897.	Dr.

Jan. t.	To balance from 1896	$1,276 43

Dec. 31.	Members' annual fees	112 00

	Members' registration fees	15 00

	Students' registration fees	17 00

	Students' examination tees	5 00

	Sale of examination papers            

	Library fines	20

	Interest on Treasurers' bank account	38 90

	$1,464 78

	1897.	Cr.

Dec. 31.	By XX'.	A. Langton, salary for the year	$300	00

	W.	A. Langton, general disbursements.. 15 

            Printing reports, circulars, etc			52	81

	C.	H. Mortimer, subscription for CANA-

             DIAN ARCHITECT for 1897, sent to three

             British and one American Architectural

             Association			9	50

           C.		H. Mortimer, reporting Convention. . 12	50

            Harry Webb, Convention lunch			14	00

            Caretaker School Practical Science, re

              Convention			5	00

            Refund, one examination fee			I	00

            Books added to Library			4	00

            Jos. W. Power, expenses in connection

              with Legislation and Council meetings. 29 

	Total disbursements	$ 443 no

	Balance on hand	1,021 78

	$1,464 78



We have examined the books, vouchers, etc., of the Association, and certify that the above is a correct statement thereof.

Signed)

HENRY LANGLEY Auditors

	XX'M. R. GREGG	) -



The Treasurer, in submitting the accompanying statement, begs to report that all the outstanding accounts for the year have been paid. The expenditure ($443.00) is $130.32 less than last year, which was $573.32 after deducting $165 which should have been paid in 1895. The receipts, including bank interest, are $i8i.6o less than last year There has been a serious falling off in the payment of members annual fees, being $159.00 less than 1896. The amount received for tees for 1897 is only $31.00. It is obvious that, unless this condition of things is remedied, the Association will in a very few years be unable to meet its current expenses. Our balance in thc b Ink last year was $368.37 less than in 1895, while this year it is $254.65 less than in 1896. At this rate of decrease the Association will be without funds in less than four years.

Respectfully submitted,

EDMUND BURKE, Treasurer.



The registrar then read the following report, which, on motion of Mr. Gray, seconded by Mr. Gregg, was received and adopted



REPORT OF REGISTRAR AND LIBRARIAN AT THE ANNUAL MEETING

ON JANUARY 11 TH, 1898.



MEMBERS-—The number of members on the roll is 132, the same as in the previous year; there being one death, but also one registration.

STUDENTS. ---There have been three students registered. The examinations were held in March. The Board of Examiners was the same as in 1896, viz., Prof. Galbraitlz (Chairman), Messrs. C. H. C. Wriglnt, M. B. Aylsworth, R. j. Edwards, XV. R. Gregg, Grant Helliwell, XV. L. Symons, S. H. Townsend and A. F. Wickson. There were two students examined one for the First Examination, who passed, after a supplemental examination and one for the Second Examination, who was plucked.

LEGISLATION.-— The Bill to amend the Act of Incorporation was introduced again in the Legislature, and was referred to a special committee composed of the same persons who had constituted the special committee to which the Bill was referred in the previous year. On this occasion the Bill was supported by a well-signed petition which had been circulated throughout the province by the Legislation Committee, and also by letters from prominent builders in the country, and by a resolution of the Federated Council of

the Building Trades of Toronto. The Trades and Labor Council appeared before the committee to oppose the Bill, but withdrew their opposition on learning that the Association had no desire to control the examination of students. The Bill was opposed by counsel representing two architects one a member of the Association, whose objection was said to be that there would be an undue increase in the number of architects if the Bill were to

the other, not a member of the Association, who objected that he would be compelled to pay an annual fee to continue a right which he already possesses, that of calling himself an architect. The special committee showed a hostile majority unchanged in opinion from the previous year, and it was necessary to withdraw the Bill again, and, as regards this Parliament at least, finally.

LOCAL CHAPTER.—- Pursuant to the Chapter by-law passed at the last annual meeting of the Association, a local chapter was formed by members of the Association in Toronto.

THE LIBRARY.-—-Kidder's Building Construction and Superintendence, Vol. 1., has been added to the library. There have been 52 lendings.



The Secretary also read the report of the Local Chapter, which was as follows:

REPORT OF TORONTO CHAPTER.



Toronto, January  10th, 1897.



Pursuant to notions made at meetings of Toronto architects held in the office of XV. A. Langton on Dec. 9th and 3oth, 1896, also Jan. i9th, 1897, and with authority obtained from the Ontario Association of Architects at the annual convention held on Jan. 12th, 1897, a Toronto Chapter of the said O.A.A. was formed and held its first monthly meeting in School of Practical Science on Feb. 8th, 1897, with an executive committee, composed of Mr. XV.

R.	Gregg, chairman A. F. Wickson, vice-chairman J. XV. Gray, F. S. Baker, G. W. King, and Henry Simpson, secretary-treasurer.

The names of twenty-eight city architects are enrolled as regular members of the Chapter.

At the regular monthly meetings the following papers were read Feb. 8th, 1897—" Sunday School Planning," by A. F. Wickson "Objects of the Chapter," by XV. R. Gregg. March 8th _" Modern Methods of Electric Wiring," by H. T. Strickland '' Stereoptican Exhibition of Architectural Views," by Mr. Keele. April 12th—''Contracts, by R. J. Edwards. Nov. 8th

The Nature of Architectural design," by W. A. Langton. Dec. 13th —'' Pneumatic Foundations,'' by H. T. Laing '' Foundations, by A. F. Wickson.

HENRY SIMPSON, Sec.-Treas.



Mr. Gregg thought that the constitution drawn up for the Toronto Chapter might be found of service to those desiring to institute Chapters in other places if printed so as to be available for this purpose, and in moving that the report be received and adopted would make this suggestion. The report was received and adopted.

Mr. Siddall asked if it was not intended that there should be a report from the Committee on Degrees?

The Registrar stated that the Council had desired him to report that they had not been able to give so large a matter sufficient consideration to justify them in presenting a report.

NEW' BUSINESS.



Mr. Gordon inquired if the Council had anything to present, by way of suggestion or otherwise, as to the future action of the Association. As the treasurer had pointed out, in a short time, at the present rate, the Association would find itself without funds. It was evident that there was a lack of interest somewhere, and something must be done to stimulate interest in the Association and promote a healthier state of affairs than now existed.

The President said the matter had been brought up and talked over in the Council, but, while all agreed that the present state of affairs could not be allowed to continue, nothing definite had been arrived at as to the course to be taken, and, as he had made a suggestion in his address, the Council had thought it well to see what action the Association would take on the lines suggested.

Mr. Burke entirely concurred in the tenor of Mr. Gordon's remarks, something must be done or the Association would find itself going back. As stated in the report, at the present rate in four years the Association would have no funds. Therefore some means would have to be devised to promote greater interest in the Association and increase the payment of membership fees, as well as to induce a better attendance at the convent tons.

Mr. Dick said he was sorry to be unable to offer any advice. He fully appreciated the difficulty of the situation, but it was one thing to do that and another to

