<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



CORRESPONDENCE.

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will riot assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondent. 





<article title="A Correction." author="WIGGS, W.H.">

A CORRECTION.



QUEBEC, May 28, 1898.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR, Some of' the information given you regarding the purpose



in the formation of the Dominion Plumbing and Heating Supply



Association is erroneous, and I think it would be well before publishing these statements to have them corroborated by some of



the officers residing in your city. While I have no doubt you inserted the item I allude to with the best intentions yet it is likely to do harm to those whom you most desire to benefit. The formation of our association was brought about principally at the request of 11w Master Plumbers' Association of Canada, they deeming it advisable that an association of the leading jobbers



and supply men who would work in harmony with them, would be of great benefit to the master plumbers.



This then is the object for which this association is formed, and not as your correspondent has informed you, to work antagonistically to that of the master plumbers.



Nothing whatever of what your correspondent gave you was debated or brought before our association, and for this reason I think in future it would be well to see that the truth is stated when t these items are published.



Thanking you in advance for the publishing of this letter in your columns, 1 remain

Yours truly,

W. H. WIGGS,



2nd Vice—President Dominion Plumbing



and Heating Supply Association





DOMINION PLUMBING AND HEATING SUPPLY



ASSOCIATION.



TORONTO May 31st, 1898.



<article title="Correspondence" author="TAYLOR, John M.">

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR, On page 94 of your journal, THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for May, there is an article under the heading of

Dominion Plumbing and Heating Supply' Association to which my attention has been called from several differed sources, and as I observe that my name appears in the article as a member of the executive (and this is the first intimation I have had of the appointment) I seem to have been a mark for some of my friends in the plumbing and heating business upon whom to lay 11w blame for having written the article.

When my attention was first called to the article I did not pay much attention to it, as I concluded that the fact of the blame being put off on me was merely being done for pastime on the part of some mischievous competitor who desired to make capital at my company's expense, but as time rolled on the blame thrown upon me has grown to an enormous size and for this reason I feel that it is my duty, not to myself', but in justice o the company of which I have the honor to be the chief executive officer to say that he article when it was first shown to me in print was the first knowledge that 1 had of it either directly or indirectly. I did not write the article I did riot inspire it I was not consulted about

it and more than this I did not attend the meeting which is referred to at Montreal, so that I could have no knowledge whatever of any of its proceedings, and have not to my knowledge even received a copy of the minutes of that meeting. I had an invitation to attend it and fully expected to be in Montreal, but unfortunately I was absent from home at the time.

I would not have taken he trouble to direct your attention to the letter, or to have repudiated any knowledge or connection with it had it not been that the Plumbers' Association of Canada are a most estimable body of men, and further their executive officers in Toronto, and some of their most prominent members throughout the province, have expressed themselves as feeling very sore at the article having appeared, and because I am inclined to believe that some uncharitable competitors or parties engaged in the same class of business as that in which our company are engaged are deliberately making capital out of this and blaming I he wrong party, it is only fair that I should set myself arid the Toronto Radiator Company in the proper light.



In conclusion may add that the Toronto Radiator company have been one of the strongest fighters in support of the rules laid down by the National Association of Master Plumbers of Canada. I believe that they have done more for the protection of the

legitimate plumber than any other firm doing the same class of business in the Dominion. They have stood idly by and let the



trade go past them in order to protect the plumber, as we believe



I hat lie tradesmen must be protected, otherwise t they can not live. I hope now that the man who was so free to give all the information about what is said not to have happened, will have backbone enough to step out to the front that we may see him.



Yours respectfully,



JNO. M. TAYLOR,



Managing Director of the Toronto

	Radiator	Manufacturing Co. Ltd.







<article title="A Second Reply to Mr. Wells." author="Langton, X.V.">

A SECOND REPLY TO MR. WELLS.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, Mr. Wells wrote a letter in your March number saving that the Ontario Association of Architect is wrong to advocate education for architects when what is wanted is inspection of buildings.



I replied in your April number that the Association advocates



both inspect ton and education and	as much pains about



one as the other.



Nevertheless we have Mr. WeIls again in the May number still crying for inspection and treating me with much bitterness as an under—valuer of inspection. I do not consider that fair correspondence. One who reads only Mr. Well's last letter, as I dare say some of your have, would not imagine I that Mr.

Wells correspondent had replied in effect		Time Association

which you attack for devoting itself to the education of architects instead of to advocating the inspection of buildings is not, as you suppose, neglecting to do what it can to procure good building



laws and inspection of buildings on the contrary it has been for



sonic time taking a great deal of pains about these things and would be glad to have your assistance. Indeed the only point of difference between us is that you think the inspection of buildings is all that is necessary, while the Association (and the legislators who founded the Association ) think it important to get to the root of the matter by working for the education of architects who plan the buildings and they think that t this is I the more import ant work in lie same ratio as prevention is more important than cure.'

	Surely t hat is sufficient t answer to prevent a	return to the question precisely the same manner as before.



In the remainder of his letter Mr. Wells hints disapproval of some characteristic or characteristics oh the Association, but does not ate what t they are with  that straightforwardness to which I think a well meaning body is entitled. If he will say straight out what harm he Association to which, by the way, he owes much in the way of education) is doing him or any other young man, I shall be glad to answer his objections if I can. If' there is no answer I shall say so. I (nor I think the promoters of the Association) have no interest in supporting t lie Association except as a means of doing good.



I only beg to suggest that a copy of' Mr. Well's letter be sent to me that I may answer it before you go to press, so that his letter and my' reply may be read together on t the same page.



Yours truly,



XV.	A. LANGTON.







Mr. Geo. Anderson, Commissioner to Japan in has report to the Dominion government says Shingles are used extensively for roofing purposes, being nailed on the sheeting amid then covered with mortar, tiles being put on over all. For this purpose No. 2 and 3 quality' should find a very large sale. They are also used in the northern part of the Main Island and in Hokkaido, the Northern Island, iii the same way as iii our own country, with this difference, that bamboo strips arc put across the row, the strips being held on by large flat stones, instead of each shingle being nailed A better quality would be required for this latter purpose.



WIRE STONE SAWS. —-In the French quarries at St. Triphon stone is sawed with steel wire cables moistened with wet sand, and passing in an endless rope over a series of pulleys. The wire, winch runs from 000 to 1,200 feel per minute, is charged as it enters the cut with a jet of water and silicious sand, which forms the cutting material. A running cable of 500 feet can make a cut 100 feet long. To remove a ledge, pits three feet in diameter are dug to I lie depth of the desired cut and the stone sawed vertically in slabs to the bottom, being then easily split off by wedges. The slabs are removed by an electric travelling crane and sawed to any desired size

