<doctype type="text">

<article title="The Morality and Economy of Competitions." author="Creswell, B.">

	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



THE MORALITY AND ECONOMY OF

COMPETITIONS. *

By B. CRESWELL.



OF the figures which are here presented for the first t me, I may sax' that they have been modified from what was originally hoped and in intended of them It was found impossible to discover he actual number and value of all comport ions in Great Britain over such a period as should afford an unquestionable average figure of competitions in a any one year, because a large proportion of competently advertised locally. In

tions are	—	—	England alone, I have it on

high authority,  more than  half of all competitions are not advertised or noticed in the professional journals, and from my own investigation it was trade clear that befit in Ireland and in Scotland Ire tendency is to preserve and con fine competitions to their respective countries, a circumstance for witch, under existing conduit s, we can scarcely be sufficiently  thankful. Cite is inclined to prod et fiat, if  these few countries opened t their r doors, and our voracity for competitions did nor flirt ch frotri the new undertaking, the profession would, figuratively, fail in limb from limb and rot away.

The figures and facts hereafter dealt with, therefore, must be regarded as having reference to England only, but even here they are inadequate to give ally idea of the magnitude and extent of the system, for the already stated reason of lie inaccessibility of local statistics.

It should be explained in passing that it is upon the basis of averages that the subject is to be here dealt with. The system has manifest advantages over that  which special cases are enumerated. It is a fairer method, because in dealing with so wide a subject a selection of special cases can be made to illustrate arty assumption or point of view, and prove any desired conclusion. It is clear, because it condenses the whole field of the subject to a single representative, and reduces the whole matter to its vital and primal element. It is absolutely necessary, in considering this subject of competition, to regard it ill its wide and general bearing as affecting the profession and fine art, if any



profit is to derive from that consideration. To investigate it front the point of view of the individual competition, and with it an eye to this personal welfare or disadvantage, is scientifically absurd, besides being obviously absurd in many other ways as well. There is little doubt that - this horrible incubus of competitions which torments the profession would never have grown to a serious harm if we had considered the matter it its universal and general bearing, and not in personal and particular aspect. Competitions, therefore, will here be dealt wit It in relation to the profession as a whole, and a scheme of averages is used as being the most serviceable to that end.

The following figures, which are presented in the annexed table, are the result of a search through the files of the Builder, both in the advertisement columns and those of the body of the journal, and cover a period of two years. As has been explained, they refer to England alone. In the years 1894 and 1895 there are some several one advertised public competitions, or, say, thirty-six advertised in each year. The average value of' a building for which competitive designs are publicly invited is £9,000, so that the value of the buildings whose designs are made in public competition advertised- it the Builder is about £324,000 yearly. The average value of Ire first prize (and premiums may be considered to be always offered, through there are solitary exceptions) is £56, and, besides, a sum of £52 is divided in smaller prizes. The average number of competitions I find to be about forty.

Now, the cost of taking the drawings in a competition of the value of £9,000 may be fairly put at £30 for air average case, being eight drawings at £4 each. This sum does not cover the time of the principal for the actual cost of producing the drawings. It is so that this cost cannot be at all exactly stated, Ire— cause t to amount of work put into competition drawings varies considerably, for obvious reasons. it is, however, ru fallacy for omitting computing this cost, such if ciri s ris eirt , light, and general office expenses on the ground that they would have been incurred in any case and it is wrong to consider that, he crutise I Ire lri'iir—  makes the drawings with his own hand, it may have cost him nothing. If he had done this amount of work for some employer he world have been paid, and try doing it for not Iriirg he may be considered out of pocket to the extent of the value of the work. Indeed, he has probably lost more than if' he had employed an assistant, because, should he choose to work for this In ie, he could command a higher price than what he would pay his draughtsman. The special committee of 1872 stated in its report that 

	Abstract of a paper presented before in the London Architectural	Association -

cost of producing competitive drawings (irrespective of principal's time) varied from 1/4 to 20 per cent. , and from £2,800, so that an assumed average of £30 in competition of £9,000 seems well below the mark. This figure gives an average expenditure  by architects of £ 1,200 upon each competition, or an out-of-pocket loss in each year of 43,200. This, remember, only refers to such of f lie public competitions of England as rue advertised at the Builder. I find slight to decrease public competitions in the last twenty years but it seems more than balanced by the mass of hi irt it ed and local competitions.

Gentlemen , I am now going to amplify and emphasize the significance of these figures further. 'This phase of the subject has already been done to death. But I am forfeiting that they establish and demonstrate that our competition system fit be commercially rotten and unsound that it is irrational that from an economic 

point of view it is a monstrous anomaly and that it is the occasion of expense and extravagances which could hardly be justified even if the possibility' of the system was shown to be widely beneficial to the dignity of the profession and the distinction of the art. This, however, is not the ease. Our system of competition as in policy is so disastrous to the status of the practitioner, and so enervating to the art itself, that even if the economic considerations were satisfactory, and the system beneficial to the pockets of the profession, it could still be shown desirable that the system should be abolished or entirely reconstructed. This question of policy may be considered quite apart and aside from the economic question, which we live now done with, it is necessary to explain flirt the remarks and the conclusions proffered

in this nail the following columns, do not refer to those large public competitions for valuable and important buildings which are

published and discussed by us null, fruit to the getrertul nick mrf competitions, including limited and local competitions, which are then designated and included in the term our competitive system. Public competitions for national and monumental buildings in which the best established and most reputable of our architects take part, must ever stand in every different light, and be viewed with a very different sentiment, for that which is roused by the wild, tumultuous disorder of the common berth of competitions.

It seems to be assumed by many people that competitions are a means to the end—building. This, of course, is not the case. It is, indeed, conceivable that the noise and excitement of a competition in a small township may stir up and inflate the emurirtliurn of the bigwigs of neighboring towns, and infect with the fever of building those who otherwise might have remained spotless of the il isittder but it is too fanciful and conjectural to be seriously debuted. The fact is that a certain number of buildings will be raised in a given year, and we may consider the existence or otherwise of our system of competitions to have no weight in  deciding what that number shall be. This complex mechanism of public competition exists solely to determine which precise architect shall be employed to carry out this or that individual work

and after fifty years of this struggling and grunting and tearing and fighting among ourselves, it is still found that the architects of England have raised England's architecture—precisely the same state of things that would have been effected without  competition, in peace and goodwill. Our competition system has

crowded the profession, and crowded it very' largely- with ineptitude. In these days we all go in for the great handicap and premiums before we know how to ruin. It is a scramble when all sorts of unlikely people come in first. The opportunities for young men to find a standing in the profession by a single stroke of good fortune induces many' to enter the profession who would not dare to face the hiring stern path by- which alone success is usually to be sought. They are dazzled by a game wherein success relies so little our sterling ability, and so much upon the chance circumstances of prejudice and bad taste in ignorant people.



The policy of the system is detrimental also to the art of architecture, as well as to its practitioners, because it effects that the selection of architectural designs shall be made precisely by the class least qualified to form the right judgment. The class who acquire the right of selection under the system the hanging committee in the gallery of architecture are not merely ignorant, but they are saturated with the most Irhatamut forms of vulgarity. Our competition system has secured that a fine and important rtair division of our national architecture, shall interpret ru tril immortalize the ideals and aspirations of precisely the most illegaled and insignificant class intellectually' in the country a class that is educated in positive ignorance, and cultural unexecrable artistic proclivities and tastes. It is not, unfortunately, a case merely of

