<doctype type="text">

<article title="The American Tall Building" author="Capper, S.H.">



Farnese Palace, in competition for which Michael Angelo waxed so mightily indignant. Both these are classical examples, to which might be added, in more recent times, the Arc de Triomphe at Paris. But beyond this limit it is not possible to go in stone. What, then, are the designers of those "tall buildings" to do? The course generally adopted has been to use metal in place of stone but the result is necessarily either fraudulent, in so far as the change from stone to metal remains undetected, or hybrid, as a patchwork of materials neither alternative is satisfactory. I venture to suggest that it is preferable to abandon the attempt (which must be futile) to obtain exaggerated overhang, and to substitute therefor vertical depth ; by restudying the cornice in this sense, including a storey or more in the depth of the cornice and its members, I believe a more satisfactory and a wholly legitimate result would be obtained. For this, too, we have an eminently successful classical example. The famous cornice of Vignola, with its deep consoles, will be readily recalled. Vignola, on a small scale, had the same problem to solve, and he solved it most judiciously by increasing his cornice in vertical depth without exaggerating the overhang. Modifications of this cornice are constantly used in modern French street architecture with happy effect and, if leaf were taken from the old Italian's book, though not without much study, there could doubtless be evolved a more suitable cornice for a "tall building than by flying to metal and treating us to gilded gingerbread and tinsel two hundred and fifty feet above our heads.

It remains to add word in regard to the effect of these "tall buildings' upon the appearance of the city as a whole. So long as they are few in number, they are said to have given New York a very ragged sky-line, unkempt, so to speak, and unpleasing.

so lair, sleeping under Giotto's campanile and Brunelleschi's dome, were she to awake and find her Duomo dwarfed and thrown into the shade by a ring of New York tall buildings of the latest type, or of Chicago sky-scrapers Wren's noble dome, though somewhat dwarfed in height by its modern surroundings, nevertheless still floats in fair serenity, majestically crowning murky London. I cannot think that "tall buildings" are actually wanted in any of these cities ; sufficient unto America be the "tall buildings "thereof.





THE ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANT, TEMPLE BUILDING, TORONTO.

OUR readers, especially architects, will no doubt be interested in the accompanying illustration and particulars of the plant which has recently been installed for the purpose of lighting with electricity the newly completed Temple Building at the corner of Richmond and Bay streets, Toronto.

The room containing the generating apparatus is 50>' 32 feet in size. Time contract for engines and electric generators was carried out by the W. A. Johnston Electric Co., of Toronto. Three direct-current 50-kilowatt Walker generators, for which the above company are Canadian representatives, are direct-connected to " Ideal" engines, 12 X 12, the latter manufactured by the Goldie & McCulloch Company, of Galt. One of these generators is wound for 250 volts, is running at 275 revolutions per minute, and is supplying current for motors and electric elevators. The motors drive the fans for ventilating purposes, and will also be required for other power service. The other two generators are wound for 125 volts, and are furnishing current for electric light-





















































ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT, FORESTERS' TEMPLE, TORONTO.—VIEW OF GENERATORS.



Now that they are fairly numerous, this seems no longer the case. The general raising of height—a result of modern city development by no means confined to New York—has necessarily tended to submerge many a worthy building that formerly rose tall and stately above its surroundings. An extreme case is Trinity Church, New York, a very sober and quiet study in perpendicular Gothic, the graceful spire of which formerly rose clear, a notable landmark of the city. It is now completely submerged and lost, rising, as it were, in slender effort, stifled in a sort of well. But this is painfully true of other cities, too. All visitors to Paris know how the Church of the Madeleine is now felt to be too low for its surroundings how much it would gain by being raised above the houses that hem it in  London, also, many of Wren's fine steeples are now almost equally engulfed and lost.

Nothing can excel the noble approach to New York it is undoubtedly one of the fine harbors of the world. But the city itself is totally destitute of " heights. This lack the modern "tall buildings ' certainly go some way effectively to make good, and I cannot but feel sure that in sky-line and general appearance from the harbor New York has gained from them.

That such would be the case elsewhere is not so certain New York, from its original flatness, is perhaps a special case. It is comparatively easy to dwarf nature and one of these tall buildings, judiciously planted so as to spoil a natural landmark, could achieve without difficulty total and fatal ruination of a noble scene. It is dreadful, for instance, to imagine the Acropolis of Athens girt around with buildings like those in Broadway. Imagine Siena, her valleys enriched with "tall buildings" sprouting high above that fair Duomo which so nobly crowns her highest rock Imagine Florence, nestling by the Arno under the heights of Fiesole and the distant girding Apennines,—imagine Florence, now

throughout the building, which is wired for a capacity of 2,800 16 c.p. lights. In addition to these generators there is a motor generator of So lights capacity, built at the works of the W. A. Johnston Electric Co. This machine takes current from the power generator and supplies lighting during the day-time. This portion of the installation has many points of merit, the three direct-connected generators only occupying a space of about 12 by feet. The economy in space by means of the direct-connected generators is a great consideration in plants of this character. The running of the engines and dynamos is practically noiseless. They are also perfectly dry, and persons can place their hands on any part without feeling the least current. This plant is said to be of larger capacity than any isolated plant yet installed in Canada.







Mr. Thomas Weston, Secretary-Treasurer of the Hamilton Bridge Co., died last week at his residence in Hamilton, aged 44 years.



The Mackey Stained Glass Co., Toronto, have recently published catalogue, showing designs for ornamental glass for a variety of purposes, and prices.



The National Supply Co. have succeeded to the building supply business formerly carried on by Mr. E. D. Morris, and have erected commodious premises at No. 1111 Yonge street, Toronto.



At the late municipal elections, Mr. Bowman, the popular representative of the Don Valley Pressed Brick Co., was elected as alderman for the sixth ward, receiving the largest number of votes of any of the candidates.

