<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN	



It seems to be the practice of some

An Injustice to

Contractors.	municipalities, when inviting tenders for public works and supplies, to allow



outside contractors insufficient time in which to submit tenders. An example of this is afforded by the city of Montreal, which recently asked tenders for the supply of cast iron pipe, lumber, and other material. The first appearance of the advertisement in the daily press was on June 11th, and the date limit for the reception of tenders was June 14th, thus giving contractors only three days in which to tender. It is claimed by contractors that this time limit is insufficient and causes unnecessary hardship. It is not always convenient for a contractor to find the necessary time in which to figure within the brief period of three days, while the plans and specifications are not at all times available. So far as the city is concerned, there does not appear to be anything to lose by giving ample time for all intending contractors to submit tenders, while better results are almost certain to be obtained in consequence of greater competition.



GUILLEMO Espinosa, a prominent n Trade Openings, porter of Venezuela and Quito Ecuador,

states, in a recent letter to a New York export firm, that a demand exists in South America for sanitary apparatus, such as basins, closets, bath tubs, etc., and that a recent consignment from the United States found speedy sale. Canadian manufacturers of these lines of goods should place themselves in communication with the Canadian government trade representatives in South America, furnish them with catalogues, etc., descriptive of their goods, and endeavor to secure a share of the trade in this market. Notwithstanding the somewhat discouraging statement made by Sir Richard Cartwright in the Dominion Parliament the other day, regarding the possibilities of an extension of our trade with South America, the National Association of Manufacturers of the United States have recently opened a sample warehouse at Caracas, Venezuela, which is intended to serve as a permanent exhibition, and as a bureau of information, both for the Venezuelan buyers and the members of the Association, rather than as a store for the actual sale of goods its aim is to bring American goods before the buyers in Venezuela more prominently than is possible by any other means now available.



THE construction of street pavements

Modern Street

Pavements.	which shall meet all modern requirements has been the subject of much



study and experiment in recent years. While much has been accomplished, there remain many unsolved phases of the problem. In Canada the powerful disintegrating action of frost is an added difficulty. The cedar block pavement so much in favor fifteen years ago is no longer employed to any extent. It is undoubtedly true that the defectiveness of this class of pavement in Canada was quite as much due to improper methods of construction as to unsuitability of material. In Chicago and other American cities where block pavements were laid on a plank and concrete foundation, they are declared to have given very satisfactory results. In Canada, asphalt, brick and macadam roadways are now the favorites. Asphalt, if properly put down, is probably the best material for streets, except those traversed by street car lines and subject to the heaviest traffic. Its cost, however, proves a hindrance to its general use. Properly

manufactured vitrified brick makes a clean and durable pavement, easy to repair, and will, no doubt, come into use to a considerable extent. In Toronto its use on residential streets has been objected to on account of its noisiness. From observation we should say that there is ground for this objection, the importance of which appears to he becoming more generally recognized. A well constructed macadam roadway is durable and noiseless. It is, however, somewhat dusty, and on this account requires more frequent watering. This class of' roadway requires to be well drained and otherwise skillfully constructed, otherwise the cost of repairs is likely to be large as compared with either asphalt or brick.



Mr. James Hine, in an address Present Day delivered recently at the annual meeting

Architecture

of the Devon and Exeter Architectural Society, referred to the causes from which springs much of the unsatisfactory architecture of the present day. Why was it,'' he said, ''that in the more modern towns, fashionable and unfashionable, which had sprung up during the present century, the impress of architecture was so imperfect and unsatisfactory? Because, for the most part, they had not been the creation or work of architects. This had been a misfortune for the profession, but it had been a greater misfortune for the towns, and had been the occasion of numberless blots on the face of nature. Occasionally it had no doubt been possible to carry out in such new towns a well-considered and effective design but one swallow did not make a summer, and one good building did not usually make a beautiful street. In an age like the present, when nearly everything pertaining, to a building could be produced by machinery, there must necessarily follow great monotony and absence of artistic interest in the buildings largely composed of them. Trade catalogue architecture might be all very well from a strictly commercial and economical point of view, but the tendency of it was to destroy all individuality in a building and to drag architecture proper into oblivion. Buildings were being pulled down in all parts of England possessing historic interest and features of architectural beauty were they to be supplanted by lifeless structures of this automatic type? This was a subject which demanded the consideration of all. Let them hope that in the coming century, as in all great periods of architecture, buildings might be more and more the reflex of the individual mind of the architect.''



THE treatment accorded workmen em-

Rights of Workmen on

Public Contracts.	ployed on the construction of the Crow s Nest Pass railway, as per the recent



report of a Parliamentary Commission, was of the most inhuman character. The charge is laid at the door of the contractors, their agents and sub-contractors, of having taken advantage of the workmen in every possible way. It is alleged that they were charged a regular amount per month for postage and medical attendance regardless of whether they wrote any letters or were in need of medical attention. It is likewise alleged that the camp was without sanitary provisions of any kind. When from this and other causes the workmen became ill, they are declared to have been cruelly neglected, and two young men from Nova Scotia, victims of diphtheria, are stated to have been allowed to die like dogs on the floor of a miserable hut. These particulars will suffice to show the scandalous

