<doctype type="text">



(1)	It should do its work by means of a water seal alone, which may be accomplished if sufficient water be injected and held in it. (2) It should be self-scouring.

(3)	It should be capable of resisting the severest tests of siphonage, momentum, and back pressure that can ever possibly be brought to bear in plumbing, and this without the aid of special ventilation. (4) It should contain a body of water large enough to be practically proof against evaporation. (5) It should be simple. (6) It should be economical to manufacture.

(7)	It should be made of durable material. (8) It should be so constructed that its interior can be inspected without removing the trap or any part of it.

(9)	It should have a tight fitting clean-out cap, arranged to be removed with perfect ease, and to admit of removing any foreign substance that may have lodged in any part of it. (10) All parts of its clean-out cap should be under water, to insure detection of leakage if any occurred. (11) It should be so formed as to offer the minimum of resistance to the flow of water through it. (12) It should be independent of the fixture to which it is attached, and should be easily connected or disconnected." This, of course, is an ideal trap, and no such thing is made, or perhaps ever can be made ; but several of the requirements as set forth may be obtained in the one trap. For instance, heavier traps than are now used may be attached to the ordinary waste pipes, thus securing a larger body of water for the seal, which would offset evaporation to a large extent, and in some measure prevent a back flow of gas. Then the clean-out cap might be made much larger, so that the interior of the trap could be more readily got at to clean. Traps themselves should be placed in positions where easy access to them obtains.





CANADIAN white maple, when properly Hardwood Floors, seasoned, makes a good durable floor

if care is taken in laying it, and placing it where it will not be exposed to damp, or likely to be soaked with water at any time. Where possible, the material used should be weather seasoned, as maple that has been kiln dried is apt to swell with the least possible moisture, such as being washed, or by absorbing the damp from newly plastered walls, and expands to such an extent that injury may result. Weather seasoned maple does not swell so readily nor so much when moist, and experience has proven that its lasting qualities are greater than when kiln dried. As of maple, so of black birch, that which is weather seasoned is, in many respects, better than when kiln dried. In weather seasoning maple, birch, cherry and beech, it should be so placed that neither rain or the sun will get on it, as the first will be sure to doze it, while the second will crack, split or warp it. If intended for flooring, warping does not much matter, as it will be ripped into strips less than three inches in width, so that when it is run through the flooring machine, the warping will be pretty well taken out of it. Beech makes a very handsome floor, and if used in a room where it is intended there will be no carpet, it may be waxed or polished, and will have a fine metallic lustre. Red beech, of course, is the wood intended. Cherry, while one of the handsomest of woods, is not very well adapted for flooring, as it is rather soft, and shoes with sharp angles, or having metal nails in them, would be apt to mark it if the floor was left bare and polished. Perhaps, after all, there is no wood grown in Canada

that so well fills the requirements needed for a good floor as our white oak. This wood, which deserves more attention by architects and builders than it usually receives, makes at once a handsome, durable and lasting floor ; and it quarter sawn and wisely selected, is superior in appearance, when properly finished, to any other wood grown. A quartered oak floor, laid in a room where all the woodwork is quartered oak finish, is a sight that is sure to impress everyone who sees it with an idea of solidity and worth, that never obtains in the use of other woods. It is not a very good method to mix maple and birch together in the one floor. They do not last equally, neither do they wear equally, and when a floor wears out in one part, the whole of it must come up, the worn and the unworn, whereas, if it had been of one kind of material it would have worn evenly, and throughout. Another reprehensible custom is that of laying flooring in dark and light strips alternately. By so doing it gives the floor a sort of "cheap John" appearance, and every joint is so emphasized, that what would not be noticed if the boards were all of one color, will be sure to attract the eye when the joint is defined by a change of color. The flooring should be selected for color as well as for widths, and all that of one color should be laid together. It is better to wax a floor than to oil it ; in fact, an oiled floor, unless well rubbed in and shellaced, is a perpetual nuisance, as it is almost impossible to keep dirt from working its way into the pores of the wood with the oil, and ruining it forever so far as its appearance is concerned.



IN order to cut a rafter of any pitch to Useful Hints, the proper bevels with the aid of the

steel square, proceed as follows Fig. shows a diagram of a roof, having a twenty-six toot

span— any span will answer. The span of a roof is the distance over the wall plates, measuring from A to A. Here are two rafters shown in position, the one on the left having a pitch of one-quarter, and marked B, the rafter on the right marked as one-third pitch. Their angles, or inclinations, are called quarter and third

















Fig. 1.



pitch respectively, because the height from level of wall to ridge or peak of roof is one-quarter or one-third the width of the building, as the case may be. Two pitches are shown here in order to exemplify the methods of obtaining the different bevels. At Fig 2 the rafter B is shown drawn to a larger scale ; it is for the quarter pitch. It is supposed to consist of a piece of stuff 2 x 6 inches, and 17 ft. long. The portion of rafter at 0 is left 3' wide only, and when in place projects over the building and forms the eave. This may be left of such length as may be desired. A centre line is marked on the width of the scantling, and it is from this line the square is worked. Apply the square on this line as shown in the sketch using the figures 6 and 12, which give both the proper angle and the exact length. Work from right to left, placing the 6" mark on the

