<doctype type="text">

of the little red school-house, a good blackboard is a rare avis. The reason for this is mainly because the trustees, not being aware of the fact that a good board cannot be made for a few cents per square yard more than ordinary plastering, refuse to allow a fair price for a good article, and t lie consequence is that the contractor must make a board to fit the price, and, in eight cases out of ten, the country contractor never had the



opportunity of seeing a good board made, and therefore

knows nothing of the methods employed or the materials used for the purpose. The best blackboard is, of course, made of slate—black, or dark blue—and may be ordered from any dealer in roofing slates, in sizes varying from 2' 6' to 6' in width, and from four to seven feet in length. The cost of these slates, however, is more than country school trustees would care to expend when they know they can obtain something that will answer for a very much smaller sum. When a blackboard is to be made of wood or boards, the following suggestions should be adopted Procure wide boards of clear pine or basswood, 7/8 inch thick groove both edges that are to be joined together, making the grooves half inch deep. and quarter inch wide. Then make a tongue one-quarter of an inch thick, and fifteen sixteenths inch wide. Joint and glue the edges of the hoards, cramp with screw—cramps to wake a good joint, insert the feather or tongue before cramping, first giving it a coat of glue. When dry and hard, add another width of board, going through the same process, until the board is made the width required. when dry, screw batons to the back of the board, batons to be about 4 inches wide and 7/8 inch thick, and to be placed about two feet apart. Dress off smoothly on face and finish up with fine sand—paper, then paint with drop black mixed with dryer and spirits of turpentine. Do not use oil of any kind. Make a crayon and eraser tray and attach. When all is dry, rub down again with No. o sand-paper, brush off, after which give the board two coats of liquid slating, which may be obtained through your druggist, or cover it with the materials recommended by the educational Department of Ontario, This makes a fairly. efficient and durable board, and is cheap. It may be re—coated with the liquid at any time.



FREQUENTLY the plasterer is called upon Plaster Boards. to make a blackboard of mortar when

he is plastering the walls, and if the work is done properly a board of this kind is generally pretty satisfactory. A good blackboard, however, can never be made of mortar unless the wall is prepared specially for it. The main requirement is solidity, and it the wall is brick, stone or concrete, then good results should follow, but if hollow, formed of studding sixteen inches from centres, with lath nailed on them, the usual way, it will be simply impossible for any plasterer to make a good blackboard on it, no matter how good the materials may be he employs. If the studding is boarded over with boards, and the lathing nailed on this double thickness, diagonally, and the wall does not settle, a fairly good blackboard may be made on the wall. When it can be afforded, it is better to fill in between the studding with brickwork that portion of the wall intended to he covered with the blackboard, allowing the bricks to project inwardly sufficiently far to receive the plaster on the same surface as the rest of the wall. This would allow the brickwork to be

rendered, when the other part of the wait was being first coated. Another way which is sometimes done is to line up the studding on both sides with rough inch boards over the surface intended for the board, and the spaces filled in with fine concrete or with grout, provision being made with the inside lining to admit



the grout or concrete projecting inside the wall far enough to admit of being rendered same as brickwork as mentioned above. In using grout or concrete, time must be allowed for the material to become dry, or nearly so, before the plastering is done, or the work will likely check or crack. A fairly solid background may be obtained by using double the number of studs in the wall where the board is to be that is to say, place the studs eight inches from centres, instead of sixteen. The spring between them at this distance will stand quite a while. The following is a very good method for the plasterer to follow in making a blackboard on a new lathed wall Plaster the wall with a good scratch—coat of hair mortar, gauged with plaster of Paris. When dry, finish with an ordinary coat of '' brown mortar, colored black with any of the mortar mineral blacks, obtainable in any well supplied hardware store. When hard and dry, finish with a good



coat of '' hard finish," colored black with drop black dissolved in alcohol. When this coat is dry, apply two coats of liquid slating made as follows One pound of white shellac, one-half pound powdered pumice—stone, one-quarter pound lamp-black, dissolved in one gallon of pure alcohol. If the blackboard is to be put on a brick, stone or concrete wall, the scratch-coat may be omitted. If these directions are closely followed, the work will last for years, and will be sure to give satisfaction. Flour emery may be substituted for powdered pumice stone it will wear longer, but is not so effective on the board, and, being heavier, care must be taken in applying the liquid. It must be well shaken, as the emery will settle to bottom of vessel otherwise. A good coating for wooden blackboards may be produced from the following Incorporate flour-emery with shellac varnish, adding sufficient lamp-black to give it the required color. If too thick, reduce its consistency with alcohol. Apply to the board with a camel's hair brush. Another good coating may be made by mixing pulverized slate or quartz rock with silicate of soda (water-glass of commerce), adding lamp-black to suit, and apply to the boards by means of a brush. This last mixture serves a good purpose in recoating old blackboards on plastered walls. The old work in all cases must be rubbed smooth with fine sand-paper before the mixture is applied.

		NEARLY every contractor has a way of

	Brickwork,	his own of estimating brickwork, and

		it is a curious fact that authorities do

not agree as to the actual number of bricks required to complete any given piece of brickwork. This variation is in some measure due to the fact that bricks vary in size, and that some bricklayers make thinner joints than others. In Ontario the contractor should base his estimate on the following figures, which experience has proven to be, on an average, correct. For a four-inch wall - -such as is employed for veneered brick houses

count eight bricks for every superficial foot of wall. For a nine—inch wall multiply each superficial foot of wall by 15. In a 

fourteen—inch wall multiply each superficial foot by 22 ½, and for an eighteen-inch wall multiply

