<doctype type="text">

<article title="Building Accident in Oshawa." author="">

BUILDING ACCIDENT AT OSHAWA.

THE illustration on this page gives a view of the music hall at Oshawa, the roof of which fell in recently. The roof, the span of which was 63 X 42 feet, was formerly carried by two beams, about 10' X 12" Beneath each of these beams were two brackets 8' X 12' X 10". Supporting each beam and brackets were two oak posts 10" square. In order to afford a better view of the stage the owner of the building removed one of these beams and its supports and replaced it with the truss appearing in the engraving, without apparently making any calculation as to its adaptability to safely carry the imposed load The removal of this beam left 42 feet of roof to be carried by the remaining one. Placing the weight of roof at 6o lbs. per foot, inclusive of 20 lbs. per foot for weight of snow, the total weight imposed on the beam would be about 30 tons.



TORONTO CHAPTER OF ARCHITECTS.

THE regular monthly meeting of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects was held in the



<article title="Treatment of Damp Walls." author="">

TREATMENT OF DAMP WALLS.

WE have known of cases of dampness of walls successfully treated by coating with hard oil. Water 1 glass, linseed oil and beeswax, paraffin wax in heavy coal tar, are also often successfully employed in overcoming dampness in walls. Probably what is widely known as Sylvester's solution is the best agent extant for the treatment of damp walls. The fame of this solution was firmly established when upon the application of four coats of it to the walls of the reservoir of the Croton Aqueduct in Central Park they were made proof against the further assertion of moisture. This solution consists of two divisions, if we may borrow a military phrase, intended for a first and second treatment. First take 1 1/2 lbs. of castile soap and dissolve it in two gallons of hot water—soft water to be preferred, always. After cleaning the walls apply this solution hot, using a whitewash or other broad, flat brush. Avoid beating the solution into a foam or suds in applying it. Maintain a moderate degree of temperature in the apartment. The day following apply

















































BUILDING ACCIDENT AT OSHAWA, ONT.



School of Practical Science on Feb. 14th, at which Mr. Wright, of the School of Practical Science, exhibited illustrations of crushed posts and beams, and gave a series of formulae on the blackboard.

Mr. H. B. Gordon read a valuable paper on "Points in Wood Construction."

Mr. S. G. Beckett read an interesting paper on "Decoration," bringing out many important points governing the principles of decoration.

The meeting was considered by everyone present to have been most profitable. The attendance is gradually increasing, and it is hoped that before long every architect in the city will become a member of the Chapter. __________________







For the artificial ventilation of a school by warmed air, Dr. Kerr says that 1,000 cubic feet per hour per child should be the lowest estimate, the accommodation being reckoned at 10 square feet per child, 8 square feet in infant departments. The temperature of the room should be maintained at 60 degs. Fahr.

the second part of the solution, which is made by dissolving one pound of alum in eight gallons of water, having the water at a temperature of, say, 65 degrees F., and keeping the solution at about this temperature while applying it to the walls. The third application should be of the soap and water, and the fourth of the alum and water, the alternating coats forming, it is said, a chemical union absolutely impervious to moisture. This solution, when necessity compels, may be applied at the rate of two or more coats per day, but a space of twenty-four hours between coats will more reliably insure the proper hardening of the successive coats.—Painters' Magazine.



The best paint for floors is made of finely ground yellow ochre mixed with litharge, emery and boiled oil. The work should be primed with oil and ochre, mixed very thin and well brushed in, and then the paint be applied, allowing plenty of time between each coat. Two or three even coats should be given, finishing with a coat of elastic floor varnish,

