<doctype type="text">





























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE,]



		IF left to his own way, the bricklayer,

	Bedding	as a rule, will not use more mortar in

Bricks.

flushing up his work than he can avoid,

yet the importance and necessity of solidly bedding the bricks and effectually flushing up the interior joints— particularly the cross joints—is scarcely measureable. Apart from solid bedding and "flushing up" the brickwork, as means of obtaining the maximum amount of tensile strength, in addition to that obtained by good transverse and longitudinal bonding, to carry the loads to which most walls are subjected, and to provide against the possible lateral movement of any of the constituent parts when the whole is under strain, the question has its sanitary aspect also ; and by reference to most of the published engineers' pocketbooks will be found formulae to find the amount of air in cubic feet which will, in a given time, under certain stated conditions, pass through walls of varied thickness, built of different materials, painted or otherwise. The walls of dwelling houses defectively flushed up are, therefore, admittedly air filters on a very large scale. They are also liable to be receptacles of damp driven in by storms, and induced by the hollow, or partially hollow, state of the brickwork, leading up to disease, and in some instances probably to fatal consequences. It should be the duty of builders to see that a solid brick wall is solid in more than name.



For an ordinary two-story brick dwelling 

	Concrete Footings  footings six inches thick formed of

		good concrete will be found quite sufficient to support the building, particularly if the footings are five or six feet below the ground line, similarly as shown in Fig. 1. Here the footing is formed of six





12" BRICK WALL







___ GROUND LINE











18"STONE WALL













CONCRETE FOOTING



FTG. ~—FOUNDATION.



inches of concrete well rammed in place, and allowed to stand twenty-four hours before the stonework is laid upon it. Concrete for footings should be mixed in the proportion of 1 part of cement to 2 parts of sand and 4 of stone for natural cements, and 1 to 2½ and 5½ for

Portland cement. The most satisfactory method o mixing concrete by hand is to first prepare a tight floor of plank, or better still, of sheet iron with the edges turned up about two inches, for mixing the materials on Upon this platform should first be spread the sand, and upon this the cement. The two should then be thoroughly and immediately mixed by means of shovels and hoes, and the broken stone or aggregates then dumped in on top and the whole worked over dry with shovels and then worked over again while water is added from a sprinkler on the end of a hose, or from an ordinary watering can. Only as much water should be added as is necessary to cause the cement to completely coat an cause to adhere all the particles of the aggregates. Toc much water will lessen the strength of the concrete. The water used should be clean and at about the temperature of 65. As soon as a batch of concrete is mixed it should be dumped into the trench at once, but in no case should it be thrown more than four feet, for if dumped from a greater height the heavy particles are apt to separate from the lighter ones. The whole layer of 6 inches in thickness may be filled in at once, and where the thickness of the footings is to be more than six inches, two or more layers may be applied to make the required thickness, but the layers should never be more than 6 inches thick in any case. As soon as a square yard of concrete has been deposited, it should be tamped with a wooden rammer weighing about 2C pounds. The tamping should be sufficient to just flush the water to the surface. The concrete should not be permitted to dry too quickly, and when there are to be two or more layers, and if twenty-four hours elapse between depositing the layers, the top of each layer should be sprinkled with water before the next is deposited. When good broad stones are scarce, it will be found much more economical to use concrete footings than footings of stone.



Two books recently published contain

Useful

Literature,	much that both architect and builder would find to be of great service in the

general routine of daily activity. The first of these is entitled '' Specifications," and was prepared by W. Frank Bower, architect, and consists of a strongly bound volume covering some 130 pages 9 x 12 inches, exclusive of copious index and reference notes. The object of this work is to aid the architect in preparing specifications for every department of work by calling his attention to every possible item and detail connected with such department. It is also intended to help the builder and contractor to prepare correct estimates, as with this volume before him he can check off every item of labor and material required to complete the work

