<doctype type="Text:Ad">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and that such certificates should contain a clause slating that it is the property of the association, and can only be retained by members in good standing.



On motion of Mr. Meredith, seconded by Mr. Day, a committee consisting of Messrs. Allison. Meredith, Watson, Sadler and Crump was appointed to nominate officers for the ensuing year.



The convention then adjourned for lunch.



AFTERNOON SESSION.



The convention reassembled at 3:30 p.m., Mr. Wright, the president, presiding.



The nominating committee reported as follows



To the President, Officers and Members of the National Association of Master Plumbers



Your committee on nominations would recommend the following names as officers for the ensuing term

President, Win. Smith, London.

Vice-President, J. W. Harris, Montreal.

Treasurer, W. LI. Meredith, Toronto.

Secretary (pro tem), W. Mansell, Toronto.

Elected members of executive committee : Ontario, A. Fiddes, Toronto Quebec, J. Lamarche, Montreal New Brunswick, Thomas Campbell, St. John Nova Scotia, M. Day, Halifax.

Provincial Vice- Presidents : Ontario, John Higman, Ottawa Quebec,

E.	Lesperance, Montreal New Brunswick, J. Doody, St. John Nova

Scotia, G. A. Perrier, Halifax Manitoba, E. Stevenson, Winnipeg

British Columbia, M. J. Barr, Vancouver. All of which is respectfully submitted.

K.	J. ALLISON, Chairman.

	W.	II. MEREDITH	JAS A. SADLER.

	JAS. G. CRUMP.		F. W. WATSON.



On motion of Mr. Meredith, seconded by Mr. Sadler, the report was adopted and thc president confirmed the election of the various officers.

Mr. Smith, the president-elect, was thereupon escorted to the chair by Mr. Lamarche, amidst applause. He thanked the members for his election and promised to do everything in his power to advance the welfare of the association.

The vice-presidents spoke briefly in like manner.



On motion of Mr. Watson, seconded by Mr. Lesperance, a cordial vote of thanks was tendered to the retiring officers.

The committee appointed to consider the appointment of a permanent secretary reported in favor of the appointment.

On motion of Mr. Hogarth, seconded by Mr. Meredith, it was resolved that the report be received and acted upon.

The question of the advisability of the association undertaking the

publication of a monthly bulletin was discussed at some length. The members appeared to be divided in opinion as to the advisability of engaging in such a venture.



On motion of Mr. Lesperance, seconded by Mr. Montpetit, it was resolved that the secretary be a man who could write both the French and English language.



On motion of Mr. Higman, seconded by Mr. Denman, it was resolved that the next convention be held at Ottawa.

Mr. Lamarche reported on behalf of the committee appointed to interview the Quebec plumbers, that gratifying encouragement had been received and there was reason to hope that the local association would be placed on a better footing than heretofore.



On motion, it was resolved that an investigation be held into the affairs of the St. John, N. B., association.



A discussion ensued as to the advisability of admitting representatives of supply firms to the sessions of the convention. The members were divided in opinion on the subject and no action was taken.



Mr. Russell, of London, was appointed a member of the executive board.



Mr. Mansell tendered his resignation as secretary, in view of the decision arrived at to appoint a permanent secretary. The acceptance or otherwise of the resignation was left in the hands of the executive committee.



Owing to the illness of the treasurer the report of the Secretary and treasurer could not be completed and given out for publication. The treasurer's report showed a balance on band of nearly $220.



On motion of Mr. Carroll, the auditor's report was received and it was ordered that outstanding accounts be paid at an early date.



To connection with the report of the jobbers submitted by Mr. Lamarche, it was resolved, on motion of Mr. Harris, seconded by Mr. Meredith, that the association do all in their power to cement the interests of the two parties.



On motion of Mr. Denitian, seconded by Mr. Lesperanec, it was ordered that the reports of the convention be printed in French and English and delivered to members early in September.



It was decided, on motion of Mr. Watson, seconded by Mr. Carroll, that all expenses of delegates he submitted by Aug. 1st, and that accounts coming in after that date would not be recognized.



On motion of Mr. Wright, seconded by Mr. Meredith, the question of imposing a per capita tax to cover the expense of printing the annual report was left in the bands of the executive committee.



Votes of thanks were tendered to the plumbers of the city of Quebec for their generous hospitality, and to the Victoria hotel for the manner in which they had looked after the comfort of delegates to the convention.



The convention then adjourned to meet in Ottawa next year.

Our Metallic Cornices are Handsome, Durable, Economical, Also metallic skylights, door and window caps and sheet metal fronts, Metallic Roofing Co., Limited, Toronto