<doctype type="text">

<article title="The London Building Disaster" author="">

sufficient to break a beam of the character of this one.

In this beam we have a number of very indefinite quantities. We have very little knowledge of the quality of the timber, the number, size and position of the knots, amount if any of dry rot, or the manner in which the beam was put together beyond the statement that it was spiked together. A 12 in. X 14 in. beam, composed of four 3 in. x 14 in. pieces so spiked together that the pieces could move one on another could not be as strong as a solid beam of equally good timber. A beam placed in the position of the one which broke should have beer thoroughly spiked and bolted together, so that all the pieces would act together as one. It is possible that this beam for some, probably for all, the above causes, was from 3Oto 5000 weaker than a good sound 12 in. X 14 in. solid beam. We are aware that many consider a built-up beam stronger than a solid beam without for one moment considering the points involved. A beam built up of good, sound, perfect timber will be a stronger beam than an imperfect solid beam; and a good, sound, perfect, solid beam will be a stronger beam than the most perfectly built-up beam where the individual pieces are of inferior timber. A solid beam of perfectly clear timber is a stronger beam than a built-up beam of the same size. The only advantage in a built-up beam is when imperfect material is used, and through the use of a number of pieces the defects can be distributed throughout the beam. One large knot in a solid beam may seriously weaken the beam.

Owing to the fact that the platform prevented the crowd centering upon the beam, the load was greater near one end than the other, and we consequently find that the beam did not break in the centre, but to one side of the centre, which we may assume was the point of concentration of the load. It may have been that there were knots at this point, but in any case it happens to be about the point where the beam would break under the load which was upon it if it were made of good, sound and perfect material. In calculating the breaking load we have allowed for an equally distributed load upon the beam, although it was not actually the case.

There are authorities which would place the breaking load of the beam much higher than Kidder, but those constants do not make a sufficient allowance for the vast difference between the perfect material with which tests are made and the average material used in building. Hatfield gives the value of white pine at 500 lbs., Hurst at 380 lbs., Trautwine 450 lbs. and Kidder 240 lbs. Kidder's constant is quite high enough for the class of material usually used by the average contractor.

The direct cause of the failure of the beam was due to its not being of sufficient strength to carry the load suddenly placed upon it. Even if the beam had been of the most perfect material and put together in the most perfect manner it was by no means of the size it should have been for the work which it had to do. The load which caused it to fail was possibly an unusual one, but while such may have been the case, it was of such a character that it should have been provided for in the construction of the beam. The factor of ignorance in this case was not by any means large enough to cover the possible load and the quality of the beam, consequently the beam failed.

We will look at the strength of this beam in another way, and in a manner which some would call practical. The beam supported a floor area 14 ft. x 21 ft., and was 12 in. wide by 14 in. deep. It actually consisted of four

3 in. x 14 in. joists. If they had been used as joists they would have been placed at ft. 6 in. centres, with a span of 21ft. in the clear Would any practical and sane man construct the floor of a public hall having a span of 21 ft. with 3 in. x 14 in. joists at 3 ft. 6 in. centres? The common joists in the floor of the hall were 3 in. X 13 in. at 15 centres, with a span of only 14 ft. 10 in.

The verdict of the jury was That more than ordinary care was used in its construction and selection of

material .	 and that the sad occurrence was

purely accidental."	The jury may be perfectly satisfied

with the verdict which they gave, but there are very

many who would like to have them state the reasons which induced them to arrive at the verdict they did.

What this accident should teach is that it is not safe to trust to the practical knowledge of men who have little or no training in construction and do not understand the simplest problems in mechanics. What right has any man to construct a floor or anything else on which the lives of his fellow men may depend unless he has both the practical and theoretical knowledge which will enable him to do his work intelligently and with the certainty that he has made ample provisions to cover all possibilities ? In this case someone makes alterations, and in doing so uses a beam which is only one-third or one-fourth the strength that it should have been it breaks under the load which it should have been strong enough to carry ; many lives are lost, and a supposed intelligent jury calls it an accident. Accidents are bound to occur where ignorance is engaged in place of knowledge. Knowledge may seem high, ignorance may be cheap, but the cheap thing is not by any means the better, nor even the cheaper in the end. Is the loss of twenty-three lives and the suffering of the injured not too great a payment to make for the trivial saving made by the employment of ignorance? A man who knows, as he must know, that he cannot determine the strength of a beam, and yet will not hesitate to construct floors, etc., to carry his fellow men, should be made to suffer for his ignorance and presumption.





MR C. H. RUST.

WE present herewith a portrait of Mr. C. H. Rust, who was last week appointed City Engineer of Toronto. as successor to Mr. E. H. Keating. Mr. Rust has been in the city's service during the last twenty years, having entered the city engineer's department in December, 1877, as Rodman under the late Mr. Frank Shanly. In 1881 he was appointed assistant and draughtsman













































MR. C. H. RUST,

City Engineer of Toronto.





by Mr. Redmond J. Brough, who was then city engineer. In 1883 he was appointed by Mr. Sproatt assistant engineer in charge of sewers, and whilst in that position constructed 150 miles of sewers at a cost of nearly three million dollars. In 1892 he was appointed deputy city engineer. Mr. Rust was elected a member of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers in 1887, and last year was appointed a member of Council in place of the late Mr. Alan Macdougall. In view of the excellent service which Mr. Rust has rendered to the city in the past, his promotion is well deserved, while on the other hand, his thorough acquaintance with the work of his department will undoubtedly be of great value to the municipality.





To TAKE STAINS OUT OF WOOD.—One ounce oxalic acid, 1 gill of boiling water. Wherever you touch the stain with the liquid it will remove it if it should happen to fail try a little spirits of salts. If that Won't remove it, nothing will.

