<doctype type="text">

been compelled to assume. It is recognized that the present insurance rates are experimental and subject to revision as the results of the law shall become known. Many difficulties appear to stand in the way of the operation of the act, and expensive litigation will probably be necessary for its interpretation. Arbitration proceedings under the act are also likely to involve considerable costs.



National Plumbers' Association of Canada. A PERUSAL of the various reports presented at the recent plumbers' convention at Quebec, printed in our July issue,



serves to show that those entrusted with the management of the Association are making an earnest effort to elevate the standard of the plumbing business. The difficulties in the way of maintaining in successful operation local associations in the various provinces in affiliation with a central organization representing the entire Dominion are well nigh insurmountable in a country of such vast extent and having but a very limited population. Such a movement can only succeed as the result of great personal effort and much sacrifice of time and money on the part of the few who have the cause deeply at heart. It augurs well for the success of the plumbers' movement that the management of the central organization has been placed in the hands of men of this class. It is to be hoped that as the Association and its objects become better known, the advantages proceeding from it will be more generally recognized and appreciated by the trade, when many present discouragements may be expected to disappear. The appointment of a permanent secretary and organizer was a step in the right direction, but in view of the amount of publicity which it is possible for the Association to obtain in the columns of legitimate trade journals which regularly circulate throughout the trade, the necessity of an official bulletin is not strikingly apparent. The attention bestowed on its publication might with greater profit be given to what may be termed the more legitimate departments of association work.



OUR readers will no doubt be interested Strength of

Materials,	in the results of tests of white pine, stone and bricks recently conducted



by Prof. W. A. Pike at the University of Minnesota. Sticks of thoroughly seasoned white pine were tested for tensile strength. They were dressed to a uniform scantling 12 in. in length with shoulders on ends to take the pull. In scantling they varied from 34 in. square to 1 3/8 in. by 2½ in. ; average specific gravity

0.66.	The average ultimate tensile strength was 7,373 lbs. per square inch. It was observed that the longitudinal shearing strength of the ends of the sticks, in resisting the pull, was less than has been generally given. The ends had a shearing area of 45 sq. in., but it was necessary to spike and clamp the ends in order to prevent splitting. Thirty-five tests were made of white pine wood for resistance to compression, in which the pieces varied from 1 in. cubes to pieces 3 in. square and 54 in. in length. Of those which broke by direct compression, the crushing resistance averaged 5,283 lbs. per square inch; 1 in. cubes bore 7,800 lbs. Pieces 3 in. square and 54 in. long bore 5,222 lbs. per square in. ; 24 in. long, 5,038 lbs. ; and 12 in. long, 5,505 lbs. per square inch. Of those which failed by a combination of crushing and bending from 54 in. to 24 in. long and from 4 in. by 2 in. to 1 in. in return, the average actual stress of load was about 3,000 lbs.

Half bricks placed between pieces of pasteboard were tested for crushing resistance. St. Louis bricks failed flatwise under 6,417 lbs. per square inch ; edgewise, under 4,080 lbs. ; Hastings red brick, hard, medium and soft failed respectively under 2,017, 2,012, and 1,748 lbs. per square inch.



Art Commissions. BROOKLINE, which is a suburb of Boston, recently established an art commission, before whom all designs for

public buildings, parks, roadways, and other public works of importance were to be submitted for approval. A month or two ago the public school board selected a design for a new school, and the same was submitted to the art commission, which, after a thorough inspection, refused to approve of the design. This raised the ire of the school board, who gave it out that if the design submitted by the board was not approved, no school would be built; and, as more school accommodation was imperative, the citizens succumbed, and straightway repealed the law and abolished the commission, with the result that the objectionable school buildings will be erected, and will perpetuate the ignorance of the school board and the stupidity of the citizens. The incident, however, may result in good, as a movement is on foot to have an act passed through the legislature of the state making it compulsory on municipalities to appoint art commissions, to whom all designs of public buildings, monuments, bridges, &c., must be submitted for approval. This will take out of the hands of local boards or municipalities the power to make such a "bluff" as the Brookline board made, and will be in the interest of the state at large. If some such law was in force in Ontario, our cities and towns would not be "dotted" over with so many architectural monstrosities. It costs the country no more to build "things of beauty" than to build an ornamental nondescript. A little art knowledge combined with a modicum of brains, mixed with bricks and mortar, would often relieve us of much chagrin and disappointment.



EXTERNAL COLOR DECORATION.

WHAT beautiful external decoration, says Painting and Decorating, is made by the five figures of Giovanni Della Robbia, in Pistoria, namely, Faith, Hope, Charity, Prudence and Justice ; also by the immortal frieze, called "The Seven Works of Mercy," of which beautiful copies can be seen at South Kensington Museum, and which are good in any case as an inspiration in that class of external decoration. Not less important or beautiful are the medallions of the arms of the King of Anjou, and the months of the year, both by Luca, and also found among the many treasures of the same museum.

It would be too long to enumerate the many examples of decoration in majolica by the Della Robbia's family, who began with Michael, born about 1320, followed by Luca, about by Andrea, in 1435, and by Girolamo in 1488. Afterwards one branch of this family became almost French, and finished with Guido Della Robbia, who did not reach the age of touching the clay, but died in 1625 at the age of only five years.

Another system of external decoration not less beautiful and well adapted to resist atmospheric changes is without doubt that of graflito, which was adopted with immense technical artistic knowledge in the renaissance of the Italian art.

