<doctype type="text">

<article title="The American Tall Building" author="Capper, S.H.">



	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



buildings, to achieve their object, must remain isolated and apart; if crowded up, their lower storeys become correspondingly reduced in value. It is said that this is an economic factor that has already made itself felt and it is quite conceivable that in self-defence the tall buildings will surround themselves with shorter neighbors, or, in other words, will come to be designed as only the central portions of a larger, lower block. If so, their design will be a good deal modified, probably in marked improvement. At present the lower stories are said to be in little demand, and, as the streets, which are darkened by these buildings, are generally too narrow, it is possible that an expedient may be found corresponding somewhat to the arcaded streets of old Bologna, some portion of the ground space being given in compensation to the darkened streets, to the no small gain of the jostled foot-passenger. This would not necessarily cause the buildings to appear propped up on stilts; it would be more likely to add to the importance of the lowest storey by the pillared complexity introduced.

In the second place, where so great height is de facto attained, it seems unnecessary unduly to emphasize it in exterior design. A good many of the buildings are designed on the principle of strongly vertical lines carried through many storeys. This I venture to deem in some measure a mistake. It is right for comparatively slender tower, undoubtedly, where the sole object is height; every one will recall the noble campanile of St. Mark's at Venice (in the lower and comparatively early portion), as well as many others. These tall buildings, however, in spite of their tallness, are by no means towers they are spacious and habitable buildings; to design them as towers is twofold mistake, both practical and esthetic it is their

of honesty above reproach. Whether stone is a wholly legitimate substitute for plastic material thus required to case it in is a good deal more open to question. It is certainly more costly and more difficult to handle above all, t is a less natural material when so used. We are all so thoroughly accustomed to stone, "solid stone," as a material for the most durable, the most massive, and the most solidly constructed buildings, that it is certainly

shock to see it cramped on to a steel backing, treated like a veneer, pared down and pinned and bolted into place. This is certainly not material used in its natural way it is so unnatural, and shocks so irretrievably, that I very much doubt if it can be accepted esthetically as so satisfactory as a wholly plastic material. On the other hand, it may be legitimately contended that with stone one can get both color and texture, which are not to be had in any terra cotta or similar material. These are the two sides of a controversy upon which dogmatic decision is, perhaps, impossible.

In the third place, much and lavish exterior ornament seems wholly out of place. The buildings are themselves so large and so imposing that they do not require enrichment to give them interest mere surface ornament becomes unmeaning and superfluous when used on so large a building it becomes mere frittered labor, painful from its ineffectiveness. Many of the " tall buildings" of New York are rather lavishly ornamented, but the ornamentation is ultimately felt to detract from, not to enhance, their size. The truth is that, in a very large building, an almost monotonous repetition is of potent artistic value. Of this the Flavian Amphitheatre at Rome, the so-called Colosseum, is a well-known instance. The steady repetition of the same architectural motive, in an apparently endless series of arcades with engaged columns





















































ST. PAUL'S, LONDON.



openness, their brilliant lighting, their spaciousness, that should be emphasized, and that can best be done by horizontal treatment of the storeys. Moreover, such treatment would be, perhaps, more in accord with their construction. It is one of the misfortunes of their steel-skeleton construction that it must all be, perforce, concealed. The material, unless buried in a fire and weather-resisting shell, is extremely ephemeral and unenduring. Consequently, the architect lacks that guidance of dominant construction which goes so far to make a design coherent, logical, and easy to interpret. Yet it is a fact that these great buildings are erected in horizontal stages, comprising, it may be, several storeys each, but still well-defined platforms, or stages. And these should surely be seized upon, if practicable, and interpreted in the exterior design. It seems to me that in this way the buildings would very greatly gain in meaning and expression.

A word or two may here be suggested in regard to this construction from the esthetic point of view. Since the Gothic revival, with its battle-cry of "ornamented construction" and its decry of" constructed ornament," it is natural and inevitable, and surely right, to seize first on genuine construction to be interpreted and expressed in a design. Where, then, is there room for this totally concealed construction? Some would, of course, deny in toto right architecturally to exist metal cased in stone, they clam, is a quite illegitimate method of architectural construction, being sham of the most flagrant kind. To deny, however, to iron and steel the position they have conquered in the world of modern construction is, of course, wholly futile. But from their perishable nature they must be hidden away for their own protection. How, then, are they to be dealt with? The most obvious method is to case the metal in some form of plastic material, such as terra-cotta steel construction, thus treated, is quite capable

between, impresses the beholder with an irresistible majesty. It is true that here the individual features are themselves of large, even colossal, scale but something of the same effect seems not wholly unattainable in these tall buildings, with their monotonous repetition of similar window openings. In the "lands " of the historic High Street of Edinburgh are a good many instances of distinct architectural value and impressiveness depending wholly on sheer repetition of ordinary window openings, storey above storey. It is noteworthy, moreover, that these comparatively "tall buildings" of old Edinburgh, somewhat famous in their way, are totally devoid of architectural ornament, though singularly effective in the fair city architecture of the " Modern Athens."

In the enormously larger " tall buildings of American cities, superfluous ornamentation tends rather to disturb the resulting impression of solidity and power and scale. The most recent type of the "tall building" in New York seems to relegate the ornamentation to the base storeys just above the street, and to the top, or crowning, storeys. As has been mentioned, the lower storeys are said to be of inferior letting value, and are not, therefore, very naturally selected for extra cost in execution. But probably the temptation to enrich the storeys within fair reach of the eye from the street-level is strong, and artistically is defensible. Above all, the main entrance naturally calls for emphasis and enrichment one does not expect to enter so imposing a building by any mean or insignificant doorway. The cornice is a great difficulty it has not, it seems to me, as yet been adequately studied out. In so huge a block of building it should have a projection unattainable in practice. In Florence the Strozzi Palace (though only a portion of the grand cornice has ever been completed) is very fine example of a simple cliff-like facade crowned by a rich and noble cornice. In Rome one turns naturally to the grand cornice of the

