<doctype type="text">

<article title=" VENTILATION OF HOUSE DRAINS." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



VENTILATION OF HOUSE DRAINS

THE following is a report by Dr. Unna, the municipal engineer of Cologne, on experiments made upon the necessity of fixing secondary ventilating pipes for house drains, and the consequent circulation of water and air in the same

At the meetings of the commission which has recently been considering the revision of the Cologne police regulations referring to house drainage, doubts were expressed as to the soundness of clause 9 of the old regulations. This clause was worded as follows Each f fall pipe must be continued in the same width, and if possible without a bend, until it reaches right above the roof. The upper r points of the siphon joint are to be connected with this pipe tot the purpose of ventilation, etc., in order to avoid the f failure of the water seal. If more than two floors are drained into one fall pipe, then a separate ventilating pipe of at least 1 1/4 in. diameter must be provided, and this must be connected with the highest points of each siphon."

Apart from the fact that simplicity of construction is the guiding principle in the execution of house drainage works, the use of secondary ventilating pipes becomes positively dangerous if the installation is at all badly executed, because these pipes are soldered at such a number of points, any of which may not be tight enough to prevent the escape of sewer air. Besides, the more the installation is simplified, the cheaper it becomes.

The general method in Cologne was to use zinc pipes of a diameter of t 1/4 in. The diagonal and longitudinal seams of these were either soldered badly or, as frequently happened, they were

of the main pipe see later on.) This first fall pipe was carried right above t lie frame, and three closet pails were connected with it. In the ground floor another flat-laying pipe branched off from this fall pipe. Out to this fall pipe also three closet pans were connected, placed behind each other a distance of 3 ft. 3 it. apart. The main pipe ended in a similar vertical pipe, which was also continued upwards right above the structure re. Glass tubes of the same diameter as the inner diameter of the fall and main were inserted into t hose at each floor.

lit order to investigate every possible combination of systems

and dimensions which are met 	with in practical work, the

following points tad to be considered	 d	(1) width of drains or

main pipes , (2) width Ii of sewage pipes , (3) width of siphon connection of closet pans 4) depth of water seal (5) diameter of sieves in the sinks or pipes (6) distance of pans from pipes (7) fall of the flit laying  sidewards connections (8) effect of enlarging, and rowing or closing pipes at their upper ends (9) result of fixing or entittimig a main ittlerLeptiitg trap (to) the working of the latter Oil pans when connected with a pipe which is subject to sudden and copious flows of water suction from roof gutters, bathroom pipes, etc. (11) effect of' w.c. siphons on a pipe.

Before treating with the results concerning experiments of the working of the siphon valves against emptying of the paints by suction, a few remarks may be made referring to the observation of the movement of the water and the air in pipes and drains. These movements could be observed very clearly through the glass tubes above mentioned. During my former experiments with narrow glass tubes I could always observe that whenever a paint was emptied into a pipe a solid column of water pison was formed, which had out the water seals above and below an effect similar to that of the distoit of a and consequently they were broken—i.e., emptied by suction. This now only took place when flat-laying pipes or pipes which were closed at the top were used. In pipes open at



	1st FALL PIPE		2nd FALL PIPE

		FIG. 1		F IG. 2.

not soldered at all. The connection with the highest points of' the siphons was made by le d pipes having art inside width of 4 in. The latter were often sold at Ld blind, so that at least a continuous escape of sewer air was avoided A careful examination of these connecting pipes proved that they were quite stepped up with grease, coffee grounds and cobwebs, thus fully justifying the doubts expressed by the commission. A radical charge us required with regard to this point Those who were in favor of the retention of the by law quieted advocated the insertion of a clause stipulating that the secondary ventilating pipe, as well as the pipe connections wit It sewer, should be made of lead or iron of an inner width of at least 1/4 in. Others argued that ventilating pipes Were not necessary at all, because the siphon could not he exhausted even without t hem. In consequence of the great importance of t Ito question of house drainage, the police found the money for a series of exhaustive practical experiments dealing with this matter, and instructed Mr. Maniewski, a police architect, to make same.

It was of great interest to me to join Mr. Maniewski in these experiments as I had already instituted similar enquiries which served me as a basis for a paper on the laying of house drains, with special consideration of the hygienic significance of sour air in connection with the same. This paper appeared in the Gesundshetsingenieur, Nos. 23-24 1895 As the trials were confined to the laboratory only, I experimented with narrow glass tub s. Our Joint experiments to Lover a larger field so as to decide not only the value or otherwise of secondary ventilating pipes but also various open questions, as, for instance, the movement of air and water in the drains and so forth. For this purpose we erected a wooden frame (Fig. ), about 32 ft. 6 in. high and about 25 ft. wide, divided into three equal storey's of a height of 9 ft. to it. The fall pipes were fixed on the perpendicular wall with hoop—iron clasps. The trial conduit consisted of a level main pipe, into which a sliding valve was inserted behind the junction of the first vertical fall pipe. (For gradients

the top, the water coming from pans laying sideways of the vertical pipe was distributed in the following matter First, it foil against the opposite side of the pipe, then it dissolved itself into single threads, and finally descended along the sides of the pipe in spiral form (Fig. 2). The number of these threads increased in the same measure as the mix of water increased. This process went oil working gradually towards the centre of the pipe, until totally the whole was tilled with It these water threads. This distribution of the vat en ut the shape of single threads explains the large quantity of air which accompanied its fall, as some air particles were carried along of the surface of each thread. In order to gauge the volume of this air, we inserted into the tOt) of the pipe and anemometer of the same diameter as the pipe. The air had to pass through this instrument. It was then seen that a bucket of water (3.3 gallons) carried with it from four to six times that quantity of air, according to the rapidity of the flow. When four buckets of water were thrown in in quick succession, the quantity of air drawn in equalled to gallons. If the water was thrown in vertically from above, then parallel vertical threads were formed. This experiment was made with a second pipe 4 itches in diameter, and in this pipe about 50 per cent. less air was carried down with the water. There appears, therefore, to be greater force of suction with narrower pipes, especially when the flow comes from the side. There was no change noticeable if the pipe continued upwards in about the same width. If the added piece Itach only about half the diameter, the water threads thickened, and the water in the side connections commenced to oscillate strongly this increased movement these connections were emptied by suction. When the toll of the pipe was stopped up, no water threads formed at all.

Small quantities of water in a wide pipe simply ran down along the sides by larger quantities of water a water piston was formed, similar to those noticed by me formerly in the glass tubes, which emptied the connections (by suction. The water flowing in the mutant drain did not show a level surface—- it was more like a

