<doctype type="text">

<article title="English Views on Hot Water Heating." author="Maguire, W.J.">

den alternations of extreme heat and cold, is liable to give way. I have seen numerous failures in joints so formed.

The proper method is to connect the cold supply into the hot system at the lowest level and opposite the return pipe opening to the boiler, so that the cold water being the heaviest may enter and flow straight across in the direction of the return pipe and down to the boiler, mingling but slightly on its way with the lowest stratum of warm water in the system, so as not to enter the hot boiler dead cold, and yet not to intermingle with the upper and lighter strata of hot water in the cistern, so as in any way to prevent the very hottest water being drawn off when required. The basement hot supplies may be taken from the special basement hot pipe, so as not to affect the hot supply to baths and upper floor hot draw-off taps. And all the hot water supplies to levels above the basement may be branched direct from the upward expansion pipe. There is no positive objection to allowing a]l the hot supplies to the basement and upper floors to be drawn from the one upward expansion pipe. By placing the hot cistern judiciously, so as to allow this upward expansion pipe to be given a quick ascending gradient, the water will heat all through to the top by a circulation within itself of the water molecules and by the air and steam bubbles rising through the column of water from the boiler, conveying heat with them ; but in some instances it may be necessary, especially where there are long horizontal branches to baths, etc., to induce a slow circulation of the hot water along the branch pipes, so as to insure prompt delivery of hot water when taps are opened. This can be effected by running a small half-inch bow return pipe hack from the tar end of such branches to the hot cylinder. A definite plan to suit a]l cases can not be laid down; each arrangement for each house and all the circumstances require consideration. Abundant opportunity is afforded for the exercise of ingenuity and forethought. The master plumber's practical experience, and his knowledge of the laws that govern the movement of hot and cold water through pipes, will stand his employer in good stead. Ask a dozen men to explain the cause of circulation of hot water through pipes, and ten of them will tell you that the hot water rises because it is lighter than the cold, and they will also tell you that smoke rises up a chimney because the heated air is lighter than the air in the house. But the fact is that neither the heated water nor the heated air rise actively. They are both, if active at all, trying to fall toward the earth, for each have a certain gravity or weight of their own ; on each column of heated air and heated water, the attraction of gravitation acting from its centre in the earth is exerting its utmost force, and if left to its influence they would certainly descend toward the earth but the columns of hot air and hot water, though they do not actively rise, are actively pushed up by the superior gravity or weight of the corresponding columns of cold air or cold water, as the case may be, just as the heavy side of a scale pushes up the lighter side. It is therefore accurate to say that hot water and hot air are forced to rise by the attraction of gravity drawing down the cold water and cold air ; and it is therefore inaccurate to say that they rise because they are lighter. It is important to know and remember this in the practical arrangement or hot water circulating pipes and in the ventilation of buildings and drains.



The disagreement as to wages which threatened to cause a strike on the part of the journeymen plumbers of Winnipeg, has been satisfactorily adjusted.





DOES THE PUBLIC NEED PRO TEC TION

THE accompanying sketch is a sample of work done without qualified architectural supervision. It occurred

a building where hundreds of people assembled every week, and it is a mystery that a serious accident did































































not occur under the circumstances. To all appearances, the addition of a few tons more in weight would have caused several of the columns to drop through the

















































badly bonded piers, and a drop of only a few inches would have permitted the joists to drag away from their slender hold on the beams, and precipitated hundreds into the basement.

Four of the piers with their cap stones were split, as

