<doctype type="text">

<article title=" C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT. _ ___



C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

THE publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite architectural students to submit drawings in competition for designs for four ornamental chimneys, for which first, second and third prizes of $15, $5 and one year's subscription to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, respectively, are offered.



The chimneys may be of brick, stone or terra cotta, or any or all of these combined.

Competitors are required to show by plans, perspective sketches and details, with or without elevations, the chimneys and sufficient of the plan and arrangement of building to explain the reason for form and position adopted, and to show roofing and other adjacent features it affecting the treatment of the chimneys.

Drawing-s must he made with pen and perfectly black ink ONLY, on white drawing paper, bristol, or tracing linen, to the size of 1 X 2 1 inches, and must be so drawn as to give their proper effect when reduced to one-half this size. No brush or color work is permitted.

The competition will close at o'clock p.m. on Thursday, December 1st, 1898. No consideration will be given to drawings which may be received subsequent to that date and hour.

Drawings should be sent by mail or express, addressed to the editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, and marked on the outside " C. A. & B. Competition." All postage and express charges are to be paid by the competitors. Each drawing should be marked only with tile non de plume of the author, and should be accompanied by a sealed envelope marked with the same nom de plume and enclosing the full name and address of the competitor. This envelope will remain sealed until the competition is decided.

The merits of the designs which may be submitted in this competition will be decided by a joint committee, composed of officers of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, whose decision will be final.

The right is reserved to withold one or all of the prizes if, in the opinion of the judges, the designs submitted should be so inferior as to warrant such a proceeding.

Students are requested to read carefully the above conditions, absolute compliance with which will be required of each competitor.





<article title=" TESTS OF BUILDING STONES." author="">

TESTS OF BUILDING STONES.

IN the 17th Geological Report of the State of Indiana, the following directions are given [or testing the quality of building stones

The elasticity of stone may be tested by sawing it into long, slender strips, say two inches square and three feet long, when, if it be quite perceptibly flexible, its elasticity is good. If such a bar be suspended so as to hang free by a string and is struck a light blow with a

hammer, its evenness and solidity of fiber will be attested by a clear, sweet metallic note, riot unlike that of a fine bell, or that of a well tempered steel bar. As a rule the best stone will break with a direct line of fracture ; but it may be conchoidal or otherwise indirect and still be unobjectionable. Parallel lines of cleavage or of stratification are always favorable indications where other features are promising.

Resistance to crushing- weight may be pretty safely inferred from solidity of texture and evenness of grain but it is always necessary before a final acceptance to submit the material to the severest tests of an apparatus for that purpose. This will be described in the proper place.

In examining sandstone, with a view to building purposes, the outcropping, if there be any, should be carefully scanned with a view to discovering what effect long exposure to the atmosphere and the rigors of winter may have had upon it. If the stone has 'weathered" badly this will be shown by one or another sign of disintegration or demolition and a talus of fragments and sand will be found formed at or near the base of the outcropping cliff. Often the substance of the rock will show unmistakable evidence of inequalities of structural composition, such as horizontal cavities caused by the weathering out of seams or streaks that, on account of bearing too much iron, have oxidized and crumbled away. Such stone, if used in a building, would prove worthless and, therefore, dangerous. It is often the case, as I have observed during a long experience in civil engineering, that public bridges erected by counties are rendered unsafe by having their piers and abutments constructed of this kind of stone, and that, too, in places where most excellent material lay near at hand, and which a little knowledge of the nature of stone would have pointed out to the superintendent. Too frequently it happens that appearances of the most untrustworthy kind are relied upon where an ignorant person is set to do work which ought to be in charge of a skilled and well-informed engineer.

In judging of the probable durability of lime stone, before subjecting it to any test of science, the same observations should be made as in the case of sandstone, with a view to ascertaining its weathering qualities. Any unequal discoloration of the face of the exposed ledge should be scrutinized carefully. Usually these are caused by the presence of iron in the composition of the rock. But limestones are much more injuriously affected by hidden faults of composition than any sandstones, and for this reason they demand a much more careful examination before any extensive quarries are opened, It is often the case that iron in limestone will do no more than discolor the outer surface on exposure to the action of air and rain-water but even this is a serious defect when the stone is to be used in any structure wherein beauty is a chief object. For the rough masonry of ordinary bridges, and for the hidden foundations of buildings, a cheap and durable stone is what is most wanted, and in these discoloration is not a fatal fault.



An authority on the construction of green-houses says in a recent interesting paper that after the heating and watering, the ventilation of the green-house requires the most careful attention, and should be regarded as a part of the heating system. It should be so managed as to prevent overheating, which is commonly more detrimental than too little.

