<doctype type="text">

<article title="Recent Competitions." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



RECENT COMPETITIONS.

IN view of the growing disposition on the part of municipal and other public bodies to institute competitions for plans for public buildings, without making adequate provision to decide the merits of the plans submitted, and the appeals recently made by correspondents in these columns to the Ontario Association of Architects, to put forth an effort to improve this condition of affairs, we present the following correspondence and data relating to three of the most recent and important of these competitions

LONDON HOSPITAL COMPETITION.



In this case the principal point in the conditions, so far as members of the Ontario Association of Architects were concerned, was that it was promised that the assessor should be appointed by the Council of the Association. The Council were not, however, consulted about the matter, and when, some time after, the particulars of the competition were published, this condition came to the notice of the Registrar of the Association, and he wrote the following letter

October 6th, 1897.

P.	W. I). BRODERICK, ESQ.,

Sec. Victoria Diamond Jubilee Hospital Co., London, Ont.

DEAR SIR,—I have been given a copy of the conditions of competition for the new City Hospital of London, and find in them a clause providing for the appointment of one of the arbitrators by the Council of this Association.

I have not beard from you on the subject, but I think I may say that the Council of the Association would he glad to act in the matter if the conditions of competition do not fall below the standard of fairness to the profession agreed upon by the Association.



There is, however, a point in your conditions which will, I think, make it impossible for the Council to act. In the fourth clause from the end, you say that the successful architect may be compelled to accept for specifications and all necessary working drawings (which would include details) the sum of five hundred dollars, that is to say-, less than one-fifth of the regular commission for that proportion of the work on a building costing the sum you propose to spend.



The Association have agreed that the only acceptable condition is, that the author of the design placed first should be appointed to carry out the work at the regular commission, provided that the experts decide that the work may be safely entrusted to him. If the experts should decide that it would not be safe to entrust the work to the author of the design placed first, there would be occasion for the introduction of another architect, and the rules of competition agreed upon by the Association provide that the building committee may insist upon the appointment of some architect, in whom they have confidence, to be associated as consulting architect with the author of the design. But the Association would not agree to the superintendence being otherwise than in the hands of the designer. This is not a question of remuneration only, but is considered an essential of the creditable execution of the design. It is difficult not to injure a design in execution if the superintendence is not in the hands of the designer, even if the superintendent is a designer also and of equal merit—which, under ordinary circumstances, is unlikely.



In view, therefore, of this clause in your conditions, though individual members of the Association are free to accept it if they choose, I think it will be impossible for the Council of the Association to act as your conditions advertise.

I am yours truly,

XV.	A. LANGTON, Regular.



No reply to this was received, nor was there any publication by the hospital Committee acknowledging any necessity for change in this condition. Subsequently, after the plans were received (having been sent in under the supposition that an assessor would be appointed as promised), the secretary of the committee wrote to the Registrar asking if the Council would act in the matter, to which the Registrar replied, confirming his previous letter. A correspondent, in a position to know, says with reference to this competition ''There was not, when the plans were asked for,

any probability of the money necessary to build being even subscribed. The full amount paid for these elaborate plans was 8350, divided amongst three of the competitors. As the building can never go on under the auspices of those who got up the competition, even the successful architect has not much for his labor."

The following are the names of those who took part

in the competition Curry & Baker, Toronto; H. C.

McBride, London ; Herbert Matthews, London Geo.

Craddock, London ; A. R. Denison & Co., Toronto;

Herbert G. Paul, Toronto ; David Ogilvy, Montreal

J.	S. Russell, Stratford ; Strickland, Symonds & Rae,

Toronto; C. H. Acton Bond, Montreal.

ST. THOMAS COMPETITION.



The following are the conditions for this competition:

The City hall Committee of the city of St. Thomas will receive competitive plans and specifications for the erection of a City Hall under the following conditions

Plans arid specifications to be in the hands of the chairman of the committee (Alderman Sanders) by Thursday April 14, 898.

The building to be built on the lot on the corner of George arid

Talbot streets. Size of lot on Talbot street is 124 feet and on



George street 110 feet. The lot is on the north side of the street.



George street is on the west side of the lot and runs north and



south.



The front entrance will be off Talbot street. A side entrance will be off George street to police offices and cells.

1. The size of the building on each floor to be from 6,700 to

7,000 square feet.

2. Plans to show each floor, roof and posit ion of offices and rooms, the location of heating furnaces, pipes, radiators, lavatories, etc.

3.	Heating to be by hot water.

4.	Elevations to be given of each side of the building.

5.	The specifications are to provide for building complete, including heating, wiring for electric lighting, pipes for gas and plumbing. The whole cost not to exceed $32,000.

6.	The basement to be under the whole building, to contain 10 police cells, room for lodging tramps, room for policemen, spare vault room, coal and furnace room and to have at least 10 foot ceiling.

7.	First and second floors to contain the following offices and rooms

City Treasurer.—Office for public about 500 sq. ft. private office about 160 sq. ft. vault room about 50 sq. ft.

City Clerk.—-Office for public about 400 sq. ft. private office about 160 sq. ft. vault room about 100 sq. ft. (vault room in clerks office may be reduced by having another vault on the same floor if found more convenient.)

City Engineer.—Office for public about 250 sq. ft. private office about 160 sq. ft. vault room about 40 sq. ft.



Tax Collector.—Office for public about 400 sq. ft.



Assessor and Sanitary Inspector.—Office for public about 400 sq. ft.



Police court about 600 sq. ft.



Police magistrates office about 200 sq. ft.



Chief of Police.—Office for public about 200 sq. ft. private office about 160 sq. ft.



Free Library.—Public room about 1,600 sq. ft., and two rooms of about 50 sq. ft. each.



Committee room, adjoining or near City Engineers office, about 500 sq. ft.



Mayor's office about 200 sq. ft.



Two spare offices each about 200 sq. ft.



Auditorium to have seating capacity for about 450 people or may have gallery to seat about 100 and floor space to seat about



350.



Attic to be used as an art room.



To be lavatories in basement and on first floor and second floor with wash bowl in each office.



The specifications are to be full and complete for each trade sufficient for a proper estimate to be made of the building.

The committee offers for the first design and specification selected the sum of $150 and for the second the sum of $75.



The committee reserves the right to have the probable cost of the building certified to by a builder appointed by them before deciding on the merits of the plans.

Every architect submitting p1ans must agree in case his plans

