<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondence." author="">

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



plasticity, and can be made to flow, the movements set up developing many structures characteristic of rocks which have been squeezed or folded in the deeper portions of the earth's crust.



It is now the intention of Professors Adams and Nicholson to reproduce more accurately, if possible, the deformation and cataclastic structures of the interior of the earth. For this purpose they have invented an apparatus capable of generating great heat. With this they propose to surround the iron tube, and, by means of steam and heat, obtain those conditions which surround the plastic marble in the bowels of the earth. It has been shown by geologists that marble and other stone formations become plastic in proportion to the depth they are found in mother earth. Thus, marble found five hundred feet below the surface of the ground is much less brittle than that found, say, at a depth of one hundred feet. The reason for these different degrees of plasticity consists in the fact that the former is subjected to far greater heat and moisture than the latter. By means of their new contrivance Professors Adams and Nicholson are confident that they can reproduce the conditions that prevail far beneath the surface of the earth, and they are awaiting with confidence the results of their future experiments.



The machinery used in all these experiments was designed and









































THE CYLINDER AFTER

FIRST APPLICATION

OF PRESSURE.















COLUMN BEFORE PRESSURE—CYLINDER IN

WHICH COLUMN HAS BEEN REDUCED BY



PRESSURE AND HAS BU RST IRON SHEETING.







manufactured at McGill, and its counterpart does not exist elsewhere on this continent. It is largely the work of the students, who are thus trained in the principles underlying mechanics and hydraulics. The average pressure employed in rnoulding the marble is 8o,ooo pounds to the square inch. This is obtained by a number of hydraulic cylinders, which increases the natural pressure of the water mains—130 pounds to the square inch to the above astounding proportions.



The opinion has been expressed that the experiments suggest a danger from the building of such sky-scrapers as are springing up in our cities. It has been said that if marble, one of the hardest of stones, yields to and becomes plastic under sufficient pressure, then clearly there must be a limit to the height to which one building stone can be heaped upon another in the erection of walls, without incurring the danger of such yielding of the stones of the bottom of the wall or building as will endanger the integrity of a building. For, shout of the point at which the stone crumbles, there is apparently a point at which it may slowly



















POOL OF WATER AT INSTANT WHEN BALL FALLS N INTO

7-

































change its shape under stress of heavy and long continued pressure.

In reference to this surmise Prof. Nicholson says " The height of a uniformly thick brick wall required to crush brickwork is about one thousand feet, and that of a stone wall to crush either sandstone or limestone about five thousand feet. Long before these heights could be reached the building would have failed from lack of lateral stability under wind pressure, unless the

width of base was of similar proportion to the height. Chimneys from five hundred to six hundred feet in height have, it is true, been built, and are still standing, but they have, of course, a regular batter all the way up, reducing the load very much. The crushing pressures assumed by me in my computations on this subject are 800 lbs. per square inch for brick work and 4,400 pounds per square inch for sandstone. There is not, therefore, nor can there be any sky-scraper a near approach to the moulding pressures, such as 70,000 to 80,000 pounds per square inch, employed in our experiments at McGill."



The experiments regarding the mobility of marble put quite a new complexion upon the question of glacial movement. For if it be proved that marble, a substance far harder than ice, and quite as brittle, can be molded by pressure alone into new shapes, it seems perfectly plausible that a much less degree of pressure might mold ice into new forms by causing its molecules to slide over one another without the intervention of melting. In this view ice and marble, and, of course, all other solids, are to be regarded as merely very stiff or viscid liquids. Gravitation alone does not suffice to make them flow, as it does more limpid liquids, but when additional force is applied their mobility becomes apparent.



This view, indeed, as applied to such solids as iron and other malleable metals is not new, for the mobility of such solids under pressure, as when hammered, is widely known. A curious experiment recently made by Professor Sinclair has illustrated this in a very vivid way. By means of an ingenious apparatus it has been possible to photograph the surface of a bowl of water at the moment a ball dropped from a height falls into it. The photograph being instantaneous, the water splashed up about the ball gives the impression of a solid crater. But the curious feature is, that exactly such crater as this is formed into a sheet of armor plate. About the mouth of the hole where the ball enters the iron is a bulging rim or crater of iron, which was manifestly splashed up exactly as the water splashes up about the miniature ball, making the observer feel that the iron and the water are really of one physical nature, one being merely a little harder than the other. The experiments at McGill make it clear that the same thing is true of marble also; that, in short, in a broader view, brittle solids are only very fragile liquids, just as malleable solids are very tenacious liquids.





THE ST. THOMAS CITY HALL COMPETITION.

As soon as possible after the announcement of the above competition the Council of the Ontario Association of Architects sent a communication to the committee intimating that the terms of the competition were not such as would be likely to secure designs from the best men in the profession.



A copy of the code approved by the Association was also sent in order to inform the committee as to the points wherein their conditions were lacking. The committee declined to alter the terms. The members of the Association were informed of the action of the council and later of the decision of the committee.



We must congratulate the Council for its promptness in this case, and it is a matter of regret that its efforts were unsuccessful.



It is to be hoped that the members of the Association will sustain the action of their representatives, and by the absence of designs prove to the committee their mistake in not issuing suitable terms.



The outcome of the late London competition is a proof of the unsatisfactory nature of such competitions when not safeguarded by proper conditions, and it is amazing how architects will, for the very hazy chance of a job, throw all caution and esprit de corps to the winds. So long as this is the case they will be the dupes and tools of committees, who, too often, have already selected their man. We regret to have to say that even men who claim high standing in the profession have erred in this respect— men who have accepted office and by that act are published as representative men. Such conduct is demoralizing and will tend to license on the part of others, especially the younger men and to the gradual lowering of professional standards.





A PROTEST.

TORONTO, April 15th, 1898.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



DEAR SIR,—I very heartily endorse the remarks contained in the letter of "A Young Architect," in the CONTRACT RECORD of the 16th ultimo.

It seems to me simply outrageous that, not merely plain every-clay members of the Ontario Association of Architects, hut members of the Council, should soil their professional skirts by countenancing such a competition as that for the London hospital— even though the rumor be true that a "pull" was the tempting bait which led them blindly on. 1 am of the opinion that to follow such standards, not to speak of pursuing architecture on a "commercial basis" is destined to work incalculable harm to the Association—and even to the men who follow such ideals. Why should the honorable men of the society passively submit to the ruination of the influence of their Association by the action of such men?

I think, Mr. Editor, it is quite time to bring this question to the front. Every member of the profession should follow the closing precept of Garbutt's Elements of Design: "SEEK NOT TO SE EM WHAT YOU WOULD HE, BUT HE WHAT YOU WOULD SEEM."

Yours very truly,



ANOTHER YOUNG ARCHITECT.

