<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondence" author="">

Mr. James Simpson, first President of the Montreal Builders' Exchange, is senior member of the firm of Simpson & Peel, carpenter contractors. He is a native of Montreal, and to the manner born, having succeeded to the business of his father, the late James Simpson, Sr., who was its founder half a century ago. That Mr. Simpson is a thorough master of his trade is evidenced by the creditable work performed under his direction in such buildings as the New York Life Building, on Place d'Armes, the Imperial Building on St. James street, the Bank of Toronto Building, the Royal Victoria Hospital and many handsome residences.

























(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)





PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



THE usual winter course of lectures of the above association will be held in the Art Gallery, Phillips Square, Montreal, as follows :—January 27th, at 8.15 p.m., ' Pompeii A City of the First Century," with illustrations, by Prof. Frank D. Adams,

M. A., Sc., Ph.D. February 24th, at 8.15 p.m., "Brunelleschi with illustrations, by Prof. C. W. Colby, M. A., Ph.D. March

29th, at 8.15 p.m., "Ancient Rome," with illustrations, by Prof. S. H. Capper, M. A.

Through the influence of Mr. A. T. Taylor, Hon. Secretary R. I. B. A. 0., the Province of Quebec Association of Architects has received the documents, models, programmes, etc., for the international competition for the Phoebe Hearst architectural plan of the University of California. These documents, etc., are exhibited in the rooms of the association, New York Life Building. Architects have been invited to call and inform themselves on this important matter.



THE BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



SOME particulars were given in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for December of the preliminary steps taken in the direction of organizing a Builders' Exchange for the city of Montreal. It is gratifying to state that the organization of the Exchange has now been accomplished. The officers elected are as follows President, James Simpson ; vice-president, C. T. Williams hon. secretary-treasurer, G. J. Sheppard board of directors, Messrs. James Simpson, P. Lyall, A. Cowan, J. McLean, F. Fournier, C. T. Williams and W. P. Scott.



The directors have rented and had fitted up to suit the requirements of the Exchange a suite of rooms ~n the Mechanics' Institute Buildings. From 10 to 12 o'clock has been selected as 'Change hours, when members or their representatives will be in attendance to meet those desirous of doing business with them.



A great deal of interest and enthusiasm has been awakened in the movement, the success of which appears to be, to a large example. JAMES SIMPSON,

President Montreal Builders' Exchange.



tent, already assured. The management has been placed in competent hands, and there is reason to hope that the Exchange will rapidly grow in membership and influence.



Printed herewith are brief sketches and portraits of the president, vice-president and hon. secretary-treasurer, upon whose energy and ability the prosperity of the new organization must largely depend.

MR. C. T. WILLIAMS,

Vice-President Montreal Builders' Exchange.



Mr. Charles T. Williams, Vice-President of the Builders' Exchange, was born in New England in the year 1845 and had his early business training in the near neighborhood of Boston. Coming to Canada in the spring of 1874, he formed the acquaintance of Mr. Geo. W. Reed, the well known roofer of that city, with whom he soon became associated in business. For several years past he has had the entire management of the business, and in January, 1897, bought out Mr. Reed's interests and assumed the entire control, but retaining the firm name of George W. Reed & Co. The house has a large business in roofing and roofing materials, asphalting, galvanized iron piping, &c., and has lately added the agency for the Boston Blower Co., heating and ventilating engineers, to the lines formerly carried. Excellent examples of artistic workmanship in copper carried out under Mr. Williams direction, may be seen by examining the roof of the McDonald and Redpath Buildings at McGill University and the residence of Mr. Duncan McIntyre.























































MR. GEO. J. SHEPPARD,

Secretary-Treasurer Montreal Builders' Exchange.



Mr. George J. Sheppard, who was by an unanimous vote elected to the position of Hon. Secretary-Treasurer, has been largely instrumental in getting the Builders' Exchange started. He has for some years been connected with his father, Mr. Charles Sheppard, in the brick and tile manufacturing business. Founded upwards of 39 years ago, the business has grown and developed to a remarkable degree. The extensive plant and works are located at the head of DeLorimer, Parthenais and Fullmor streets, and comprise seventy acres of land. The equipment is modern in every respect. An idea may be gained of the large capacity of these works when it is estimated that their aggregate output has been over 300,000,000 of bricks in the city of Montreal. Mr. George J. Sheppard is well and favorably known in Montreal and vicinity, where he is regarded as one of the rising and promising commercial men,

