<doctype type="text">

<article title="Collection of Architectural Books." author="">

COLLECTION OF ARCHITECTURAL BOOKS.

THROUGH the efforts of Professor Capper, some valuable additions to the equipment of the Chair of Architecture of McGill University, Montreal, have recently been made. Among the more recent additions the chief are those in illustration of Renaissance and modern architecture. From these may be especially noted Sauvegeot's "Palais et Chateaux de France," in four volumes, very finely illustrated, also Penor's '' Palais de Fontainebleau," in two volumes, and the same author's "Chateau de Heidelberg" ; also two volumes of Belcher and Macartney's great work, not yet finished, of English Renaissance architecture. This book is a continuation of Gotches' English Ren. architecture, and is published by Batsford, London. It is profusely illustrated with many beautiful plates.

Of the modern German and French authorities, the following books may be noted Schnaare's Geschichte der Bildenden Kunste, in 7 volumes, Semper's Der Setil, Boetticher's Tecktonik der Hellenee, and Viollet le Duc's great dictionary of Mobilier Francais.

A small collection of standard, though less recent works, has also been acquired, including Murphy's Arabian Antiquities of Spain, Wood's Palmyra and Balbec, Cottingham's Monograph on King Henry VII.'s Chapel at Westminster, and Texier and Pulian's Byzantine Architecture.

The casts that have recently been added comprise a small but choice collection, illustrating English Gothic details. These casts, it is understood, were obtained by favor of the owners from a private collection in London, and are, therefore, the more interesting, as being to some extent unique.

Two distinguished French visitors to Montreal last winter, one of whom was M. Rene Doumic, who lectured at Laval University, expressed themselves as greatly pleased with the fine collection of casts already displayed to such advantage in the Engineering Building of McGill University.



ARTIFICIAL BLACK MARBLE. —A black marble of similar character to that exported from Belgium -the latter product being simply prepared slate—may, says the Boston Journal of Commerce, be produced in the following manner The slate suitable for such purpose is first well and smoothly polish with a sandstone, so that no visible impression is made on it with a chisel this being the rough--- after which it is polished finely with artificial pumice stone, and finally finished with extremely light natural pumice stone, the surface now presenting a velvet-like, soft appearance. After being allowed to dry, and the surface being thoroughly heated, the finely polished surface is impregnated with a mixture, heated, of oil and fine lampblack. This is allowed to remain twelve hours ; and, according- to whether the slate used is more or less grey, the process is repeated until the grey appearance is lost. Polishing thoroughly with emery on a linen rag follows, and (he finishing polish is with tin ashes, to which is added some lampblack. A finish being thus made, wax dissolved in turpentine, with some lampblack, is spread on the polished plate, warmed again, which after a while is rubbed off vigorously with a clean linen rag. Treated thus, the slate has a deep black appearance like black marble, the polish being just as durable as the latter.



Duplex

Sanitary

Baths

The Toronto Steel Clad Bath & Metal  Co. Ltd. Toronto and Montreal