<doctype type="text">

HAMILTON

(Correspondence of the CANA

		DIAN ARCHITECT AND

	—	    BUILDER.)



PERHAPS the most interesting piece of news from this city for this month is the formation of a Builders' Exchange, the possibility of which was alluded to in my last letter.

Two meetings were held, at the first of which the advisability of such an organization was fully discussed, and it was resolved that those present should form themselves into an association. Provisional committees were struck to draft by-laws, and look about for suitable rooms at which meetings could be held, and



the meeting adjourned till Tuesday, 29th Nov. In the interval all who were not present were to he looked up and invited to attend the adjourned meeting that every trade might be fully represented.

On the evening of the adjourned meeting a large number of' builders and contractors n all trades, with a sprinkling of material supply men and half a dozen architects, put in an appearance. Mr. John T. Irwin was asked to preside, and the provisional secretary, Mr. J. H. Smith, to act as secretary. A set of provisional by-laws was then read and agreed to so far as they went, and officers were elected as follows

President, Mr. John T. Irwin.

Vice-President, Mr. William Hancock.

Secretary, Mr. J. H. Smith.

Treasurer, Mr. W. J. Reid.

Directors—Messrs. J. Ross, J. D. Pocock, F. A. Carpenter, A. Clark, G. Clapham.

The intention is to rent rooms at once suitable for the purposes of the Exchange, and get into working shape as soon as possible.











































MR. JOHN T. IRWIN,

President Hamilton Builders' Exchange.





A meeting is to be called in a few days to consider the provisional by-laws, and get them amended and confirmed.

The Hamilton Builders Exchange begins its existence on a broad basis that should ensure its success, not only as an association of contractors meeting together for their own good, but as a means of bringing together all men connected with building. It is to include in its membership all material supply men, manufac-

turers of builders supplies and so on, and certain architects will be elected as honorary members. The president is member of the firm of T. Irwin & Sons, slaters and roofers, and the secretary, Mr. J. H. Smith, of the J. H. Smith Iron Manufacturing Company. In the choice of the remaining members of the board of directors, representation has been given to as many trades as possible. Some thirty men signed the roll for membership, which will in a short time receive a large number of additional signatures. Of course, the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be the official











































MR. WM. HANCOCK,



Vice-President Hamilton Builders Exchange.

	of tine Exchange.	Mention was made 01 the	at the



meeting, and it was admitted that it would be a first rate means of communication between the Builders' Exchanges of the various cities.

R.	W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.





<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE." author="">

CORRESPONDENCE.

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]





THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

HAMILTON, December, 1898.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



DEAR SIR,—I am hesitating good deal about writing you another letter for publication in this month's issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, but there is a matter that, in the advanced state of the season, will not admit of being held over another month. This matter is the Ontario Association of Architects. I have not kept up my membership for the past few years, but I have always taken a great interest in the Association, and have deeply regretted that it is apparently receding rather than advancing, and that very many members have lost heart at the repeated failures to obtain legislation. I wish very much that some of the old vigor and goodfellowship which characterized the inception of the Association were more in evidence to-day. It is time to ask what is to be the future of the O.A.A. I venture to offer a little criticism and to make a suggestion or two. Very great praise is due to the vigorous members of the Council for the zeal they have displayed in the attempt to secure legislation, in establishing examinations and placing the Association in the position of prosperity it once occupied. But, as I often slated, the policy of our Councils was wrong. Two matters of the utmost importance were neglected. The first was the failure to make the Association a real value to its members, and the second that it always kept itself in the background and aroused no interest in the public. From one convention to another its name was hardly ever to be seen in the daily press. Surely the first essential to the success of any association is that it shall make itself of value to its members. Legislation being the ultimate object of the O.A.A., it was right to keep that in view, but it was mistake to make that the one and only object. Legislation being the object, the O.A.A. should have been kept prominently before the public, and such action taken by the Council as would have made the public recognize its value as an advisory board. I know that attempts were made to move in public matters, such as in forming building by-laws and so on, but it was done in a wrong spirit the Council was too dogmatic. Public lectures, a very few of which were

