<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED I TO I THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,



AND BY ASEING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



IN the building of sheds or temporary Some Constructional buildings for agricultural fairs or for

Features.

other specific purposes, the country contractor is often called upon to display a constructional ability that taxes his resources to the utmost. For a temporary shed, suitable for exhibition purposes, for stabling or for the display of farm products, the design shown at Fig. might be adopted, as the con-



















structional features are simple, and it may be built altogether of planks, ninety per cent. of which may be employed for other purposes after having served in the building, if not required to remain. The posts might be made of 2 X 10' stuff, girts 2" X 8", roof timbers of 2x6, braces 2 x 4', cut flat footed, and the whole either spiked together with heavy spikes or bolted together with 3/8 carriage bolts. The latter would be the better and the cheaper in the end, as less lumber would be destroyed, and the bolts would not be in the least impaired. The bays, B B B B, might be devoted to cattle or poultry, and the centre bay, A, could be used for exhibiting roots, fruits or other similar products. No other foundation than 3' X 12 plank blocks resting under each post would be required, and the outside wall, 0, might be formed of 2' x 4 scantling, and boarded with planed or rough lumber. The roof would answer very well if covered with sound one inch boards,

























FIG. 2.



doubled, and laid with their lengths running parallel with the incline of the roof, and well lapped over at the top joints. Fig. 2 shows another style of shed, suited to a position where the ground clips. In this case, A and B would make the exhibition flat for farm products,

while the lower bay, C, would answer for live stock. The method of construction may be the same as the  previous design. Fig. 3 exhibits a more complicated design, but one possessing the same constructional features as the previous examples. The braces are formed of planks, single and double, and the posts may be either round unwrought timber, or square, or formed of planks in one or two thicknesses. The

 whole is bolted together with suitable carriage bolts, which makes the strucstrong and firm.

		Round	WHEN round and straight

Timber timber is plentiful, it may

	A	Construction.

sometimes be deemed necessary to erect sheds and other outbuildings with frames of timber the most available. In order to meet this condition we offer a few designs an which round timber forms the structural base. Fig. 4























FIG.

3.







is designed merely as a sun and rain shed, with feed boxes against each supporting post. The central posts or uprights are let into the ground and have their ends

resting on a log, as shown by the dotted lines, and the ends are either tenoned or spiked into this log, and braces are then run up from the log to a point just above the ground line, and are secured firmly to both log and post. The cross timber is scarfed into the post at 0, and is well fastened with bolts or other sufficient device. The main braces are cut fiat footed at X N, and fit on a prepared surface made on the cross timber, and the junction is well secured. The lower ends of

the braces may be bolted to the upright post, or they may be tenoned or secured by any other method. The ridge pole and plates are shown, and the rafters may be of round balsam poles covered with rough sheeting boards, and shingled. Fig. 5 shows an end bent of a building formed with round timbers

