<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondence." author="">

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



tects I find I was mistaken. Evidently—in Toronto if not elsewhere—'' a prophet hath no honor in his own country, else the exhaustive experiments made by Mr. I. S. Dobie, grad. S.P.S., could hardly have passed unnoticed by Mr. Burke or some other member of the Association. Read his conclusions and ponder on the same. They are as follows:

While there is no doubt that a covering of Portland cement concrete will afford some protection to a metal column or girder, still there appears to be no doubt that the concrete itself will be ruined by the action of the fire and will have to be removed as soon as the fire is subdued. The concrete covering may remain upon the ironwork during a fire, but the heat will damage it to such an extent that it will disintegrate afterwards," etc.

A number of cement briquettes were heated and rapidly cooled by immersion in cold water, after being heated for different lengths of time at different temperatures. In every case the briquette cracked when immersed, and if they were red hot before immersion, they completely disintegrated, in most cases being reduced to a heap of soft mud. Sand and cement acted precisely similarly to the neat ones, and it appears conclusive that if cement or concrete is allowed to become red hot, and is then immersed in cold water, the effect would be ruinous in the extreme.

Mr. Burke dwells very much on the Roebling test of the Maurer system. Why mention a test conducted by a rival firm ? Are such to be accepted ? I cannot think any intelligent man would unhesitatingly accept it under such conditions. Is it not strange the Maurer arch only stood the fire test for three (3) hours, when Stevenson Constable reports them as standing during his experiments for six (6) hours uninjured. Nearly twenty days afterwards he loaded this arch up to 1960 lbs. per sq. toot, and it still de— dined to fall. Why the difference? Roeblings may be able to answer the question.

But let us examine a little further A Roeblings concrete arch was tested by Stevenson Constable in 1896. This arch was loaded to 150 lbs. per sq. foot and subjected to five (5) hours firing. Upon re—opening the doors before putting water on it, it was seen that all the plaster and wire netting- had burned off

	except in the extreme corners. But note further	 Mr. Con



stable being rest rained from interference," etc. Why should he be restrained ? Whom are we to believe whose report accept the interested Roeblings or the disinterested Constable ? I think there can be no two opinions as to the answer.



Past experience should teach us that hanging tiles, wire and metal lathing and other kindred methods can only result in failure, and I may here say that if the Washington test of ''asbestic plaster'' was conducted on he same principle as that in Montreal, it is utterly unreliable that in the latter city being a

	perfect farce in so far as testing the material went.	question if



any architect would take the responsibility of using metal lath, hanging tiles, or even asbestic plaster as the only protection were he constructing a fireproof building.

For nearly twelve years I have studied and experimented with different materials for fireproofing. I have had unusual facilities and opportunities for posting myself on the different systems— past an(1 present used in Europe and America, but have yet to find a material which has the fire-resisting qualities of porous terra cotta, My own opinion, gained from a large experience, is that no concrete, or all—plaster system is safe, and I heartily endorse the action of the Board of Examiners of New York in their condemnation of concrete. It was well founded, and unless adhered to, may sooner or later lead to disastrous results.

Yours very truly,



N.	T. GAGNON.





THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS AND

WHAT IT SHOULD DO.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BU ILDER.



SIR,—The proceedings of the tenth convention of the Ontario Association of Architects as reported in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER seem to show that organization to be suffering from nervous prostration in an aggravated form. This association, called into existence with the avowed intention of seeking legislation to enable it to restrict the practice of architecture, has made a long and manful fight of it. Relinquishing one point or another in the proposed Bill as the years passed, it has been consistent to the last in seeking for its members legal recognition and a status denied to outsiders.

That the promoters of this idea of seeking legislation were acting in what they believed to be the best interests of the profession, there is no doubt. They felt at the outset that public opinion was

not ripe for the passing through the Legislature of such a measure as was desired; and so the "campaign of education," which has been carried on for years, was begun with high hopes. In this campaign the architects in their wisdom sought to disguise the real object of the Bill—which was, of course, the advancement of the profession——and to make it appear that the prime motive of its authors was the protection of the public. This was not quite sincere and unfortunately such arguments as can be adduced to show that such legislation as was proposed would afford real protection to a suffering public, are not quite conclusive. For instance, let me quote from the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for February, 1898:

Even the terrible calamity at London has not taught the average man common sense. From the papers we find that in several instances the advice of incompetent parties has been asked as to the safety of public buildings. Every man who calls himself a builder or an architect is not a safe or reliable authority upon construction. The Ontario Association of Architects have been doing their utmost to obtain from the Ontario Legislature such changes in their Act as would to some extent protect the public against the possibility of such accidents as the London disaster."

Now, permit me to ask, to what extent would such legislation as the association has been seeking furnish safeguards against the occurrence of catastrophes such as that at London ? If the Ontario Architects' Act had been amended as the architects desired, it would now be illegal for anyone beginning practice to style himself an "architect " unless he had passed a prescribed examination. Let it be granted that this examination be such that no one could pass it without proper knowledge. Let it also be assumed that the incompetents already in practice, and on that account, not to be forbidden the use of the word "architect," have died or gone to the United States. Most architects know that in building operations accidents, slight or serious, are due quite as often to carelessness or oversight as to incompetence. That an architect has had at some time in his life, or even that he still has, a proper knowledge of construction, is very far from being a guarantee that no accidents can happen in connection with work with which he has to do. And, even suppose the association could guarantee its members to be architects who are not only competent, but careful, conscientious, never overworked, nor fond of modes of construction too economical to be quite safe—in short, guarantee them to be infallible——what of the other fellows who are not

architects," but who would still have a right to build and might find occasion ? Their structures, of course, might be placarded

Unlicensed and Irregular," and the public thus warned when to dodge. But, seriously, is it any wonder that the "average man is suspicious of legislation which seems so ill-adapted to the ends professed to be had in view; or, that by advancing such arguments, the association has signally failed to create a sentiment in favor of its demands ?

The truth is, this whole movement for legislation has been rather petty in its aim and not too farsighted. The proper sphere of action for an architects' society lies along other lines. In the purchase of a library, and in the institution of examinations, the association has done work much to its credit, work that has been of real value to junior members of the profession. What the architects of Ontario need is not legislation to protect them or the public, hut grace to see that they have embraced an art and profession which is rich in interest, which has fields for study that are very broad, and in the practice of which, even at this time and place, it is possible to preserve some germs of what really is

Architecture.''

So much for the profession and if the association really wants to do a public service, here's a tip

Toronto either has no proper building laws, or they are not enforced. Because the amended Ontario Architects Act would afford the public no adequate protection against dangers from panics, tires, or falling buildings it does not follow that the public should not be protected. There is in Toronto at least one theatre

------and that a much frequented one in which the size and arrangement of exits is such that its use is a constant menace to public safety. And I believe this theatre is not much worse in this regard than are some other buildings in Toronto where crowds assemble from day to day. Such an organization as the Ontario Association of Architects has it in its power to create such an agitation as would lead to the establishment in Toronto—and what is said of Toronto of course applies to other cities in Ontario—of effective building laws compiled by experts, and a Department of Buildings competent to secure their strict enforcement. Such a Building Department as New York City has, Toronto should have if on a smaller scale.

Let the Ontario Association of Architects urge the adoption of such practical means for securing the public safety as have been found effective in New York and elsewhere, and it will prove itself worthy of all support. Let it wait for another London disaster to occur in Toronto or somewhere else, and then through its convention, or its organ, prate about a Bill to restrict the use of the word "architect," and it will not command the respect of

Yours truly,

ARTHUR E. WELLS.

