<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BY THE WAY." author="">

specification for a new piece of work, he takes from his model specification a list of numbers (without names), and where special or altered clauses eventuate, he drafts them on separate slips of paper and makes a note of it on the list of numbers. The routine or stereotype of the matter can thus be obtained for the stenographer by the use of a string of numbers ; the intention is not to use the skeleton numbers in the finished document.

Interlining of old specifications has its advantages, but so seldom is it that two jobs are similar that it entails considerable drafting of slips to apply in this case. The suggestion of model clauses or siips is better.

Another feature is noted in specification writing, that which might be called the "Construction Method." As the several items come on the works and are used, in the same order should they appear in the written document, and thereby save many omissions or the makeshift of an addenda.

In the carpenters' work, four subdivisions might be made, and classified as rough work," '' exterior work," " interior work " and "trimmings, with hardware. Some architects draw a carpenter's specification as a whole, without making any different headings or marginal references. This involves time and patience in hunting out any one item, unless the person looking for it is familiar with the make-up. Mechanics having to refer for guidance, experience difficulty in locating the desired information from the vague way the clauses are designated, and the length of paragraphs, covering several items.

On completion of the whole specification a frontal index page should give the contents of the several pages, thus

Page 1-- Excavate, grade, etc.

Page 2---Drains, weepers, filling.

For single items of reference, the alphabetical index of contents to the printed forms is easy of access, but does not always assist the architect so well as a list prepared on the construction method.

Each trade should have a slight reference clause drawing attention to one general set of conditions and time schedule, giving date of completion for each contractor, preceding the main specification. Thus, such features of the '' Builders' Revised Contract" as do not coincide with the wishes of the writer can be straightened out as he may desire.

Frequent changes could be made from time to time in a model specification or system similar to the manner in which a filing cabinet can be used. The arrangement should consist of cards of tag board, 3 inches high x the width of foolscap, on which each paragraph is pasted. The numbers must assist in maintaining order. When it is found absolutely necessary to elongate a clause, or introduce a new one, and space is not to be had on a card, let such additional card hear the number of the paragraph or insertion, and be distinguished by letters, as No. 76A. or No. 76B.

In " setting up" for a specification, one would only require to pick out the clauses and add such changes by written slips, to convey to the stenographer the matter. Letter files or a desk drawer will easily contain this system, and be kept in order by the office boy after each piece of work has been written.



Cobalt green is fast to light and weather, and does not re-act with other pigments. Dilute acids do not affect it, but strong ones dissolve it, forming a blue solution. Alkalies have no action

upon it.

<article title=" MARBLE WORK." author=" BLAGROVE, George H.">

MARBLE WORK.

By GEORGE H. BLAGROVE.



STATUARY, carved ornament, mouldings and surfaces such are the principal uses to which marble can be applied in relation to architecture. There can be no doubt that the happy union between the natural and the ideal which was attained by Greek sculptors, and which rendered their creations at once so god-like and so human, owed much of its impressiveness to the pure white marble in which they worked. We have only to compare any single specimen of marble statuary with its plaster counterfeit to be convinced of this. Plaster being relatively opaque, it can give us nothing but reflected lights ; whereas the more enduring material derives a flesh-like aspect from its translucence, combining the effects of reflection and refraction. The former material is death-like, the latter life-like ; and when the milk-like surface of Carrara has been softened and mellowed by time, it has acquired a warmth assimilating it more closely to living flesh. There is no other material that can so well afford to be toned down as marble. Even when yellow with age, its surface is alive with minute scintillations of light. This is true in a greater or less degree with respect to many of our building stones, but it is pre-eminently so with white marble. These are the principal reasons why marble is so well suited for the highest purpose of the sculptor -the representation of the human figure.

In reference to statuary marble-- the technical name is happily suggestive of its noblest use the important question arises, should sculpture be polished? The public who are afforded opportunities of inspecting ancient marble sculpture in museums, and modern work of a corresponding kind at the Royal Academy and elsewhere, have been educated into thinking of figure sculpture generally as unpolished. Modern specimens of polished work are to be met with occasionally ; polished figure sculpture dating back some two hundred years or more, is more plentiful, and there are isolated examples of Greek and Roman production which retain their original polish almost unimpaired. But with these exceptions, it may be asserted that the best sculpture which the British public ordinarily obtain opportunities of seeing has either never been polished, or has so far parted with the polish it originally had, that it cannot now be said to possess any. Yet it is an established fact that not only the Greek and Roman sculptors of antiquity, but those of the mediaeval period also, gave a very high polish to the nude portions of their statues. The same practice was followed in the Renaissance period, and Michel Angelo even went so far as to polish some portions of a statue more highly than others, so as to obtain high lights just where he wanted them. Yet modern sculptors are practically unanimous in discarding polish, rejecting in this respect, as we have seen, the traditions of their best predecessors in the art. Which is right, the practice of the moderns, whose art is but a thing of yesterday, or that which was undeviatingly followed in the best as well as the worst periods of art within the cognizance of history? The question is, as we have designated it, an important one; for the practice deemed right for adoption in relation to figure sculpture ought to furnish us with some principle for our guidance in dealing with architectural carvings generally. It behoves us, therefore, as architects, to determine which practice we intend to encourage, as occasions present themselves calling for our decision.

Professor J. H. Middleton, who contributes a learned

