<doctype type="text">

a a show the portion for stalls, and if used for a barn or other similar purpose, the opening-, b, may answer for a threshing-floor, while the loft, c, and the spandrils may be made to serve the purpose of a hay or grain loft. The methods of construction are quite ap

It may be divided into three stories, a, a, b, if desired. The posts, c, c, are let into the ground four feet, and the other timbers are framed, bolted or lashed to them. The structure should be lighted and entered from the ends. A building of this sort makes an unique arid pleasant summer house, and it may be used for many purposes.



WE present herewith a design for a Dormer Windows, dormer window, which possesses the

twofold quality of quaintness and economy. The windows are composed of two sashes, each containing 20 lights, of 10x 12 glass. The sashes are hung and fit snugly in their frames, and are held closed by small shot-bolts top and bottom. Fig. 8 shows

















FIG. 4.





parent, the long braces being lashed to the central posts and cross girts. While this diagram is supposed to represent a combined barn and stable, it may be made to answer many other purposes. Fig. 6 shows a











FIG. 5.





larger building, and is intended for a driving shed, suited for a country tavern, or even for a country church, where farmers drive some distance to reach the place of worship, and where accommodation for teams

















FIG. 6.



is imperative. The centre post, a a, b b, shows the dividing line, and may be boarded up to the ridge, or only part of the way. The spaces, u u, are left large enough to accommodate horses and buggy. The lofts,



















FIG. 7.





c c, are intended for hay if the shed is in connection with a tavern ; if in connection with a church, the lofts will require no flooring on the girts. Fig. 7 exhibits a structure that is very strong, and rather odd in shape.

FIG. 8.—DORMER WINDOW, FRONT ELEVATION.





front elevation and plan, with details of mullion and jambs. The finish is quite plain, there being neither rolls on the angles or mouldings on the cornice. The gable is finished, and the finishing shingles on each course are rounded on their butts, which gives the work a good appearance. The angle occasioned by the sashes facing in different directions give a piquancy to the whole work that is very pleasing. The angle forrnsd under the sill, at its junction with the roof, may

































FIG. 9..—SIDE ELEVATION DOR MER WINDOW.





be sided or shingled, the latter preferred the horizontal lines being made to confirm with the same lines as the roof. Fig. 9 shows the side elevation of dormer with the line of roof. it will be observed that the roof of the dormer continues beyond the face of the mullion making the gable over the sashes parallel with the wall plate ; this necessitates a deep some over the sashes, which may be ceiled with matched and beaded stuff. In

