<doctype type="text">

so as to both secure the window and to hold it open at certain distances. The frame and sash should be made of clear well-seasoned cypress, white pine or redwood. When a skylight of the style described above is placed on a flat roof it may be made in the same way, only









































FIG. 167a.



making the frame higher at one end than at the other, so that the sash will have an inclination of about 2 inches to the foot. in flat roofs the frame or curb may be set on top of the roof. Fig. 167a shows another detail, which is in some respects superior for large skylights." _____________________







(Page 218.) "IN the Eastern States it

Furring Around

	Chimneys.	is customary to fur around all chimneys

		with 2 X 3 inch or 2 x 4 inch studding,



usually set flatways (except in outside walls) as shown in Fig. i86. The object of this is to form a nailing for

cutting the joists and plate, and should only be used with caution and not near an angle of the building. When there is a fireplace the furring is set so as to form a breast wide enough to receive the mantel, and an opening is left large enough to receive the facing around the fireplace opening, the facing being usually set flush with the plaster (see Fig. 169a, Part 1). When there is a thimble for a stove pipe a square opening should be framed in the studding opposite the opening, and at least 10 inches larger than the diameter of the pipe. The thimble is generally set so as to project 1/2 inch from the brickwork, and the back of the recess is plastered directly on the chimney, while the sides are cased with wood."



(Page 167.) "IT is often desirable Conductors Carried and sometimes necessary to place con-

Inside the Walls.

ductors on the inside of the wall. In



such cases 4-inch cast iron soil pipe should be used (cast iron does not rust or corrode as badly as wrought iron) with joints caulked and soldered. Especial pains should also be taken to protect the pipes from frost, and if possible they should be perfectly straight and perpendicular. When practicable it is a good idea to fur the outer wall so that the conductor may be kept entirely inside of the wall line ; when this is not practicable a recess should be left in the wall for the pipe, but there should never



















the base, chair rail or picture moulding, and also to prevent the cracks that are almost sure to occur when a wooden wall joins a brick one. The studding should be kept at least inch from the brickwork, and should be set plumb, bridged at least once, and the angles made square. If the chimney comes in a brick wall it is also usually furred around in the same way. Fig. 187 shows a way in which a chimney which it is desired to have project on the outside of a frame wall should be











LATH

FIG. 187.



built, a four inch lug being carried up on each side of the chimney, as at L, and the boarding and wall covering extending over it. While this construction can easily be made tight, it weakens the wall very much by

FIG. 147.



be less than g inches of wall between the pipes and the outer air, and it is advisable that the space around the pipe be packed with mineral wool. When the building is heated by steam a steam pipe may either be run up beside the conductor or a Y may be placed in the conductor in the cellar and a steam pipe connected with it. The upper end of the conductor should always be protected by a galvanized wire screw, to keep out leaves and other solid substances, and, where practicable, a hand hole should be provided near the top. Fig. '47 shows a detail for an inside conductor in a building designed by Frederick XV. Perkins, architect.



The foregoing quotations and illustrations, from the second volume of the work, only convey a very incom

