<doctype type="text">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER























(THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE, REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUIDING r TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE]



VISITING a large woodworking factory Making Veneered

	Doors.	some time ago, in New Haven, Conn.,

		where veneered doors are made in



large quantities, I interviewed the foreman with regard to the method of manufacture of these doors, with the following results: "Our first operation is to take common coarse white pine boards, with sound knots, and which have been well kiln-dried. The stock used is generally 16 feet long, T X 12 inches. This stuff is surfaced on both sides by a Daniels planer without regard to thickness, as some boards are thinner than others, while others are warped in drying, and the thickness of the boards is immaterial, perfectly seamed surfaces only being necessary. After the stock is planed up it is cut into such lengths as the bill of doors calls for. They are ready now to be glued up. The face board of whatever hardwood to be used is planed generally to 34 of an inch thick, and is also run through a Daniels planer. The stock is now ready to go to the glueing press, and as the Daniels planer makes the best glueing surface in the world, no scratch planing is needed. After properly heating in a box the stock is brought out and carefully glued, the hardwood face parts marked for it. From three to five parts are put in the press at one time, and a pressure of twenty tons, brought down by screws, is put upon these parts. After remaining in the press the proper time they are taken out, and generally remain several days before being worked up, which gives the glue plenty of time to harden. When ready to work again these parts are taken to a Daniels planer and squared up, after which the parts are taken to a very nice cutting table or bench saw, and are cut up to sizes required, leaving them of an inch large for future dressing. It is a positive necessity that the saw cuts free and clear, as heating has a tendency to warp the stock or spring it slightly, which would make it necessary to dress the stuff again. If the saw does not heat, the stiles come out perfectly straight, and these stiles can be laid on a Daniels planer bed, and a light shaving taken off. They are now straight, and if the saw table is in good condition, square, the other side may be finished with pony planer or with a Daniels, I prefer a Daniels, because it makes a better glueing surface, and if the planer is in good shape the work is turned out from the planer perfect, so far as square and surface are concerned. The work is now ready for the veneering, the thickness of which is immaterial, as it may vary from the thickness of thin paper to inch. Heated cauls are now used for the veneer, and the stiles, if heated at all, are just warmed, and the veneer glued on by piling up with a hot caul between each stile. The old fashioned way of making

veneered doors may do very well when only two or three doors are to be made, but in these days of sharp competition we are obliged to adopt the quickest methods compatible with efficiency and good finish. I may say we never make less than fifty doors at a time."



IT has been estimated that 100 square A Few Pointers. yards of woodwork will require for

painting one coat, 20 pounds of white lead and 4 gallons of oil. The second coat will take 40 pounds of lead and 4 gallons oil; and the third coat will take the same amount of lead and oil as the second coat. For three coat work, on this basis, 100 yards will require 100 pounds of white lead and 12 gallons of oil. Tin valleys for shingle roofs should never be less than 14 inches wide and for slate roofs not less than 20 inches wide. The cost of laying in valleys, including cost of material, tinned nails, scaffolding and labor will be about nine cents per square foot. One man will lay 1 1/2 squares per day of valleys in plain work ; when roof is steep or valleys cut up one square is a fair day's work. Flashings for chimneys, and where one part of a building joins another, are worth, put in place, about ten cents per square foot, this, of course, includes everything. An approximate cost of' gutters is about as follows: 4 inch are worth, put up, 10 cents per lineal foot ; inch gutters are worth 12 1/2 cents per foot; 6 inch gutters are worth 15 cents per foot. Down spouts or conductor pipes cost as follows: 2 inch pipe is worth 8 cents per lineal foot; 3 inch pipes are worth 10 cents per foot; 4 inch pipes are worth 2 1/2 cents per foot, and 6 inch pipes are worth 25 cents per foot. These prices, of course, are in full for material and labor in putting them in place. Additional cost will follow if the pipes are made square section and for elbows, also for ornamentation on face of gutters or on receiving hoppers. Something, too, must be allowed for the quality of tin employed ; if the quality is different from 1 C, charcoal tin, which is the brand the figures given are taken from. Roofing tin comes in sheets, 14 X 20 inches, and a box of tin contains 11 2 sheets, so that, allowing the usual amount for side ribs and top and bottom laps, a box of tin will cover 182 square feet. Then if a box of tin costs six dollars —which is the average price—the cost of a box of tin roofing will be about as follows:

Box of tin		$6.oo

	10 lbs. solder at 15 cts.		1.50

	Preparing tin for roof		1.50

	Laying tin, 1 1/5 days at	$2.25	2.70

	Total	$11.70



As this covers 182 square feet it brings the cost of tin

