<doctype type="text">

<article title="Suggesttions on House Planning." author="Helliwell, Grant">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	X



In tire study of house planning the writer has found Prof. Osborne's excellent work on this subject most helpful, and many of the points presented in this paper, as well as several of the diagrams, have been taken from his book.

In analyzing a plan we find, obviously two main divisions, i.e., rooms and passages. These are further subdivided, as shown in the accompanying diagrams.

Reception Room.

		Parlor.

	'Public	Drawing Room.

		Library.

		Dining Room.

	Family	Room.



 Study.



Private ( Bed rooms ins.

		Dressing Rooms.

	Rooms	Bath Rooms.

	(Service	Pantries.



Store Rooms.

	Servants	Laundry, &c., &c.

		(Servants' Hall.

	{ Private	"	Bedrooms.

		"	Bath Rooms.

		r

 Entrances.

(Public	Vestibule.

	Family	Main Hall.

	Private	Side Halls.

	Service Rooms.

Passages Servants F Service { Between Family and Between Servants' Rooms

Private - or Servants and





A critical examination of any plan shows that the passages or thoroughfares of a house form the backbone, as it were, of the whole scheme. Let us now apply the principle of analysis. First take the plan of a simple four-roomed house, consisting of parlor, dining room, sitting room arid kitchen. Arrange these as in Fig. r. Now trace on this plan lines showing the natural thoroughfares between these apartments. 'What is the result ? A servant going to the pantry runs into a guest coming from the parlor; another, entering the dining room, comes into collision with a member of the family at the foot of the stairs. The lines of passage cross and tangle. Now arrange rooms as it Fig. 2, and trace passages as before. Here we have an arrangement at

















































5



once orderly arid convenient. The servants easily accomplish the work of the house without interfering with the movements of the family, who, on their part, can enjoy comfort and quiet. Apply the same test to a more extensive plan. Figures 3 and

4 represent a large house of seven rooms on tire ground floor. in Fig. 3 we have a dining room set out from the pleasant rays of the morning sun, but fully exposed to its scorching heat at the evening dining horn. The library, with door nearest the entrance, lacks the retirement desirable for that room. Visitors shown to the reception room have a full view of the former and its occu-

pants. The lines showing passage-ways conflict, especially in the rear hall, where guests, family arid servants are mixed up in hopeless confusion and under most embarrassing circumstances. In Fig. 4 all his is different. The lines of passage are direct and distinct from each other. The whole arrangement is harmonious and at the same time remarkably simple—a large square hall, with the principal rooms grouped about it, arid one short hall to the serving offices. Notice too that the rooms are properly placed, riot only with regard to aspect, but to comfort arid propriety as well. One can readily picture the beautiful and in FIG. 4.



 effect of such a hall, compared with which the interior of Fig. 3 appears most commonplace.

The same method of analysis applied to the upper floors of a dwelling will clearly reveal its excellencies arid defects.

It is not enough, however, that the rooms arid passages should be arranged iii the proper relationship to each other. Each individual apartment and passage may arid should be planned with regard to its specific use arid purpose. The requirements of a drawing room are quite different to those of the library, and a room that would make air admirable kitchen would be most unsuitable for a dining room. The passages, too, demand a very different treatment according as they are to serve a public or

private purpose. Time will not permit even a brief examination of the main requirements of all the rooms and passages of a house, but it may not be amiss to refer to a few of the more important virtues applicable to rooms that- even the simplest house must contain.

First, the Entrance.-—This consists properly of three parts— porch, vestibule and hall. The porch may range from the spacious and imposing adjunct of the mansion, with its porte cochere, down to the simple hood over the door butt no entrance should be without a feature which is necessary both for the purpose of emphasizing the approach arid of sheltering the waiting guest. It is important that the entrance does not have a north or west aspect, but if that is unavoidable, so arrange the porch as to break tire the force of the wind from those quarters. If a carriage porch be provided, see that it does not interfere with the approach of those on foot. Inn cold climates such as ours vestibules are a necessity. One sometimes sees these so small that the door to hall must be opened before the other one can be closed after the incomer. The hail, as we have already seen, is an exceedingly important factor in the plan. It opens up the whole scheme, and usually contains the main staircase. Specially avoid a long, narrow effect. Often it can be so arranged that a portion may, by a judicious placing of tire dooms, be kept free from traffic and form a useful apartment. The stair's are better kept well away from the entrance, not only because more convenient there, but the appearance is much better, and the upper part of the house is not thereby exposed to view.

No room in tine house is more important than the dining room. East tin south aspect is best, or, if there is a breakfast room, it may be placed to the north. In size, a width of eleven feet is tire least that will allow of passage behind those seated at the table, and this makes no provision for furniture thirteen feet had better be regarded as a minimum in all but very small houses, with a

