<doctype type="text">

<article title="Pompeii-A Cit of the First Century." author="Adams, Prof.">

	AND	BUILDER



magnificent view over the plain of the Sarno as far as the mountains of the Stabiac.



Owing to the great height of the outer wall, the upper portion of it always remained above ground, although no one seems to have suspected that it was the wall of an ancient theatre of a buried city. The benches are spaced off and numbered as in a modern theatre, the space allowed each person being fifteen and one-half inches, the theatre accommodating 5,000 persons. There was no confusion on entering the theatre, for around it was a series of doors, each leading to a set of steps, the door which should be entered being stated on the tickets of admission. The men of rank sat in the orchestra, on chairs of state carried thither by their slaves others, on the upper rows of marble benches, usually on cushions which they brought with them. Above was the women's gallery, partitioned off into compartments like the boxes in English or Continental theatres. Above, great projecting blocks of stone pierced with holes served to support masts which upheld the awnings spread to protect the spectators from the sun or rain.



The stage is wide and very shallow, but few persons being upon it at any one time. In the absence of a roof, the voices of the performers would have been lost on a deep stage. The scene was immovable, and built of brick or marble, representing the facade of a royal palace, and was pierced by three doors, handsomely decorated, the central door being used by the principal personages, the door on the right wing by inferior personages, and that on the left wing by foreigners, or persons coming from abroad. Along the front of the stage is the opening through which the curtain was lowered. The musicians sat in the niches in the front of the stage. The chorus moved in the semi-circular space in front of the stage, passing on to the stage at the completion of the play by the steps.



Note the opus reticulatum, a masonry of diamond pattern, everywhere in the Roman dominions, as has been mentioned, a sign of construction of the Imperial age.



The Comic Theatre is smaller and of inferior construction, a fact probably accounted for by an inscription which informs us that it was erected by contract. The stone steps on the left led down to the gladiator's barracks or fencing school, which consists of a square of exercising ground surrounded by a block of stuccoed Doric pillars, above which were sleeping rooms. The paintings on the walls of one of the large rooms were very fine, representing triumphs of gladiatorial arms. It also contained a collection of very fine bronze helmets, shields and gladiatorial arms of various kinds. The inscriptions on the walls leave no doubt as to the use of the building, as they consist of programmes of entertainments in the amphitheatre, eulogies of persons who caused them to be held, and a vow by a gladiator to Venus if his arms proved successful. Many skeletons were found in the building,



probably the remains of gladiators who were wounded and unable to escape. Here, also, were the stocks, now at Naples, in which were the skeletons of four men who were undergoing this particularly unpleasant form of punishment at the time of the destruction of the city, and were evidently forgotten.

The gladiatorial school accommodated about 132 men, and may have supplied gladiators to the very large number of amphitheatres which were found within a short distance of Naples, although we learned from the inscription that 6o or 70 gladiators were often engaged in a single show at the Pompeiian amphitheatre, nearly one-half of whom were probably killed at each entertainment.

The amphitheatre is not nearly so fine as the Coliseum at Rome, or even as the smaller building at Pozzuoli or the one at Verona. It is, nevertheless, a fine and well preserved building of the class, and is calculated to have held 20,000 persons.

The Amphitheatre differs from the Theatre in that the tiers of seats run completely around the oval arena, instead of having simply a semi-circular form (the first amphitheatre having consisted of two movable theatres, placed face to face). The construction resembles that of the theatre, and need not be further described. The several classes of seats were reserved for corresponding classes in the community. A great velarium shielded the audience from the sun.

This photograph shows excellently the level of the surrounding country, from which the Amphitheatre has been excavated.

In these amphitheatres the cruel and revolting exhibitions, developed by the degraded tastes of the Romans from the innocent, athletic contests of the Greeks, were held—shows which seem to have reached the climax of their splendor in the first century of our era, or about the time when Pompeii was destroyed. Their subsequent suppression was one of the great triumphs of Christianity the last of these contests being that in which the monk,

Telemachus, sprang into the arena and separated the contestants. Although he was in consequence stoned to death on the spot by the infuriated mob, his action made such an impression on the growing conscience of the world that the Emperor Honorius was led to issue an order forbidding such performances, and the gladiator became a thing of the past.

The spectacles of the Amphitheatre were of three kinds First, the contest between gladiators, who fought singly or in bands. In connection with the celebration of the victory of Trojan over the Daci, as many as 10,000 men fought and butchered one another in the arena, surrounded by a vast and excited throng of bloodthirsty spectators. The fascination which these contests had for the Roman populace seems to us now almost incredible. There is a fine passage in that wonderful book of St. Augustine, his "Confessions," which relates how one clay one of his most intimate friends was, by some of his boon companions, haled with familiar violence to the amphitheatre, but, closing his eyes, determined not to look upon the unhallowed spectacle. Hearing, however, a great shout go up from the populace as one of the contestants fell, overcome by curiosity, he looked into the arena and became so possessed by the spirit of cruelty, and intoxicated by the desire for blood, that he returned again and again to the amphitheatre, and even seduced others to accompany him.



Second, there were the sea fights, when the arena was flooded and boats laden with armed men were rowed in from opposite sides, their crews hacking each other to pieces until the arena was a lake of blood. The Pompeiian Amphitheatre was not arranged for such contests, but the neighboring one at Pozzuoli was, the channels for the entrance of the water to flood the arena being still distinctly seen. This style of contest was eventually put down, not on account of any humanitarian sentiment, but on account of the great waste of slaves occasioned by it.



Third, then there were contests between gladiators and wild beasts. In such contests he must have appeared who "fought with wild beasts at Ephesus." Put, as a general rule, the Christians refused to fight for the amusement of the populace, and were accordingly thrown into the arena to be devoured. In these contests all manner of rare and curious beasts were brought from remote parts of the earth to fight with one another and with the gladiators. Lions, tigers, bears, elephants, hippopotami, rhinoceri, crocodiles, and even gigantic snakes.



This slide is a photograph of an old picture, giving an ideal representation of one these contests. Note the velarium, the Emperor, the vestals, and the incense or perfume being burned.



The paintings at Pompeii frequently represented groups from these venationes," or hunting scenes, and advertisements written up in various parts of Pompeii, make it clear that this was here a favorite form of amusement. The following is a translation of one of the most important of these advertisements



Twenty pairs of gladiators paid by Decimus Lucretius Satrius Valens, priest, in the time of Nero, the son of Caesar Augustus and ten pairs of gladiators, paid by Decimus Lucretius, the son of Decimus Valens, will fight at Pompeii on the 11th, 13th and 14th of April. There will be a proper hunting scene, and the awnings will be spread.——Written by Celer Emilius Celer, writer of inscriptions, who wrote this by moonlight.

Returning then to the western part of the city by the circuit of the walls, and through the street of Nola and the street of Fortune, we find ourselves in a district of narrow streets flanked by fine residences. Two of these may be taken as representative of the whole, and will serve as examples of Roman houses of the 1st century. The first of these is known as the House of the Tragic Poet, from a picture on its walls representing a poet reading; and the second is called the House of the Faun, from the exquisite bronze, known as the Dancing Faun, which was found within it.

The House of the Tragic Poet is at once one of the smallest and simplest, and yet one of the most ornate and best finished, of all the private houses of Pompeii. It would," says Lord Lytton, who represents it as the House of Glaucurs in his Last Days of Pompeii, be a model at this day for the house of a " single man in Mayfair." Its position in the insula, one-half of which is here represented, will be seen upon the screen. Entering through the door, the visitor would find himself in a long and narrow vestibule, and would be startled by the figure of a large fierce dog in the act of springing at him, worked in mosaic in the floor, beside which is written in large characters, "Cave Canem" (Beware the Dog). Here the slave who attended the door would sit, and his constant presence was often ensured, especially in earlier times, by his being chained to his place. It was not, therefore, necessary to ring more than once in Pompeii to gain admittance. The

