<doctype type="text">

take fire from burning soot, as their smooth interior leaves no restment for soot or dirt. The tiles are placed with the socket joint uppermost, and all joints should be well cemented with neat Portland cement. Where connections are to be made with stove piping, T joints are used, the short end of the pipe connecting with the brickwork and well cemented to the stove-pipe thimble. If the flue leads from a fireplace, the drain tiles may start from the throat just above the fireplace, and the angles may be filled in with hard bricks and cement mortar, in order to prevent any draft from getting current on the outside of the tiles. In forming the throat of the chimney, experience has proven that the best shape is to make the narrowing up at an angle of 45 from the haunches or jambs of the fireplace and in setting the brickwork to meet this condition, care should be taken to have the ends of the bricks cut to this angle, in order to allow the smoke to pass easily to the throat and up the flue. Where English grates are used this precaution may not be necessary, but for American made grates, or for open fireplaces with and-irons or basket grates, the best results will be found by following the foregoing suggestions. When drain tiles or other like materials are not employed in forming the flue, it should be well parged with good mortar on the inside, from bottom to top. The "parging" should be well done, smooth, and of a regular thickness throughout. Besides making it easier for the smoke, etc., to ascend, parging helps very much to make a chimney safer from fire, as the parging fills up every possible faulty joint in the brickwork with mortar, preventing thereby sparks or flames from passing through to the outside of the chimney.

		"IN England the size of bricks is fixed

	The Size	by law." So speaks our esteemed con-

of Bricks.

temporary, the CANADIAN ARCHITECT



AND BUILDER. Unfortunately, we are not referred to the particular statute enacting the said fixture, so that for the present our clayworkers may go on in the usual style. Our contemporary makes this assumption as a pretext for the Dominion government to take the matter in hand, but we trust that before doing so the promoters of any bill in the Assembly will study the size of British bricks on the spot here. We can show them a few just to whet their appetites. The cry for a brick of uniform size is as old as the "sea serpent," and although of late years manufacturers have for their own and clients' convenience done something in that direction, we seem to be getting no nearer to real uniformity, and probably we never shall. Our friends across the Atlantic will, of course, understand that bricks of a certain name and make will always be of a definite size, and many kinds of bricks may be of one size, either by design or usage. We have got no farther than that. The uniform size recommended for Canada is 81/4 by 4 by 2 inches. It is stated that such sized bricks, either hand-moulded or pressed, will absorb from half to three-quarter pound of water, which, of course, is an absurd observation, unless the actual kind and composition of the brick are known."

F.R.I.B.A. in British Clayworker.





If ''F. R. I. BA." is right, then ''to the dogs" with authorities, and, to some extent, with our own experience. English authorities tell us that '' By the 17th Geo. III., cap. 42, all bricks made for sale were directed, when burnt, to be less than 8'2" long, 21/2"

thick, and 4" wide." (Gwilt.) In "Notes on Building Construction," Vol. III., page 3, 1889 edition, we are told '' Before the year 1839 a duty was paid upon bricks ; their size was then practically fixed by Act of Parliament, and it has since remained materially unaltered." Seddon, and other recent authors, practically tell us the same story, so that, if we have erred, we have erred in good English company. In America a number of recognized authorities tell us nearly the same thing. Prof. Ira Baker says, in his " Masonry Construction," page 46 " In England the legal standard size for bricks is 834 x 2 3/4 inches," etc. Again, Trautwine, in "Engineers' Pocket. Book," has it: "The size of bricks in England is fixed by law." Davies, Thursten, Hatfield, and many other competent American and Canadian authorities are in evidence that such an Act exists. The " absurd " observation anent the 'absorption of water as stated exists only in the imagination of " F.R.I.B.A." In Notes on Building Construction," Vol. 3, page 110, we are told by this English authority that ''The absorption of average bricks is, however, generally y about one-sixth of their weight, and it is only very highly vitrified bricks that take up so little as one-thirteenth or one-fifteenth." We could fill a column with quotations from English authorities on the same lines, but, as we were writing on Canadian, and not English, bricks, it is fair to presume we know more about the subject than it could be possible for

" F.R.I.B.A." to know.



NOTE. The four volumes of " Notes on Building Construction " were prepared by competent authorities to meet the requirements of the syllabus of the science and art department of the Committee of Council on Education, South Kensington, and the work is considered the most reliable and the most complete of its kind in the language. It was published by the Rivingtons, London, Oxford and Cambridge.





SUB CONTRATORS' AGREEMENT.

IT is announced that at the next convention of the National Association of Builders of the United States, consideration will be given to the preparation of a form of agreement or contract adapted for use between con tractors and sub-contractors. No recognized form of agreement for this purpose exists at present. Where it has been sought to make forms of contract intended for use between contractor and owner serve the double purpose, complications have usually resulted. In perhaps the majority of instances the sub-contractor agrees with the contractor to perform certain work in a certain manner and at a stated price, while the genera! contractor agrees to nothing. It would therefore seem to be a wise step to provide such a form of agreement as proposed, by means of which the rights of all parties would be conserved.





RENOVATING OLD PARQUET FLOORS. Caustic soda lye, prepared by boiling for 34 hour with part calcined soda and



part slaked lime with 15 parts water in a cast iron pot, is applied to the parquet to be renovated by means of a cloth attached to a stick. After a while rub off the floor with a stiff brush, fine sand and a sufficient quantity of water, to remove the dirt and old wax. Now spread a mixture of concentrated sulphuric acid and water in the proportion of to 8 on the floor. The sulphuric acid, says a German exchange, will remove the particles of dirt and wax which have entered the floor, and enliven the color of the wood. Finally, wax the parquet after it has dried completely and has been washed off with water.

