<doctype type="text">

mitted to arise from the quality of the material, which could not be got over by any picking. Stocks were said to be "made of a good earth well wrought and with little mixture," place bricks being made of "the same earth, or worse, with a mixture of dirt and other coarse materials, and more carelessly put out of hand." It would be satisfactory if the standard were stiLl materials and workmanship as formerly, rather than an indefinite process of picking, which allows of too much latitude.



OUR new two-cent stamp is apparently The New Postage

Stamp,	intended to be a smart advertisement of the country. h does not reflect

much credit upon us as designers nor as printers. If every country that gets a dab of red in printing this stamp became thereby a member of the British Empire, we should truly justify the vulgar motto at the bottom, "We hold a vaster empire than has been."





Architectural Stand- THE Inland Architect is in error in ards in Ontario stating that the Architectural Associaand Quebec. tions of Ontario and Quebec have each



in turn secured the passage of an act compelling all practising architects to become members of the provincial association. Unfortunately the members ot the profession in Ontario have not yet been given the legal status conferred upon their confreres in Quebec, but are still living in hope that the higher standard of practice instituted in Quebec will at an early day be sanctioned by the Legislature of Ontario.



An Opportunity for MR. H. Manizu, a Japanese architect,

Canadian Mann- is at present in America for the purpose facturers. of obtaining information regarding



modern materials and appliances, for an important building to be erected by the government of Japan. He invites information, catalogues, etc., from manufacturers of hardware, office furniture, wall and ceiling decorations, lighting, heating and ventilating apparatus, sanitary goods, dynamos, gas and hoisting engines, and modern building appliances of every description. These should be addressed to " Educational Department of Imperial Japanese Government." Canadian manufacturers should not torego this opportunity of bringing their goods to the attention of the government of Japan. Our goods in the above mentioned lines are strictly up-to-date, and are finding considerable sale in other foreign markets. With the advantage of direct shipping facilities, our manufacturers should certainly be able to secure a share of the Japanese trade.



THE annual convention of the Ontario Convention of the Association of Architects will take place

O.A.A.

on the 17th and 18th of January. The



programme indicates proceedings of the same nature as last year—the first afternoon devoted entirely to business (when it would be well for those to be present who have good advice to offer as to the conduct of the Association) ; the second day given over to reading ot papers and the election of oflicers. The papers will include two by practical men. Mr. W.

J.	Hynes will talk about ornamental plastering work and Mr. M. J. Hynes about terra cotta. Mr. W. L. Symons will read a paper on "New Problems in Architecture," and Mr. J. W. Siddall on another architectural subject, not announced at the time of our going to press. The luncheon on the second day was last year

more imposing than tormerly, and will probably be similar this year, taking the character of a social gathering which formerly was relegated to a dinner in the evening.



ARCHITECTS and other persons inter-A Stimulus to ested in the advancement of true archiArchitecture.

tecture, will greet with satisfaction the recent action of the Municipal CounciL of Paris in offering prizes to the owners and architects of the most attractive houses erected in the French capital during 1898. It is stated that as a consequence ot this action, unusual care has been shown in the design of facades. Particulars of the buildings submitted in competition were required to be placed in the hands of the city auth orities between the 1st and 15th of 1)ecember. The method of deciding the competition has not been learned. Presuming this to be satisfactory, the idea should be a popular one, and greatly assist in improving the architectural appearance of the city. The authorities of our Canadian cities should be urged to follow the commendable example of the Council of Paris. Jf a number of Canadian cities could be induced to do so, the result would be a friendly rivalry which would awaken a deeper public interest in architecture, and elevate the standard ot work throughout the country. The sublect is one which might fittingly be considered and dealt with by the architectural Associations of Ontario and Quebec.



PUBLIC attention in Canada is at present Technical Instruction. directed to the subject of technical education. A public meeting held in Ottawa a few days ago put on record the opinion that a system of technical schools should be established so as to encourage the production of skilled labor, the growth of manufactures and the development of our great natural resources. The Board of Trade of that city has recently appointed a committee on Technical Education, and an effort will be made to have a technical school established at an early date. The Hon. G. W. Ross, Minister of Education for Ontario, in a speech delivered at the annual dinner of undergraduates of the School of Practical Science, referred to the need of a system of technical instruction on a lower plane than that afforded by the scientific schools. His opinion is that in each important city technical schools should be established at the cost of the municipality. Further than this, that the instruction should be adapted to the requirements of the artizan classes in each particular locality. With this view we are not in accord. On the contrary, we believe that the character of the instruction should be such as would be equally valuable to the student where-ever his place of residence might be. As regards the manner in which schools ot this kind should be established and supported, it would seem but fair that the Federal and Provincial governments as well as the municipalities should contribute, seeing that the country as a whole must benefit from the establishment of a higher standard of education and skill for the artizan classes. The success which is attending the Toronto Technical School and the classes under the direction of the Council ot Arts and Manufactures in Quebec, has no doubt been the means of calling public attention to the desirability of extending the movement. It is to be hoped that by whatever means schools of this character are established and maintained, the controlling authorities will see to it that only the most approved systems of instruction and teachers of the highest efficiency shall be employed. If we undertake to provide technical instruction, let it be of the highest grade, so that our artizans may be the equals of the best in the world.

