<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MURAL DECORATION." author="Reid, G.A.">

MURAL DECORATION.

By G. A. REID, R. C. A.

W

HEN we contemplate in its complex manifestations that constant tendency of man to decorate and embellish every object connected with his existence, we are confused and perplexed on every hand by the theories of life and of use and beauty which are prevalent. It is therefore with the greatest difficulty in the expression of our ideas concerning the beautiful that we make ourselves understood, and to realize the nature of the problem it is necessary to simplify it to the greatest possible extent to obtain the key which will unlock its mysteries.

It we had not been able to look into the past by the aid of archaeology and history it would still have been possible for us to study the progress of civilization by comparisons drawn from the various races having separate social development, which exist at the present time. To simplify this question of the art impulse with satisfaction, we should observe with care the earliest

them, that we have come to draw dividing lines between the arts where no differences exist except in degree, and in the poverty of our philosophy, or our means of expression, we represent the stimulating and progressive elements of art activity as not being useful or necessary to the life of man. We speak of certain things as being necessaries of life, and of some of the primary arts as the useful arts, until our age has come to think of them as being entirely apart and separate from the fine arts, whereas the fine arts, should be regarded as the crowning glory of all the arts, equally necessary and useful to man, who in his desire to reach the perfect existence, with the joy of life as the spring of his impulses, draws from nature about him every element possible which will contribute to his pleasure and satisfaction.

At the period that history begins, and we are able from actual examples of decoration to study and compare, we find that art has on all sides been highly developed in Egypt, Assyria and Greece. Egypt is taken to be the oldest civilization, and the enduring nature of































































	ART.—By E. Wyly GRIER, R.C.A.	SKETCH FOR PROPOSED DECORATTON TN CO



attempts man has made to satisfy his wants, and by wide and extended comparisons to notice how, step by step, the simple has become complex. The limitations f the present article will allow, however, but a glance into the remote past.

The first picture our minds can form of primitive man must include the social relations because no state ever existed except by misfortune where man was alone. Subsisting in a precarious manner, having only a rudimentary language largely made up of mimic signs, writing by means of pictures, using color and sound to terrify or attract, storing food, plundering neighboring tribes, these and many other activities in simultaneous development, acting and reacting, show us how the observation by the primitive man of cause and effect, constantly forced him to proportion the means to the end in his efforts to satisfy his desires. Art in such a state could not have had any other purpose than the production of what was useful, and what we find to be the impulse of humanity in the primitive forms of society, we must conclude to be the same in the civilized state. Such, however, has been the difficulty of making distinctions and expressing

its work and the faithfulness with which its artists depicted the various phases of the life of the people enable us to become well acquainted with their manners and customs and their arts. The pyramids, temples, palaces, tombs, obelisks and statues stand as the silent witnesses of an almost incredible power, and though we may marvel and admire the wondrous design, the gigantic scale, the expressive beauty of their art, and its exquisite finish, we should not make the mistake of thinking that either enduring quality or scale are necessarily the signs of a great art. But it is a fortunate thing for our age that the conditions have been such as to preserve almost without damage such a quantity of art treasures.

The character of the decoration used by the early Egyptians was of a very primitive order, and was profusely spread over every part of the surface of the walls, pillars and ceilings of their buildings, being mostly outline figures, and hieroglyphics deeply cut and highly colored, having a wide range of treatment from the realistic to the symbolic. Intimately related to Egyptians with their colossal works of art and hieroglyphics or picture writing, were the Chaldeans, the Assyrians,

