<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



young architect whose ideal or practice is to become a man in the street, dusting about to procure work for draughtsmen to do, has entered upon a career which can have only one end, the gradual elimination of real architecture from his work, and his own gradual elimination from a profession in which the first requisite is, after all, architecture.



ART commissions for large cities is Art Commissions. becoming an established institution.

There are several in the United States and one in Canada, in Toronto. The powers of the commission vary, but all possess the essential characteristics of voluntariness and independence of the city vote. The new act creating the art commission of the city of Boston, which we have before us, provides a commission consisting, besides the Mayor, entirely of head officers of different institutions of the city the president of the trustees of the Public library, the president of the trustees of the Museum of Fine Arts, the president of the Boston Society of Architects and the president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The titles of these officers suggest a safe rather than an adventurous corn mission. In New York the coin mission is disposed to take the initiative, and has proposed the erection of a $100,000 fountain in Central Park. The price is mentioned as $100,000 to $1 50,000, so that perhaps the larger sum may be taken as the proposed price. As the city of New York is allowed to spend $50,000 annually on works of art it would not. take long to pay' for this work.



IN England the size of bricks is fixed Sizes of Bricks, by law, and it would be well if some

member of parliament would take the subject in hand and bring up an act in the Dominion to fix the size of bricks to be used in this country. For want of such a law here, the building interests are often handicapped. A thousand bricks, when each brick measures 9 X  2¼inches, make a different sized wall from one made of a thousand bricks where each brick measures only 8¼ X 4 X 2 inches, and yet there is this difference—and even more-- in the size of Canadian bricks. if all bricks were made to one uniform size throughout the whole Dominion, contractors in Vancouver would be able to estimate on brickwork in Halifax with h a certainty that their quantities were right, and one of the reasons for wide discrepancies in bids for work would be removed. A good size for a brick is 8¼ x 4 x 2 inches. This size is easily wrought, is a good size to burn, handy to lay, easy to bond, and has a good appearance when in the wall. A brick this size contains 66 cubic inches, and if hand-moulded and well burned, weighs about 4½ pounds, or 118 pounds per cubic foot, 14,223 pounds to the cubic yard, or 498 bricks per ton. Pressed bricks this size will weigh about five pounds each. If made wet, either brick will absorb from half to three-quarters of a pound of water. There have been very few failures of brickwork on account of crushing, and, while some bricks have withstood a compressive force of 13,000 pounds to the square inch, it is wise never to subject them to a greater pressure than 250 pounds to the square inch. In heavy structures much care should be exercised in the choice of bricks, and those made in a yard situated near a limestone formation should be eschewed, for the occurrence of fragments of limestone, or other calcareous matter, occasion the destruction of bricks, owing to the caustic

lime formation during the burning. When this becomes moistened the lime slakes and tears it to pieces, an occurrence that might prove a cause of much trouble in a wall or support laboring under great pressure.



THE annual calendar of the Société French Professional Centrale des Architect Francais for

Ethics

the present year contains a statement of an architect's duties towards himself, his brother architects and contractors. The statement is signed by M. Charles Garnier, the president of the society which thus officially adopts it as a code. It defines an architect from the dictionary of the French Academy as "The artist who designs buildings, determines their proportions, arrangements, decorations, causes them to be erected under his orders and controls the expenditure upon them." The architect therefore practices a liberal profession, not a commercial calling. His position is incompatible with that of contractor, manufacturer or furnisher of material in any way, and he is compensated entirely by fees to the exclusion of every other source of emolument resulting from his work or the exercise of his powers. If, therefore, he has taken out a parent for a product connected with building he does not exploit it himself, but sells it and all proprietary rights in it. Not being engaged in a commercial calling, he does not have any dealings which involve discounts or commissions, either received from those who wish for his patronage or given by him to agents and solicitors for capitalists or others whose patronage he himself desires. Nor does he seek publicity by advertising his capabilities in a commercial manner (which, we presume means to point to the impossibility of the same person fulfilling at the same time the role of self advertising for the purpose of making money- and that, which he ought to fill, of a trusted agent acting entirely for the best interest of his employer without any other consideration coming in). In general the architect must have no dealings with any one which dealings must be a secret between him and his clients, either actual or prospective.





As concerns his professional brethren The architect refrains from hostile criticisms and does not aim at a situation or connection obtained by a confrere. If by the death, retirement or dismissal of an architect another architect is called to take up his work, the new architect considers himself as the guardian of the honor and interests of the former one. An architect recognizes the condition of brotherhood in the profession ; he is careful to let the rules of consideration between equals govern all transactions between architects, such, for example, as arranging that meetings between architects shall be held in the office of the oldest without reference to standing of success. In the same way an architect treats young men obtaining their professional training in his office as members of his profession and lets them have the full benefit of his experience.





In his relations wit Ii his client the architect devotes o hi m all his knowledge and gives opinions and counsels with entire regard to advancing the interests committed to his care. At the same time the architect does not allow his client to exact from him operations which would injure the rights of others, or which would compromise his client himself, or which would bring about accidents. In these cases he warns his client that he

