<doctype type="text">

<article title="Building Operations in 1897" author="">

	THE c	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



Architects report a good outlook for 1898. In all probability several large buildings, ranging from $50,000 to $100,000 in cost, will be erected.



GUELPH, ONT.



The sum of $100,000 represents the value of new buildings erected in Guelph. Of this amount fully $70,000 was spent on new dwellings. No important buildings enter into the year's calculations. As a result of the building of the street railway, more dwellings are being erected in the outlying districts.



KINGSTON, ONT.



In Kingston residences were erected to the value of $82,000, business places, $86,000, and convents, $40,000. A new chapel for the House of Providence, additions to Notre Dame Convent and Hotel Dieu hospital, and an elevator were among the most important structures. There are in prospect for this year drill hall, rolling mills, and another elevator.

QUEBEC.

Building in Quebec last year shows an increase of about 25 per Cent. in comparison with the previous year. There was erected for the Quebec Railway Company large car stables and offices, 175 x 115 ft., and 65 ft. high, of which H. Staveley was architect. The other buildings included 37 residences and 7 factories, hotels, etc. In the towns and villages adjacent to Quebec building was quite active. Building materials were slightly higher than in 1896, but labor was about 10 per cent, cheaper.

HALIFAX, N. S.

In Halifax there were erected a larger number of buildings of small cost, the total value being given as $650,000. This includes 140 residential and 24 business buildings.

Of these 159 were wood and 5 brick. The principal were Exhibition building, Elliott & Hopson, architects, cost $100,000 Clayton & Son's business house, J. C. Dumaresq, architect, cost $12,000; Outhit & Hamilton's business premises, Henry Birch, architect, cost $12,000. Several new blocks are talked of.



WINNIPEG, MAN.

Notwithstanding the bright prospects in the spring of 1897, the total value of buildings erected in Winnipeg did not exceed $250,000. On street improvements there were spent several hundred thousand dollars, which created large demand for unskilled labor. Frame buildings on stone foundations predominated. Mention might be made of the remodelling of the Winnipeg theatre, cost $20,000; Ashdown's residence, cost $15,000; Joseph Maw & Co.'s warehouse, cost $15,000; and N. Bawlf's residence, cost $14,000. Building materials were from to 15 per cent. lower in price. Present indications show a marked improvement. Plans for a number of new buildings of a substantial character are being prepared by the various city architects. Capitalists are showing more confidence, and there is a strong likelihood of a prosperous season. It is hoped that as times improve the policy of taking contracts below

cost which has been followed in	MR. S. H. the past by contractors, will be super- President Ontario As seded by more businesslike methods.

BRITISH COLUMBIA CITIES.



At Victoria the operations of the year included the completion and occupation of the new Parliament Buildings; the practical completion of the new Post Office the erection of the new Bank of Montreal, Colonist office and St. Joseph's hospital. Smaller buildings bring the total up to $334,800 as compared with $500,000 for the previous year.

The provincial hospital was the largest building erected at New Westminster, cost $20,000. Two salmon canneries represent an outlay of $26,000, which, with residences, brings the total up to $150,000, this being a slight gain.

OTHER PLACES.

In the vicinity of Rat Portage, Ont., it is estimated that the improvements carried out reach in value $750,000. At Berlin the expenditure was $160,000, including G.T.R. station, $11,000 at Smith's Falls, Ont., $100,000; Portage La Prairie, Man., $100,000, including Home for Incurables, Mr. Silverthorne, architect, cost $14,000, and Presbyterian church, H. Griffith, architect, cost $18,000 ; Brantford, Ont., $75,000; Goderich, Ont., $100,000; Charlottetown, P.E.I., $223,-ooo, including pork packing establishment, $100,000 and R. C. cathedral, $93,000; Collingwood, Ont., $20,000; St. Catharines, Ont., $25,000; Barrie, Ont., $37,000; St. Thomas, Ont., $75,ooo; Peterboro', Ont., $50,000; Newmarket, Ont. , $10,000; Leamington, Ont., $50,000; Waterloo, Ont., $53,000; Moose Jaw, N.W.T., $53,000 Brandon, Man., $20,000. At many of the above points the year has commenced well, there being more prospective building than for several seasons past.



Mr. H. G. Phillips, architect, of Sarnia, died in that city a fortnight ago. His death occurred in the new hospital recently erected from his designs.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

OFFICE BUILDING, ST. THOMAS—1 VAN 'r. MACDONALD, ARCHITECT.



RESIDENCE FOR MR. J. AULD, MAGREGOR STREET, MONTREAL, QUE.



—A. F. DUNLOP, ARCHITECT.



ILLUSTRATIONS ACCOMPANYING PAPER BY MR. EDMUND BURKE, ON



"TWO QUESTIONS IN CONNECTION WITH STEEL CONSTRUCTIONS



IN BUILDINGS," IN THIS NUMBER.



MAIN	DOORWAY OF NEW BUILDING FOR THE MERCHANTS' BANK OF CANADA, AT TRURO, NOVA SCOTIA—-ELLIOTT & HOPSON,



ARCHITECTS.



RESIDENCES FOR T. N. AND S. B. JAMIESON, CHICAGO, ILL.—DWEN



& WHITE, ARCHITECTS.



Fronts of grey granite, with gables, verandah and tower roofs of red tiles; verandah and vestibule floors of mosaic metal work of copper, and brick walls of red pressed bricks hot water heating with natural gas furnace electric lights, gas and nickel-plated plumbing throughout. Finish in large house: Parlor, sitting room and den of cherry; reception hall and dining room in quarter sawed oak bedrooms in bird's eye maple, curly birch and quarter sawed oak. Finish in smaller house Parlors in selected curly birch; dining room in mahogany; bedrooms in sycamore,

	birch and quarter sawed oak		floors throughout of quarter

sawed oak; mantels, hall-trees, consoles, etc. Each closet is so arranged that opening the door lights an incandescent bulb inside

automatically, and which goes

out when door is closed.







MR. S. H. TOWNSEND.

THE portrait appearing on this page is an excellent likeness of Mr. S. H. Townsend, the new president of the Ontario Association of Architects. Mr. Townsend Was one of the founders and original promoters of the

	              0. A. A. For several years

immediately following the formation of the Assocation he discharged the duties of secretary and treasurer in a capable manner. When on the passing of the Ontario Architects' Act the office of Registrar was established and became a salaried postion, Mr. Townsend resigned and took a seat on the Council, in which capacity also he gave valuable aid to the organization. It will thus be seen that he is deserving of the honor which has just been con-

Townsend,	ferred upon him, and is well

ociation of Architects.	qualified by education, ex-

	perience and energy to oc-

 cupy the office with credit	to himself and advantage to

the Association.



FITTINGS OF OLD ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH.

ENQUIRY was recently made through the Toronto Telegram for the whereabouts of the interior fitting S of Old St. Andrew's church, which, until twenty years ago stood at the south-west corner of Church and Adelaide streets. The enquiry states that when the building was demolished the internal fittings were sold with the building. The fine walnut pulpit, with its sounding board, the quaint colonial handrail of the curved staircase leading to the pulpit, the unique sounding board, surmounted by its Scotch thistle in brass, the pretty communion table were all, it is believed, either sold by the contractor to other purchasers, or broken up for kindling wood. A history of the old church, with a compilation of the records of St. Andrew's church, King street west, is to be written, and with a desire to give in connection therewith some picture recollections of the old church, enquiry is made for any one who knows where the old pulpit went.



Successful advertising is the art of telling the public the truth about your business.

