<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondence." author="">

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND Builder.)



HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.



The new playhouse on Guy street which is to be known as 11cr Majesty's Theatre, is being roofed in, and will be completed early n tile autumn. The building was designed by Messrs. J. B. McElfatrick & Son, the well—known theatre architects of New York. The dimensions are 170 feet square, with a seating capacity of 2,000. The building, which is in the Italian Renaissance style, is constructed wit h limestone foundation and pressed brick superstructure. Precautions against fire have been made to accord with the requirements of the New York lire department, which are said to be the most stringent in the world. The contractors are Messrs. Peter Lyall & Sons, and the sub-contractors Thomas Ford, carpentry work William Redden, iron work G. W. Reed & Co., roofing John McLean, plain and ornamental plastering



J.	W. Hughes, steam heating, gas fitting and plumbing XX'. Anderson, Ottawa, electric wiring.



FIRE PROTECTION FOR HOSPITALS AND CONVENTS.



The Montreal Gazette, referring to the recent hospital disaster at St. Hyacinthe, sounds this note of warning, which the authorities of such institutions would do well to heed :—" The unfortunate affair at St. Hyacinthe, like that which caused so sad a sensation when the Roberval convent was burned, carries a lesson for the managers of all institutions where considerable numbers of persons live and sleep. This province (Quebec) has an unusual number of these, many of them unprovided with means of suppressing a fire, and almost all of them outside of the cities especially, wit bout means of escape, in case of imminent danger, save the ordinary staircase arid the windows.' It should be stated that fire escapes are not the best means of protecting life in institutions occupied by invalids and women. The proper means to this end is to make the buildings themselves as nearly as possible fireproof. The materials arid methods for so doing are now available, and the cost has been so greatly reduced of late as to constitute no serious obstacle. This is a matter that might with advantage occupy the attention of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.



FAULTY CONSTRUCTION



Mr. Lacroix, City Building Inspector, recently took proceedings against Mr. Louis Riopelle for non-compliance with the requirements of the building by—law in connection with the construction of a building on Nobert street. The Court appointed Messrs. Hutchison, Nelson arid Lapierre, architects, to examine the building and report upon the character of its construction. They reported the construction to be defective and contrary to the requirements of the by-law, whereupon Mr. Riopelle was fined $45 arid costs and notified to demolish his building within twenty-four hours. This order not having been complied with, the Building inspector, with a staff of workmen, proceeded to the building for the purpose of tearing it down. They found it barricaded and the owner inside. One of the Inspector's men who attempted to scale the barricade was struck with a scantling, whet her accidentally, as Mr. Riopelle alleges, or otherwise, does not yet appear. Riopelle was arrested on a charge of assault, being afterwards liberated on bail. The Building Inspector is deter-mined to carry out the order of the court by demolishing the building. It is understood that the changes in construction required by the Inspector, and which Mr. Riopelle refused or neglected to make, were To renew south—east foundation, which

is considered dangerous to replace pillars supporting different storeys by stronger ones to replace joists, which are too short and of insufficient support, in accordance with Sec. 59-61 of Reg. 107 to take away stone divisions and replace with brick to lower the front 25 feet, beginning at the north—west side to build at back of house a masonry wall to shut off entirely a house in rear', which it supports in accordance with Sec. 12— t4, Reg. to7.





__________ CORRESPONDENCE.

Letters are invited for this department on subjects. relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily fur publication. 'tire publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents. I





<article title="Roofing" author="Langley, Fred ">

ROOFING,

'to the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



St IR— My attention has been drawn to an article on this vexed question in your j rirte number. My experience of fifty years in practical building. as builder, architect and owner, has been dearly

bought . I certainly agree wit It he writer as to the merits of a gravel roof. I never could understand why some other measures were not taken to keep the pitclt in place certainly the gravel has never attained that end. The weight added to building runs from 1,000 to 2,600 pounds per square. The roof is perfectly filthy after it has been on two or three years. About a tin month ago I was asked to inspect roofs on a manufactory not forty miles from Toronto, arid found as much as 41/2 inches of gravel and dirt on part of the building. The roof had sagged from four to five inches, and water stood on roof t lie year round, or filtered into the building.



I do not think the writer's remarks in time article referred to fit the present requirements, the conditions having entirely changed in twenty years in Toronto as regards metal roofs of all kinds. At that time, gases, acids, etc., from coal and manufactories of different kinds had not to be reckoned with, which entirely changes the situation. One case occurs to me now where one Iron and three tin roofs were eaten off in four years. This building is now covered with a composition roof (a patent in its fourth year) for sixteen months and is as good as now. Al though nails, washers and wire are used in this roof, they' do riot come to the surface, consequently are not affected by the acids. This roof rig complete only weighs 150 pounds to the square, arid can be used at from half an inch to the font tip to four inches rise. This is a decided advantage over gravel, as the gravel roof is generally specified at half art inch rise. Returning to iron amid tin roofing, I know of one steep tin roof that has been on fifty years, but never



painted amid never subject to gas or acids. I do not think a coat of paint once in seven years is any good to the roof. Once in two years might be a benefit, but what of the cost? As to adding 25 years to the life of a tin root' by painting once in seven years, I consider that altogether out of the question, owing to the change of conditions before mentioned, as the rust takes hold inside of a week. Oil or lead paints are about useless for roof-painting. I am using a composition having japan as the fluid, arid find it will last as long as four coats of paint, which is a sure protection front acid. About five years ago, I was asked by a brother contractor and inspector r to get up is first—class composite roof. A year later' I summed up my experience, which went back to 1848—when coating magazines for the British government—by adopting asphalt to neutralize the pitch, and the wool to confine the two, strengthened with embedded wire, fastened with nails arid tin washers coated with japan, mica, sandstone arid sand——producing a light non-conductor, water, fire, acid, amid, I think, lightning proof, and which will not crack. The patentee will keep full control until it has been tested for five years, before selling arty' rights to rise it. I think Mr. W. A. Langton, architect, of your city', is the only person iii Toronto having it iii use, and that on a business block in an adjacent town.



GALT, ONT., July, 1898.





Mr. Fred. Langley, of Toronto, who is engaged in the sturdy of architecture iii New York, is at present home on vacation.



Mr. F M. Rattenbury, architect, of Victoria, B.C., accompanied by his wife, recently made the tri hi from Dyea to Bennett in twenty-six hours.



The capstone of the tower of the new municipal buildings at Toronto was laid by the Mayor a few days ago. The tower, which is 240 feet high, will be surmounted by a spire 45 feet in height. It rests on a concrete foundation 72 feet square, the superincumbent weight being about n 4,000 tons. The architect states t hat t there has been no settlement of the structure.

