<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



LEGAL.

DENISON V. WOODS.—Judgment by Chief justice Burton in the Court of Appeal, Toronto, on appeal by defendant from order of Rose, J., dismissing defendant's appeal from report of Neil McLeat., an official referee, upon a reference to him for trial under sec. 107 of the judicature act. The action was brought by Arthur R. Denisou, an architect, against Michael 1. Woods, to recover remuneration for certain services rendered to defendant in respect of valuations of Toronto Island property and in preparing case for arbitration and plans, etc. The referee found that plaintiff was entitled to be paid 50, based upon an allowance of $2 an hour for 142 1/2 hours of his time and $1.25 per hour for 90 hours' time of his clerks. The plaintiff was paid by defendant before action $25 on account, and defendant paid into court with his defence $300, leaving $72.50 due, according to the report. The referee found that no proper tender was made before action, and plaintiff was entitled to his costs. The defendant contended that upon the evidence a much smaller sum should have been allowed. Appeal dismissed with costs.





PERSONAL.

Mr. Joseph Roy, contractor, has been elected a member of the Council of St. Cunegonde.



The death is announced of Mr. W. L. Prince, a well-known contractor of St. John, N. B.



Mr. Chas. M. Whitney, a well-known plumber, died recently at his home in Woodstock, Out.



Mr. F. Adams, architect at the Kingston Penitentiary, who was recently suspended as the result of a disagreement with the deputy warden, has been reinstated.



Mr. Ernest R. Ralph, of Fort Macleod, N.W.T., formerly of Toronto, was married in Toronto on April 26th to Florence May, daughter of Solon W. McMichael, of H.M. Customs.



Mr. Gen. Taylor, representative of the Gurney Foundry Co. in London, England, has resigned and accepted the position of manager of the Toronto branch of the Gurney, Tildeti Company's business.



Messrs. Darling & Pearson, architects, will shortly remove from the Mail Building to the top floor of the Toronto Street Railway Company's new building, corner of King and Church streets. A handsome suite of offices is being fitted up for their accommodation in this new building, in which they will he the only tenants.





A SERIES of experiments were recently made by Prof. Frank Soule in the laboratory of the Engineering Department of the University of California, to determine the holding power of cut and wire nails. The wood used in the tests was Oregon pine arid redwood. The general conclusion arrived at as the result of these tests, is that for most uses and under most conditions, the cut nail is superior to the wire nail.



HEAT-RESISTING PUTTY—A handful of burnt lime is stirred in 120 grams of linseed oil arid boiled down to the ordinary consistency of putty. The elastic mass, says the Werkstatt, is then allowed to dry in a thin layer in a place riot reached by tire rays of the sun. It becomes very hard. For rise the putty is held over the fire or the cylinder of a lamp, arid the cracks caused by beat or the cracked pieces are cemented with ii. Over the lamp cylinder the putty becoms soft arid very pliable, hut after cooling it gets very hard and binds the different materials very firmly together.

WHAT TO STUDY.

PROF. Norton, in an address before the Boston Architectural Club, advised young students of architecture to study poetry above all other things. Not merely the poetry of Shakespeare, of Byron, but the poetry which finds expression in the west front of Rheims Cathedral, in the campanile of Giotto, in the score of  the Moonlight Sonata, in the sentiment of Murillo's madonnas, the study, in fact of the finer qualities which tend to cultivate the taste, to make the architect an artist, and to fit him for the large aesthetic responsibilities which he must assume if he is true to his profession.

This is, after all, the real object in view in foreign travel. It matters not whether we sketch or measure, whether we look with the eyes or with the finer inner senses. The prime object of all travel is to enlarge the aesthetic appreciations, and when it comes down to a practical application the successful traveling student must think out for himself the particular lines of expression in drawing or in study which would best develop the qualities which he feels are most Jacking in his composition.





TESTS OF BRICK PIERS.

A SERIES of tests of brick piers was recently conducted at McGill University, concerning which Prof. Cecil 13. Smith writes to the Brickbuilder as follows

The following tests of the crushing strength of brick piers are interesting both as regards the absolute loads recorded, and also because, while with lime mortar brickwork the strength of the mortar determines the load which the pier can carry, this is not so where good Portland cement mortar is used. The tests show that the quality of the brick determines the pier strength, as the first and second brands of cement were rather superior to the third and fourth, as is shown by the tests of a cube of mortar from the same mixing ; but the superior strength of the pressed brick became evident in spite of this.

Another interesting point always brought out by such tests is that the pier strength per square inch is considerably less than that of a single brick on its flat, but considerably more than cubes of mortar, i. e., beds of mortar are tar stronger than cubes, and single bricks than built walls.

The compressions recorded are very small, owing to the rigidity of the mortar, but piers laid in lime mortar give very much greater compressions per unit load.



TESTS OF BRICK PIERS.



McGill UNIVERSITY LABORATORIES, MARCH, 1897.

	Crushing Strength. lbs. per	Failure.	Compression per foot.	Strength of Mortar

	Dimensions of Pier.	Mortar.	Brick.	square inch.	______	Age

	At 1st Crack. Maximum Load.	'	initial. material. 40 lbs. per oo lbs. per

			square inch square inch.	In. x 3 in. cube.

	8.1	ins. x 8.. ins.	t Canadian	Ordinary well-burnt				tn the	tn tbe

	 11.6 ins, high.		Portland.	   Flat Brick.	822	1,234	Weeks.	Brick.	Brick.	,oor ft.	.co25 ft.	711

	Joints, 1/3in. brick.	Sand.

	8.1	ins x 8.1 ins.	, German

		11.6 ins, high.	Portland.	990	1,230	"

Joints, 1/3in. thick. Sand.	_______________________________

	8.2 ins. x 8.3 ins.	English	La Prairie pressed,

	10.5	ins, high.	Portland.	Keyed on one skle.	1,130	1,524	"	"	.0025 ft.	.004 ft.

	Joints, 1/2in. thick.	Sand.	____________



8.4	ins. X 8.4 ins. t Belgian

	10.75 ins, high.	Portland.	''	1,204	"	.023 ft	.0045 ft.	677

	Joints, 1/4in, thick,	3 Sand.



N.	B.—The crushing strength of a brick similar to those in piers Nos. and 2, laid on flat and headed in plaster of Paris, was 1,400 lbs. per square inch for first crack, and 400 lbs. per square inch maximum load