<doctype type="text">

<article title=" INTERIOR DECORATION." author=" ELLIOTT, W.H.">

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND

small patterns should never be used except as practically plain surfaces, forming a background for something more important. A great deal might be said about adapting the decoration to the habits, tastes and more important still, the purses of clients. But this leads into other topics not within the scope of this paper.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

CHAMPLAIN MONUMENT AT QUEBEC. PAUL CHEVRE,



SCULPTOR MR. CHARDONNELL, ARCHITECT.



ALTERNATIVE DESIGNS FOR A HILLSIDE BUNGALOW TO BE



BUILT NEAR VICTORIA, B.C.—R. M. FRIPP,



F. R. I. B. A., ARCHITECT.



RESIDENCE OF MR. D. LENNON, WINNIPEG, MAN. C. H.



WHEELER, ARCHITECT.



THE building is situated on Vennely Street, and is a cosy, substantial residence built of local straw-colored brick, with Iron river sandstone dressings. The whole of the ground floor, staircase, halls, etc., are fitted up in quartered oak, ceiling of dining room and entrance hall pannelled in the same wood. The remaining woodwork is formed in British Columbia cedar. The plumbing is very elaborate, and of the best kind, including enamelled baths, sinks, tiled floor and walls to lavatory,

that of the time of Henry VII., which was considered to be appropriate, as representing the period when the voyages of the Cabots were undertaken.

The tower is built of red Mansfield sandstone from Nottinghamshire, with dressings of Bath freestone. Two stages are provided, each having balconies reached by circular staircases. On each face of the upper stage the balconies have affixed brass engraved plates indicating by arrows the surrounding objects of interest, the situations of the principal British towns and capitals of Europe, and by a prominent arrow giving the approximate direction of the point where Cabot is supposed to I have landed on the American continent. The plateau on which the tower stands was artificially formed some time after the Crimean war for the purpose of placing thereon two of the Russian cannon captured in the war, 1 and presented by the government to the city, by whom the site was granted for its present purpose conditionally on the cannon not being disturbed.

On the summit of the spire is a gilded figure representing Commerce. On the four faces of the base are elaborately carved panels containing the arms of the city













































COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES, MONTREAL—SPECIMENS OF PUPILS WORK IN LITHOGRAPHING CLASS.



etc. Hot water heating and electric fittings. Cost about $6,500.



CABOT MEMORIAL TOWER, BRISTOL, ENGLAND. W. V.



GOUGH, ARCHITECT.



The tower, of which an illustration is now given, has been erected to commemorate the sailing of the Cabots from the port of Bristol in the year 1497, resulting in the discovery of America.



It is built on the summit of Brandon Hill, a grass covered eminence rising almost in the middle of the city of Bristol, and in full view of that part of the river Avon from which the Cabots are supposed to have sailed. A beautiful and comprehensive prospect of the city and surrounding country is obtained from the hill and the balconies of the tower. The funds for its erection have been raised by a committee of Bristol citizens, prominent among whom is Mr. W. H. Davies, ex-Mayor of Bristol, chairman, and Messrs. J. W. Arrowsmith and E. G. Clarke, hon. secretaries. The former was one of those deputed by the city of Bristol to visit Canada last year to join in the celebration then held in commemoration of the same event.

The style in which the building has been designed is

Of Bristol those of the Society of Merchant Venturers, an ancient and wealthy local corporation the arms of Venice, the domicile of John Cabot for a considerable part of his life and those of Henry VII. contemporary with Cabot. On three sides of the base are panels containing bronze tablets, two of which give the dates and descriptions of the laying of the foundation stone and Opening respectively, and the other the gift of the Bristol branch of the Peace Society, on which is engraved an inscription setting forth the Society's desire for universal peace, and more especially for lasting friendly relations with the United States of America.

The foundation stone was laid on June 24th, 1897, the 400th anniversary of Cabot's sailing from Bristol, by the Marquis of Dufferin and Ava, who was asked, as a former Governor-General of Canada, to perform the ceremony. It was opened by him, and handed over to the city of Bristol on Sept. 6th, 1898, when were present Lord Strathcona and other eminent Canadians, who attended the meeting of the British Association held at the same time in Bristol.

The architect is Mr. W. V. Gough, of 24 Bridge street, Bristol, whose design was selected in a limited competition between local architects.

