<doctype type="text">

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



tools and materials required are provided without cost to the students.



The Plumbing class, which, as has been stated, meets in a separate building, has as its instructor Mr. J. A. Peard, and is under the immediate direction

of a committee of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal. The class has been arranged for apprentices an d journey men engaged in any of the branches of plumbing. The class room is equipped for about 75 pupils, each pupil having a gas furnace for melting solder and a drawer for holding tools. Instruction is given on such subjects as lead bossing, pipe bending, water closets and their fittings, water waste preventors, baths, lavatories and sinks, traps, soil pipes, connection of drains to sewers, ventilation of soil pipes and drains, sizes of pipes, water supply, house cisterns, the use of tools, etc., etc. Questions are placed on the blackboard by the teacher, which the pupils are required to answer in writing. The answers are returned to the pupils after being examined and corrected by the teacher. The pupils are supplied with material

free of charge.	COUNCIL OF ARTS AND M



The Modelling class meets on

Wednesday and Friday evening, and is under the instruction of Mr. J. 0. Gratton. Pupils are expected to be experienced in freehand drawing, although this requirement is not rigidly ad-



























































































COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES, MONTREAL—SPECIMENS OF PUPILS'



WORK IN FREEHAND DRAWING CLASS.

hered to in the case of stone cutters and other pupils connected with the building trades.

Instruction in all the classes is given in both English and French, and is open to male pupils above the age of fifteen.





















































ANUFACTURES, MONTREAL—INTERIOR VIEW FREEHAND DRAWING AND MODELLING CLASS ROOM.



The work of the classes for 1898-99 began on October 17th. The attendance at most of the classes has increased from year to year, which may be taken as evidence that an educational want

of the artizan classes is being satisfactorily supplied.



NOTES.



Much sympathy is felt with Mr. Lacroix, the City Building Inspector, in consequence of the recent death of his wife.

The geological students of McGill University have recently visited a number of the stone quarries in the vicinity of Montreal and Ottawa under the direction of Professor Adams.

The Municipal Association of Montreal having had under consideration the proposed new city charter, recommend to the council that the by-laws regarding fire escapes should be brought into harmony with the provincial laws on the subject, and that there should be instituted a thorough system of inspection of electrical fittings, wiring, etc., and of gas and gas meters.



The Knights of Labor, at a meeting held in Montreal recently, formulated a petition to the Lieutenant-Governor of Quebec for certain improvements in the educational system of the province. A clause n the petition is as follows : As the apprenticeship system is rapidly disappearing, to replace it by the only one possible, the better technical education of our youth by means of schools or colleges of applied science."



The Liberal Contractors' Club at a recent meeting elected the following officers President, Felix Sauvageau, re-elected First Vice-President, Jos. Brunet, Mayor of Cote des Neiges; Second Vice-President, Godfrol Chapleau Secretary, G. I. Leveille Assistant Secretary, N. T. Gagnon Treasurer, G. W. Crevier, re-elected; Committee—O. Cauchon, H. A. Brosseau, F. Fournier, A. C. St. Amour, L. Z. Lebeuf, 0. Lemay, F. Lernoine and Onez Martineau.



The removal of the old Victoria bridge at Montreal is proving to be a very slow and difficult undertaking for the contractors, the Detroit Bridge & Iron Works. The company are employing compressed air for the purpose of cutting the rivets in the old structure. The weight of iron work in the old tubular bridge is upwards of 9,000 tons, and a very large sum will be spent in its removal. An immense shear is now under construction at the Bertram & Sons Iron Works at Dundas, Ont., for the purpose of cutting up the iron work of this old bridge into scrap.

