<doctype type="text;ad">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



AN INTERESTING INSTALLATION.

A RECENT installation of electric lights in St. Mary's Cathedral, Halifax, Nova Scotia, is interesting, inasmuch as it consists in the application of the principle of interior conduits. The tubing wit bin which the wires are enclosed is of the type known as electro-duct, which comes under the category of uninsulated conduits. These metal pipes are of soft steel, coated inside and out with a rust-proof compound, and are secured to the ceiling in the basement of the church, the branches being run from junction boxes to the various outlets. The slate switchboard is recessed in a handsome piece of woodwork in the vestry, and the different circuits are here controlled by eight P. P. switches, and protected by suitable fuse pieces. The brass fixtures, selected by the vicar-general, the Very Rev. E. F. Murphy, are of elegant design, those on each side of the altar being particularly handsome.



This is the first installation of the kind in the province, and is a good specimen of high class work, the wires from switchboard to lamps being completely enclosed by steel tubing. The specifications were drawn up arid the work supervised by Mr. F. A. I Hamilton, member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Messrs. John Starr & Son, of Halifax, being the contractors.



An attractive new catalogue has been issued by the James Robertson Mfg. Co., descriptive of their sanitary goods..

USEFUL HINTS.

Emerald or Paris green is rather permanent to light, but must not be mixed with pigments containing sulphur, because of the tendency to blacken when so mixed. It will not resist acids, ammonia and caustics.



Old bricks are readily cleaned in a new machine which is composed of a casing to support a shaft carrying a metal disk with a great number of steel pins fastened in the side thereof, which scrape the brick as the wheel revolves.



inn papering rough plastered walls, or board partitions, says the Plumber arid Decorator, they should be covered with thin muslin (cheese cloth) tacked around the edges, keeping the tacks far enough in to allow of pasting the edges down. The muslin should be wet with weak size and allowed to stretch and dry out before hanging paper on same.



Prof. S. H. Woodbridge, in a report on the hygienic condition of the public school buildings of Philadelphia, states that to suitably equip old arid furnace—heated school—houses with ventilating means, has been found to cost on an average from $9 to $12 per capita occupant , and the expense of installing such equipment may be safely estimated on that basis, provided the work is dome with the strictest integrity and economy.



Ornamental Iron Work, Stairs, Railings, cresting and balconies, bank railing, iron and brass elevator enclosures and gates,fire escapes, all classes of iron castings,The Malleable Iron Co. Ltd. Montreal



Duplex Sanitary Baths, The Toronto Steel-Clad Bath & Metal Co. Ltd.

