<doctype type="text">

matters, and the committee in question in engaging the leading architect of the city has perhaps taken the best course open to it But what is reported to have taken place at a subsequent meeting- of the Council emphasizes the folly of leaving the care of the public safety in matters of this sort to such bodies as city and town Councils, composed of men who, like Alderman Donnelly, (who claims to a ''knowledge of the strength of timbers ") think that any builder who has had a more or less varied experience in the erection of buildings, is a competent authority upon all matters connected with their safety. To arrive at a sound decision as to the safety of a public building requires an advanced scientific and mathematical education and a knowledge which can only be obtained by a comprehensive course of reading in purely technical and architectural subjects

- -for it is not only necessary to calculate strength and possible strains and loads upon walls, piers, beams, &c., but also to consider the effect of age and dilapidations, &c., upon the various materials of construction

—the arrangement, plan, &c., and provision for egress in the event of sudden panic, the possibility of escape being cut off in the event of fire, and many other matters which would never enter the head of an ordinary layman. This knowledge is not possessed by every builder, or even by every person who calls himself an architect and an inspection and report upon an unsafe building by an incompetent person is a distinct aggravation of the danger, as it tends to produce a fancied security which does not exist. What is needed is that all buildings in which the public assemble in numbers should be periodically inspected and reported upon by a qualified architect, and his report published, so that the public may know what buildings are safe and what are not. That the present system or want of system in looking after such buildings does not safeguard the public interest is plain from the fact that failures like those at London and Oshawa are continually occurring. This is due partly to the fact that those in charge of such buildings are not required by law to publish any statement of the condition they are in and that there is no legal standard whereby the competent architect can be distinguished from the incompetent the first relieving those who are inclined to neglect their duty and the second tending to void the efforts of those who wish to do it and have the building in their charge kept in a safe condition. If the Ontario legislature will follow the example of Quebec and amend the "Architects' Act" so as to give the public an opportunity of distinguishing between competent and incompetent practitioners in architecture, a long step in advance will be made.



Mr. Chas. Dawson, formerly superintendent for the Central Bridge and Engineering Co., of Peterboro, has accepted the position of assistant superintendent for the Dominion Bridge Co., Montreal.

The second quarterly part of the Journal of the Royal Institute of British Architects, received at the library of the Ontario Association of Architects, is more than usually good, containing, among other matter, a review of'' Modern Architecture the last work of Mr. T. Heathcote Stratham, the editor of The Builder. A copy of this admirable book is in the Toronto public library. There is also an important and copiously illustrated paper by Mr. Edwin Sachs, on The Housing of the Drama an illustrated historical paper on the '' Mediaeval Campanile of Rome,'' by Mr. I. Tavenor Perry a paper by Mr. G. 1). Crace on '' I Heraldic Drawing and its Adaptation,' and also a review by Mr. Gotch, whose name is also associated with this subject, of a recently published handbook of Decorative Heraldry by G. W. Eve.

BY THE WAY.

THE excellent specimens of terra cotta work from the Rathbun Works at Deseronto, which adorn the facade of the new building at the corner of King and Yonge streets, Toronto, serve to illustrate the progress which has taken place in this branch of manufacture in Canada in recent years. The material is now made in any desired shade, and the specimens referred to are as clean cut as though chiselled in stone.

xxx



M. Giot, of Ivry, who is a contractor for painting, has won the great prize in the lottery of the Paris Exhibition of 1900. It amounts to 20,000. An English contemporary naively remarks that M. Giot, who is a Socialist, may be expected by his fellow-believers to divide with them the proceeds of his lucky venture, but, like the late William Morris, although he may talk by the hour about the necessity of collectivism, will think it his duty to acquire all he can for the mere enjoyment of wealth.

xxx

THE City Council is being urged to add this that and the other expense to the cost of construction and equipment of the new municipal buildings at Toronto. The specious argument is employed that inasmuch as the original estimate of cost has already been so largely exceeded, the expenditure of a few more thousands would be a matter of no consequence, while it would be so nice, you know, to have a chime of bells and all the latest attractions. I infer that the people who talk in this strain are more likely to have stock in a bell foundry than a large interest in keeping the city taxes at a point which will induce people to regard the city as a desirable place in which to live and make investments. The new municipal buildings should be completed as speedily as possible and without a single dollar of extra expenditure that can be avoided.

 XX



A WELL known architect with whom I chatted the other day remarked on the public disposition to regard the member of the profession who is known to possess the artistic quality as being necessarily unpractical and lacking in a knowledge of materials and methods of construction. For example, having consented at his client's request to ask the opinion of a brother architect on a certain point connected with the erection of an important public building, the gentleman of his choice was objected to on the ground that his artistic proclivities made it improbable that his opinion on a constructional point would have much value. "As a matter of fact," said my friend, ''I know of no architect in Canada, or in America, who has a better knowledge of planning and construction." In this, as in other particulars, a man is apt to be judged by the company he keeps. The architect whose inclinations run in the line of the artistic will be likely to choose the association of artists and such like kindred spirits, and will be in danger of being regarded by the commercial world as an idealist, while the man who graduates from the ranks of the real estate or building speculator, will probably be credited with having a thorough knowledge of the practical side of the profession.



The firm of Curry, Baker & Co., architects, Toronto, has been dissolved. Mr. Curry retains the offices formerly occupied by the firm, while Mr. Baker has rented new offices in the same building.

