<doctype type="text">

<article title="EVERY MAN HIS OWN BARBARIAN." author="">



EVERY MAN HIS OWN BARBARIAN.

IT has been said that the further advancement of architecture must wait for another irruption of barbarians to show us the way. This proposition has the evidence of history on its side ; but, inasmuch as the order of the world's movements has changed, and irruptions are now made not by the barbarians but upon them, it seems as if we may wait long and in vain for any chance of improvement to architecture in this way. What then must we do? Architecture must go forward or it will cease to live. It is clear then that the problem is to find the barbarians.

If we examine what the force was which the barbarians brought to bear upon building- so as to cause it to assume new forms, we find it to be nothing but that practical logic which in matters not artistic has always appeared to be a characteristic of the English. Before art that nation of shopkeepers for a long time bowed with reverence as to something beyond the comprehension of ordinary men, and followed submissively any lead, until at last it became ridiculous even to itself, and out of its abjection is arising a horde of young men who have discovered that the common sense which the English have applied to other walks of life is applicable to art also. These are the barbarians who promise to make the English a regenerating force in architecture.

Let us not, however, wait for their developments. It was not the spread of the Goths' and Lombards' method of work that produced Gothic architecture, but of their method of thought.

What was there in their method of thought that made architecture revive in their hands? Primarily, we may say that it was ignorance of the Greeks. The conquering Roman was, in matters of art, subdued by the Greek he had conquered. He perceived the beauty of Greek work, and put himself in Greek hands to have his own building made beautiful. These German invaders knew nothing about the Greeks. They only knew what they wanted and found in the Roman buildings material ready to their hand for what they wanted to do. When it suited them they took details bodily when they wanted something different in form they regarded the Roman buildings simply as quarries of material and hewed what they wanted out of the choicest stones. There was no reverence for antiquity for its own sake ; these ancient moderns had not arrived at that development of modernism. Nor was there any religious feeling for the relics of an ancient worship though barbarians the Lombards were good Catholics, and they made rubble walls with the statues of the Roman gods. What their work was like there are some examples to show barbarous enough in its ill-fitting detail those who have seen it say, but it has the starting: of the character which was afterwards developed into what we call Lombard architecture, from which sprang the architecture of the middle ages. The Romans were in the line of progress to this result but missed it. We can see now how the developments of Gothic architecture proceeded from a basis of the constructive attainments of the Romans. What is before ourselves we cannot see and may perhaps never see (though movement is rapid in these days) ; but though we may see no result, at any rate no far result, the game is worth playing for its own sake. The barbarian's work was a man's work ; that of the Greeks who festooned the Roman buildings with architecture was not. The barbarians' method has always resulted in improvement, and in rapid improvement the method of the Romanized Greeks has always led to degeneration.

There is no talk of degeneration in Canada just yet,

and fortunately the period of substantial buildings in this country is coming on at the same time as the forward movement in architecture. It is a time not only of a better understanding of the principles which underly good architecture but of such changes in the materials of construction that old models must fail as models and can supply only principles. There is no use in sneering at principles. To make light of the necessity for principle in design is only another form of the prejudice in favor of a "practical man" as opposed to a scientific architect. The practical man idea is now exploded. It is quite clear that architecture has got beyond him. It is not so generally recognized, but there can be little doubt that it soon will be recognized, that architecture is getting beyond the reach of imitative design. Indeed, there is much imitative design that we might already have dispensed with, and to begin now to do so would be the surest way to acquire that simple directness which is the mark alike of the barbarian and of the highest culture, and which is the only hope of any solution of our own great problem----how to make architecture of the birdcage building.

The time honoured shams which form so great a portion of our stock in trade are of this nature. Let us see from a couple of examples if they are really necessary to us. The tin cornice is a great unifier to a restless building, but there are more ways of making a cornice tell than by making it project. As a matter of fact, projections are awkward things to handle in a street front, and the tin cornice is often in difficulties which would be avoided if, instead of imitating the stone we cannot afford, we used stone in a way in which we can afford it, and were thus forced into the discovery that we may diminish the projection of a cornice if we increase its height. The barbarians were fond of an arcade to crown their buildings. It gave emphasis without much projection, of which latter they were perhaps afraid. Most business fronts have a flat roof sloping a long way back and requiring therefore a good deal of height in front above the ceiling. All conditions are therefore favorable for development here, and we venture to think that the adornment of this space is susceptible of as much beauty as and more variety than the tin cornice.

Another piece of imitative work which has the respectable countenance of the Colonial designers is the glued tip wooden column designed in stone form. As a hindrance to thought this piece of imposture is entitled to a place in the very front rank. How many a building depends entirely for its effect upon its portico! No further effort is necessary. Without this effective but deceptive and in the long run debasing expedient there would have been more thought, less bastard grandeur, and more characteristic treatment of the simpler class of buildings. For buildings in which there is room for a fair amount of expenditure there is nothing prohibitive about the cost of sufficient stone columns. An upper structure of moulded stone would make a heavy bill, but there is no occasion for this. There are constant examples in Italy of beams and rafters laid on marble columns. The little cloister of San Gregorio in Venice, which appears in Mrs. Oliphant's "Makers of Venice" and other illustrated books about Venice, has its open corridor constructed in this way. It is, in fact, nothing but a verandah surrounding an interior court. It is not even necessary to have stone columns in order to produce an effect that satisfies both the eye and the mind. There are examples in our own work constructed with good square wooden posts and beams. Turning has been often abused, but it need not be so. The fatal modern defect of making everything like something else has given to turned wooden constructive posts the appearance of gigantic balusters, but this need not be so. A barbarian's "sure intent" would not fail to bring out the true feeling of a wooden post. To him and to all who follow in his footsteps each constructive feature has an expression inseparable from its use columns, arches, beams, cornices, labels, walls themselves, have logic and language. To study them, enjoy them for their own sake and work them out in design is good manly work, and in it is the only hope of architecture.

