<doctype type="text">

<article title="Results of Experiments on the Strength of White Pine Red Pine, Hemlock and Spruce." author="Bovey, H.T.">

	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTS ON THE STRENGTH OF WHITE PINE RED PINE, HEMLOCK AND SPRUCE*

By PROF. H T. BOVEY, 1.1. D., D.C.L.

IN a paper

read before the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, 1895, the results were given of a number of experiments on the

 transverse strength of timber beams but in the calculations it was assumed that the distortion, or diminution of dept It at the bearing surface, was sufficiently small to 1)e disregarded. it often happens, however, and especially when the timber contains a large amount t of moisture re, that tile change in depth due to compression is excessive, producing a corresponding increase in the skin—stress The met lied of conducting these experiments was fully described in the referred to, and therefore the following points only art noted

All the transverse tests were made with the Wicksteed machine. The middle of the be am was supported on a hardwood bearing of

44 inches diameter The two ends were forced down by rains under hydraulic pressure, which can he gradually increased at any required rate, 01 can be maintained constant for any given time. The end pressures were kept tiormal to the surface of the beam by means of spherical joints, which allow the end bearings in

















































































































































revolve. In previous experiments, t lie wire used in observing the deflections was found to be somewhat coarse, and a special wire was therefore drawn of .002—inch diameter.

The flexure theory is admittedly unsatisfactory, and frequently gives results which are contrary to experience. Possibly, when a certain limit has been passed there is a tendency towards equalization of stress, and the so-called neutral surface may be



From a paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of Science, Toronto, 1597.

moved towards that portion of the beam that is best able to bear the stress. It may indeed be more correct to assume that the distances of this surface from the tension and compression faces are in the ratio of the ultimate tensile and compressive strengths of the beam. This assumption at all events seems to give results which are more in accordance with practice. For example in the case of a cast—iron Tee bar, tested in the University Laboratory, the





























































































































































tensile skin-stress should be 22,030 lbs. per sq. inch, and the compressive skin-stress 102,050 lbs. per sq. inch whereas the ordinary theory gave 33,000 lbs. per sq. inch as the tensile and 20,800 lbs. per sq. inch as the compressive skin- stress

The following tables give the breaking weights, skin-stresses (transverse), coefficients of elasticity and specific weights of a number of air—dried, saturated, frozen and kiln—dried beams.

Beams 15 and 16 were sawn off of those felled at Keewatin in 1894 and were received into the laboratory on the 13th of December, their weights being 415.75 lbs. and 457. 78 lbs. respectively. They were both tested on the 2nd of February, 1 1895, when it was found that beam 15 had lost 36.69 lbs., or 8.8 per cent. of its weight, and that beam 16 had lost 46.59 lbs., or 10.2 per cent of its weigh. When the beams were sawn through after the test they were still found to be completely saturated with water excepting for a depth of 1 inch from the surface. The beams were from the central portion of the trees, the heart running from end to end. Beams 28 to 43 were sawn front trees felled in water,

