<doctype type="text">

<article title="The "Robb" Hot Water Heater." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER



THE "ROBB" HOT WATER HEATER.

THIS heater was designed and patented by Mr. D. W. Robb and is manufactured by the Robb Engineering Co., of Amherst, N. S. A number have been placed in buildings in different parts

The height is much less than in most others types, permitting of its use in very low cellars, and as it may be shipped in sections it is easily taken into any building through the doors or windows. It is provided with rocking grates extending about half the length of the heater, which are easily operated by a lever. The hot gases are directed upward by a fire bridge at the rear of the grate and then downwards by a shield which prevents them escaping too quickly out through the smoke pipe. The part of I lie outer rim of each section that is exposed to the fire is curved, increasing the heating surface very largely.

On account oft lie shape of heating surfaces and their direct exposure to the flame, soot cannot collect. This allows of the



















THE ROBB BIO LER—SECTIONAL V I EW, CRO5SWISE.















THE ROBB BOILER SECTIONAL VIEW, LENGTHWISE.



of the Maritime provinces during he past two years, and are said to have given highly satisfactory results.



The heater, as described by the manufacturers, consists of a number of Lipright cast iron sect ions of the general shape of a horse shoe, with circulating pipes on each side of tile crown.



Boston Hot Blast System, Canadian Agents Boston Blower Co., Geo. W. Reed & Co. Montrealuse of soft coal as well as hard without cleaning out and keeps the heater always at its highest efficiency. The flame being in one large body admits of more perfect combustion or greater heat than is obtained where it is divided into thin sheets before the gases are fully ignited.



The water circulates from the return headers at the bottom to the flow header at the top in an almost vertical direction. The movement is therefore very rapid, giving much quicker heating than is usually secured with hot water. This rapid circulation also assists largely in tile economy shown by this heater, as it is necessary for the best results that the water should escape as fast as heated, allowing colder water to take its place.





The main thing to be thought of in the erection of scaffolding of any kind is that men have to risk their lives and limbs on it, and that true economy in its erection is that which makes it safe beyond a doubt, and there should be no sparing of time, labor or money in accomplishing that end.

