<doctype type="text;ad">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT 

MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

CANADIAN NATURAL CEMENT.

FOR the purpose of demonstrating the quality of their material, Messrs. Battle, of Thorold, propose to build at their own expense a stone wall near the Soulanges Canal, using the identical cement which was rejected by the government engineer, Mr. Munro. The manufacturers point to the piers of the old Victoria bridge at Montreal, which were constructed with this cement, as evidence of its enduring quality under the most severe conditions.





CHARACTERISTICS OF BUILDING STONES.

MR. H. F. Bain, in the annual report of the Iowa Geological Survey for 1897, referring to the use of stone in building, draws attention to the fact that architects and engineers of the present day have before them a more difficult problem than that faced by the Egyptians and other early workers in the matter of climate. Not only is our climate in itself more trying than that of the semitropical southern countries in which the early builders worked, but the great size of our country and the modern development of transportation facilities results in a given stone being far more widely used than was any from the ancient quarries. We no longer build from stone quarried within a few miles of our building site, and hence cannot argue that the rock having stood for untold centuries in the quarry may well be expected to stand in the building. Our stone may be shipped so tar as to be used under totally different climatic conditions from those affecting it in its native exposures.



Again, modern conditions of life are producing a marked effect on our climate. Particularly is this true in our cities, where under

present circumstances so much of the stone must be used. Our universal use of steam, the great amount and oft en quality of coal burned, the imperfect combustion 

obtained, the large number of industries which, in the production of their wares, use chemical processes of some nature, all exert a marked influence on the purity of the air. It is doubtful if any stone used by the

older builders was ever called upon to stand the insidious influence of so tainted an atmosphere as that to which our stones are exposed as a result of purely artificial conditions alone. This, coupled with the many trying natural conditions of humidity, variation in temperature, wind action, and unequal settling, all make the wise selection of stone a matter requiring much thought and a wide range of information.





A granite quarry of excellent quality is reported to have been recently discovered near Nictaux, Annapolis County, N.S.

Messrs. Andrew S. Baldwin and O'Brien & Gilmour have recently purchased the granite quarries at St. George, N. B., formerly owned by Taylor Bros.

Mr. C. j. Lewis, formerly connected with the Burlington Pressed Brick Co., has recently leased the works of the Toronto Terra Cotta Company near Milton, Out., and will put the same in operation again.

Messrs. R. M. Ramsay and C. M. Adams, of Chicago, and j. P. Wagner, of Buffalo, visited Toronto recently for the purpose of looking into the possibilities for the establishment of a factory for the manufacture of cast iron girders and other structural iron work. They the reported to have been favorably impressed with the conditions amid prospects.



Mr. Hugh Cameron, of Branford, visited Vancouver recently with the object of forming a company to manufacture a special class of bricks for building purposes. Mr. Warsap, manager of the C.P.R. cement works, is reported to have said that there exists a deposit of clay mm the locality from which bricks of a deep chocolate color arid capable of taking a fine glaze could be manufactured. Mr. Warsap states that, owing to the improper mixing of the materials, the bricks heretofore manufactured in the vicinity of Vancouver have been largely affected by the weather.



Mr. W. j. McBride, of Toronto Junction, is one of the leading promoters of a company which is said to have purchased twenty-two acres of clay land in East Toronto, from samples of which bricks are said to have been made upon which no impression could be made with a hammer or chisel. It is declared to be the

Bathology The Duplex Bath Toronto Steel-Clad Bath and Metal Co. Limited, Toronto

