<doctype type="text">

<article title="Pompeii-A Cit of the First Century." author="Adams, Prof.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



It is, however, to be regretted that, owing to financial difficulties, the grant has been considerably reduced in recent years.



Through Signor Fiorelli's labor we can now for the first time picture to ourselves the appearance of a Roman town. This map will serve to show the outline of the city, and the proportion of it—-about one-half——which has already been excavated. The walls are seen throughout almost their entire extent. The city is an irregular oval, its extreme length within the walls being about three-quarters of a mile, and the greatest breadth lot quite one half mile.



The population is estimated at 12,000, and an allowance of 8,ooo more for the suburbs is probably a liberal one --20,000 in all.



The main streets are at right angles to one another, thus dividing the city into insulae, or blocks, and it will be noticed that these insulae or blocks are solid masses of buildings, not cut up or traversed by lanes or alleys. The insulae have been named or numbered for convenience of reference, but in Roman times there was no such designation, or at least none Much was posted. The reason for this will probably be that the streets of all Roman towns were known by a regular series of names, the principal street running north and south being called Cardo, and that running east and west being called Decumanus. The streets now as excavated have names assigned to them derived from something characteristic in their position or something significant to be found in them. It has been conjectured that the street now called the street of Stabia was the Cardo of Pompeii, while the Decumanus Major was the present Street of Nola, and the Decumanus Minor, the Street of Abundance.



I will ask you, this evening, to take a stroll with me through this ancient city.



We enter the city, as all visitors do, through the Porta della Marina, or Sea Gate, and passing along the Strada della Marina, enter the Forum, then, crossing the Forum, down the Street of Abundance and tip the Street of the Theatre, past the Temple of Isis to the Greater and Lesser Theatres then, by the Gladiatoral Barracks, to the Amphitheatre, and back by the walls and the Street of Nola to the western part of the city, visiting two private residences situated on the Street of Fortune, the House of the Tragic Poet and the House of the Fawn, which I would select as samples of Pompeiian houses of wealth and refinement, for the western part of the city must have been the portion in which the well-to-do and fashionable people lived, no houses of the poorer element having been as yet unearthed. They probably lived down toward the Amphitheatre.



There was then a west end in the first century as there is in the nineteenth.



A more accurate idea of the appearance of the city than can be obtained from the map is afforded by this photograph of a portion of a large and very accurate model of the city which is exhibited in the Museum at Naples.



The Street of Stabia, the Cardo of Pompeii we come down the Street of Abundance from the Forum, up the Street of the Theatre to the smaller Temple of Isis, the two theatres, the Gladiators' Barracks, and then off to the Amphitheatre on the right.



The compact manner in which the city is built, as well as the fact that the roofs, being made of wood covered with tiles, burned and fell in, will be noticed. All the debris has been removed from the city, however, and it therefore presents a clean and neat appearance, as well shown in this photograph.



Leaving Naples, then, by any of the half-dozen trains which daily start for the south, passing by the city of Herculaneum, and cutting across several oral lava streams which at various times have found their way into the waters of the bay, and skirting the Bay of Naples, in somewhat less than an hour, having gone some 17 miles, we hear the guard call out ''Pompeii Alighting, we



pass up a picturesque lane crowded with beggars in various stages of disintegration, to a gate leading into a garden. Here, purchasing our tickets, a guide is assigned to us and we pass on through the garden a few steps further and reach the wall of the ancient city, then up a rather steep archway and we enter the Sea Gate.



Continuing straight across we pass down the Strada della



Marina and through to the Strada della Abundanzia, the Street of



Abundance. The scene before us is a street corner in Pompeii.



The Street of Abundance here meets the little side street or lane



of Venus and Mars.



The street, it will be noticed, is paved with large, irregular, polygonal blocks of lava, fitted together after the manner of the

Etruscans. This method of paving the Romans learned from the Etruscans, and it is thus that the Roman forum is paved. A narrow, raised sidewalk bounds the road on either side. The road is worn into deep ruts by the wheels of the carts which passed over it two thousand years ago.



Only a part of the town seems to have been furnished with sewers, hence the streets were waterways and must have been impassable in heavy rains. Stepping stones were accordingly placed across them at frequent intervals, as now in Baltimore.



In the front of the picture is a fountain and drinking trough, made of marble, and which is surmounted by a figure symbolical of Abundance, crowned with a vine, and bearing a horn of plenty. From this tile street derives its name of the Street of Abundance.



The materials used in the construction of the city are here well seen. The house on the right is built of blocks of travertine, accurately cut and laid together without mortar. Such houses, however, are not common. They occur here and there in the city, and are in all cases very old houses, daring back at least to the 3rd century 13. C. This style of masonry was called by the Romans, Opus Quadratum, and in Rome, where it is also found, is the most primitive among the existing methods of building. The early date of these houses in Pompeii is also shown by a primitive arrangement of the rooms, a peculiar simplicity of mural decoration, as well as the absence of a second story to the structure.



The houses of later date, and most of the houses in Pompeii belong to this class, are built of a sort of concrete or rubble work, faced with what he Romans called Opus Incertum, or with flat tile like bricks. This was formed by studding the face of the concrete wall with irregular shaped pieces of volcanic tufa, 3 to 4 inches across, each having its outer face worked smooth and the inner part roughly pointed. An example of this is seen in the building on thc left. The brick faced concrete and the use of bricks in the arches is also seen. This house was built A.D. 14-24.



Still later another style of facing came into use, the so-called Opus Reticulatum (from its resemblance to the meshes of a net). This is similar to Opus Incertum except that the stones are carefully cut so as to present a square or lozenge shaped end, and are fitted closely together. A concrete wall thus faced with Opus Reticulatum and brick is here shown (taken from the work of Middleton, who is our great authority on these subjects). This style of work s everywhere in the Roman dominions, a sign of construction of the Imperial age. An example of it will be presented later on.



As a general rule this masonry or brickwork is covered with a hard and very fine white stucco, worked to resemble marble, of which it is an excellent imitation. There is stucco everywhere in the city, both within and without the houses, just as in Naples at the present day.



The building on the left, to which I have asked your attention, is a portion of an exchange of Eumachia, which must have been a very handsome building in its day. It was erected, as we learn from an inscription, by a priestess of the name of Eumachia, at her own expense, and dedicated to Concordia Augusta. It will be remembered that the temple of Janus, in Rome, was always open in time of war, and that Augustus closed in  token of the universal peace of the Roman empire, in the very year in which our Saviour was born. Horace mentions the facts in his Odes, thus showing that it had a hold upon the popular feelings of his day, and this building in Pompeii was no doubt dedicated to commemorate this famous universal peace.



It was probably used for a stock exchange; the small chamber was for the doorkeeper the steps ascended to the upper floor; the walls on either side were painted in black panels, divided by red pilasters a statue of the foundress stood in a niche opposite the entrance. This, which is a view down the streets of Stabiac, shows the ruts better.



Passing down the street, and turning up the corner to the right, we pass the Temple of Isis (whose worship seems to have been the fashionable cult in Pompeii, having been brought from Alexandria, with which city Pompeii, being a seaport, had a large maritime trade), and reach the two theatres, the greater having been used for the presentation of tragedy, and the smaller, as its construction indicates, for the production of comedy.



This is the view of the greater, the Tragic Theatre, which, as will be seen, is in a state of tolerable preservation, although the ashes have not been completely removed from the seats. It is semi-circular and was open to the sky and adorned in every part with white marble. The seats faced south, so that the audience, while watching the progress of the play, had at the same time a

