<doctype type="text">

	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



charter members and a late member of Council. A resolution of condolence was passed at a special general meeting, which was ordered to be put in the minutes and a copy of same to be sent to the widow and bereaved family.



In accordance with the powers of the Council, Mr. L A. Montbriand was elected to the vacant position.



The lectures and dinners organized during the winter were followed with the usual success. The lectures were given in the Art Gallery by the kind permission of the Art Association, as in



previous years. The lecturers were Prof. F. I). Adams, MA. Ph.D.



D., who delivered an able lecture on Pompeii Prof. C. H. Calby, M.A. Ph. D., on ' Brunelleschi,' and Prof. S. fi. Capper, on Ancient Rome.' To these gentlemen the hearty thanks of



the Association were tendered.



Your Council did not lose sight of the important duty imposed of endeavoring to obtain the sanction of the Lieutenant-Governor to our schedule of charges as provided for in our original charter. It was thought desirable to obtain legal cu-operation, and this has



been secured. Your Council trusts that this matter also may soon



be brought to a satisfactory issue.



The examinations of this year have not been fruitful of success only one candidate presented himself at the winter examination, but retired on account of ill-health.



Three candidates were examined at the summer session, but all failed to matriculate. It is proposed to make some small changes



in the examination curriculum. Your Council and the examiner have considered the matter, and the result will be seen in the proposed amendments to the by-laws, of which notice has been given.



Through the good offices of one of our members, the Council were enabled to exhibit in the rooms of the Association all the valuable documents concerning the Phoebe Hearst competition for



the proposed new University of California, and members were all



notified of the competition.



Your Council have followed as keenly as possible the vicissitudes of the draft of the new building by-laws for the city of Montreal, which were prepared by the Association and delivered to the City Council a considerable time ago. Steps have been taken from time to time to endeavor to expedite matters. The necessity for a new and vastly improved building by-law for the city of Montreal cannot be doubted, and delay can only be fruitful of harm to the city and citizens. It will be the important and pressing work of the new Council to endeavor to forward the passing of these bylaws in the interest of the public.



Several applications have been received for copies of the Constitution and By—laws, but it was thought better to wait until the new amendments that have been prepared by a special committee, who have devoted much time to their consideration, were sanctioned by the Association, before they were printed and distributed. Moreover, the translation of so important a document requires very- special care, and it suggested that it be put in the hands of a select committee, who shall have power to thoroughly revise the text and render the same consistent and clear.



There have been three special general meetings of the Association during this year, twelve regular meetings of Council and eleven special meetings.



The attendance has been as follows J. F. Peachy, president, Quebec, o: A. Raza, 1st vice-president, 25; A. F. Dunlop, 2nd vice-president, o Joseph Venne, secretary, 29; E. Maxwell, treasurer, 25; A. T. Taylor, 22; C. Baillarge, Quebec, o ; A. C. Hutchison, 21 James Nelson, 25 0. Mailloux (deceased during the year). 8 Prof. S. H. Capper, 13 L. R. Montbriand (elected



to take the seat of 0. Mailloux), 6.

J.	F. PEACHY, President.



JOS. VENNE, Secretary.



The report of the Quebec Section was then presented:

REPORT OF QUEBEC SECTION.



The undersigned officers for Quebec section, P.Q.A.A., hereby have the honor to submit the annual report of said section for the year 1897-98.

On the 19th of October, 1897, Mr. I). Ouellet was elected President and Mr. Jos. P. Ouellet Secretary of said Quebec section, vice Messrs. Baillarge and Bussieres, whose term of office had expired.



At the same meeting was discussed the question of amendments to be wade to the charter of our Association, and the amendments agreed upon were forwarded to the General Council at Montreal.



It having been decided at said general meeting, held at Montreal on the 27th of October, ultimo, to start a list of voluntary subscriptions to covet- the necessary expenses required for

the passing of said amendments by the Provincial Legislature, the Quebec members of the P.Q.A.A. enlisted, and at the first



call of the treasurer of the Association, paid fifty per cent. of their subscriptions.



When the measure was brought before Parliament, the Quebec members joined with their Montreal fellow-architects, and worked hand in hand with them for the common welfare of the Association and thanks to the well combined efforts of all, and to the justice of our request, the then proposed amendments are now



law.



His Worship the Mayor of Quebec having kindly placed at our disposal a room in the city hall, said room has been furnished at our own expense as the place of our future meetings. The photos of the presidents of our Association have been placed in this room, and Mr. Baillarge has collected there quite a number of samples of building materials.



At an assembly held on the 6th of April ultimo, the members of



our section, through courtesy, decided to notify all persons who were practising architecture in Quebec (in public offices or elsewhere), without being members of the P.Q.A.A., that they had, consistent with the law, to enlist as members of said Association before the fifth of September now passed, and they have been referred to the secretary of the Association in Montreal for



further information on the matter. The above respectfully submitted.



(Signed)	I). OUELLET, President Quebec Section. Jos. P. OUELLET, Secretary.

QUEBEC, 6/10/98.



The election of officers was then proceeded with, the following being the result :—President, A. Raza ; 1st Vice-President, Prof. S. H. Capper ; 2nd Vice-President, G. E. Tanguay Secretary1 Jos. Venne ; Treasurer, W. E. Doran ; Councillors J. P. Peachy, M. Perrault, E. Maxwell, J. S. Archbald, G. A. Monette, A.

T.	Taylor; Auditors—J. C. A. Heriot and J. A. Chausse. The retiring President then delivered the following

address

RETIRING PRESIDENTS ADDRESS.



GENTLEMEN, As President of this Association I must say that I had very little to do during my term of office, as this is only the third and last meeting at which I have had to preside. However vital questions have been decided in the interests of the Association during this term



First, this interesting motion of Mr. M. Perrault, seconded by Mr. G. E. Tanguay, aiming at amendments to our charter, so as to strengthen our association and to give it definite powers.



On the recommendation of the Council the proposed amendments to the charter were put in charge of Hon. Senator R. Dandurand, and this friend of our Association willingly gave his best efforts as barrister, and fulfilled his duties of legal adviser with an ability above praise.



Mr. Dandurand ably directed the proceedings of the Counci and helped its members in their relation with the provincial legislature, and the result obtained was very important and satisfactory as the greatly increased membership of our Association testifies.



We may now feel that the Province of Quebec Association of Architects is firmly established. It will become the duty of future officers to effectively direct the Association and to act firmly in all questions that shall be referred to its care for the welfare of the Association.



Our Association now has an assured standing, and it is my desire to always continue my connection with it, being proud to be one of the charter members.



The good will which has ever existed between the members of Montreal and Quebec since the formation of the Association is a guarantee for the future. I have no doubt that. the Association will maintain its position, if not for ever, at least for a great number of years. Let us remember that our union shall be our strength and our staving power.



Our Association, founded eight years ago, has made yearly progress and gained public consideration. Many young students have passed with distinction the examinations and are now successful competitors in the field of the profession.



I must acknowledge the splendid reception in the way of interest meetings and visits, banquets, etc., which we from Quebec have always received in Montreal.



I shall close by thanking the members for the courtesy shown me during my term of office as President. I must specially thank

