<doctype type="text">

paintings in the residence of the Hon. Geo. A. Drummond. The collection includes examples of the work of Millet, Diaz, Troyon and Corot, also notable examples of the work of classical English painters.

Finally a visit was made to the Architectural Department of McGill University. Prof. S. H. Capper was present to extend a hearty welcome, to act as conductor, and explain the facilities at his disposal for the instruction of those who desire to enter the profession of architecture. The entire top flat of the engineering building is devoted to the use of this department, for which purpose it is excellently adapted, both as regards space and light. There are also lecture rooms on the floor below. The upper flat, devoted to instruction in drawing is divided into two compartments, one for first and second year students, the other for third and fourth year students. The walls are hung with a valuable collection of plaster casts, which exemplify the orders of architecture, and the distinguishing characteristics of each of the styles. There are also a number of cases containing casts of statuary, etc. The architectural casts have as far as possible been classified according to the style and period to which they belong. The lecture room below is equipped with a collection of 2,000 photographs and lantern slides of celebrated buildings, and a powerful lantern by means of which these views can be projected on a screen and their features explained. The pictures thrown on the screen by this lantern are but slightly dimmed by natural light, so that enough daylight can be admitted to the lecture room to allow of the students making notes as the lectures proceed. The lantern slides have been carefully classified and indexed, so as to be immediately available. The photographs are also being catalogued, and when this is done they will be available to the students at all times. A considerable number of valuable reference books are also at the disposal of the students, a room having been specially set apart in the Redpath Library for this purpose. In their first and second year students in this department are given practical instruction in wood turning, bench work and foundry practice. The third and fourth year pupils are given problems in design, being left free to choose the style in which they will work.





Near Boise City, Idaho, 400 feet below the earth's surface, there is a subterranean lake of hot water of 170 degrees temperature. It has pressure enough to ascend to the top floor of most of the houses, and will be piped to them for heating purposes.

The high oak wainscot of a recently decorated hall has been divided into small square flat panels that have been left without mouldings, and finished to imitate black Flemish oak, without paste filler, so that the grain of the wood is very evident. Above this wainscotting the wall has been hung with an imported paper that gives the effect of Gobelins tapestry, with its subdued though rich coloring. The ceiling has been finished with a beam effect, between which the spaces have been hung with dull red tapestry canvas. The oak floor, which has been filled with a black paste filler and then has been waxed, is kept constantly polished with weighted brushes. The chimney piece of oak, with a carved hood, carries out the Flemish effect, and the fireplace itself is built and faced with very dark bricks, burned until they are almost black, and having  kiln glaze on their surface.

MK. ALPH. KALA,



THE new President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, Mr. Alph. Raza, was born in Montreal on October 7th, 1846. He is a son of the late Mr. H. P. Raza, who was a building contractor. He made complete studies at the Commercial Academy, then under the management of Professor E. W. Archambault and began the study of architecture in 1861 under the firm of architects, Messrs. Fowler & Roy, with whom he remained some years, and afterwards with the late Mr. W. T. Thomas. He opened an office in Montreal in 1872. Many public and private buildings were put up under his direction in Montreal and in the province of Quebec.

Mr. Raza has occupied the position of local architect for the Ottawa government for over eighteen years, and also five years for the Quebec government. He is a



















































MR. ALPH. RAZA,



President Province of Quebec Association of Architects.





member of the French Board of Trade and a Justice of the Peace, and is also one of the original promoters of the Association over which he has now been chosen to preside. ______________________







Above the low open book-shelves, finished in forest green oak, the walls in the library of a suburban house have been hung with a dark green burlap, on which an intricate Persian pattern, some two feet deep, has been stenciled as a frieze. The picture moulding has been set in the angle of the ceiling, so that the wires supporting the pictures cross the frieze. The ceiling is covered with a canvas relief material in a small diaper pattern, harmonizing with the frieze design, the colors being dull red for the background and gold for the figures. Green curtains, embroidered in gold, slide on brass rods before the book-shelves, and heavier curtains in the same combination of colors hang at the windows and the door. In the broad bay window is a box seat, heaped with bright colored cushions, that is as attractive looking as it is comfortable. An Oriental rug on the floor gives a touch of warm color to the room, which is heighted by a few choice paintings of Eastern scenes in broad flat frames of gold.

