<doctype type="text">

are identical. When capital on the one hand or labor on the other becomes unreasonable in its demands, and refuses to be guided by principles of justice, mutual injury is the result.



APPLICATION was recently made to the

A Market for

Roofing Slates.	American Consul at Frankfort, Germany, for advice as to how best to



form connections with manufacturers of roofing slates in the United States. The German production of roofing slates being much below the requirements, there is said to be a good market in that country for American slates. Several shipments are reported to have been made recently to this market. The attention of Canadian slate manufacturers is called to this matter.



THE lien laws of British Columbia pro-British Columbia vide that unless there is an agreement



Lien Laws.

to the contrary, every contractor, subcontractor and laborer has a lien for work and labor, limited in amount to the sum actually owing to the person entitled to the lien. Lien expires unless registered within twenty-one days after completion of work. If lien is on mortgaged premises, it is prior to mortgage against increase of value of mortgaged premises by reason of such work or improvement, but not further, unless work is done at request of mortgagee in

writing.	___________________







THE Ontario Association of Architects

Tests of Canadian

Building Materials,	have decided to petition the Ontario government to grant a sum of money

to defray the cost of making scientific tests at the School of Practical Science, Toronto, of the various native woods adapted to building requirements. The series of tests of Canadian building stones made a few years ago under the direction and at the expense of the association, have proven to be highly valuable, so much so that they have taken the place of reference tables and books formerly employed by architects in their practice. The authorities of the School of Science have also conducted tests of native brick, concrete and cement, so that the qualities of these materials are in a measure understood. No adequate tests have yet been made, however, of native building timber. In view of the extent to which wood is employed for supports in buildings, it is most important that the strength and physical characteristics of the various woods employed should be well understood, in order that the requisite factor of safety may be used. Prof. Fernow, chief of the department of forestry of the United States has for several years been engaged on a series of highly scientific timber tests. It is not expected that anything approaching in exhaustiveness these tests can be attempted in Canada, but there is great need that something be done in this direction on a modest scale in the manner proposed.



WE publish in this number several interesting

The Ontario Association                  	papers

 of Architects.		presented at the recent

annual convention of the 0. A. A., with the discussions thereupon. Notwithstanding that the attendance was small, the proceedings were of a most interesting and instructive character and lacked nothing but the enthusiasm of numbers. It is to be regretted that a larger number of the members of the profession residing in towns and cities outside Toronto do not participate in the proceedings of these annua1 conventions. No doubt the prevailing hard

times have induced many members to remain at home, who under more favorable conditions would have been pleased to have contributed by their presence and counsel to the interest of the occasion. We would again remind members of the profession and of the association throughout the province that if they cannot make it convenient to attend the meetings and personally take part in the deliberations thereat, these pages are always at their disposal for an expression of opinion regarding the objects which the 0. A. A. is endeavoring to promote, or any other matters relating to the advancement of architecture. So far as the 0. A. A. is concerned we have no doubt the executive will welcome from any member of the profession suggestions as to the means by which the organization can be made most helpful to the profession in this province, and the interests of architecture promoted. In order to avoid a division of interest and effort the Toronto Architectural Guild has been disbanded and the energy of its members transferred to the Toronto Chapter of Architects. This step should have the desired effect not only of strengthening the Chapter, but also the 0. A. A., with which it is in affiliation. In our Montreal correspondence is printed in full the bill passed at the last session of the Quebec legislature amending the Act of Incorporation of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. This bill restricts the use of the title "architect" to persons who shall register under the act. After a period of six months no person will be permitted to call himself an architect who shall not thus be registered, This legislation exactly corresponds to that which the 0. A. A. have endeavored to have placed on the statute books of this province, as well as to the act recently passed by the legislature of Illinois. In view of the precedents thus established, and the apparent necessity for a standard of qualification for the practice of architecture, as exemplified by the recent terrible disaster at London, Ont., it is difficult to understand on what ground the legislature of Ontario can longer refuse to grant the desired amendments to the Ontario Architects' Act. We trust the 0. A. A. will feel encouraged by the success which has been achieved by their confreres of Quebec, to renew their efforts to obtain at the next session of the legislature amendments to the existing act corresponding to those which have been granted elsewhere, under which the public will have the assurance that persons engaged in the practice of architecture are possessed of the requisite knowledge to enable them to erect buildings which will not by reason of insufficient strength or imperfect sanitary arrangement endanger the health and lives of those who may occupy them.



MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



<article title="Montreal Builders' Exchange" author="">

MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



THE Montreal Builders' Exchange has been Pleased to appoint the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER its official paper. This is an honor which which we highly esteem. It is gratifying to learn that the membership of the Exchange is increasing rapidly, and has already reached the hundred mark.

AMENDMENTS TO THE QUEBEC ARCHITECTS' ACT.



AT the recent session of thc Legislature of the Province of  Quebec a Bill, No. 87, was passed, making severa1 amendments to



the Act of Incorporation of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, chief among which is one which restricts the use of the title Architect to persons who shall register under the Act.

The following are the provisions of the Bill which was assented to on January 15th:-—

1.	Section of the act 54 Victoria, chapter 59, is amended by

