<doctype type="text">

<article title="Master Plumbers of Canada." author="">



 CANADIAN		ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



It was decided that the report of the Legislative Committee should he read clause by clause.

On motion of Mr. Pennington, seconded by Mr. Forest, the secretary was instructed to secure names of firms not connected with the association, with the object of inducing them to join.

On motion of Mr. Mansell, seconded by Mr. Forest, it was decided that letters he sent to the various associations relating to contract work.

In connection with clause 3 of the report last presented, the necessity of greater secrecy in connection with the business of the association was emphasized.

Mr. Burns moved a resolution, which he afterwards withdrew, requiring that an extra binding oath be taken by the members of the association.

Instead of this course it was decided to instruct the secretary to send out a strong letter to members recommending absolute secrecy.

Messrs. Wright, Carroll and Matte were appointed a committee to visit the local plumbers of the city and tender to them an invitation to attend a special meeting for their benefit, with the object of improving local conditions.

The convention then adjourned.

After adjournment the members spent a very pleasant evening at the Chateau Frontenac, as the guests of the supply firms.





SECOND T)AV.

The morning session opened at 8:30, Vice-President Smith occupying the chair.

After some discussion, it was resolved, on motion of Mr. Harris, seconded by Mr. Watson, that Messrs. Carroll, Harris and Higman be appointed a committee to look into the matter of trade relations with the manufacturers of soil pipe, and report. In this connection, it was announced that a meeting of soil pipe manufacturers would take place on July 12th, and it was suggested that a committee should confer with them on that occasion.

On motion of Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Sadler, a vote of thanks was tendered to Mr. Briggs, the Treasurer, who, through illness, was unable to attend the convention.

The Chairman suggested the appointment of a committee to consider

almost certain prospect of finding himself, like Othello, without an occupation at the expiration of his apprenticeship.

There are but few cities in this country where an apprentice could be sure of obtaining correct instruction, and in none of the towns. Probably fifteen places in Canada would be the outside number where proper conditions exist for the education of an apprentice. A correct handing and use of the tools will no longer suffice. A plumber of today must be technically, mentally and practically up-to-date.

An apprenticeship of seven years, as of old, will only fit him to commence a life-long study of new appliances and the application of the latest regulations.

Under present regulations, owing to the imperfect working of Boards of Health, in respect to our trade, and the enormous waste of energy necessary to the bringing about of improvement, it is useless to expect the average town of 5,000 people to present the latest information along

Vice-President National Association of Master Plumbers,.





the line of applied mechanics in relation to sanitary plumbing, to say nothing of the heating of buildings, by wind, vapor and water, as well as to solve the problems of the plumbers' trade.

It is to the cities then we must turn to find correct conditions and instructions during apprenticeship for the plumbers of the future.

The trade is each year changing us respect to the duty of a plumber. Now a journeyman has little to do but erect appliances, previously designed, made and practically ready for operation at the factory, and in this respect the trade of plumbing is becoming more and more an exact science, and one man without a helper can easily accomplish many times the work formerly done. For this reason fewer helpers or apprentices are used than formerly, and, without wishing to venture as prophets, we believe that before many years have elapsed, the journeymen plumbers will be divided into two classes, repairers and erectors, and











President National Association of Master Plumbers.





the relations of the Association to the wholesale houses. He also made reference to the matter of a discount sheet, and urged the necessity of local associations remitting their per capita tax within a specified time.

The practice of members of the Association taking copies of specifications to wholesale supply firms was condemned.

On motion of Mr. Pennington, seconded by Mr. Higman, Messrs. Pennington, Higman and Harris were appointed a committee to consult with the jobbers and manufacturers with regard to matters in relation to which improvement is desirable.

After consideration, this committee presented the following report



QUEBEC, June 30, 1898



This committee ask the wholesale dealers and manufacturers not to meddle in any way or shape with the plumbers' business, viz.: Not to give prices on plans and specifications supplied then, either by contractors or plumbers also, not to give prices to proprietors, or give them any information in connection with plumbers' business, or inform any plumbing firm that such and such a job is going on.

JAMES PENNINGTON, JOHN HIGMAN,

J.	W. HARRIS.



REPORT OF APPRENTICE COMMITTEE.



Your committee appointed to consider the subject of "The Apprentice," beg to report that, apprenticeship as it relates to the term apprentice in its strict interpretation—a person bound to serve for a number of years, and receiving in return for such services, instructions in his master's business, does not exist in this country in relation to the plumbing trade.

Apprenticeship had its origin in the system of associated trades, which prevailed in almost all parts of Europe during the middle ages, and without close association of the trade, it cannot l)e effective, for reasons expressed in the report of the last apprenticeship committee for the year

1897.

In the precarious state of the plumbing trade, when viewed throughout the entire country, it is a very serious matter for a young man to contemplate binding himself to serve for a number of years, with an

MR. W. H. MEREDITH,



Treasurer National Association of Master Plumbers.



that the new additions to the trade will come from the technical colleges and trade schools.

W.	H. HEARD, Chairman.



On motion of Mr. Pennington, seconded by Mr. Mansell, the report of the Committee on Resolutions was received and the committee discharged.

Mr. Carroll presented the report of the committee appointed to consider the soil pipe question. The report was received and adopted, and it was ordered that a copy of the same be sent to the manufacturers.

Some discussion took place as to the advisability of appointing permanently a paid Secretary.

On motion of Mr. Mansell, seconded by Mr. Pennington, it was resolved that a committee be appointed to consider the matter.

It was resolved, on motion of Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Harris, that a certificate of membership lie issued to members in good standing,

