<doctype type="text">

ning a roof to about six and a quarter dollars per square. In practice this is not enough to give the contractor any profit over and above the actual cost.





IN finishing off the outside faces of brick Pointing Up. walls, the operation of pointing is often

resorted to ; this consists in filling up all the joints with superior mortar, and in the better class of work with cement. To properly ''point" a wall requires great care, and indeed, some skill, where thorough neatness and finish in the joint are to be secured. Moreover, pointing requires to be conscientiously done, for much of the capability of a wall to resist the action of damp and of driving rains depends upon the way in which the joints are made good. The first operation of '' pointing" is to remove all the mortar from the face of the wall which has been pressed out from between the bricks in placing them in bed ; the mortar is next removed or raked out from between the joints with a tool made for the purpose, and for some distance inwards, this being- done in order to give a " key " bond or hold for the mortar or cement used in the pointing. As a rule, all brickwork intended to be "pointed' or "tucked" is laid first With ordinary common brick mortar, the bond properly made and the walls kept plumb, and before the mortar is set hard it must be raked out of the joints about half an inch deep. When there is not much ornamental work in brick on the face of the building, the brickwork may be laid '' overhand "—that is, the bricklayer may do his work from the inside of the building —and then '' tucked or pointed from a swinging scaffold. In common brickwork, where the bricks used are of an inferior kind- that is, not pressed and of a uniform color, it may be necessary to stain the whole work, because some of the bricks are much darker than others, and give to the wall a mottled appearance when finished that is not at all pleasing. The first thing to be done in preparing for all kinds of tuck-pointing, is the cleaning down or washing of the walls to be pointed, and clearing them of all mortar stains or dirt. This should be done with a solution of muriatic acid and water, making use of one pint of acid to each pail of water used. That the acid may not leave any damaging effects after it, the work should also receive a cleansing of pure water immediately after the application of the solution. It is only necessary to clean as much of the wall at a time as can be easily reached by the workman doing the pointing. The next operation to be performed is the stopping. Red stopping is composed of one part of fine putty lime to three parts of fine white sand washed clean. This is colored with Venetian red and Spanish brown, and made to suit in shade as near as possible a brick colored with the intended stain. There should be sufficient stopping made at one time to complete the work, as it cannot be made a second time to have the same shade as at first. It takes three hods of stopping to point 200 feet of superficial brickwork, so it will not be difficult to find out how much will be required for the whole work. The stopping should be '' stayed with copperas, say one pound of copperas to every three hods of mortar or stopping, dissolved in hot water and incorporated when cold. The joints are then stopped or pointed in a rough manner, and no more should be done at a time than can be immediately finished by applying the putty joint before the stopping has become too hard. [f this is not done, the putty joint

will not combine with it as it ought, and it will fall off in a very short time. When a sufficient amount is stopped in, it is usual to rub it well with a piece of dry carpet or sacking, or something of that kind, and rub the stopping well into the pores of the bricks, that the work may appear as uniform as possible. When this is properly performed, the wall is ready for the color, which is composed of the same mineral paints as the stopping, Venetian red and Spanish brown, one pound of each to one and one-half gallons of water, and as these colors have no setting properties, it is necessary to add about one pound of copperas to three gallons of the stain, prepared in the same manner as for the stopping. Alum is also used in the same proportions; and sometimes half a gallon of stale beer to the same quantity of color for setting. Two ounces of red analine dissolved in alcohol will brighten up a barrel of the color, if such is desired. This is applied with a flat brush the usual way, after which the work is ready to receive the tuck joint, which may be rendered in either black or white joint or putty, and which will be described in next issue.



Backing a Hip Rafter By Aid of the Square. THE illustration presented herewith exhibits two methods of finding the ''backing" of the angle on a hip rafter. The



methods are as simple as any known Take the length of the rafter on the blade of the square, and the rise on the tongue, place the square on the line D E, the plan of the hip; the angle is given to bevel hip rafter, as shown at F. This method gives the angle only for a right-angled building where the pitches are the

	I	A



 

	C















BACKING A HIP BY Am OF THE STEEL SQUARE.



same, and for no other. The other method applies equally to right, obtuse and acute angles, where the pitches are the same. At the angle D will be seen the line from the points K L, at the intersection of the sides of the angle rafter with the sides of the plan. With one point of a compass at D, describe the curve from the dotted line, cutting A, then draw a line parallel to A 13, the pitch of the hip. The angle bevel will then be found at G, which is a section of the hip rafter.



IN estimating painting old work the Painting Old Work. first thing to do is to find out the nature

of the surface to be painted, whether it is porous, rough or smooth, hard or soft. The surface of stucco, for example, will take a great deal more paint than one of wood, much depending on the circumstance whether it has been painted, and what state the surface is in. A correct estimate of re-painting wood work cannot be made from the quantities only; a personal examination ought to be made in every case where

