<doctype type="text">

<article title="The Morality and Economy of Competitions." author="Creswell, B.">

 CANADIAN		ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



information from the best source. The ordinary competitor does not think of consequences, or he would not compete. He is buoyed by excitement and it is this memory of his intoxicating excitement which prompts him and entices him to further risks. It is no use Or purpose to show him that it is forty chances to one against his winning any more than it is to tell these things to the gambler or the betting man. The whole circumstances of the ordinary architect is that of a gambler making a big stake.

The whole atmosphere and environment of competitions is corrupt. I know personally of a competitor who was approached frankly—unreservedly—indecently by a member of a promoting committee in a late competition. The committee—man inquired whether he wished him to work for him on committee.

Can anyone believe, until he has eradicated from his mind the whole held of competitions, that architecture is either a profession or an art. Let me tell you the true and fascinating story of Durham, it is not a very old story, but it will bear a lot of re-telling when we wish to be stung to the recognition of the melancholy status of the profession. I especially tell the tale in reference to the question, is architecture a profession or an art? It will be observed that it is a case which rises out above the general run of competitions to which my remarks heretofore have had reference. In other words, it is an exceptional case, above the average in value and importance.

To begin with, any architect entering for this Durham competition, promoted by the County Council of Durham, had to pay a fee of £5 before he could know upon what precise terms he was humbugged. This is a common expedient with promoters to stave off the first mad rush of the architects. The assessor selected six designs, from which lie made the final selection of his awards. The committee paid the first premium, awarded a local architect the second premium, and gave the latter the commission to execute his design. This local firms design was stated not to have been included in the six designs of the preliminary selection. Then the profession made a strong stand. It got right on its hind legs. It objected. It objected in the professional press it objected in printed circulars sent to the Council. Fourteen of the competitors signed this circular letter, pray-

premium should be appointed to execute the work. They also pointed out that not only was the local firm selected by the Council not included in the first six, but that his design should, under the conditions of competition (for the luxury of which they had staked 5 each) have been disqualified. This memorial was sent individually to each member of the Council, shortly before the meeting which was to make the final irrevocable decision, with the intention, we may presume, of' sapping their native resolution with such a show of firmness. Our powers of objection now became almost inspired, and certainly beyond human precedent. Two of the competitors, solemnly appointed and deputed by vote of them all, went and took residence in a hotel close by the building in which the Council were to meet. Think of it Two live competitors at hand, in a hotel, in person to bring shame to the naughty councillors Notification

that these two protesting professionals were actually in situ at the hotel was duly sent to the Council. One regrets to say that there is no evidence of the Council having winced in bulk at this ominous news. We can fancy the pallor-stricken subordinate official bursting upon the elect councillors of Durham with the extraordinary intelligence. One has tried to realize the terrorizing effect, or the persuasive influence of a brace of protesting architects in a hotel, inviting there inspection and examination from the townspeople. One has altogether failed. One can hardly picture anything funnier. Our profession is content to go out to battle with a glass tube and a mouthful of rice, instead of having recourse to the solicitor's letter, which is usually employed. The result of this venture was that the Council said that they claimed legal right on the conditions of competition, and further, that the disqualifying features in their awarded design had not been brought under their notice, while a noble Lord who had got washed up on to the Council in the late high tide of municipal aristocracy, denounced the protesting brothers' cause as "a professional squabble."

What else than something of this kind we could have expected to get from the Council it is not very easy to imagine. The protesting brothers seem to have appealed to the Council's sense of justness, to its goodness of heart, and so forth which, in face of the printed regulations accepted open-eyed by each competitor, was quite beside the mark, and an affront to both the understanding and the feelings of the Council. Apparently the deputation of protest expected to be answered somewhat as follows: "Gentle men, we have been touched by your appeal to our good nature and sense of poetic justice, amid though we were careful in the "conditions" to secure a free right to appoint whoever we might choose, yet your eloquence has shown us so clearly how base and shameful our motives were, that we herewith withdraw our decision, and agree to do what you wish." Unfortunately, side by side with our objectors' words of appeal, was the complacent admission of the assessor, who told the Council that "of course they were not bound by his award."



And now, gentlemen, bearing this scene in mind, is architecture a profession or an art?

A very great number of suggestions have been made for the

ANALYSTS OF THIRTY-TWO CONDITIONS OF PUBLIC COMPETITION, As ISSUED TO COMPETITORS. TAKEN AS THEY CAME TO HAND FROM THE PORTFOLIO AT THE LIBRARY OF TUE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF BRITISH ARCHITECTS.

	

			O	First Award	Drawings

				    to	Property of	Assessor Absolute.

	Value.	Premiums.		 Execute.	Committee.

 

 

 —	50.20 to	Yes	Yes	Not	bound		-			No

  -	20.10	Yes	Yes	"	"			1 and 2		No

   500	10.5	 ?	Yes	 "	"					No (5 per cent., including

										 quantities.)

(over 9,000)	50.25	No	Yes	"	"	Nor any		 and 2		No

	4,000	30.20.10	Yes	Yes	"	"	2 and	No

	3,500	25.10	No	l and 2

	1,800	'20.15.10	Yes		"	"		No

	30,000	100.50.25.15	N	"	"	1, 2,3 and 4

5,000	30 and 20	No	Yes	"	"	Nor any

	15,000	50.30.20	Yes	Yes	""""	1, 2 and	No

	5,000	30.15	Yes'.	Yes	Yes: if competent	No

	20	No'	No	Not bound. Nor any	No

	2,500	20.10	No	'	Designs only asked	 and 2	No

	16,000	75.50.25	Yes	Yes	Not bound	1, 2 and 3	No

	—	None	No	"	"	Yes	No (5 to include travelling,

								 attendance at board, extras

								 on contract, &c.)

    300	7/10.2/mo	No	  ?	No	mention	of execution	and 2

	  -			 o	conditions

	20.10	No	Yes	Not	bound.	Nor any	and 2	No

   5,500	50.35	Yes	Yes	 "	"	 " "	and 2	No (5 No. expenses.)

	150100.50	Yes	Yes		"	 " "	1, 2 3 	No

   4,000	25	No?	Yes	 "	"			No

	to/mo	Yes	Yes	 "	"	Nor any	?	No

   7,000	40.20	No?	Yes	 "	"		1 amid 2	No

4,000 (about)		—	—	No	conditions

	4,500	50.20	No	Yes	Not bound. Nor ally	1 and 2

	9,000	50.20	Yes	Yes	 " "	 and 2	No

	15,000	50.25	Yes	Yes	 "	 and 2	No

	4,000	—-	—	--	No conditions

	7,500	—	—	—

	7,000	40.20	No	No	Not bound	 amid 2

	8000	—	—		No conditions





THE AVERAGE ENGLISH PUBLIC COMPETITON.



Computed from the basis of seventy-one English Public Competitions advertised in the Builder in the years 1894-5* from particulars of

these same competitions subsequently appearing in the body of the journal ; and from an analysis of thirty-two

conditions of competition " (see other table).

				Promise of	Premiums to	Promoters "not Promoters "not All Premiated	The per cent.	Assessor award

	Value.	Premiums.	Competitors.	Assessor.	 merge in	bound" to accept bound "to accept Designs Property	commission to	admitted to be

					commission.	   1st award." ' 1st or any of Promoters.	include extraor-	  absolute.

						                  award."	dinary expenses.

	£9,000	value of 2.	40	per cent.	per cent.	54 per cent.	35 per cent.	73 p	.	.	never.

	It is	1st 56, other prizes	50 Over	su:clent to guarantee	et		er cent	6 per cent	Practically

that each item has been worked out from seventy-one cases. Full particulars of every case were not to be obtained, but time number of cases yielding each

	figure was	accuracy for round numbers.