<doctype type="text">

shrinkage is unequal, they should be assorted for very line work and each size worked in the wall without mixing other sizes with it. This relates rather to the thickness of the bricks than to their length or breadth. Pressed bricks also differ in shade, some being much darker than others, and in assorting for size it is just as well to sort for color, and when laying to use the largest pile for face wall and the lesser piles for plinths, belting courses, corbels or other similar work, though, as a matter of fact, a building may be made quite handsome and bright by mixing the shades together in the wall if the work is artistically done and the shades properly grouped; but this implies a knowledge of color harmony not usually possessed by the ordinary bricklayer. Under no circumstances should pressed bricks be laid

XVE have been frequently confronted

	Irregular Hip-Roof	regarding	of

	Framing.	with queries	the training

''hip-roofs" having irregular sides, and in order to satisfy some of these queries the following diagram and explanations are given herewith Let

1 be the base lines or ground plan 6 height of roof to top of ridge pole. Connect 4 as shown at each corner. Square out to 3-on-each-1ine ;- make 4 3 3, which gives the height of elevation. Connect I 3, which is the length of hip rafters. Square out from 4 to 5, 5 5 ; then take the distance 3 in the compass, with as a centre, describe the curve cutting line 5, and again take 3, which is the shorter hip, and with as a centre describe the curve cutting line 5, and bisecting the curve 5 to 2. Connect 5 1 2 2 1,











































































 DEVELOPMENT of HIP-ROOF.



dry, as the mortar joint is so thin that the moment a dry brick touches it the moisture is absorbed and the mortar rendered inert. In hot weather it is impossible to get the bricks too wet, but in freezing weather less wetting will answer, but the bricks should be made warm before laying. It is much better not to lay bricks in freezing weather when it can be welt avoided, but when it is imperative the wall should be covered every night with straw and boards, or better, with heavy horse blankets¶ and it is well to add about one-third in bulk of Portland cement to the mortar, which will make it quick-setting and prevent damage from frost. It is necessary that the surface of the bricks be free from ice and snow and perfectly clean when laid, as dirt or a frozen surface will prevent the mortar from adhering to the bricks, leaving the wall weak and unstable.

and  5, and the figure is complete so far. I This gives length of hips in position. This applies to either or to both ends of the roof, each being of like shape and proportions. Place the jack rafters or cripples at the domed spaces and the work is done. To make

model Draw the figure on cardboard the exact shape of the roof as shown, to any convenient scale, then cut the board nearly through with a sharp knife on the lines marked ''Hinge," which are the lines of the wall

stand up the wings, or sides of roof showing lines of lack-rafters, until all the angles come together, and the shape of the roof will be given complete. The lines at ''Hinge" may be cut through, and a piece of thin cotton cloth pasted on well allow the wings to turn up easily and will protect the joints as well. The bends for the plumb cuts of the rafters are shown at 3 3 3 3.

