<doctype type="text">

<article title="Toronto Chapter of Architects." author="">



TORONTO CHAPTER OF ARCHITECTS.

THE Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects will resume its monthly meetings in October. The committee will endeavor to provide an attractive programme, and hope to see a large attendance at the opening as well as at subsequent meetings. Through the kindness of the Education Department, the spacious lecture rooms of the School of Practical Science are freely given for the meetings of the Chapter. The splendid collection of photographs, illustrations, books, papers, etc., are all accessible to those who attend. Mr. C. H. C. Wright and his assistants are most courteous in giving any needed help, and frequently treat the visitors to an exhibition of the fine lantern slides for which the school is noted. While all local architects are most earnestly invited to become members of the Chapter, the meetings are entirely open, and all persons interested in architecture are heartily welcome.





<article title="Hinged Masonry Arches." author="Molitor, David A.">

HINGED MASONRY ARCHES.

A PAPER was lately read before the American Society of Civil Engineers by Mr. David A. Molitor, in which he explained the advantages of masonry arches over iron and steel bridges, and presented a mathematical analysis of strains and loading in a three-hinged arch, from which he calculated the deformation and determined the thickness of masonry. Mr. Molitor illustrated his methods by a practical design and estimate for a three-hinged concrete arch of 23623 feet span, 4657 feet wide, proportioned to carry a 44,000 lbs. electric motor car, besides a uniformly distributed live load of 82 lbs. per square foot. The allowed working strains are 568-8 lbs. compression and 28'4 lbs. tension

per square inch on concrete composed of one part Portland cement, two parts sand and three parts crushed limestone. He gave detail tables of loads, strains and dimensions, and of quantities in the finished structure, which he assumed would cost about $96,000. The purpose of the paper was to demonstrate that masonry arches may be constructed on any good foundation as accurately and simply as iron or steel structures, and sometimes more cheaply. He considered that the Austrian tests of 1890 to 1895 and the recent construction of a few long-span three-hinged masonry and concrete arches inaugurate a new era in masonry bridge construction. According to Mr. Molitor, all the harassing features of fixed masonry arches are overcome by the introduction of hinges at the crown and abutments, and by basing the design on the theory of elasticity, and that it is practicable to strain the material one-sixth of the ultimate strength of test samples.



The square of numbers ending in can be obtained quickly mentally by multiplying the number to the left of the 5 by the next higher number, and suffixing 25 to the result. Thc square of 485, for example, is found thus: 48 X 49=48 X 7 X 7 2,352 suffix 25 and the square, 235225, is obtained. This rule is taken from a note by Herr Edler in the Zeitschrift of the Austrian Society of Engineers arid Architects.

The holding power of wood screws was investigated as a thesis subject by Mr. Norris M. Works at Cornell University. His experiments were made with white pine only, and the most important results were the following: The maximum holding strength of a screw inserted at right angles to the direction of the grain is obtained when no hole is bored to receive it or the hole is about eight-tenths of the diameter of the screw at the base of the thread. In the case of screws inserted parallel with the grain, the maximum holding strength is obtained when sunk in a hole about four tenths their diameter.

Everyone Admires our Metallic Ceilings and Walls, Metallic Roofing Co. Limited, Toronto