<doctype type="text">

preparing a roof for dormer windows it is always best to have the rafters set so that the frame of the dormer may set directly' over them, and if the dormer is a wide one fill in the space between the bearing rafters with a sufficient number of rafters to make the work secure then cut out such as are in the way and spike trimmers to the cut ends, and have trimmers fitted in snugly between the bearing rafters, to which they must be securely fastened. If the opening is more than ordinarily large the bearing ratters should be heavier than the common rafter, or they might he formed of two rafters spiked together. This precaution may prevent the roof from sagging, a fault that frequently occurs in roots bearing large dormers when preventative measures have not been adopted. Sometimes the workmen will put on thin rafters the usual distances apart, shut the roof and lay out their dormers on the roof boards and then cut out the openings. This method is objectionable, inasmuch as the rafters are not often found to be in the proper place, and other rafters must be cut in between the ridge and plate or trimmers are cut in between rafters too wide apart, and then short rafters framed in between the trimmers to form the wall, a method that throws a goodly portion of the weight of the roof and the whole of the dormer on the two outlying rafters, a condition which is sure to end in causing the roof to sag to a greater or lesser extent, which may cause the dormer roof to leak at its junction with the main roof and prevent the sashes from working freely.





Splayed Work FEW things provoke the village carpenter and builder more than work that

is to be built with a splay, be it door, window or hopper, and the diagram shown at Fig. 10.































FIG. 10.—SPLAYED JAMBS AND I HEAD.





is presented in order to aid in the solution of one phase of splayed work. Let us suppose it is necessary to build a gothic window or door having splayed jambs or head, and it is desirable to make a veneer that will bend around the head and be of the proper shape. Let E he the side and f e the splay. A f shows the line of the inside jamb, 0 the difference between front and back edge of jamb, B A the line of splay. At the point of junction of the lines B A and a, set one point of the compass, and with the radius A B draw the outside curve of n, then with the radius A S draw the inside curve, and n will he the shape of the veneer required. The curve will answer either side of the head.



The wages of bricklayers in Vancouver early in the present season were increased to $4 per day, or within a fraction of 45 cents per hour.



<article title="A Good Idea." author="">

A GOOD IDEA.

THE Boston Master Builders' Association have recently opened a bureau where workmen seeking- employment may register their names, and where employers may find required help. The idea is one which should result to the mutual advantage of employers and employees, and tend to induce a feeling of greater friendliness between these classes, whose interests after all are so largely identical. The Builders' Exchanges of Montreal, Toronto and London should follow the example of the Boston Association in this matter.





<article title="Plumbing in Vancouver, B.C." author="">

PLUMBING IN VANCOUVER, B. C.

As a result of representations made recently to the City Council of Vancouver by the Master Plumbers' Association of that city, it has been decided to strictly enforce in future the local plumbing by—law, which requires that all plumbers shall pass an examination and take out a license. The city engineer and health inspector will conduct the examinations.





<article title="Plumbing in Halifax." author="">

PLUMBING IN HALIFAX.

SOME amendments have recently been made by the governor-in-council to the regulations governing plumbing work in the city of Halifax. A board of plumbing examiners is substituted for the city engineer. It is provided that In buildings of not more than four storeys, 5 inch iron pipe weighing 12 lb. per foot, and 6 inch iron pipe weighing 15 lb. per foot, may be used above the cellar floor." Journeymen plumbers will in future be required to pass a qualifying examination set by the Board of Plumbing Examiners, and be able to show a certificate of competency. This certificate may also be granted to any master or journeyman plumber who shall furnish satisfactory evidence that he has practiced as such in Halifax for four years previous to the passing of the new rules and regulations.





<article title="Experiments upon Ventilation Fans." author="">

EXPERIMENTS UPON VENTILATING FANS.

THE three following recommendations are the outcome of a second series of experiments upon ventilating fans recently conducted by Mr. W. G. Walker, of London, Eng.: First, the velocity of the air passing through a fan should be as slow as practicable. Second, the diameter of the fan should be as large as practicable. Third, the pressure of the air passing through the fan should be as small as practicable. The great feature of propeller ventilating fans is that they may be made to comply with these conditions as nearly as possible. This kind of fan is essentially a ventilator, and its principal object is to move a large volume of air at a slow velocity and at atmospheric pressure.

In order to show the great effect of the area of the fan and the velocity of the air passing through it, the horse power has been calculated as follows for driving five tans, ranging from 2 feet to 4 feet in diameter, and each propelling 6,000 cubic feet of air per minute

	Diameter - -Feet.	Horse Power.	Velocity of Air—Feet per min.

	—	0.72	1,910

	21/2	0.29	1,224

	3	0.14	848

	1/2

	3/2	0.07 1	623

	4	0.045	477





Here it is seen that the largest fan would require only 6 1/4 per cent. of the horse power required by the smallest for propelling- the same volume of air.

