<doctype type="text">

<article title="Heating Apparatus." author="">

HEATING APPARATUS



"Here is where they make the Safford radiators,' said the man to his son, as they passed a huge building on the road to the Toronto Industrial Fair.

"Who is Safford, Pa, and what are radiators?" asked the boy, who, it is plain, had not been accustomed to hot water or steam heating.

Both father and son would have known a good deal more about Safford radiators if they could have accompanied the writer over the Dominion Radiator Company's works the other day. For nearly a dozen years we have been hearing of radiators, have seen them and used them, recognizing their value, but never had witnessed the operation of making them or guessed with what delicacy and skill they were put together or what marvellous machinery is used to produce them.

This peculiar system of steam joints, we understand, is patented, and all the designs and names of the products of this company registered. Good workmanship is presumed, and good materials are necessary ; but it is easier to produce ugly radiators than neat ones. This concern has shown remarkable taste as a rule in the designs of their work and the coloring of it. Of course, all tastes are to be consulted, and what is considered pretty by some may not suit another. This will



















































account for a certain European country demanding an absolutely plain surface and a flat top in their heaters, while another wants lots of carvings and curlycues, with a curved top.

One man insists, for example, in having his house heated with a " Daisy" ornamental radiator, with several colors in the carvings, while his neighbor infinitely prefers the " Favorite " plain specimen, in white with a gold edge. Many have taken the " Perfect" for choice, but to our mind there is none among the lot so graceful as the " Florence," either in its shape or the pattern of its arabesques, which are as nearly pure Greek as the taste of the present generation for renaissance architecture will allow.

But we have not said anything yet about the way these curious masses of hollow-ware are put together, so as to make, throughout one's house, or shop, or hotel, a series of stoves giving out the mellowest sort of heat, which can be turned on or off room after room as a man will turn a cork-screw. Unless one sees the operation it is not easy to understand how a series of hollow sections can be so fastened together as to let water circulate through them without leaking, and yet no packing be used in the joints. But it is true that neither bolts, lead or packing is used in the Safford radiator. The Dominion Radiator Company having sole control of the " Safford" patent right and left screwed nipple, it is enabled to produce, not only an absolutely perfect joint, but with the patented machinery (which it also controls), a faced joint is obtained by milling the

surfaces perfectly true, thereby securing a double connection, and of the most practical known to mechanism. With this right and left nipple system, each section is drawn face to face and held firmly without the use of red lead or any other substance. Each section of every radiator is subjected to a pressure of 120 lbs. to the square inch, which assures steam fitters that there can be no liability to leaky joints.

The list of the company's agencies abroad shows how great a business this enterprising concern has secured throughout the world. Besides five depots in five other principal Canadian cities, it has agencies in London, England; Edinburgh and Glasgow, Scotland; Auckland, New Zealand ; Antwerp, Belgium; Berlin, Germany, and Christiania, Norway. Orders are now in hand, we are told, for heating a hospital in Glasgow, a public building in Antwerp, and several large halls in London and other cities.

Enormous premises are of course required for the making and storing of the great quantity of these goods required for a world-wide trade. And, indeed, the storage warehouses and their contents surprised us most. The foundry, in the shape of an L, extends 178 feet one way and 150 feet another, and is from 70 to



















































90 feet wide. There is a 58 foot cupola in the casting room, and what a sight to see them casting. The core room, the annealing furnace, the testing room, the tank room, the room where a machine (as wonderful in its way as a linotype), screws the iron sections so close together as not to leak all this we saw, and more. The establishment occupies a square some 500 feet by 400 feet, from one to tour stories in height, employing

170 men, and is entitled, we believe, to make the boast that appears on the cut of the works which we reproduce, that "We are the largest Radiator Manufacturers under the British flag."

The name upon the building is that of the Toronto Radiator Company, which is the name under which the concern has heretofore been known, but concurrently with an enlargement of the works and an increase of capital to $300,000, the name of the company was made "The Dominion Radiator Company, Limited," and it has taken power to make a great variety of hollow-ware besides Safford radiators.

Of this company the first meeting was held on July 25th last, and the result was the election of the following directors Joseph Wright, capitalist, president ; David Carlyle, gentleman; John Stark, broker; John M. Taylor, manufacturer; Charles T. Stark, broker. These are the same gentlemen who have guided the concern for ten previous years. The manager and secretary, Mr. John M. Taylor, is the same, and there is every reason to assume that the enterprise and growth which have attended the Toronto Radiator Co'y will be continued by its successor.

