<doctype type="text">

<article title="Suggesttions on House Planning." author="Helliwell, Grant">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



length of not less than seventeen feet. It is most desirable that the position of the dining room should be retired from the entrance, although we constantly see this rule disregarded. End light is best, but it should be diffused shadows in a dining room are to be avoided. The fire-place is best located in the end opposite door. Easy access to the culinary department, yet distinctly separated from the family thoroughfare, is a prime necessity. At the same time direct communication with the kitchen is not allowable, nor is it advisable even that only one wall should

having only front and rear light, or, as in the case of a corner lot, on a third side as well. These changed conditions naturally call for a very different treatment of the plan. Owing to the possibility of lighting only a limited number of rooms on each floor, additional stories are necessary, and three, four and even five flats are often seen.



The old-fashioned house of this type was planned with two large rooms connected by folding or sliding doors, and a long narrow hall on one side containing the stairs, which rose in one straight























	FIG. 5.	FIG. 6.	FIG. 7.	FIG. 8.	FIG. 9.



separate the two rooms, but in the case of small houses this cannot often be avoided. Figs. 5 and 6 are suggested as good plans for dining rooms.



The drawing room in large houses may be of oblong shape, but if the area does not exceed 230 sq. ft., it had better approach a square. in either event, however, the walls should be broken by bays, recesses or ingles, which, in the case of small rooms, invariably look better when forming part of the room without the intervention of an arch. The cheerfulness of the room is greatly enhanced by a second door, not to speak of the advantages in the entertainment of guests thereby gained. Figs. 7 and 8 show how a few trifling changes, such as altering the positions of doors and windows, will transform a most uncomfortable and disagreeable room into a comparatively attractive one.

Both library and sitting room are of a semi-private character, and should not be placed too near entrance. If the former is to be used chiefly by a student, and not for a general family reading room, it should be well isolated. As to aspect, south is best for a sitting room, while with the library this is not so important, provided, of course, that a good light is always secured.



There are many details about the kitchen requiring careful attention. Briefly, the points to be seen to are, a thorough yet

































FIG. 10.



convenient separation from the family rooms and passages, good light (preferably from windows on different sides), space for sink, dresser and table. These articles should be grouped together and out of the way of through traffic Fig. 9 is offered as a fair solution of the kitchen problem.



Of the many other important rooms we cannot now speak, except to refer for a moment to the bedroom. It would seem hardly necessary to say that the position of the bed should receive special attention, but experience shows the contrary. It ought to be shielded from draft, not directly opposite the light, nor in view from the hall when the door is open. The bureau or dressing table should be well lighted, and the washstand in an inconspicuous place.



We have now concluded the analysis of a plan, first in its general aspect, and secondly in the details of the separate rooms. The examples we have taken thus far by way of illustration have been of the suburban type, or at least of town houses of the detached class. Fig. to shows a plan for a small house of the class most commonly called for, as adapted to either town or suburban lots. Fig. 11 is the plan of a city house for a 50 ft. lot. Both are given as exemplifying in a fair degree the principles already laid down.



It only remains now that we should briefly consider the city house of the kind usually understood by that term, viz., the house

flight to the upper floor. At the end of the hall, opposite to the entrance, was usually a narrow room containing the servants' stairs and a dumb waiter for connecting the basement, where the kitchen offices were located, with the floors above. The first modification of this plan was to build a narrow wing or extension at rear, which, occupying in width only a portion of the lot, could be lighted from the side and still admit end light to the main build-



















































































































FIG. 11.



ing. The long, narrow hall was next attacked. A side hall of good width was placed across the house between the large front I and rear rooms, and in it the stairs were placed. This was a decided improvement on the old plan. The stair, broken into short flights, was more easily mounted the hall itself, with fireplace,

