<doctype type="text">

<article title="The City Garden." author="Langton, W.A.">

division, but there is a great deal to be done with a fence if it is made a feature. Wood is not sufficiently durable to form as it were part of the grounds. it is suitable only as a support for a hedge until it is fully grown. This does not take as long as is supposed. A privet hedge planted in the year 1887, and then a scanty row of slips about two feet high, has been for the last two or three years a complete screen from passers-by, although it has been kept clipped to an even outline. It is healthy and grows thick and evenly. It has still a small picket fence about two feet high to protect the roots from the street, and this, though perhaps unnecessary, has a good effect. If the fence were brick it would be better. A brick wall by itself, if of the full height of the gate, is rather unnecessarily forbidding, and will confine the view from the ground floor windows unless they are well up as they ought to be in town. A better arrangement is a low brick wall with an upper part of wrought iron. The brick wall finishes at the entrance with gate piers, and the gate may be wrought iron. A wrought iron arch over the gate is in England a common survival of a practice when a light hung over the gate. At present it serves chiefly to carry a creeper which runs along the fence arid over the gate. This creeper is in France also a common accompaniment of the wrought iron fence, and is always interesting ; its festoons introducing into the regularity of the fence some spontaneous lines, or serving the purpose of contrast of line, like the swag in a cornice. But a better arrangement is to plant a hedge behind the fence. In this case we get all the  beauty and variety of the wrought iron topped fence and its advantage in strength, while making it perfect as a screen by a green background which is more beautiful as a finish on the inside than a brick wall would he. In this case, where the fence is a screen to the height of the gate, logic demands a solid gate also.

There are many shrubs, no doubt, besides privet that would make a good hedge in this country. There is a cedar hedge 15 feet high riot far from Toronto, which is thick and healthy, and, when well trimmed, makes a good mate of the tall yew hedges of which one reads in descriptions of old English gardens. Barbary thrives also near Toronto in hedges about 6 feet high.

It is common in England to finish a yew hedge at corners and openings by allowing a tree to grow up at these points and trimming it to a regular shape. The teapot and cocked hat have done service in this position, but it is not necessary to pay them any tribute ; a simple conical form with a projecting top is enough for emphasis and to appear as part of the hedge.

In a street of London, where there is more to be gained by screening one's self from the road than by securing a clear view of the road, there is an artist's house which has a low brick wall (acting as a retaining wall), a wrought iron fence above, with a hedge behind, and, in addition to this, a row of pollarded Lombardy poplars. The combination of all these parts is very interesting and remains in my memory, though I have quite forgotten what the house was like. The house was perfectly visible between the trees. The interruption made by the foliage of the trees came about the level of the bedroom windows and acted as some protection to them.

It is this kind of partial screen that one wants. Just so much screening as to make all parts of the houses not equally visible at the same time is both a gain to the beauty of the street and accomplishes for the houses all the protection from passers-by that is necessary. It is not necessary to wall in a house completely from all eyes, but only to place such partial obstructions in front of it that, as a spectator passes by, the view of any one portion is obstructed from time to time. It is possible to view the house as a whole while moving, but it is not possible to see the whole house without stopping for the purpose.

Poplars are also useful as a boundary between lots, because they have so little spread. The disadvantage of growing an elm or maple on a boundary is that the act is not a self-regarding act ; the tree spreads as much over our neighbor's property as over our own,

and our neighbor may not want it. 'the Lombardy poplar will give him only its shadow, and not much of that if we pollard it. There is much to be said for pollarded trees. They are manageable one can confine them within prescribed limits, not only laterally but vertically. What we want from trees is a certain amount of screening from the sides and a certain amount of shadow ; but not to keep the sun and air from us, nor to cast all below them in shadow ; and the pollard answers these purposes. With them one can protect grounds from being overlooked without cutting off light, air and sunshine. As far as shade goes, a little maple 20 or 25 feet high will give shade enough for a family to sit under if they move their chairs according to the time of day.

For continuous shade, which is also desirable, the practice of pleaching is effective. In one of Miss Alcott's letters she writes: "Father would have enjoyed the pleached walks, for they are cut so that looking down on them is like a green floor, and looking up it is a thick green wall." On an ordinary scale such walks are described as 8 to 10 feet broad and 12 to 15 feet high, with trees 4 feet apart. It is necessary to have a rough frame of wood or iron to start the trees on the required lines. The boughs are then wreathed together arid clipped. In France such walks are carried out on a large scale. Versailles is approached by miles of avenues with trees interlocking overhead, and in many other places the trees on the public promenades are treated in the same manner. The trees are spaced as widely as five paces on centres and brought to a flat top about 40 feet high. The arcading is sometimes done in a very perfect manner, forming pointed arches between the trees both longitudinally and transversely. The trunks and interval branches are kept entirely bare, so that there is in effect a continuous vaulting of bare limbs finished on top with a flat canopy of leaf-bearing twigs, which are also allowed to extend down the outer sides for some distance. The lines of the branches have of course sufficient willfulness to prevent a monotonous regularity, but the hand of man is discernible both in the formality of the arrangement and in the character of the branches. These latter are gnarled or knotty with pruning. This description does not sound pleasing, but they are attractive t. the artist's eye ; there is an effectiveness about their lumpy, swollen ends which is comparable to that of the blob ended line that the artist himself affects.

There is an advantage in thus keeping trees within bounds on the streets as well as in private grounds. A street overarched with elms as in some old towns in the United States is not, as might be expected, cool in summer. The gain in shade is more than off-set by the check given to currents of air, which are the only real source of coolness on a hot day. Very tall trees are moreover not perfectly safe neighbors for houses. In open spaces trees may be properly allowed to grow to their full height, and in Canadian cities there are fortunately so many of such spaces that in stating objections to fully grown trees one need not feel that one is forbidding them the town.

There might doubtless be much more said, by an experienced gardener, in the way of suggestion about the materials for architectural gardening ; but not many materials are required, and there is only space to say a few ungrateful words about our old friend the Virginia creeper. It grows rapidly and is beautifully colored in the autumn. It can also stand more severe exposure than the ''Boston ivy." But it needs much training-, and is disheveled in appearance even when cared for. The Boston ivy only requires fostering at the first and can then take care of itself. It will follows the lines of a building so closely that it seems as if the stems had been cast to fit the variations of surface. It is an ideal architectural plant, and might be specified by architects like any other ornament.

It is not proposed to enter now into details of the treatment of the ordinary street front problem. It is not a difficult problem nor can it be so varied as are the possibilities of treatment of the private grounds on the other side of the house. One thing clearly ought to be more often done and that is to bring carriages up to the

