<doctype type="text">

<article title="The American Tall Building" author="Capper, S.H.">

THE AMERICAN TALL BUILDING.



Some Notes in Criticism by Professor S. H. Capper.





[IN our October issue we gave an abstract of the paper read by Prof. Capper, of McGill University, at the session of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects; the following is the full text of the greater part of that paper, which Prof. Capper has kindly revised for publication in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.]

Probably to most of those who are sufficiently interested in architecture to take heed of contemporary work, the "tall buildings" of New York and other cities embody Americas chief contribution to modern architectural advance. They have led to new and complicated problems of Construction, solved, doubtless, with all the energy, the boldness, and the address characteristic of American engineering. They also present esthetic problems of considerable importance and interest, the solution of which is, perhaps, not so apparently ready or convincing. At any rate in New York itself, where these "tall buildings" are already numerous, the divergence of design, not merely of ornamental detail, but of radical conception as a whole, is very marked. All is tentative, and all (one might almost add) attempted; for much is extravagant, tried (it would seem) if haply the result may justify the trial with a success which sometimes aims at rather the clamour of advertisement than the excellence of studied and achieved design.

The problem asking for solution is an eminently modern one. Architecture cannot, on pain of proving untrue to her traditions as a living art, refuse to entertain it, to grapple with it, and eventually to reach a satisfactory solution. We must, I hold, put definitely aside the criticism so often heard "These tall monstrosities are not architecture at all they are only engineering, with a stone veneer." They are buildings of our modern city streets ; and if these be not architecture, where indeed is modern architecture to find her place? She is bound to find her own solutions for novel problems, however difficult, and to achieve a harmony between the requirements of to-day and the accepted

the necessity for these tall buildings. But in an able "rejoinder Prof. Hamlin has pointed out that the special reason for their prevalence in America and their absence from European cities is rather to be found in the fact that "the ' sky-scraper' is a huge labor-saving and time-saving device"; their origin, therefore, is to be "sought in the drive and hurry of American business life, and in the accompanying American propensity to save time and labor."

Whether the financial problem or this American need for concentration be the determining factor, extension by way of height is the solution practically arrived at in these "tall buildings.' Excessive height, however, creates at once constructive difficulties. These are being met and satisfactorily disposed of by the many expert engineers who have so brilliantly worked out the various novel methods embodied in the construction of the tall buildings. New methods of foundation have been evolved, apart from which the main factor in construction is the steel-skeleton structure. The requirements of floor space (dictated by financial needs) rigidly limit the supporting and enclosing walls to the least superficial area compatible with safety and stability. Further, the need for the maximum of light in the interior equally leads to the reduction of wall thickness and external piers, while it forces the engineer to find a substitute for the ordinary diagonal bracing and cross-ties, which are incompatible with windows. With these complicated restrictions, the architect has to design his building, fettered and hampered, or, on the other hand, inspired, it may be

—for restriction is ever a fertile cause of happy ingenuity and an occasion for success. Moreover, be it remembered, the architect has here artistic opportunity in height before undreamed of, and quite beyond his reach without the steel-framed structure, which is the essence of his building.

In the first place, the buildings have the very great advantage of being isolated above street level. They can, therefore, be designed, as complete in themselves, in a way that no ordinary street building permits. But they are seen all round, and must be designed as a building in three dimensions, not as a mere street front. In spite of this self-evident fact some glaring instances to the contrary are in painful evidence. The St. Paul building in







































LOWER NEW YORK, AS SEEN FROM THE HUDSON RIVER.

The upper view was taken about 1891, while Trinity Church Spire was still the culminating point of the skyline. The lower view was taken in the spring of 

and shows the church engulfed in the surrounding high buildings

canons of artistic sense. It is essentially in responding to me needs of modern complex life, in interpreting and meeting them, that the art itself is modern and living.

The problem is undoubtedly difficult. As usual, it reaches the architect in a somewhat advanced and complicated stage; he has to grapple with it with many data already definitely fixed and binding his design. On a restricted site of enormous initial cost, a building has to be erected of sufficient cubic capacity to "pay. It is the heavy cost of building sites to which is usually ascribed

Broadway at present is so indescribably maimed in this respect that it can, presumably, be but partially complete. As it stands, a more striking instance hardly could be found of designing a front without locking round the corner, in this case the neglected

round the corner" being considerably more in evidence than the columned stories of the front itself. But any possible design would have been irretrievably ruined by the utter hopelessness of this site in shape and superficial area.

This isolation is, of course, a permanent advantage, for the

