<doctype type="text">

by 30. Measure all sides of the building from corner to corner ; this takes in the corners twice, which compensates somewhat for cuttings, " bats " and chipped closers. As a rule, a bricklayer, with a laborer to keep him supplied with materials, will, in common house walls, lay on an average about 1,500 bricks in 10 hours. In better class work, such as facing a front of a building, from 1,000 to 1,200 bricks, properly laid, may be taken as a good day's work ; for street fronts, where there are arches to cut and gauge, from 700 to 900 and on very fine work, where there are a number of angles, offsets, arches and skew-backs to be fitted to, a man will not be able to lay more than from 150 to 300 bricks per day. In plain, massive engineering work a

price, of course, varying with the amount of cutting and the depth of the work. At this writing, brickwork for ordinary buildings costs to lay, including scaffolding, mortar and usual archings, about $7 per 1,000. In some localities the cost may be more n many it is less. This price is for good work, and is exclusive of cost of bricks. First-class front, pressed brick work is worth all the way from $10 to 820 per 1,000 to lay them, including colored mortar. These prices are only given as being approximate, and may have value when actual prices for given work are not available. In large contracts a percentage should be added to the result of the estimate to insure the contractor for risks, breakages and unforeseen delays.

















































































STEEL SQARE SOLUTIONS BEVELS FOR POLYGONS.



man would average about 2,000 bricks per day. In making estimates for brickwork the size and quality of the building should be considered. The price per thousand for laying should be greater on a small building than on a large one, and it will not cost so much to lay bricks on a low building as on one higher. On a high building, one laborer may not be able to carry up enough bricks and mortar to keep him steadily employed, and if another laborer becomes necessary this will make a difference in the cost of laying per thousand. When making an estimate, it is as well to figure separately on the different grades of work, assuming a price for each. Arches, cornices, quoins and ornamental belting courses should be estimated by the foot, the

THE diagrams shown herewith will en 

Mitres and Angle Cuts,	able any mechanic to obtain, by the aid

		of a steel square, the bevels or angles



suited for the correct making of the polygons named in the diagram. The method for obtaining the angles as set forth and figured is the result of using two sets of figures on the square one on the tongue and one on the bade. With the exception of the triangle, all the bevels used are those formed by the tongue of the square, the three-sided figure being formed by the bevel line on the blade. It is not necessary to give a long explanation of the why and wherefore of these cuts or bevels, suffice it for the workman to be able to get them and to know they are correct. A few examples, how-

