<doctype type="text">

<article title="Lathe Work in Interior Decoration." author="Hodgson, Fred T.">



truly. This method of ornamentation may be applied to a thousand things. The bottom rails of parlor sashes, rails of doors, base, rails of wainscoting or mantels and other fittings.

Fig. 2 shows three methods of using turned work.

A shows what is known as egg and angle. The corner

piece is, of course, carved and the angle in this case is

rosettes may be applied to the finishing of doors or windows. This is especially designed for a pair of sliding doors, but it will answer equally well for single doors or for a window. The rosettes are carved and are planted on. They may be simply beaded like those in Fig. 3, or they may be made like C, Fig. 2. The carving underneath the rosettes may be dispensed with if the workman has not sufficient skill to cope with it, though I have seen many country joiners who would have no trouble in doing this carving.

An arch thrown across a hall or passageway is a. good decorative idea. It may be simple and easily' made as Fig. 6, or it may be elaborate and assume the nature of a grille, similar to the design shown in Fig. 7, which is taken from the London Cabinet Maker. The

FIG. 5.—SLIDING DOOR FINISH.



also "trimmed out." The whole of this is wrought in the lathe in suitable lengths and is then quartered, so that one length of turned work makes tour lengths of moulding. This should be glued together in four pieces with paper between the joints and care must be used in centering the pieces or some of the quarters will be smaller than others. In laying out turned work of this or similar kind, proper lengths should be used in order that the mitre or other joints may ·work in all right without showing an irregular junction.

B, Fig. 2, shows the manner in which the moulding at S, Fig. I, is arranged. Sometimes this moulding is made in a strip the same as shown at B, with a fillet on each side so as to plant on some work prepared for it. Of course the strip will have to be ploughed, and the turned moulding planted in it.

C at Fig. 2 shows a raised rosette and section of same. This is first turned to shape, with the little ball in the centre as shown, and then it is lined off and carved. Any joiner or turner can carve these rosettes after half an hours' practice. These little ornaments may be used in many ways for decorative purposes. A good way to use them or any other rosette is to have them made all to one size and then, with an expansion



















NARROW HALLWAY

TREATMENT



FIG.7 



idea so of course, capable of considerable extension, as it also is of 

limitation, and though the design before us may seem very costly, as a matter of fact it is 

not beyond the reach of moderate means.

Turned door spindle work may be employed to advantage in the construction of screens for windows or for grilles over nooks and 

Corners where it is intended to hang curtains.

Shelves over doors and windows with spindle

Railing make both a useful and decorative finish. Such 

Features are quite common in France, G 