<doctype type="text">

after panel through the main halls and rooms of the building might be executed by such Canadian artists as from time to time were thought worthy of being permitted to aid in the undertaking. It was a very modestly and carefully prepared plan so far as the cost in money was concerned, but it was declined by the council. Since then Mr. Reid has offered to execute two panels gratuitously, the work to be done under the supervision of the Guild o Civic Art. This generous missionary effort on the part of Mr. Reid should be watched most carefully by all who care about the development of art in our city. If as a work of art it meets with general approbation, may we not hope that we will have the active support of every one present here to-day when another effort is made with our city council looking to a scheme of adequate decoration for the interior of these public buildings?











 I









 he Gurney Foundry Co., of Toronto, have made arrangements to open an agency at Winnipeg.



Messrs. Close & Co., of Woodstock, Ont., recently filled an order for brick-making machinery for St. Petersberg, Russia.



The James Smart Manufacturing Co. of Brockville arc preparing to put on the Canadian market a complete line of hot water boilers.



The necessary authority is being sought to change the name of the Toronto Radiator Manufacturing Co. to that of the Dominion Radiator Co., Limited.



The Spanish-American war is reported to have seriously affected the business of the plaster manufacturing companies in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.



A new stone quarry has been opened a few miles west of Calgary. The stone will be dressed there and shipped to Vancouver. A large number of stone cutters will be employed.



Mr. Samuel Menard, of St. Camille, One., has instituted an action against the Dominion Lime Co. to recover damages for the death of his son, who received fatal injuries while acting as fireman for the company.



Mr. John Gunn has recently discovered valuable deposits of stone, suitable for building, monumental and lithographic purposes, at Stonewall, Man. The stone, which can be easily quarried and worked, is pink and blue in color.



There is reported to exist at present in Winnipeg a "corner" in bricks, in consequence of which a large order has gone into the hands of a manufacturing firm at Grand Forks, Dakota. The local manufacturers expect to have 2,500,000 bricks ready for use next month.



Mr. Frank Gutteridge, a prominent builder and contractor of Seaforth, Ontario, has constructed a machine by means of which from eight to ten thousand pressed cement bricks can be manufactured per day. Bricks of this character are said to have been put in use in Seaforth with satisfactory results as regards appearance and durability.



From experiments which were conducted at the Watertown Arsenal it would appear that the average strength of a bolted joint is only about two-thirds that of a rivetted joint of the same sort, and that, if the diameter of bolts or rivets is rather small in comparison with the thickness of the plates, the strength of the bolted joint may not be much more than one-half that of a rivetted joint.



SILICIZED STONE.—Already, according to the report of United States Land Commissioner Hermann, a company has been formed in South Dakota for cutting, polishing and marketing the stone or silicified wood found in such marvellous quantities in the forest located near Holbrook, Apache county, Ariz. The largest, finest specimens of such petrified wood in the world there exist. Whole trunks of trees and stumps with portions of the roots appear, converted into stone as dense and hard as the finest agate, every cell and fibre of the former wood being preserved in stone. A forest of trees seems to have been entombed in the rocks and to have been preserved by a slow process of replacement by silica from solutions permeating the bed; subsequently, the surrounding sediments were washed away, but the fossils of the tree remained.





Mr. Thos. Canty, of Ottawa, has been appointed by the government superintendent of masonry construction at the new drill hall at Kingston, Ont.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]





THE LONDON BUILDING DISASTER.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND Builder.



SIR,—-- Allow me to call attention to what I consider an error in one point stated by Mr. Baillarge in his letter which appears in your February number.



He says, It will be noticed that no strength or resistance or support is attributed to the flooring beams, which of course there would have been has d the joists been all or even half of them of a single length or stretch."



At first sight it does seem as if additional strength or support would result from the adoption of single-length joists, whereas exactly the opposite is the case, and in designing a beam to support a load were the joists are continuous, five-eighths of the uniformly distributed load should be assumed to be carried by the beam, and not one-half only, as in the case of half-length joists.

For full information on this point I refer to Prof. Johnson's



Theory and Practice of Modern Framed Structures," Chap. X., Page 161.

j.	W. BALMAIN, G.E.

SANDON, B.C., 14th April, 1898.





QUALITIES OF CEMENT,

DESORONTO, May 2nd, 1898.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, A "User of Cement," in the April number of your journal, has evidently not heard of the "old saw" "Give your opinions, but don't give your reasons." I-lad he been content to simply express such an opinion over a nom de plume, it would not have been worth while to discuss the matter, but as a reason for the opinions has been given, it may not be amiss to examine into the question.



First, his premiss is not true in fact. Canadian Portland cement not only shows a higher tensile strength either neat or with sand at seven days, but maintains the lead until the end of all records we have. The following experiment may surprise a " User of



Cement":	Take a sieve of 40,000 meshes to the square inch and thoroughly sift all the cement that it is possible to get through try to make a briquette out of the residue. Unless lie succeeds better than I have been able to, he will find that the residue is merely sand, having no cementitious value whatever thus showing beyond question that the active part of Portland cement is the fine, impalpable powder or flour the residue which he admires is wholly inert, and of as much value as sand.



I feel assured Canadian manufacturers would welcome the news, if true, that they were burning their clinkers too hard—it might save a few cents barrel. Perhaps "A User of Cement" does not know how very hard our burnt clinker is, and that the harder it is burned the more difficult it is to reduce the clinker to the necessary fineness modern specifications demand.

The truth is that the Canadian manufacture of Portland cement is and has been in advance of the requirements of our engineers and architects. For the past 10 or 15 years the best minds in the engineering world have been studying the question. On certain points there is a practical consensus of opinion. One of them beyond rational Criticism is, that the finer a cement is ground the better; hence, the degree of fineness is merely a question of commercial practicability. A second point on which there is a fair degree of agreement is, that a Portland cement should show a proportionate increase in strength at seven days over what it does at three (lays, but it surely will not be contended that if a given cement gives 6oo lbs. in seven days and in one year increases to 700 lbs., that a second brand which gives only 300 lbs. in seven days and at one year shows barely 500 lbs.—that the second is better than the first. I venture to submit, the quicker a cement reaches its maximum strength the better, always provided it does not go back later on.

Yours respectfully,

M.	J. BUTLER, M. Can. Soc. C.E.





The new building now in course of construction for the Molson's Bank at Vancouver, B.C., will be five stories in height, 90 x 100 feet in size. The basement story will be built of granite, the stories above of Calgary freestone. The banking room, 70 x 30 feet, will be finished in quartered oak and marble, with mosaic floors. Messrs. Taylor & Gordon, Montreal, are the architects.

