<doctype type="text">

<article title="Reasonable Supporting Strength of Different Kinds of Soil." author="Wickson, A.F.">

built on, if the spread of your footing is only made proportionate to the weight to be carried, a bearing power of even less than a ton to the foot could be used. It is a question whether you could make a brick foundation spread sufficiently to carry the building. There is also this to consider, that filled-in ground is worse than soft ground, because you do not know what may be beneath. I do not think Mr. Helliwell has an easy task before him to build on top of made ground at all is decidedly inadvisable.



Mr. Gray I think Mr. Dick had some experience in building the Infants Home, which might be valuable it was built on an old reservoir or something of that kind.



Mr. Dick It was built on the site of an old reservoir that had been filled in with ashes and all kinds of rubbish. It looked tolerably uniform, and was too deep for one to go down to the solid ground, and what appeared to be the cheapest way to get a foundation was to widen the footings so as to get a large bearing surface, and that was done by using two thicknesses of two-inch plank crossed. It was expected that the settlement would probably be uniform, but owing to inequality in the filling, and the  nature of the stuff used for filling, it did settle more in some places than in others. The consequence was that several cracks appeared, not sufficient to interfere with the stability of the building, but still enough to be unsightly. At the back of the main building there was a low annex, used for laundry purposes, that came partly on the filled ground and partly on thc solid ground. The same precautions were taken where it extended on the filled ground as had been adopted for the main building the plank foundation was put down, but notwithstanding that, a crack appeared on each side of the building just where the solid ground and the filled ground connected, which, of course, was just what might have been expected. The building being only one storey high, it did no harm, but it certainly looked bad. I have looked up some data or calculations I made some time ago for a chimney erected down near the Don, on what was supposed to be pretty bad soil. It turned out to be clay, and it was above the water level, and dry. The chimney was 130 feet high, above the ground, and the load was about 3,950 pounds to the square foot. Over the whole site was a bed of concrete two feet thick, then a course of heavy dimension stone, on which was begun the foundation of brick, with large wide footings, diminishing- by offsets of a quarter of a brick until the width was reduced to the thickness of the wall proper. The chimney was built very rapidly in fact, the brickwork was begun the very day the concrete was put in, but there has not been the slightest appearance of cracking, though, looking at it since, I have seen what I think is a slight settlement. There is not the slightest appearance of cracking or being out of plumb, and the settlement, so far as we could judge, was not more than half an inch.



Mr. Wickson In building near a bank on clay, one needs to be very careful, as the water runs through thc edge of the bank. Although it is rather against the reasoning in my former remarks, I might say that a row of houses was put up in Toronto a good many years ago on piles, and they are there yet whether they have had any trouble from the piles decaying do not know, but I know that the walls of the main houses were built on piles and the wings were built on earth, with the result that they were almost detached buildings before many months. I suppose it depends entirely on the life of the piles how long they will stand plumb.



The President I had a case, a chimney I had to build on made ground. It was not very high, only 95 feet, and quite a large one. I made a test by driving just a few piles around it. I might say the chimney was intended to be incorporated in the building. In driving the piles I found that on one side the ground was softer than on the other. The piles drove fairly hard, and sufficient of them could have been put in to carry the chimney, but I did not want to put them in, because I thought it might not always be damp ground. I therefore extended my foundation on the soft side and made it considerably larger than had been intended, and



put in large flags. You know we generally have stone foundations in our city, and we put in a large flag foundation, arid on top of the second tier of flag I put in concrete, and on that built my chimney to the height of about sixty feet without connecting the building, and let it stand for a time, five days, I think, at sixty feet. At the end of that tulle I found that it lad not moved perceptibly, so I connected my building with it at once and went right on. I watched it very closely, and the building and chimney are almost as one. While it is not a good foundation it came out all right.



Mr. Burke If there is danger of piles decaying in dry ground

is there not equal danger of plank put in as Mr. Pick described decaying? And if the plank should decay there would be a more dangerous settlement than in the other case. I remember when I was a student with Mr. Langley he built two or three warehouses at the corner of Scott Street on piles. I never noticed any cracking, but there the soil was somewhat damp, because it was down below the level of the water line.



Mr. Langton I used paving stones three or four feet wide to carry an addition to a house resting on quicksand. The main



port ion of the house had a plank foundation under water, which, though it had been down twenty years was as good as ever. I cut it with a knife and it was like a new plank. I wanted, however, to carry my floor above the wet and found these 4 inch slabs of stone cost but little.



Mr. Aylsworth: Seventeen years ago I put up a block of stores three-storeys high, and the end wall on the side street happened to go right over a stream, and we did not go down any deeper than was required for ordinary foundations, The rest of the ground was pretty good sand. We put two thicknesses of plank to bear it. There was no sign of cracking about it, I suppose it has always been under water. I have not heard anything in this discussion about the effect of frost on sand foundation, as to heaving it. In the town where I put up the stores I speak of I put up a twelve-room school house, and I did not go more than eighteen inches below the surface at any part, because it was intended to terrace it high enough to counteract the influence of frost. That was on a sand foundation, and the terracing has never been done yet, although it is sixteen years ago, and yet there has never been any sign of heaving or cracking.



Mr. Wickson: It is wonderful what can be done in sandy soils in that way, but very great care has to be exercised in others. Mr. Kidder recommends very strongly in his book to batter the foundation a little bit when building on clay soil to counteract the effect of the clay heaving as it will invariably do. As to Mr. Aylsworth's experience, I would not like myself to take the chances of eighteen inches, even in sand.



Mr. Aylsworth: It seems to prove, however, that sand does no heave.











MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

The Owen Sound Portland Cement Co. have recently added to their manufacturing plant a Raymond Vacuum Separator.



At the works of the Ontario Sewer Pipe Co., at Mimico, a new kiln has recently been constructed which is said to be 36 feet 7 inches in diameter.



A factory is to be erected at Halifax, Nova Scotia, by J. P. Carritte, of that city, and J. W. Patterson, of Montreal, for the manufacture of tarred roofing and building paper.



A charter of incorporation has lately been granted to the R. McDougall Co., Limited, of Galt, Ont., capital $30,000, to do a general foundry business, and manufacture heating and ventilating apparatus.



Germany produces annually about 13,500,000 barrels of Portland cement. About 3,000,000 barrels are exported, the remainder finding a market at home. The price at the works runs from $1.25 to $1.50 per barrel.



Messrs. Geo. W. Reed & Co., of Montreal, have published an attractive illustrated catalogue, descriptive of the advantages for heating large buildings of the Boston Hot Blast System, for which they are the sole Canadian agents.



The Odorless Crematory Closet & General Heating Co. of Hamilton, Limited, has recently been incorporated, with a capital of $24,000. The names of the promoters are H. S. Griffin, M. D., T. J. Stewart, W. Trusdale, Hamilton, Ont.; J. Dickenson, Glanford, and W. M. German, Welland, Ont.



The suggestion has been made by Stone that quarry owners would find it profitable to add to their plant a stone crusher, and thus put themselves in a position to supply crushed stone to neighboring municipalities for use in road-making. In many parts of Canada the municipalities are taking the initiative by purchasing their own plant.





If there is one fact about advertising that is well established, it is that its effect is cumulative.

