<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



our worthy Secretary, Mr. Venne our relations during my term of office have been of the most cordial character. I must also thank our Treasurer, Mr. Maxwell, for the friendship which he has exhibited towards the Quebec members. Lastly, I thank all members with whom I have had intercourse during my term of  office.



I now leave the Presidency to my confrere, Mr. A. Raza, who, being a resident of this city, will be better able to promote the interests of our Association.



The meeting then adjourned for luncheon.



AFTERNOON SESSION.



The meeting resumed with Mr. A. Raza, the newly-elected President, in the chair.

Several members who were absent in the forenoon presented themselves at the afternoon session, amongst whom were Messrs. J. B. Resther, R. C. Decary and Theo. Daoust.

The President thanked the members for the honor conferred upon him, and further said

PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.



GENTLEMEN OF TI-IF ASSOCIATION,- —I must thank you for the honor you have conferred upon me by electing me to the presidency of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, and I beg you to believe that I shall leave nothing undone to foster the purposes of our Association, to increase its beneficent influence in raising the standard of study and assisting in our immediate surroundings the growth of good taste and classical art which we are called upon to cultivate and induce others to appreciate.

Perhaps our profession has tot received its due share of appreciation in Canada, as in other countries. France possesses the greatest art institutions in the world, and the artistic reputation is considered achieved unless it has been recognized and sanctioned by the French critics of the Salons, Conservatories, or in the well conducted competitions in sculpture and architecture. But France has always held art it great esteem and honor; it lavished its most generous encouragement upon its own artists, and especially in



particular, our art. The Society Centrale des Archtitectes do France commands the greatest influence and respect. It has been granted the most precious and extraordinary privileges, as every enlightened citizen feels that the honor of the country is centred in its schools of painting, sculpture and architecture.



The aims of our Association——still in its infancy, having only eight years of legal existence —cannot be so ambitious as to pretend to equal those of the most celebrated institutes, as its field of action necessarily restricted. We cannot hope to revolutionize the art feeling of our clients, who generally have no very adequate ideas of style. The knowledge of architecture is rather restricted, and better ideas may be expected to take root, but gradually. Traditions are lacking in our new community, which is still imbued with ideas rather more utilitarian than artistic.

 However, the dawn of greater refinement is coming there are unmistakable signs of decided progress, and buildings which were considered masterpieces twenty years ago are altogether depreciated, when judged by better standards of good taste.

I shall willingly admit that there is a tremendous task still left for us, but as a French saving goes, '' Paris was not built in one day,'' and we cannot expect that in a young country like ours, where the flue arts only play second fiddle, that the architect, is directed and encouraged by the modest and crude experiences of the public, could have imprinted that good taste, that desire, that enthusiasm of a more ancient civilization.



In America one must build quickly and give large and prompt returns to the client for his investment. The client insists on the greatest amount of rentable space being crowded into his building; in having ladders, instead of reasonable and commodious staircases.

It too often happens that the greedy speculator shrinks from the idea of consulting an architect, and will call on any stone cutter or wood butcher to draw the rudiments of a plait, venturing on this to build those ugly and ill-proportioned, ill-matured structures, spoiling whole streets nay, even whole suburbs.

Most certainly the architect cannot bear the whole responsibility of such a state of affairs, but we may inquire where is die remedy for this evil? It is in the intelligent, up-to—date and effective ruling by the civic powers. Good, intelligent, well-directed " city bylaws' will go a long way to improve inatlers, and we have been



persistently memorializing the City Council for that purpose,

Such improved by-laws are of immediate necessity, not only from an artistic point of vie ', but for the security and comfort of the community, as it often happens that through eccentricities and exaggerations one endangers neighboring properties.



I said that Paris was not built in one day, but we must acknowledge that its citizens did not hesitate to tear down all the older city to rebuild it in less than half a century on more approved and improved notions.



The Paris municipal by-laws are most stringent and absolutely unyielding as to time alignment, height of buildings, and nature of materials.



Our municipal corporations throughout the province have much to be blamed for in this particular, and it is time that persons experienced in building construction, and more especially the architects, shall agitate to obtain improvement.



No building operation should be commenced before a plan shall have been submitted to and approved of by a competent board, where the architect should be represented.



I could lay much stress on this single matter. I could also entertain you on numberless kindred subjects, but I would fear to trespass on your good will. I must conclude by a wish that is, that the Association be true to its motto Magna est veritas et prevalebit.' We have striven for the victory of truth and sincerity in our art, arid so we shall continue until our efforts shall have been rightly appreciated and approved by our community.



The consideration of amendments to the By-Laws occupied the attention of the meeting for the remainder of the day.

THE ANNLIAL DINNER.



The annual association banquet was held in the handsome dining hail of the Hotel Viger, the tables being beautifully decorated for the occasion. The chair was occupied by the newly elected president, Mr. Raza, and the vice-chair by the 1st vice-president, Prof. S. H. Capper. Mayor Prefontaine, Senator Dandaurand, Dean Bovey and Prof. Adams, of McGill University, were among the invited guests. Letters of regret were read by the secretary, Mr. Joseph Venne, from His Honor, Lieutenant-Governor Jette, Premier Marchand, Senator Drummond, C. W. Colby, Professor of History McGill University, R. 13. Angus and W. C. McDonald.

After loyalty had been pledged to the queen and Governor-general, the Mayor proposed in French a toast to "The Honorary Members," which was responded to in English by Senator Dandurand, Dean Bovey and Prof. Adams. Prof. Capper speaking in French and English proposed a toast to "The Sister Associations." In the absence of any member of the Ontario Association of Architects, Mr. C. H. Mortimer, of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, responded on behalf of that society.

The proceedings were enlivened by a humorous speech by Mr. W. E. Doran, in which he described the origin and evolution of certain characteristic forms of architecture in Montreal.

Mr. Chas. Baillarge, in reply to some remarks by the mayor, pleaded from a humanitarian standpoint for the retention of exterior fire escapes.

The efforts of an excellent orchestra were supplemented by songs from Messrs. Baillarge and Monette.



SECOND DAY.



The closing day of the convention was profitably spent in sight-seeing. In the forenoon the members were shown through the new Chemistry and Mining Building of McGill University, by the architect, Mr. A. T. Taylor, F. R. I.B.A., the equipment being explained to them by Prof. Harrington. They were also privileged to witness experiments in crushing, by Mr. Bell, assistant to Dr. Porter.

At 2 p.m. they viewed the valuable collection of

