<doctype type="text">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

SOME	ITALIAN DETAIL ONE-QUARTER FULL SIZE.MEASURED AND DRAWN BY WILLIAM RAE.



PROPOSED RESIDENCE, STEWART STREET, OTTAWA, ONE BAND, BURRITT & MEREDITH, ARCHITECTS.



CLUB HOUSE FOR THE HAMILTON GOLF CLUB CO.



W. W. LA CHANCE, ARCHITECT.



The inside of the building is finished in Georgia pine, oiled and varnished. In the reception hall is a pressed brick mantel. The building cost $l,000.

STONE PULPIT IN ST. MATHEWS CHURCH, QUEBEC.



FELIX MORGAN, ARCHITECT AND SCULPTOR.



The pulpit was designed and executed by the late Felix Morgan, an English sculptor of merit, who was for many years a resident of Quebec, and who also executed two carved capitals in the transept arch of the same church. The pulpit is built of English sandstone. The columns are of various marbles ; the cap moulding and figures of St. Peter, St. John and St. Mathew are of alabaster. The pulpit is a memorial of the late Rev. George Hamilton, for some time assistant priest of the church, during the rectorship of the present Bishop of Ottawa, uncle of the deceased.

PROPOS El) PALACE HOTEL, RING STREET EAST, TORONTO.



MESSRS. GEO. E. HARDING AND GOOCH, ARCHITECTS



The building will occupy the site of the Walker stores on King street east, with frontages on King and Colborne streets. The area of the site is 207 feet 10 1/2 inches on King and Colborne streets, by a depth of 197 feet 7 1/2 inches. The building, which is to be seven stories in height, is designed in the free Renaissance style. It will be surmounted by a roof garden 90 X 200 feet. An arcade, entered from an archway 48 feet from the western wall, will extend directly through the building, the entrance to which on Colborne street will be directly opposite Scott street. The plan of the building is in the form of the letter H, whereby is solved the problem of efficient lighting.

The Colborne street elevation is similar to the King street one, with the exception that there are no towers. In the centre of this facade an alcove is shown off the street, fitted with elevators for lowering supplies into the basement, without interfering with the traffic on the sidewalk. An entrance may be effected either from King street or through the arcade. The King street entrance occupies the corresponding eastern arch to the arcade. This leads into a handsome vestibule. To the left is the reception-room for ladies. To the right is the restaurant, facing on King street, this room being 78 feet by 48 feet.

Further on, and in the centre, is a rotunda finished in marble and tiles, in the eastern portion of which is the administration office to the west is the main entrance from the arcade, immediately to the left and right of which leads the grand staircase to the first floor. To the north of the rotunda are four passenger elevators. The rotunda is lighted by domes at either corner, one of which is fitted for a reading room, another for a writing room. To the east of the department of administration is the dining room, opening from the eastern dome of the rotunda. This room is 140 feet by 42 feet. The southern 50 feet is divided off by a colonnade. To the right and west of this inner dining room is situated the cafe, reached from the rotunda or dining room. The bar is entered either from the arcade or rotunda, and from it an entrance can be effected to the cafe.

Baggage is brought in from the southern end of the

arcade, where it may be sent by elevator to any floor or to the storage room in the basement. That portion west of the arcade is divided into 10 shops, two of which front on King street, thus the whole of the land area is occupied by the ground floor.

The first floor is reached either by the grand staircase or elevators, which open out on to a palm garden 6o feet by 56 feet, with alcove for orchestra opposite the staircase, of 48 feet by 30 feet. To the right and south are the state apartments and ball room. The state apartments are a suite of seven rooms, so arranged that they can be excluded from the hotel. Also in the event of a ball, banquet, or other entertainment, this portion can be excluded, and guests arriving by the arcade come up the grand staircase, which can be screened off from the rotunda. The ball room is I 20 feet by 50 feet, 22 feet high, and overlooked by a balcony. This additional height is gained by dropping the floor five feet and by lowering the ceilings of the bar room and two of the arcade shops, but still retaining a

foot height for them. To the left and north on the King street front is a grand salon flanked on either side by a reception room, and the larger and more handsome

4th, 5th and 6th

guests' bedrooms. The 2nd 3rd

floors are divided into 63 bedrooms each, with 40 bathrooms, which, together with those on the first floor, make a total of 325 bedrooms and 213 bathrooms.



The centre of the basement or kitchen is occupied by the range boilers and cooks' tables. Immediately opposite is the "garde manger." The cafe and dining room on the south and east ground floor are served from here to the right and left. All supplies are brought in from Colborne street entrance by the lift, already described as being situated in a recess, and are received in a receiving room, from which point the various articles are distributed to their proper destinations. The engine room and boilers are in the south-west portion, in which room are situated the pump and tank room, ice-making, refrigerator and laundry machinery. On the east are the store cellar, flour room, bakery, the cooks' dining room, confectioner, ice cream making, wine cellar. To the north the servants' dining room, with toilet rooms adjoining. This floor also contains barber shop, gentlemen's general toilet and lavatory, Turkish baths and billiard rooms.



PLANS FOR ARTIZANS' DWELLINGS.

AT the Mechanics' Fair, which opened in Boston on the 10th inst., under the management of the Mechanics' Charitable Association of that city, the designs for artizans' dwellings submitted in competition by architects of the United States and Canada, for the Shattuck prizes, are exhibited. The problem which the competing architects were asked to solve, was to provide upon four acres of land in the suburbs of a large city for the housing of fifty artizan households in an attractive, agreeable, sanitary and independent manner, in such a way that the property shall be recognizable as a single property, and shall provide, at rentals within the reach of the artisan class, a fair return upon the invested capital. The land is square and is bordered upon one side by a street the main thoroughfare of the suburb and it is valued at fifteen cents per square foot. The programme is purely an imaginary one, and its somewhat indefinite requirements are made purposely so, since it is conceived that an investor of a philanthropic turn of mind, with abundant yet not limitless resources, would seek advice from his architect in about as indefinite language.

