<doctype type="text">



manslaughter against the architect, Mr. Pawley. Added to the verdict is the recommendation that a greater control should be instituted in the construction of buildings. The need of a proper standard of qualification for architects and the enforcement of wise and stringent building by-laws is every year becoming more apparent.



A BUILDING ordinance was recently Swivel Windows. passed by the City Council of Chicago,

compelling the use of swivel windows above the second story of all new buildings. The purpose of the law is declared to be the prevention of the numerous accidents attending the cleaning of stationary windows. The new law provides that tipper story windows must swing on horizontal or vertical pivots, otherwise a balcony must be built in front of every window. Opposition has arisen to the law on the ground that it was designed to benefit the owners of patents on swivel windows, and also that the size of windows will have to be reduced owing to wind pressure, and accidents will result from falling window sash.





LORD Herschell, P.C., G.C.B., who is Rights of Trade at present in Canada in the capacity of

Unions.

bead of the British Commission to adjust the differences between the United States and the Dominion, when Lord High Chancellor of England, gave a celebrated decision in December last regarding the legal rights of trades unions. The case was that of Allen vs. Flood, in which it was held that Allen, as secretary of a trade union, violated the law by procuring the dismissal of Flood and another workman by threatening that their retention would be followed by a general strike of their fellow workmen. Lord Herschell, in rendering judgment, said he could not doubt that it would have been perfectly lawful for all the workmen to leave their employment. As against this view, we have the recent decision of Justice Bischoff, of the New York Supreme Court, preventing by injunction the officers of the Plumbers' and Gas Fitters' Benevolent and Protective Society from interfering with the workman of an employer who refused to join the association.



THE first cost of an article, whether for The Fallacy building purposes, or for furniture, is of Cheapness.

not the only thing the purchaser should consider. A house properly and substantially built, finished from cellar to attic in first-class style, and fitted with the best plumbing, ventilating, lighting and heating apparatus, must cost at first much more than a flimsy, cheaply built and cheaply fitted house of same dimensions. But the result is, the more costly house holds its own, while the cheap house settles, the plastering cracks and tails off, the timber shrinks and pulls everything with it, the roof leaks, a smell of coal gas permeates the whole building, the water pipes give continual trouble, while the furnace is a perpetual annoyance. Doors won't close, locks and bolts are always out of order, and the carpenter, plasterer, painter and plumber are always in request, while the yearly bills for repairs are actually appalling. The well built house requires no repairs for years after the workmen leave the finished contract ; it looks well at first, and keeps tip its appearance to the end. It is cool in summer, warm in winter, and its atmosphere is always clear and healthful, while its inmates are cheer-

ful and happy. It may have cost several hundreds of dollars more than the cheap house at first, but the owner of the latter will have paid in five years, for repairs, doctor's bills, and irritable inconveniences and discomforts, much more than the difference in cost.



THE effort which is being made in New

New York

Building Code.	York to have a new building code prepared for the enlarged city is in the



hands of a widely representative committee, consisting of delegates from the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, the New York Board of Fire Underwriters, the New York Board of Trade and Transportation, the Mason Builders' Association, the Association of M aster Plumbers, the Architectural Iron Manufacturers, the Builders' League, Mech- anics' and Traders' Exchange, Building Trades' Club, Real Estate Exchange, the Real Estate Owners and Builders' Association, the North Side Board of Trade, West End Association, Upper East Side Association and the New York Fire Department. Three delegates from each of these bodies form a committee, which has been holding meetings for several months, and it may therefore be presumed are not only urging the Municipal Assembly to prepare a new building code, but are ready with a draft of suitable provisions.



THE announcement is made that at last

Proposed Modern

Hotel for Toronto.	the project for the erection in Toronto of a large modern hotel, has taken



definite form. The Walker property on King street east, with additional land immediately to the east of same, is said to have been purchased at a cost of nearly half a million dollars as a site for the building. A survey of the site has been made by Messrs. Harding & Gooch, of New York, who will immediately proceed

with the	of	plans.	building will

	preparation	the	The

have two frontages, on King and Colborne streets, with, it is said, an arcade connecting these thoroughfares. It will be made as nearly fire proof as possible, and will embody every modern requirement. The cost is placed at $750,000. We reiterate our belief that the enterprise, if properly managed, should undoubtedly prove a financial success and greatly add to the prosperity of the city, while some heavy and it is to be hoped profitable contracts should fall to the lot of our contractors for work and materials.





The British Workmens' Compensation Act 

THIS act, the purpose and provisions

of which were recently outlined in, these columns, went into operation on

the first of July. It embodies an entirely new principle in law, by declaring that in future the undivided responsibility for accidents to workmen, arising from whatever cause, must be borne by the employers. From our point of view this is manifestly unjust. The employer's only means of security is to insure the lives of his workmen against accident, and in so doing to add another heavy charge to the constantly increasing expense of doing business, in the face of growing competition and decreasing profits. The grievousness of the situation is accentuated by the tact that the rates



quoted by the insurance companies are six times greater than Mr. Chamberlain, the promoter of the bill, estimated they would be. This fact further serves to indicate the serious estimate entertained by the actuaries of the responsibility which the employers have

