<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences." author="">

	THE	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



CORRESPONDENCE.

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building Interests. to secure insertion, communications most be accompanied by the name and address of the author, hot not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.l





CANADIAN VS. FOREIGN CEMENT.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR,—I have read with interest the editorial articles published from time to time in your journal anent the opening which appears to exist for the extension of the Canadian Portland cement manufacturing industry, and the comparative quality of the home with the imported article. While I am free to admit that a great improvement has taken place in the quality of Canadian Portland cement, I am nevertheless not prepared to agree that it is equal in quality to the best English and German brands. One of the most important qualities in good English or German Portland cement is that its strength will steadily increase for a period of six months. Canadian cement compares favorably with foreign cement in this particular for about three months, hot shows little or no increase in strength beyond that period. I am of the opinion that the trouble with the Canadian cement lies in the method of grinding—that it is overturned, so that in the grinding it is all reduced to an equal degree of fineness, leaving no residue, as is the practice of foreign man manufacturers.

A USER or CEMENT.



In answer to enquiries addressed to Canadian Portland cement manufacturers for information on the line of the charge of inferiority in strength of Canadian cement contained in our correspondent's letter, we have received the following communication:

SIR, We are favored with yours of the 24th inst., in which you kindly call our attention to an argument which is being used by dealers in foreign cements in order to prejudice the sale of Canadian cements, based upon the allegation that the native article does not increase in strength for as long a period as the foreign, the contention, as yon say, being on the part of these gentlemen that the foreign article continues to increase for a period of about six months, and that the Canadian attains its greatest strength in about half that time. Our answer to this is simply a denial.

The facts are not at all as stated, as actual experience has over and over again proven, and we defy the producers of Canadian cements to prove their assertions.

Portland cement can only be made from carbonate of lime and clay. Our raw material has proved upon chemical analysis to be unsurpassed. We have adopted the latest English methods of manufacture, and we grind, in accordance with the requirements of Canadian engineers, very much [bier than the average English manufacturer. The effect of this is to give us the best attained results, and results, as our testimonials show, in advance of the great majority of imported cements, and equal to the very best anywhere.

Our competitors have assumed without proof that because our cement iii a thirty days' test so much surpassed that of most foreign cements, that foreign cements continue to increase in strength until they reach our standard or surpass it, an assumption easy to make, but which they have never proved, and which takes time and much trouble to disprove, and which is therefore made without fear.

Even if it were true that the imported cement requires six months to reach a degree which ours reaches in three, that by no means establishes its superiority, unless it could also be shown that the Canadian carried some elements c)f decay, which has never been contended.

We are aware that some persons, from qualities inherent in themselves, prefer goods that come from afar and which cost more money, and are always willing to discredit and disparage a home product in favor of the foreign. This phase of human character is a very old one and we think it answerable for any preference now shown to foreign over Canadian cements.

Actual tests and experience have demonstrated that there is nothing in their superiority. We will have pleasure in sending you our latest testimonials as soon as received from the printers. Again thanking you for your courtesy,

Yours very truly,

THE OWEN SOUND PORTLAND CEMENT T Co., Limited. Per Geo. S. Kilbourn.





A REPLY.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—You publish in your last issue a letter by Mr. Arthur E. Wells, entitled, ''The Ontario Association of Architects and What It Should Do."

Mr. Wells' letter is so overloaded with sarcasm that it is difficult to keep track of his argument, but in conversation with him I find it to be this: The Association has devoted itself to the theory that by making a higher training for architects compulsory, calamities from the failure of buildings will be diminished but, 1st, such failures '' are due quite as often to carelessness or oversight as to incompetence," and, 2nd, granting carefulness as well as competency to members of the Association, there are still the other fellows," who are not members, but have a right to build. Therefore, Mr. Wells concludes what the Association ought to do is to turn their attention in another direct ion, viz., to  agitation which would lead to the establishment in the cities of Ontario,

of effective building laws compiled by experts, and a Department of Buildings competent to secure their strict enforcement."

That is in its way a good suggestion, and indeed the Association has already been working in that way. A complete set of building and fire by—laws, the work of several sittings of the Building By law Committee appointed in 1895, was submitted to the Tot onto City Council when the Toronto building law was amended in that it year (after the fires in which the Globe office and the Simpson building were destroyed), and all the cities of Ontario and some of the towns have been invited to make use of the services it of this commit tee in amending or enlarging their building by laws

If Mr. Wells wants s to do good by writing, let him turn his attention to the local newspapers of the Ontario cities, and urge them to press upon the attention of their municipal I councils the advantages of this offer of the part of the Building Committee of the Association. It is the small end of the affair, but t good man devoted to the small end of the matter will he of the greatest Possible service to the large end, which, I think, there can be no doubt, if I may say so when Mr. Wells has just expressed a doubt oil the subject, is the elevation of the profession of architecture. It is surely unreasonable to provide for the correction of errors rather than their prevention, yet this is the essence of Mr. Wells' proposal that legislation  should be devoted, not to the qualification of architects but to building  laws amid building inspection. The herculean figure of the building inspector who would contain in himself all knowledge to detect and full power to arrest error, appeals to the imagination but, as a matter of fact, he might fail to appear, and it is wiser mu thus is in other things to begin at the other end, and look out for the prevention of errors by fostering the growth of the architect who ho is time fountain of everything.

There is something to what Mr. Wells says that '' accidents in building operations are due quite as often to carelessness or oversight as to incompetence," but it is recognized as a matter of experience that the best designers are the most exact about their drawings, specifications and superintendence, amid the surest way to prevent even errors of carelessness is to attend to the qualification and status of the architect. If as Mr. Wells very truly says what architects utmost want is grace to see that they have embraced aut art amtd profession which is rich in interest," a sure way of doing it is to make the title architect '' an attainment involving the possession of the knowledge and cultivation of mind, which alomie give the power of being possessed by the interest of architecture. Without them the practice of architecture can only be the process known as getting imp a set of plans, a process which is best for everybody—for the man who does it, for the man who owns the product, but perhaps most of all for the weurv

public.	Yours trimly,



W.	A. LANGTON.



QUALITIES OF FIRE-PROOFING MATERIALS.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER.



SIR,— In Mr. Gagnoum's interesting critique, in the March number of your journal, of my convention liaper, lie is evidently under some misapprehension, or has not read the paper as carefully as lie might.

In no respect have I advocated the Maturer system in preference to terra cotta construction I merely' quoted the report of the test, and I must say I was mystified by the reputed failure of the terra cotta arch. Since my paper was presented, I have seen, however, the statement of Mr. Frank, explaining the very effective workmanship which was allowed, either by design or carelessness, in the construction of that arch, and which fully explains the cause of failure which was inevitable under the circumstances.

Mr. Gagnon must have overlooked my summing up of the lessons of the Pittsburgh fire, wherein I have placed porous terra cotta in the first place as a fire-resisting material hard tilt second, and concrete third With regard to asbestic plaster lug as a fireresmst ung material I must say, as I saul iii my hiahiem that I would like to see it tested under as severe conditions as the New York tests. Till this us done architect s will hesitate to adopt it in pre— feremice to present fire-proofing methods.



Yours truly,



EDMUND BURKE



PREACHING VS. PRACTICE.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR, —I have u-cad with much interest a letter in the CONTRACT RECORD by A Young Architect " re the standard by some architects in regard to competitions ethics, etc., and I would like him to know that he is not alone in the opinions he expresses. I have very often been amused at lie way such imminent members of the profession waste time and wimid expressing themselves on these matters. As for profession ethics,'' some of them should try and find out what it means or shut mmli. We out in the wild woolly west often hear reports of architects in the cities tumbling over each other, so to speak, to get work of how they enter competitions that no I thoroughly professional man would have anything to do wit t, amid then we hear t them in solemn conclave on competitions, ethics, fees, etc., etc.

3 mist a totiphe of instances that came under my own not ice : A down east architect wrote one to the west offering to supply

plans, specifications, etc., for a $25,000 building—not a warehouse either—for an amount equal to of 1Another entered a competition for the same class of building, and after capturing the prize his plan was rejected when tenders were received. It was going to cost several thousand dollars more than bins estimate. He was quite a prominent maim, toe.

And these are the men we young fellows are expected to sit nit the feet of amid learn Trusting some of them with set its a better example or stop inflicting their precepts on us (perhaps you could eliminate the precepts from the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)	Yours trimly',



ANOTHER YOUNG ARCHITECT.

