<doctype type="text">

treatment to which workmen can Be subjected at the hands of unscrupulous contractors. All honor Is due those members of Parliament who insisted on thorough enquiry being made into a condition of affairs, the existence of which is difficult of realization in a Christian land. One result of the revelations which have come to light in this case, should be the enactment of legislation compelling public contractors to properly house and feed their workmen, and provide for them proper medical treatment. To this end means should be provided for a fair adjustment of disputes between contractors arid workmen, and to compel both to fulfil their pledges of agreement.



GREAT Britain has fallen into line with 

Compensation for Ac- 

cidents to Workmen.           Germany, Austria and Denmark, in recognizing the principle that workmen



who suffer injury by reason of accidents are entitled to receive compensation from their employers. In furtherance of this principle the British Workman's Compensation Act received the assent of the British Parliament, and will go into operation on the first of July next. Under this act compensation must be granted by employers to workmen who may be disabled or killed while employed in mines, quarries, engineering works, factories, railways and building operations where machinery is employed or the scaffolding is over 30 feet n height. The act provides in the event of total disablement that the workman is to be paid one—half of his regular weekly wages so long as he shall live, but this allowance is not to exceed one pound per week. If a workman is killed in an accident, leaving no heirs, the sum of $48.66 only is to be paid by his employer for funeral expenses. If he has heirs they are to receive one—half of three years' wages, the minimum amount to be $750 and the maximum $1,460. It is unquestionably right that compensation should he made for injuries resulting to workmen through lack of proper precautions being taken by employer for their safety, but in view of the well-known carelessness of many workmen, it does not seem just that the whole responsibility should be thrown on the shoulders of the employers. As the funds from which compensation is to be provided must be furnished wholly by the employers, elaborate calculations are being made by insurance experts and others interested as to the proportion of accidents to workmen and the cost of insurance against Same.



Method of Obtaining OUR attention has been called to the Tenders for Glass method which obtains among architects

Work. in Canada of letting contracts for



stained glass work in conjunction with painting. In some instances, such as the erection of churches, separate tenders are invited direct from the glass works, but this is not the usual course. Although some have recognized the advantage of taking separate tenders on stained glass, it is said that, as a rule, architects in this country have been slow to adopt the practice which is followed in European countries and the United States. The present method is claimed to be unfair alike to the client, architect and stained glass contractor. For example, the painter submits a tender for certain work, including stained glass at, say, $. 1.50 per foot, which is accepted by the architect. The painter retains from twenty-five to fifty per cent. for his commission. The balance goes to the stained glass manufacturer who is expected by the architect to furnish goods worth $1.50

per foot. There are said to be instances on record where the glass contract has been turned over from the painter to a wholesale dealer, who would supply the plain glass from his stock, and place the balance of the contract with the stained glass manufacturer, thus necessitating two commissions, and reducing the price

b



paid for the glass far below that which the work should command. Were separate tenders taken for glass, it is contended that the work could be done at less cost, and that better value would be given. We would be pleased to give the necessary space for a fair discussion of this question, and to learn the views of the trade on the subject.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

DESIGN FOR COTTAGE - ARTHUR E. WELLS, ARCHITECT RESIDENCE AT LONDON, ONT. MOORE & HENRY,



ARC HITECTS.



SKETCH FOR CHURCH DOOR. -J. A. RADFORD, ARCHITECT,  TORONTO.



DESIGN FOR SCHOOL. —W. A. EDWARDS, ARCHITECT, HAMILTON, ONT.



DOORWAY ON VIA DI S. STEFANO DEL CACCO, ROME.-MEASURED ANT) DRAWN BY MR. J. C. B. HORWOOD.







BY THE WAY.

AN antiquated rule which ought long ago to have been abolished provides that air petitions and communications submitted to the British House of Commons and official departments of the government must be on written or lithographic form. A typewritten memorial recently introduced by a member to the Sacred interior of St. Stephen's, was declined by the Speaker on the ground that it was an infringement of the dignity of the House ; his contention being that type-writing was not manuscript or lithography, although he admitted that the rule was laid down before the invention of the typewriter.

xxx



A LONDON newspaper takes a shy at the methods of the Jerry builders in this fashion

 BUILDING TN TOPSYTURVEYDOM



It was a lonely building,

Though it ended iii a 1oss,

For every one was foreman

And every one was boss.

And each one built his portion

Just according to his mind,

And altered the construction 

	If he changed	feel inclined.

The girders were short measure,

	Which was	quite a trifling thing

Arid they hadn't t any rivets

	So they tied them LI p with	string

 But it must be owned the concrete

Was indubitably poor,

Which was proved by a mechanic

Falling, through a fireproof floor.

And the bricks	were rather crumbly

For the	they had to bear,

But they wouldn't drop to pieces

If you handled them with care.

Oh, it was a lovely building,

he point of view of spoof.

And it held together bravely

Till a fly sat on the roof.





The death was recently announced at San Francisco of Mr. August us Laver, who, designed the Western Departmental Block at Ottawa, and was afterwards associated with Mr. Thos, Fuller, late chief architect of t the Dominion Public Work Department in the construction of the Capitol at Albany, N. Y.. Mr. Fuller's design for which was attempted and awarded first prize. Mr.  Fuller having subsequently obtained first prize for a city hail for San Francisco, and being unable to leave Albany, Mr. Laver took charge of I he work, and afterwards made that city his home. While there he erected many important buildings, among others the palatial residence of the I Floods, the furniture for which alone cost $100,000. Mr. Fuller writes us that Mr. Laver was ' man high in his profession and an old and dear friend.

