<doctype type="text">

<article title="The Morality and Economy of Competitions." author="Creswell, B.">

amelioration or reorganization and reconstruction of competition, but, so far as I know, no one has suggested that we should, in the matter of competitions, individually regard architecture either as being a profession or an art, or both, and that we should return to that attitude of independence with which it is hoped most of us left school or college, and which was ours before we were enticed to the attitude of the emulative haber-dasher soliciting some one's "valued order." We are wont to deal with matters relating to a private commission from quite different standpoint to that from which we regard competitions; but I think few of us will deny that the wide generality of local competitions has spoiled our clients; and I think you will agree that the ordinary man who has not the advantage of a private fortune or a circle of the right sort of friends is almost compelled to submit to humiliating treatment from his prospective clients.

For my own part, I feel strongly against turning the profession into a sort of trades' union, yet most of the remedies which are suggested imply that, or tend to that end. The matter lies in our own hands. Our disordered competition system is a monument to our incontinent unthinking greed and folly. We have overreached ourselves, and we must retract and amend, and bring matters back to a position of ordered decency.

The power lies chiefly with assessors, because they are few, and because they are men of substance and position. It should surely be with them a sine qua non for their sanction of conditions of competition, that the terminology is legal and free of ambiguity,

The excellence of the cement made by this company is largely due to the very superior quality of the natural ingredients, which are apparently better adapted for making Portland cement than groundstone which is more commonly used.

The original works were destroyed by fire a few years ago, and have been replaced by large and more commodious buildings and modern kilns, built after the plan of those used in English factories. Every department of these new buildings was fitted with latest designs of improved machinery known in the art of cement making in England, Germany and the United Slates, and to which additions are being continually made, till from the very modest start made in 1888, the buildings now cover a space of over two acres and have cost the company over $200,000.

The company have their own stave factory and cooperage plant and manufacture their own barrels at the works. An efficient chemist is continually employed, and every kiln of cement is carefully tested before leaving the works for the storage department.

The capacity of the factory has this year been increased from 130 barrels to 300 barrels per day. The company employ an average of 8o men throughout the year and have storage capacity at the works and in their warehouses at Toronto and Winnipeg for 40,000 barrels. The present demand for Sampson cement is so great that they are quite unable to supply their customers.

Twenty-three tons of coke are consumed daily in burning the clinker preparatory to grinding into cement, and 2,000 cords of















































WORKS OF THE OWEN SOUND PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY.



and that the various clauses are fair and reasonable. There is a very strong general disinclination to enter a competition where an assessor is not employed. Let t be noticed and understood in the profession that the assessor is a guarantee that the "Conditions is a legal document, and that the clauses are fair and reasonable in the circumstances (which at present is far from being the case, as we have seen), and it will soon be difficult to get any one to enter a competition where this guarantee is wanting. This may not do much to ameliorate the radical false basis of the system, but it will mitigate its corruptions and irregularities, and it will enable these affairs to be enacted with such decorum as befits an occupation which is only uncertain whether it is a profession or an art.



OWEN SOUND PORTLAND CEMENT CO., LTD.

IN 1888 this company was formed in Owen Sound with a capital of $100,000. The natural deposit from which they are now making their well-known "Sampson brand" Portland cement, is situated at Shallow Lake, 9 miles west of Owen Sound, on the G. T. R. The deposit covers 500 acres, forming the bed of Shallow Lake.

The water recedes from the lake early in June, usually not rising again till late in the fall. During this dry period the company put on teams and scrapers, and take out first the marl and then the blue clay which underlies the marl. In removing the clay a steam derrick is used to elevate the clay into dump cars in which it is hauled to the works, which are located above high water mark on the shore of the lake.

wood are annually used In making steam. The company own their own electric light plant and the works are well lighted inside and out throughout the entire year.

Since this company began operations the price of Portland cement has gradually decreased and many failures have been recorded in England and the United States as a natural consequence. The price of cement to-day is nearly fifty per cent. lower than it was ten years ago. The company state that while profits have been small—in fact, no profits at all—through unfair competition of light weight barrels, adulterated and often useless brands of cement, and public prejudice in favor of imported goods, their aim has continually been to improve their Samson brand, until now they confidently challenge the world to produce a better cement, and hope in the near future to be able to raise the price to a more profitable figure.

For proof of the excellent quality of the company's material we are referred to the following results of tests made in comparison with well known brands of Belgian and German cement:

Lion Brand (Belgian)—(1) Fineness, 75000019EAassed a 100 mesh sieve. (2) Blowing test, in water at 108 F. for 24 hours; unsound; blown all to pieces. (3) Tensile strength, 7 days, 90 lbs. per square inch.

Stetha Brand (German)—(1) Fineness, 9000BD1DC8assed a 100 mesh sieve. (2) Blowing test in water at 180 F. for 48 hours ; sound.

(3)	Tensile strength, 2 days, 337 lbs. per square inch; 7 days, 505 lbs. per square inch.

Samson Brand (Canadian)—(1) Finess, 930012FA80assed a 100 mesh sieve. (2) Blowing test in water at 1800 F. for 48 hours sound. (3) Tensile strength, 2 days, 345 lbs. per square inch; 7 days, lbs. per square inch.

