<doctype type="text">

<article title="Pompeii-A Cit of the First Century." author="Adams, Prof.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



POMPEII—A CITY OF THE FIRST CENTURY.*

By PROF. ADAMS, McGill University.



You will, I think, agree with me that Italy is the most beautiful country in Europe, but on the extended coast line of that beautiful country one sweep there is of transcendent beauty—the Bay of Naples—by the shore of which is situated the city of that name. And if we were to-day steaming into the Bay of Naples on any of the great trans-Atlantic liners—and let us suppose the hour to be somewhat earlier, that some remnant of the bright Italian daylight might still remain—we should have before us one of the most lovely views in the world, and we should at the same time be on the threshold of a district every foot of which is of classical or mediaeval interest. The waters of the bay—deep blue, like all the rest of the Mediterranean—would encircle us in a vast horseshoe. On our left would be the promontory of Museum, with the islands of Ischia and Procida, beneath the former of which the giant Typhon, overcome of the gods, lies buried and as in the narrow house of his captivity he turns, restlessly straining his bonds, the-walls of his prison-house tremble and are sometimes rent asunder while on our right the island of Capri, with the twelve palaces of Tiberias Caesar, towel-s up in snowy whiteness. From such a sea you might well believe that Aphrodite rose to take empire of the earth.



To the north-west of the bay is the broken, irregular, hilly country known to the ancients as the Phlegrean Fields, for this was the battle-ground of the gods and giants. Here is also Lake Avernus, and the cave of the Cumean Sibyl sung by Virgil, and here also Virgil's tomb.



To the north-east this broken country is succeeded by an extensive plain, known to the ancients, from its fertility and beauty, as the Campania Felix. The plains and slopes are everywhere clad with verdure, farms and vineyards, interspersed with groves of myrtle, lemon and orange trees, stretching as far as the eye can reach-—with farm-houses and villas, and here and there a ruined temple.



At this point lies the city of Naples, built on the flank of a range of hills, and crowned by the fortress of' St. Elmo—the largest city in Italy, which, with its suburbs, Posilippo, Portici and Resina, stretches for several miles along the bay.



But to every observer one object will seem to dominate the landscape. Rising from the plain behind Naples is an isolated mountain of peculiar and striking form, resembling two interpenetrating cones, and on the summit of the eastern cone, the observer sees a remarkable phenomenon—" A cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night "—and at once recognizes the mountain before him as one of the class of so-called burning mountains or volcanoes perhaps the most celebrated of them all—the volcano Vesuvius.



Now could we have visited this district in the time of our Lord, the landscape would have appeared different in certain of its features. Vesuvius would have been larger, but lower, and would have shown no signs of activity. Strabo (died A.D. 25) an observer of remarkable acuteness, saw it about this time, and describes the mountain as being clothed with farms and vineyards to its very summit, where, however, there was a fiat barren stretch, on which the rocks were fused and slaggy, bearing the marks of fire, which led him to conjecture that the mountain had at one time been a volcano. No eruption, however, had taken place in historic times.



About the foot of the mountain, in addition to Neapolis, were several small cities, the chief of these being Herculaneum, Pompeii and Stabiae, all Greek towns, which passed successively under the dominion of the Etruscans, the Samnites, and finally of the Romans. To the student of architecture these cities have an unique importance, for while we have remains of Roman temples and other public buildings, dating back to this time, which afford a thorough insight into their plan and construction, were it not for the excavations at Pompeii it would be utterly impossible for us to form any adequate idea of the domestic architecture of the Romans.



In the whole city of Rome the remains of but one private house have been unearthed, that of Germanicus, found in 1869 in excavating the Palatine. Elsewhere, as in Britain at Silchester, the remains of a few houses more or less aberrant in type have been discovered, but in Pompeii hundreds of Roman houses, great and small, elaborate and simple, and of various dates and styles of construction, are to be seen, which, with their appointments, reveal



*	Abstract of a lecture delivered before the resident members of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects at Montreal, January 29th, 1898. The lecture was illustrated by lantern slides.

to us in the most striking manner the everyday life of the Roman world nearly 2,000 years ago.



Now any knowledge which we can obtain concerning these cities at this time is of especial interest: 1st. Because they were examples of the smaller Roman cities during the most civilized and the haughtiest age of the Roman Empire, when Rome was at the highest eminence of its luxury and power. 2nd. Because it was at this time that Christianity was being first preached and was making its way through all parts of the empire. It was in such cities as these and among such scenes as these present, that St. Paul and his co-workers found themselves, and sought converts to the new faith.



And here in these cities of the plain they ate and drank, they bought and sold, they married and were given in marriage, till on the 5th of February, A. D. 63, there came an earthquake (recorded by Seneca) which threw down a great



part of Pompeii and also did much damage at Herculaneum. This was followed during the next year by another earthquake, which took place while Nero was singing at Naples, the building falling unfortunately immediately after the emperor had left it. These, however, were but presages of a still more violent catas-

trophe, for the 24th of August, A. D. 79, the great Roman naturalist, Pliny, who was the admiral in charge of the Roman fleet at Museum, looking from the deck of his ship across the bay, saw a remarkable cloud, like an Italian pine tree, rising from the top of the mountain. This was as black as night, but pierced from time to time by vivid flashes of lightning. From this dense clouds of ashes commenced to fall, accompanied by torrents of rain, which, mingling with the finer ashes, produced rivers of mud, which rushed down the slopes of the mountains with resistless violence, so that where there had been a group of picturesque cities rising from the vineyards and corn-fields of the fertile plain, there was in the course of a few hours nothing but a great greyish-white expanse of ashes, volcanic mud and lava blocks covering the whole country.

Nothing remained to indicate the position of Pompeii but the upper portion of the wall of the great theatre and the elliptical outline which indicated the spot where the amphitheatre of the town lay buried. What followed we do not know precisely. There is evidence to show that some few of the people who fled from the city returned and contrived to locate their houses and dig down and recover some of their buried valuables. But in the course of a few years, the volcanic ashes forming a fertile soil, the plain was once again cultivated, possibly by the very people who had been driven forth, and, as time went on. the very site of the cities were completely forgotten, notwithstanding the fact that the site of Pompeii always bore in subsequent times the title "Civita," or the city. And so the city lay buried for fifteen hundred years.



In 1595, a subterranean aqueduct, made to bring water to the town of Toire dell Annunciata, passed under the buried city, and some of the foundations of houses were encountered, but this circumstance does not seem to have awakened any curiosity. In 1748, a Spanish Colonel of Engineers, who was employed to examine the subterranean tunnel above mentioned, was led to conjecture that some ancient city lay buried there, and obtained permission to undertake some excavations, and from this time onward these were continued in an irregular manner and on a limited scale, with varying success. Any doubt, however, which may have been entertained as to the ·identity of the city, was removed by the discovery, in 1763, of an inscription recording the restoration to the municipality of the Pompeiians, by Vespasian, of all the public ground occupied by private persons.



The workmen employed in these excavations were generally condemned felons, who worked chained in pairs, and Mohammedan slaves, taken from the Barbary pirates.



The object of the excavations was simply plunder. The marbles were removed, the mosaics broken up all objects of value were sold for what they would bring. Even the interesting water pipes were melted down for old lead, and it was not until 1860, when the Neapolitan provinces became a part of united Italy, that the government took the matter in hand and instituted a regular plan of excavation, placing Prof. Fiorelli in charge of the work. Now, careful records are kept of every foot of ground turned over, and all that is valuable, but would be destroyed if left in situ, is transferred to the great National Museum at Naples, where it is safely housed and excellently displayed for study.



It is estimated that in about fifty years the excavations will be completed, and the whole city laid open, though this, of course, depends upon the amount of subsidy granted by the government.

