<doctype type="text">

<article title="Cable System vs. Derricks for Quarries." author="Gordon, J.B.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



CABLE SYSTEM VS. DERRICKS FOR

QUARRIES.

MR. J. B. Gordon writes to Stone on this subject, as follows: One cable stretched over a quarry, say only a distance of 400 feet, and 400 feet additional over yard room, making 8oo feet between towers, controlling a space 800 feet by 6o feet: This would require at least eight ordinary derricks to cover the same and eight double drum engines, eight engineers and at least three men for each derrick, tugging and hauling booms around, say a force of twenty-four derrick men. Then they will not accomplish any more work than one twelve or fifteen ton capacity cable plant. For the cable plant only one engineer is required and four or five men to attend to the chaining and dogging of stone. There is no forced work, but a clean lift and rapid travel to any part of yard. All refuse is put in large skips, taken up and carried to dump pile at one handling ; no guys in the way or to be made taut every few days ; no jerking and breaking down masts or booms, only the towers to be kept painted at regular intervals.

The first cost of a cable plant is not any more than derricks and engines to do the same amount of work, with a saving of more than half the expense running the cable system, and yet it is very strange that quarry owners will keep on in the old rut.





<article title="Materials for a Skyscraper." author="">

MATERIALS FOR A SKYSCRAPER.

AN idea of the amount of material required in the construction of a modern office building can be gotten from the following figures furnished by Mr. McCaul, who has charge of the construction of a sixteen-story skyscraper in Philadelphia:

About 8,ooo cubic yards of excavations; 4,000 yards of concrete and stone masonry; 4,371,555 pounds of steel ; 300,000 pounds of ornamental iron ; 36,000 pounds of ornamental bronze; 10,000 cubic feet of granite, weighing 900 tons; 260,000 square feet of fire-proofing, weighing about 3,600 tons; 1,360 tons of patent mortar used in plastering, to cover 42,000 square yards of plastering ; about the same amount of cement mortar used in brick and stone masonry; 40,000 square feet of Pevonizza, Numidian and Italian marble; 15,000 pounds of nails; 10,000 cubic feet of terra cotta, weighing about 290 tons; 325,000 face brick ; 1,500,000 common brick ; 24,000 square feet of glass, weighing about 73,660 pounds ; about thirty miles of electric piping to encase the electric wiring throughout the building, and about ten miles of plumber and steam fitters' piping. There were on an average 200 men working on this structure from the start until the finish.





<article title="The Market for Building Materials in South Africa." author="">

THE MARKET FOR BUILDING SUPPLIES

IN SOUTH AFRICA.

A STEADILY increasing demand for various classes of building materials is reported from South Africa. The demand includes such materials as doors, blinds, flooring, metal ceilings, car material, iron pipe, and contractors' supplies, as for example, road scrapers, wheel barrows, shovels, picks, etc. There is to be held at Grahamstown, in December, the South African Exhibition. The Canadian government has appropriated $5,000 to defray the cost of a Canadian exhibit, and has also chartered a sailing vessel to convey exhibits to the Cape. This vessel will leave Quebec a few days hence, and will carry freight at the nominal

charge of $6.85 per ton. If sufficient cargo is forthcoming, a second vessel will be despatched at a later date. Canadian manufacturers of materials and articles above mentioned should look closely after the South African trade, much of which now goes to the United States.





USEFUL HINTS.

Carmine is readily affected by heat, turning to dull brown, and metallic salts have an injurious effect upon it. Exposed to strong light it is not permanent, fading away completely in less than six months, unless well protected.

CEMENT FOR CRACKS IN HOT WATER PIPES.—MIX 1 oz. of



powdered salammoniac with 100 ozs. of iron borings, and ram them well into the crack or joint; or else mix 12 lb. of iron filings, 2 ozs. of salammoniac, and 1 oz. of sulphur, worked up in water.



A paste with which wall paper can be attached to wood or masonry, adhering to it firmly in spite of dampness, is prepared as usual, of rye flour, to which, however, are added, after the boiling, 81/2 grams of good linseed oil varnish and 81/2 grams of turpentine to every 500 grams.



TO PROTECT IRON STRUCTURES FROM RUSTING.—Mix part of quicklime with parts of water, stir it up to allow the lime to settle; then pour off the clear water, and mix the lime with sufficient olive oil to make a thick cream, and paint this over the iron surfaces to be protected.

To CEMENT IRON RAILINGS, GIRDERS, ETC.—Mix together six parts of sulphur, six parts of whit lead and one part of borax; then, when wanted for use moisten it with strong sulphuric acid, and place a thin layer of it between the pieces of iron which are to be joined. In five or six days the cemented pieces will be firmly attached.



In French hospitals the floors have been painted for hygienic reasons with a solution of paraffine in petroleum, which gives them a brown color and renders them entirely impervious. A single application is said to suffice for two years. Such floors may be wiped daily with a cloth saturated with an antiseptic solution. This device is of great importance to schools, hospitals and private houses.



There is no better way to clean a new pressed brick wall than with muriatic acid and water. All projecting stone sills and caps must be carefully covered up, especially if the trimmings are limestone or marble, as acid falling on the stone would discolor it. To clean an old brick wall scrub the wall with soap and water, and give it a coat of linseed oil with just sufficient Venetian red or other suitable staining color in it to hide the discolorations in the brick.



LICHEN ON STONE BUILDINGS.—The green or black covering which forms on light colored stone after some time, has beer, found by Dr. Fruhling to be a lichen, and if once developed is hard to remove. Its formation, however, may be prevented by painting the stones with a diluted sulphide of potassium solution at intervals of one year. Leitzmann has attempted to wash off the houses with hydrochloric acid and found that this was effective for three to six years.



CEMENTS AND PUTTIES FOR MASONS' USE.—Dissolve alum in water until the fluid will not dissolve any more, then mix in this sufficient plaster of Paris to make a stiff dough and bake it; when baked hard and dry grind it to powder, and for use mix with water as wanted, and apply it like plaster. Various pigments may be mixed with it (while in the dry state, after baking and grinding) to make the cement imitate the color of any kind of marble it is required to cement or join. Joints made with this compound can be polished as smooth as glass, and thus the joint in the marble work may be rendered imperceptible.



CEMENT COATING FOR IRON WATER TANKS.—Every good oil paint and red lead coating will protect the water reservoir from

rust, and when it is perfectly dry will not give the water any noticeable side taste. The only drawback is that the oil coating does not last long. For this reason a cement coating is considered superior to oil paint. Cement dries perfectly in a few hours, and if it is made right, lasts at least as long as oil paint, while its cost is next to nothing. In the Experimental Brewery at Berlin, says the "Nordd Bangcw Anzeiger," the lime and warm water receptacles are painted with cement, and after four

years' use the coating has not yet required renewal.

