<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



SLATES should always be laid with a Slates. certain lap, that is, each course should

cover the next but one below it to a certain extent, just the same as shingling, and the amount of surface covered should not be less than two inches on the length of the third slate. Thus, there will be a certain width of slate exposed to the weather this width grows less as the lap of the slate increases. The weathering or gauge for any kind of slating is found by deducting the lap from the length of the slate and then halving the remainder, thus If counters slates are to be laid with a 3-inch lap, the weathering will be 20 3/ =8 ½inches, the counters being 20" long. Each course of slates "breaks joint" with the one below

it.	The average weight of ordinary slating may be taken at 700 lbs. per square of 100 superficial feet. The valleys of slated roofs are generally laid with lead, as this metal is superior to tin or galvanized iron for the purpose, the lead being turned up the roof on each side of the valley sufficient to drain away all water. Hip rafters are often covered with sheet lead, which is the best method, or finished with thick, saddle-back slates finished on top with some sort of an ornamental roll, which is cut to fit over the angle. Slate does not absorb water, and, as it is hard and close grained and smooth on the surface it can be laid safely at as low a pitch as 22 ½degrees, and its lasting qualities are very great ; and, everything taken into consideration, it is a very much cheaper roofing material than shingles in the end. One fault of slate is that it will not resist a very great heat, and is often dangerous on that account, as a fire in an adjacent building may be so hot as to start slates breaking and falling on the heads of onlookers, even if the buildings are thirty or forty feet apart. With the exception of tiles, slates make the prettiest of roofs, if the pitch is not too low, but it seems to be one of the faults of our designers to make their slate roofs much too low in the pitch, owing, no doubt, to reasons of economy. To look well a slate roof should never have less than a one-third pitch, and as much more as circumstances will permit.



A GOOD serviceable drain tile may be Cement Drain Tiles, made by any bricklayer or plasterer in

case the ordinary tiles are not available. Provide a centre core of such size as may be required to form the diameter of the pipe. Stand this in a box—a round mould is better —leaving space enough around the core to allow of sufficient thickness of pipe'; and if a number of pipes are to go together, provide—Thy a mould some means for making a connection. Mix two parts of best Portland cement with three parts of clean sand, the latter to be of various degrees of fine-

ness, from the very finest to the size of a pea, and in such proportions that the finest will fill up all vacancies as the cement finely coats each particle ; that will be about 134 parts of fine sand, 34 parts of medium, and ½part of the coarser kind. These materials must be thoroughly mixed dry, and the mortar rammed solid into the mould, and the core must be turned partly around every now and again, in order to keep it loose. It is highly important that the right amount of water be used, as every particle of cement and sand should be wet, but the mortar should be left stiff enough for the rammer to bring up solidly on it, and press the material firmly together instead of displacing it horizontally. The core may be withdrawn almost immediately after the pipe is finished, and in good weather the outside mould may be removed in about half an hour. The pipes should be kept under cover for about two weeks, and then put out in the sun and air and well wet every day. They will be ready for use in about six weeks after being made. Pipes made this way possess several advantages over the regular glazed drain tiles, and are specially adapted for carrying away sewage as they are not affected by the chemicals and gases that are generated from sewage. Any carpenter can make proper moulds in which these pipes may be made. The core may be made in the lathe, having a shoulder turned on the expanded end to form a joint for the small end of the pipe. The outside mould may have a square outside, but the inside should be made the shape the outside of the pipe is to assume. It should be in two halves, and may be hinged on one side, and fastened, when in use, on the other side by hooks arid staples or other device. The core should always be withdrawn before the outside mould is removed.

Kitchen Traps

THE traps in general use under a kit-Kitchen sink ought to have a separate

ventilation pipe leading from the upper side of the trap to the roof or other safe place. If this system is adopted, it will render the gases and bad smells emanating from the slops or sewage from the main drain, or other obnoxious features, that sometimes result from siphonage, harmless, as the draught in the ventilating pipe will carry away any sewer gas that may reach the pipe. There are very few traps placed under sinks that do their work effectively, owing to the fact that, as a rule, they are not of sufficient diameter. The water seal in a trap of small diameter is easily broken both by siphonage and by evaporation, and these are the main reasons why the trap should be of large calibre or have separate ventilation. An authority on the subject of traps gives the following as the requirements for effective performance of a kitchen trap

