<doctype type="text">



fee, while the owner is satisfied he has got a good job, and the contractor shakes hands with himself and pockets the profits he has stolen from the owner. A few years later the owner realizes the mistake he made in allowing himself to be persuaded to forego the services of a competent inspector, but he has no recourse

—only, he never gives that contractor another job. Plans and specifications should be adhered to closely, and, though the architect may have erred in some small things, it is better—and wiser— to stick to the letter and the spirit of the plans, than to allow a contractor to change them.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

NEW LEGISLATIVE BUILDINGS AT VICTORIA, B. C.—F. M.



RATTENBURY, ARCHITECT.



IN the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for April, 1893, was published a rough sketch of the accepted design by Mr. F. M. Rattenbury for the proposed Legislative Buildings at Victoria, British Columbia, accompanied by a brief description. This design was submitted in a competition in which a large number of Canadian and foreign architects participated.

By the courtesy of the Premier of British Columbia, the Honorable Mr. Turner, and the Legislative Librarian, Mr. R. E. Gosnell, we are enabled to present, in this issue, from specially prepared photographs. exterior and interior illustrations of the completed buildings, which are designed in the Renaissance style and con-









































structed of grey stone, quarried on Haddington Island, about 300 miles north of Victoria.

The buildings are rooted with slate obtained from quarries at Jervis Inlet. The granite steps and landings were obtained from quarries at Burrard Inlet and Nelson Island. Native woods and materials have, as far as possible, been employed throughout the work.

The buildings are arranged in three groups, so that while each is in itself complete, they are connected with each other by covered colonnades. The general arrangement of the building will be better understood by reference to the accompanying plan. It will be seen that, while each building has a separate entrance, yet direct access is obtained from the central main entrance hall.

The main entrance is reached by 44 steps, with two landings, and is flanked by two towers. On the left is a statue of Captain George Vancouver, an adventurous navigator, whose name is prominently identified with the early history of the North Pacific coast, and on the right by a statue of Sir Matthew Baillie Begbie, first Chief Justice of the province. It is ornamented with rich carving and guarded by wrought iron gates.

The rotunda, which is reached by this entrance, is octagonal in design, and surmounted by the dome, which is the principal feature of the exterior of the building. The height of this dome from the bottom of the foundation to the top of the surmounting figure is 165 feet, and the diameter 42 feet. The walls of the rotunda are lined with Tennessee marble to a height of 6 feet 6 inches, and at equal distances are square marble columns rising to a height of' 30 feet. The floor is of mosaic.

The Legislative Hall is situated in the centre of the block, and has a corridor round it, with rooms for the use of the ministers and members, committed rooms, library, etc. On three sides an arcade is carried round, with galleries for the public and the press over the corridor. The Legislative Chamber is 6i feet long, by 39 feet 3 inches wide. A prominent feature is the solid Italian marble columns, 22 in number, extending along both sides and supporting the roof. These columns are beautifully variegated in color, the capping being black, the base a veined white and the columns themselves a rich dark green. They are surmounted by Ionic capitals and gilt scrolls. The walls between the columns are white marble. It is intended that the panels between the columns shall be filled in with paintings. The Chamber is well lighted from the ceiling by four dome-shaped lanterns, as well as by side windows.

On a level with the legislative chamber are the Attorney General's apartments and the law library which are finished in native cedar. In the south-east corner are the quarters of the Provincial Board of Health, and in the north-west corner the executive council chamber, panelled in Indiana oak with oak parquetry; also the provincial secretary's department. On this floor is also located the office of the commissioner of lands and works, and in the basement below are large vaults in which are kept the records of this important department. In the north-east corner is the Department of the Premier and Minister of Finance and the Treasury Department.









































At the approach to the three departments on each floor from the central hail, a system of iron doors or bulkheads is arranged, by means of which, should a fire occur, it can be isolated and controlled. The buildings throughout are to a large extent fireproof in character, a great deal of concrete being employed, and the use of wood in exposed positions being, as far as possible, avoided.

The rooms set apart for the use of the Lieutenant-Governor and his suite are located on the second floor, also the departments of agriculture and mines.

The west wing is occupied by the government printing office and the east wing is intended for a provincial museum.

From the central hall charming vistas are obtained down the arched corridors, the windows of which are filled with stained glass of excellent quality.

The buildings are heated by steam generated by Heine boilers, located in the basement. At present the lighting is supplied by the City Electric Light Company, but provision has been made for the installation of an isolated lighting plant. The heating system was installed by the Bennett & Wright Co., of Toronto.

The construction of the buildings was largely carried out by local contractors, under the superintendence of Mr. E. C. Howell, of London, England. Contracts were let for each trade separately, tenders being based on carefully prepared bills of quantities in accordance with the British system.

The total cost of construction, including furnishings complete, is given in the provincial year book as being under $840,000,

