<doctype type="text">

<article title=" REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS." author="">

REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS.

A CONGRESS of plumbers has been held in Glasgow, when the subject of "Registration" was considered. Mr. W. R. E. Coles, clerk to the Worshipful Company of Plumbers, said the whole fabric of the congress rested on the two broad facts that registration was actually one of the most elementary conditions of organization, inasmuch as there could be no corporate body without it ; and the necessity ('or registration of plumbers had been affirmed by common consent of the plumbing craft throughout the kingdom, the medical profession, the sanitary authorities, architects and others particularly acquainted with the subject, as well as by increased majorities in the House of Commons whenever the Plumbers' Registration Bill had been before Parliament. He pointed out that the necessity for plumbers' registration was first affirmed at a meeting held in London in 1884, and in the fourteen years which had since elapsed the proposition had been approved by public meetings in all the principal centres in England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The advantages of registration were primarily that it enabled members to legally combine for the common purpose of building up and maintaining their status, and the public to distinguish those who were qualified and responsible for the discharge of their duties. Indeed, registration was the final condition of legal qualification. Abuses could only be assaulted or met from some vantage ground or stable condition such as a register afforded. The methods of registration adopted for the National Registration of Plumbers had stood the test of fourteen years' experience, and should be continued. He further urged that the necessity for registration should be impressed on the employers and workmen, on the sanitary authorities, on the educational authorities, and particularly on the architects, who were held primarily responsible for the efficiency of all the arrangements of the house built under their direction. He added that the necessity should also be pressed on the attention of Parliament and the public at large.





The Robb Hot Water Heater, Robb Engineering Company, Limited Amherst N.S.





Eastlake Steel Shingles and Sheet Steel Pressed Brick, Metallic Roofing Co. Limited, Toronto

 

