<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE ST. JOHN, N.B., EXHIBITION" author="">

	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE ST. JOHN, N.B., EXHIBITION.

UNDOUBTEDLY the most important and attractive display made by any firm at the recent exhibition at St. John, N.B., was that of the James Robertson Company, Limited, of Montreal, Toronto arid St. John, manufacturers of plumbing supplies. The booth containing the company's exhibit was artistically painted and festooned with bunting, while a background of black velvet served to display to best advantage the white porcelain, brass and nickel goods. The exhibit included a decorated " Acme" syphon closet with automatic attachment ; a large roll rim enamelled bath, with hot and cold shower bath attachment ; an Italian marble lavatory and bath room complete, with gas water heating device for same ; Imperial porcelain wash-tubs, enamelled sinks of all descriptions, copper and galvanized boilers, brass fittings, decorated basin, patent overflow and common overflow, etc., etc.





THE C. P. R. CEMENT WORKS.

The report comes from Vancouver, B. C., that negotiations are nearly completed whereby the C.P.R. cement works, on False Creek, will become the property of an English syndicate. It is said that the purchasers will install a new plant, with a capacity of one million harreis per year. The present output is only about 12,000 barrels, half of which is used by the

C.P.R.	Raw material for the manufacture of cement is available in abundance in the immediate locality.





TESTS OF WINNIPEG CLAY.

BY direction of the city council of Winnipeg, Mr. H.

N.	Ruttan, city engineer, recently sent to the Diamond Brick Company, of Kansas City, a number of samples of clay, taken from deposits in the neighborhood of Winnipeg for a test and report as to their adaptability for use in the manufacture of paving brick. The results are embodied in the following report

Sample No. 1. Soft blue clay requires no grinding wet requires very little water in mixing—should be handled as dry as possible drys well does not check shrinks very little stands heat well does not vitrify at approximately 1800 degrees F.



Sample No. 2. Hard slaty shale requires careful grinding requires water for mixing works well in brick machine checks very little in drying; stands heat well does not vitrify at approximately 1800 degrees F.

Sample No. 4. Soft red clay; very tough no grinding; mixes easily works well in machine checks very badly in drying, and on that account very difficult to handle. (Samples too much broken up to burn.)



Sample No. 5. Soft yellow clay no grinding; requires very little water in mixing works well through machinery dries without checking burns well color when burned light cream, specked with iron ; would make fine building brick if repressed or made by dry process.



Mixture of 1 and 2 equal parts. Works well makes good brick but not suitable for paving see memorandum.



Mixture of 1, 2, and 4, equal parts. Best results obtained from this mixture works well through machine dries well very little checking ; probably will make a good paving brick see memo. of tests.



It will be seen that none of these clays worked alone will produce a good paving brick.



In accordance with your request, we combined Nos. and 2 with the results as stated. The most satisfactory results were

obtained from the mixture of Nos. 1, 2, and 4. In these bricks you will notice that while perfect vitrification has not occurred, still there has been a sufficient amount of heat applied to make the bricks very compact.



The rattler test shows that the bricks do not chip to any extent but wear oft evenly. The absorption quite high, but this could probably be reduced by using a larger proportion of No. 4. We think if the clays can be conveniently combined, you may expect very excellent results in the paving brick line The samples of No. 4 were so badly broken up by checking

in the drying process that we had nothing in shape to burn, but we are putting samples of the same material through a further

process and if we obtain results that are worth reporting, we will communicate with you.

It is possible we could have obtained results more satisfactory to your friends if we had been told the relative location of the bodies of clays from which samples were sent us. Other combinations night prove of value.



In presenting this report to the city council Mr. Ruttan says

Some of the samples have proved satisfactory by themselves, and the mixing of Nos. 1 and 2 and 4 is without doubt a very good paving brick.



The following comparison with the Chicago specification is most satisfactory



ABRASION.

Chicago Time in rattler		hour.

Allowed maximum loss		8 per cent.

Winnipeg Time in rattler		30 minutes.

Average loss	1-10	of per cent.



A BSOR PT IO N

Chicago --Time in water		72 hours.

Allowed maximum absorption                       2		per cent.

Winnipeg—Time in water		48 hours.

Absorption	8—100 of	per cent.



SPECIFIC GRAVITY.

Chicago, not less than	2.1

Winnipeg	2.18



While the collection of the clays to make the mixtures would add considerably to the cost of the brick, the price laid down in Winnipeg would probably not exceed $16 per thousand. This is about two-thirds of the cost of imported brick. The cost of brick pavement or] a six-inch macadam foundation would make it about $1.80 per square yard."







It is reported that a new company is being formed to take over the quarries and assets of the defunct granite companies at Beebe Plain, Que.



The works of the Toronto Lock Company at Oshawa, Ont., have recently passed into the hands of the Oshawa Stove Co., who will engage in the manufacture of furnaces, builders' castings, etc.



The Standard Drain Pipe Co., of St. Johns, Que., have commenced the manufacture of salt glazed vitrified paving bricks for sidewalks. Bricks of this character have been in use for this purpose for many years in American cities.



Cement roofing tiles, the manufacture of which was introduced about two years ago in the United States, is of long existence in Europe. In Bavaria, Switzerland, and other countries where the climatic changes are sudden and of destructive nature, and where no roofing material has withstood the ravages of elements any considerable length of time, cement tiles are said to have been found efficient in every respect.



The manufacture of enamelled paper bricks is reported to be assuming practical form and giving promise of satisfactory results in Europe. The bricks are made hollow, the object of this being practically the same as that sought in the making of hollow forged steel shafting. Not only is a defective centre removed, but it is possible to put a mandrel into the hollow, and by applying pressure the walls are operated upon both from the inside and outside. When a solid body is heated, the temperature of the interior always varies from that of the outer portion at first, often resulting in the expansion of one or the other that causes defects. For these reasons the bricks are made upon the hollow principle and plugged afterwards.

