<doctype type="text">

<article title="The London Building Disaster" author="">



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE LONDON BUILDING DISASTER.

WE publish herewith a photographic reproduction, showing the interior of the Assembly Hall in the City Hall at London, Ont., the floor of which collapsed on January 3rd, resulting in the death of 23 persons and injury to upwards of 70. On next page is given a structural plan, on which are marked the dimensions of joists and of the beam, the failure of which was the immediate cause of the disaster. The area of broken floor was 22 X 28 feet==616 square feet. The supporting beam was 12' X 14", made up of four pieces (3" x 12') spiked together with ordinary cut nails. The depth was

width 12", encased with 1" sheeting. The beam was not supported in the centre, but rested on the brick walls at each end, and had a bearing of 12" at each end. The clear span was 21' I 1-5" ; there were brick walls on the four sides. The estimated number of people on the floor at the time of the accident was about 250.

With the aid of the plan and figures, it becomes an easy matter to figure out the strength of the structure, and we shall be pleased to publish the views of architects and others on this point. It is our purpose

superimposed load on 6oo square feet of floor, divided by 2, or a little more than 23 lbs. per square foot—about one-half what good practice demands for the floor of an ordinary dwelling house.

But the evidence shows that the beam was not sound. Engineer Graydon in his evidence says "The effective strength of the beam is reduced one-fifth to one-quarter by knots and other defects," while another witness puts the loss from this cause as high as 13. Assuming 1/4 to be correct, the amount of the safe load available for the support of the superimposed load is reduced to about 3,100 lbs., or a little over 10 lbs. per square foot, and yet this enlightened jury finds, "that the said occurrence was purely accidental," and "that more than ordinary care was used" in the construction of and selection of the material for the beam.

Is it not time that the public was protected from a system of dealing with our public buildings, in which "more than ordinary care" produces such results? Other buildings in which the public assemble in large numbers, and which have been built and altered much in the same manner as the London City Hall, exist all over the country. What guarantee is there that many of them are not in a similar condition?

Possibly there may be a case in which the officials, in making some similar alterations, have used only "ordinary care." If so, to what extent would it be safe for to use it at all?

That grave danger to life exists in many of the buildings in which large meetings are held, and that year by year this danger is becoming greater, must be apparent to all who have given the subject any scientific study. It therefore becomes the duty of such papers as yours to push these facts home to all public

























































PHOTOGRAPHIC VIEW OF THE RECENT BUILDING DISASTER AT LONDON, ONT.



in a future issue to consider at greater length than the space available in this number will permit, this and other phases of this important matter. Meanwhile, we direct the attention of our readers to the sub joined letter of Mr. S. H. Townsend.



<article title="Correspondences" author="Townsend, S.H.">

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—Apropos of the verdict of the Coroner's Jury in the London City Hall disaster, will you permit me to ask through the medium of your valuable journal what constitutes "ordinary care " in the construction of floors of public buildings, as understood by this Jury? The practice in most of our leading offices would place the maximum safe load for a sound pine beam, 12 inches by 14 inches and 22 feet bearing, at about                 15,000 lbs. Deduct from this amount the weight of floor

and ceiling—600 square feet divided by 2 =

 300 sq. ft., at 25 lbs. per square foot	7,500 lbs.

And of the beam itself, 12 inches by 14 inches

  by 22 feet, equals 2523 cubic feet, at 25 lbs.

 per cubic foot, a total of	 640 lbs.

	— 8,140 lbs.

And there remain	6,860 lbs.

or say, about 7,000 lbs. of the safe load available to carry the

spirited men in every way possible, and to urge upon them the vital necessity of immediately taking such steps as may be necessary to insure such a standard of scientific knowledge in those entrusted with the erection and maintenance of buildings of this nature, that the recurrence of such disasters will be an impossibility.

S.	H. TOWNSEND,



Architect.

Toronto, Jan. 20th, 1898.







GOOD ADVICE.

The space given to display in advertising is never wasted if it's' used judiciously. Handsome borders, good cuts, and up-to-date type are worth more than the space they occupy. White space, when it surrounds solid type, is always a good investment. But all display and no meat is a losing game. Many advertisers I seem to think that a thing of beauty must be a profitable ad. That isn't true. People like to see pretty pictures and all that sort of a thing, but if you want to sell them anything you must tell them what it is, what it costs, and why they ought to buy it. If you have a page to say, say a page. If you have only a column to say, don't sprawl it over a page. If you have a double column to say, don't try to squeeze it into a column. Don't waste space by saying too little in it, and don't worse than waste it by overcrowding it.—Brains.

