<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MURAL DECORATION." author="Reid, G.A.">



helping all worthy efforts to improve municipal art and which is alert to seize any opportunities that offer themselves where a body of art loving citizens, artists and architects can initiate projects intended to beautify the city.

Of the recent examples of mural decoration which











































WORK—(Puvis de Chavannes)—MUSEUM OF AMIENS



might be cited, the number is so great that but a few can be noted. Standing out prominently are those to be seen in Paris, in the Pantheon, the Sorbonne, the different mairies of all the arrondissements, in many institutions and churches, and in the Hotel de Ville, which upwards of ninety artists have decorated with mural paintings, the subjects of which commemorate the history and progress of Paris. Many of the French cities possess decorations by the first painters of the day, and throughout Germany, Italy, Switzerland and other parts of Europe much of the same kind of work being done. In England and Scotland the movement on broad lines, and the recent arts and crafts exhibition show that England takes the first place in the world of design. The decorations by Leighton at the

South Kensington Museum and Ford Maddox Brown in Manchester are triumphs of English art. The works by Puvis de Chavannes, the great French decorator, John

S. Sargent and Edwin A. Abey, recently placed in the Boston Public Library at a cost of upwards of $100,000 distinguish Boston as the first city on this continent to place in a public building decorations of high artistic merit. The new Library of Congress at Washington is perhaps the first public edifice erected on the principle laid down at Chicago for the building of the World's Fair, some sixty sculptors and painters having been employed to do the decorations under special heads appointed for both sculpture and painting. The total amount paid for this part of the work was about $300,000.

The method employed in modern decorations is almost entirely that of oil painting on canvas, with a wax medium which gives that flat surface seen in the frescoes of the old masters. The painting having been brought almost to completion, is fitted to its place and laid in a bed of composition which prevents any effect from dampness or chemical action. In the case of stone walls having to be treated, the stone surface is heated part after part to a high degree, and the pores filled with wax, when the same process of mounting the canvas is carried out. It is, however, possible in cases where a concave or convex surface has to be decorated to paint directly on a prepared ground of wax. This process of wax painting is allied to the encaustic painting practiced by the ancients, which it is believed possesses superior qualities of durability to that of fres-

co. For the use of modern artists, painting on canvas has the great advantage of being similar to the ordinary methods in which they have been trained by the painting of the easel picture. The fresco, as used by the old masters, while it had advantages and charms, seriously handicapped the artist, as he

was obliged to paint each day a completely finished part, and as the work dried very much lighter than it appeared at first, one can imagine the mechanical difficulties that had to be dealt with.

The ordinary term fresco, meaning fresh, indicated the nature of the work, as was painting done on fresh plaster, and the degradation of the method to the painting on old or dry plaster with colors mixed with glue size to make them adhere, caused the use of the term buon fresco, meaning real fresco. Thus it is a mistake to speak of most modern wall paintings as fresco ; mural decoration, which is the general term including all methods, is being now more generally used.

The revival, therefore, of mural decoration is not a revival of methods but of the spirit which produced the great works of the old masters, and it is this which

gives us the hope that it is permanent. The examples of mural decorations on this continent seemed to fully justify the efforts of a group of artists who tour years ago prepared the foundation of the movement in Toronto, beginning with a proposition for the decoration of the council chamber of the new city buildings. That their efforts have been welcomed from all sides has been gratifying, and though there has been some criticism and condemnation, it does not in the least affect the proposal or the motives of those making it, the objections offered being based on entire misconceptions. Suffice it to say that the group of artists who first conceived the idea and determined on a plan to carry it out have found no reason to abandon any part

