<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE]



IN this northern climate, where the air Height of Ceilings, is full of oxygen, ozone and other

life-giving qualities, high ceilings are not so necessary for the maintenance of good health as the climates of more southern countries. The matter of heating our domestic buildings is one of considerable importance to every householder, and if economy, and health, and comfort can be procured without a violent sacrifice of good taste, he will generally embrace the opportunity of acquiring them. To heat a room of any given size, having a ceiling fourteen feet high costs considerably more than to heat one having a ceiling only ten feet high, and the air in the latter room will be as pure and as health-giving as that in the former indeed, it is claimed by some scientific men in England that a low ceiling is the healthier of the two and is advocated as really affording better ventilation throughout, in preventing the formation of upper strata of all but immovable foul air, and tending to prevent draft. From an artistic point of view, low ceilings have an important value, as the furniture placed in them is not dwarfed by the height of the apartment, and they possess a cosiness which in a high ceilinged room is sacrificed to emptiness. In the reign of Good Queen Bess low ceilings and wainscoted rooms were the rule, and comfortable interiors, rather than imposing exteriors were the qualities sought for by the middle classes.



THERE is no branch of the bricklayer's Pressed Brick art which requires more attention, and

In Fronts.

to be thoroughly understood, than that



of pressed brick face work, which is becoming more and more in demand in this country. The many forms of pressed bricks, or terra cotta, that may now he obtained from the yards of our Canadian makers, enable our architects and designers to produce very effective work in brick. There is no beauty of detail or of design on a small scale that may not be obtained by the use of moulded bricks, and they are in themselves tar more durable, and, if carefully burned, retain their sharpness of outline longer than most kinds of stone. The bricklayer of to-day, if he desires to be considered a proficient workman, should study and cultivate a taste for ornamental brickwork, and when an occasion is opportune for him to practice this branch of his art, he should do so with a knowledge of ornamental effect, and of the nature of the materials he makes use of; and he should perform his work in a skillful and careful manner. It takes time to lay pressed bricks properly, and those for whom the work is done should understand that to rush pressed brickwork is to spoil it. The effect of pressed brick fronts depends to a considerable extent on the

color of the mortar used and its distribution



effects resulting from the use of mortar colored the same as the bricks. This is particularly true of a buff front, where colored mortar, red, black or brown, makes too much of a contrast to be pleasing to a refined taste. A buff front with light brown mortar and light stone trimmings form a fairly pleasing combination, but a much better effect is obtained with buff or white mortar and light grey stone trimmings. Dark red or terra cotta bricks may be laid in red, black, or grey mortar with nearly equal effect, but, as a rule, red or black are preferable, with red or blue stone trimmings. Mortar joints should be uniform in thickness, and should never exceed a thickness of three-sixteenths of an inch. The bond on the face should be perfect, the headers, stretchers and closers placed in regular order, and the face kept flush and plumb in every direction and well tied to the backing wall.



IT often happens that the builder is Designing Pressed called upon to design a brick mantel,

Brickwork.

brick porch, or other similar work, for

which no design or drawing is available to suit the conditions. In such a case, any builder endowed with a fair share of ingenuity and skill should be equal to the occasion. Armed with a manufacturer's illustrated catalogue and price list, he can easily choose his plain, moulded and ornamental bricks, ordering lust the number required to complete the work, making of it a matter of economy as well as a pleasure in having made a design he knows is original. Indeed, we have seen pressed brick mantels built from designs furnished by the working bricklayer that were superior in design, detail and combination to many of the crack designs sent out 'as specimens by the manufacturers in their catalogues and circulars. A handsomely designed pressed brick mantel forms quite a taking feature in a dining room, hall or billiard room, and gives an appearance of cheerfulness to one, cosiness to another, and a pleasing welcome to the third. Frequently a few glazed or enamelled bricks can be introduced into a design with good results, in panels, or in relieving- courses under moulded bricks, but their use must not be of too generous a nature, or the work will drift into gaudy vulgarity. There is a difference between '' glazed" bricks and bricks that are "enamelled." The first is made by covering the raw brick with a " slip" and afterwards applying a coat of transparent glaze resembling glass, while the true enamel is made by fusing into the clay without an immediate coating, and the enamel is opaque in itself. These bricks may be obtained in almost any primary or secondary colors. Pressed bricks are more uniform in size than common bricks, but, as the

