<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BULDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,



AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



Flat RoofsA SO-CALLED flat roof, if properly covered and suitable materials used for the

purpose, is as effective and will last as long as any other root, cost and position being taken into consideration. In Canada and, indeed, many parts of the United States, the question in making a roof that confronts the contractor and owner is the important one of cost first cost. The owner wants a good roof for as little money as possible. To meet this condition, the architect specifies a roof only good enough to save his reputation the contractor follows the architect with a series of parings down, so that the roof seldom gets all the architect specifies, and the end is, a roof that in a few years gives satisfaction to no one. Owners should not permit themselves to be persuaded into accepting a pitched or tarred roof. While many of them may hold good for five or six years, few of them can be relied upon for more than three years in this variable climate, and any guarantee given by the contractor to keep the roof in good order for a period of five years is often worth about as much as the paper it is written on, as an experience of many years has proved. When a roof becomes troublesome, it is discovered the contractor is out of town, out of business, or in such a position as to render it impossible for him to attend to the matter or it may be when the roof is loaded with snow, and the weather such as to prevent repairs being done ; but the leak, like Tennyson's rivulet, '' runs on forever," and more damage is done to the hidden timbers and exposed plaster than would have covered the extra cost of a first class roof in the first place, and this damage is an expense, even if the guaranteeing contractor repairs the roof, for it must be remembered the contractor only guarantees to keep the roof in repair for five years. He does not guarantee damages. After being repaired two or three times, the whole roof covering gets in a bad condition ion, partly from unequal shrinkage of old and new materials, and partly because of the tramping and cutting and pounding of the workmen. Taking all in all, a tarred and gravelled roof is about the most expensive in the end, and is never a satisfactory one.





If a composition roof is not a cheap or a good roof, what next best material will answer, and yet not be too costly? To answer this question properly would require a knowledge of all the conditions connected with the particular roof enquired about, and as these conditions change with localities, it would hardly be safe to offer as an inflexible rule, the use of any particular material. It is sate, however, to say that both a good brand of roofing tin, or a good quality of suitable gauge galvanized iron—say 28 gauge would be better, and

in the end cheaper, than any roofing composition the writer knows of. Tin has its advocates, who claim that when properly laid, and good I.C. charcoal tin employed, the roof will remain good for 25 years, and if painted once in seven years with a good roofing paint, it will remain good for 50 years. This is rather a long while for a tin roof to last, but we know of several instances where they have lasted even a longer period than that. The cost of a tin roof properly made and laid, compared with a first-class composition roof, will be about as 10 to 7 per square ; that is, a composition gravel roof costing $7 per square, a similar roof, having the same conditions, would cost, if of tin, as described1 about $10 per square in the same locality. These prices, of course, are only comparative. Both gravel and tin roofs may be made for less money, or they may cost more. A composition roof will not remain good for more than 10 years at the farthest, while a tin roof that will not remain good for 20 years will be considered a very poor roof indeed. Considering these figures, it will be seen at once that a tin roof is from 25 to 40 per cent. cheaper in the end than one covered with composition. For many reasons a galvanized iron roof is preferable to one of tin if care is observed in putting on and a good brand of iron used. For flashings around chimneys and alongside fire or division roofs, the iron should be built in the wall as the work progresses, and the mortar used should be composed of one and one of cement and sand. The flashings should be '' stepped

at regular distances, and when the iron is laid on the roof the flashings should be brought down and folded to the proper angle, well nailed and properly soldered. It is better to use tinned nails for this work, then it by any means moisture should attack the nail there will be no corrosion, as the tin will protect the nail. The edges of the iron should be turned up over battens and so arranged that two edges meet on the batten, one edge lapping over the other in such a manner that a row of tinned nails may be driven along the centre line of batten, fastening down both edges at once. All the nail-heads should be covered with solder, thus insuring a water-tight joint. Battens may be one and one-half inches square. The angles at the battens make ample provision for contraction and expansion.





NEARLY every workman, carpenter, School Blackboards. painter or plasterer will tell you he has

a good method for making a blackboard suitable for school purposes, and yet, it is a fact, that good durable and satisfactory blackboards are like angels' visits." In cities and the larger towns, good

boards may be found, but in country places, the home

