<doctype type="text">

<article title="Note on the Objects of the Toronto Guild of Civic Art and on the Exhibition of Prints of Mural Paintings." author="Mavor,Prof.">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



ings might go not unworthily. The designs of that building included suites of rooms elaborately panelled in rare woods, alabaster staircases and other costly items upon which the workmanship was the least, while the material was the greatest part of the cost. These rarities were brought from the ends of the earth at great expense and for no other reason than that they were expensive, for they certainly were not beautiful. Ten years ago also a small hand of artists were snuggling in Glasgow against public neglect. Had the civic authorities had intelligence and foresight enough they could have had the town hall filled with mural paintings at a cost trifling compared with their alabaster staircases, by artists whose works are now as eagerly bought at St. Louis as at Munich, and who have made the name of the Glasgow School famous all over the world. Had they done so they would have compelled lovers of art to make pilgrimages to Glasgow to see the mural paintings as they do to the town halls of Germany, Italy and Belgium.



The opportunity which Glasgow failed to embrace is actually now at hand for Toronto. There is a civic building, and there are the artists, many of whom no whit less competent, though at present less known, than those of the Glasgow School.



THE EXHIBITION OF COPLEY PRINTS.



On the occasion of the opening to the public of the exhibition of Copley Prints in the Art Society rooms on April 16th, the president, Mr. B. E. Walker, gave a further explanation of the aims of the Guild of Civic Art, in the following admirable address

The Advisory Board have thought it well that I should at this time say a few words as to the objects of the Toronto Guild of Civic Art. Its constitution states that it will act as a purely supervising, consulting and advisory body to promote and encourage civic art, including mural painting and decoration, sculptures, fountains and other structures or works of art or of an artistic character and to arrange for the execution of works of art by competent artists, to be chosen by competition or otherwise, and to hold exhibitions from time to time of works of art more especially connected with mural decoration, architectural and stained glass designs, sculpture and kindred subjects.' The members of the guild believe that the time has come in the history of Toronto when the services of such a body are required, but the guild can effect little or nothing unless it is encouraged and supported by an intelligent and active public opinion in favor of its purposes. The city of Toronto is rapidly emerging from the initial stages in its development when little in the way of architectural beauty or of taste for art was to be expected. The improvement in the character of the exhibitions of the works of our artists, the numerous societies of painters, decorators and architects now established here, the improved taste of our people in the selection of pictures and works of art for their homes are all evidence that whether we have cause to be satisfied with our progress or not we are none the less progressing. The change is quite as noticeable when we turn to the art of the street and square so for as external architecture is concerned, but whatever may be said of the interiors of our residences little surely can be said praise of the interiors of our public buildings.

We have culminated an extraordinary era of building in Toronto by the erection of two great buildings destined to remain most prominent landmarks for perhaps centuries and each costing between one and two millions of dollars—the Parliament Building and the City Hall. They are both, architecturally, important specimens of a revival in art, which is, at all events, partially Byzantine in the external decoration, but the one building which is finished internally is conspicuously marred to the eye by its bare white walls. If the scheme of art suggested by the exteriors is to be carried out the walls of the interiors should be gradually covered with mural paintings commemorating the history and the arts of our country and illustrating also our intelligence and skill in mere decoration. if this were done, perhaps in some far-off century the students of the present Byzantine revival may find our interiors as interesting as when in old Ravenna to-day in the interior of buildings nearly ruined externally by time lie finds as fresh and rich in color almost as when executed the splendid Byzantine mural decorations and mosaics of the sixth century. We would not, however, have you think that we are indulging in dreams of large expenditures for art or the rapid fulfillment of any such ideal. Our ideas of what it is possible to accomplish are very modest indeed. But we do wish to excite public opinion to the extent of desiring that the first modest steps shall be taken in these two great public buildings to show that we are people of taste, that we care for our history, that we are at least aware that a splendid revival has come in many if not all of the great nations

of the world, in that ancient, almost the most ancient of all arts, mural decoration, If a few panels are executed yearly the cost will be trifling, very trifling, and two great purposes will be served. First, these public structures will be adequately ornamented. Second, our artists will have the opportunity to exhibit their skill adequately. It is in wall painting that the greatest work of many great artists has been done. it (lees not matter whether it be Perugino or Rafael, Signorelli or Michelangelo, Ford Madox Brown or Leighton, Piivis de Chavannes, Hunt, Sargent or any of those who are reviving wall painting, it is upon some great wall space that they have shown the breadth and perfection of their art, and not where the scope of the easel has constrained them.



Turning to other fields of art, if we have extensive parks we are certain to have works of sculpture. I am sure we have all wished at times that the earth might open and swallow up the specimens of sculpture which sadden the hearts of men in so many cities, and should we not hope to escape from a similar fate? And in more practical matters, such as the proportions of a city square, the design of a fountain or bridge, there is room for beauty or the reverse. We are a prudent people and I wish

to point out emphatically that the main purpose of this guild, rightly understood, is economy. Public or private money will be



spent to decorate the interior: of the buildings referred to amid to erect statues, fountains, bridges, etc. The real question is, do we wish to get the maximum of beauty for the money we spend or not ? The object of the guild is to provide a means of obtaining as nearly the maximum as possible. Over and over again in public expenditure the same money which might have purchased beauty and lasting pleasure has purchased the reverse. When the authorities of a city build a water or a drainage system or undertake the making dud paving of a road they employ engineers and other experts to superintend the work. They do not imagine that members of the Council are able to direct such matters without the aid of expert knowledge. Is there not even more reason for the use of expert knowledge when the matter is one of beautifying a city ? We realize that public opinion will not justify the

payment of money for anything so vague as good taste. The guild, however, offers the services of such experts or judges as it mummy nominate for any particular task, free of cost to the city, except in cases where long amid continuous labor is required by men professionally engaged in the supervision of similar work, such as an architect.

We are encouraged to hope that the guild will be able to perform the work for which it was created, from the experience in other cities where similar efforts have been successfully made. We have not time to refer fully to the work done in many cities in Europe and America, but it may be well to indicate the measure of success attained in New York. The necessity for expert ability in connection with every item of public work in which artistic taste may be displayed has been fully recognized. The charter of Greater New York provides for the appointment of an art commission to which all sumeli matters must be referred, and with-out whose approval the city is unable to authorize or permit the execution of any work of art. The various art societies of New York form what is known as the Fine Arts Federation, and this body is empowered to suggest names to the mayor from whom selections for the art commission are made. This commission, as at present constituted, consists of three laymen, supposed to suggest good judgment in matters of art, one painter, one sculptor, one architect, and the following ex-officio members The Mayor, the President of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the President of the Public Library (Aster, Lenox and Tilden bequests), and the President of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Time services of this commission, like those offered by the Toronto guild, are without cost to the city. We would be sorry if it were supposed that the members of the Advisory Board consider themselves to be judges in all such matters. The function of time Advisory Board is merely to select the necessary judges or experts.



Turning now to the exhibition to which your attention is invited. We are able through the Copley prints to give seine idea of what our neighbors in the United States are doing in this great revival of mural decoration. We may not hope to rival the work which has been done in the new Library of Congress at Washington or in the Boston public library, but can we not make a beginning? We shall hope that this exhibition will at least open the eyes of many Canadians to our short-comings. You are aware that a plan of decoration for the council chamber of the new city hall was placed before the council. It was intended that this should serve as an example of what was possible in this great structure, and it was hoped that gradually over a long range of years panel

