<doctype type="text">

<article title="Pompeii-A Cit of the First Century." author="Adams, Prof.">

	THE CANADIAN	AARCHITECT AND BUILDER



rooms on either side of the vestibule were rented as shops, and were, so certain of the classical writers tell us, one of the best kinds of property in which one could invest his money. Passing through the vestibule we reach the Atrium, a court roofed in about its margin but open to the sky in the centre. Beneath this open space was a shallow reservoir to collect the rain water coming in from the roof, and known as the impluvium. In this Atrium the clients and visitors of inferior rank were received and business was transacted. It was in fact the public part of the house, and in the houses of the more '' respectable ' an "atriensis," or slave peculiarly devoted to this hall, was retained, whose rank among his fellow-slaves was high and important.

Off this Atrium opened several smaller rooms, and its walls were richly ornamented with flue paintings of classical subjects one of the Parting of Achilles and Briscis is especially celebrated. The floor was paved with mosaic. A narrow passage would lead us through to the private apartments, which are situated about the Peristyle, a second court like the Atrium but surrounded by columns. In the open central space was a charming little garden.

Opening off the peristyle was the tablium, where the family records were kept, and which probably was used as a drawing room and the triclinium, or dining room in this house, often called the Chamber of Leda, from a painting on one of the walls representing Leda presenting bet- children to her husband Tyndareus

—and two small bed-rooms. The bed-rooms are in fact always small in these ancient houses —mere cupboards in which people

spent as little time as possible. At the left of this garden is a beautiful little fane, dedicated to the Penates, and resembling one of those little shrines placed by the roadside in Roman Catholic countries. On the wall to the right of the columns of the Peristyle is the celebrated painting of the Sacrifice of Iphigenia to be mentioned later on.

This is the photograph of a model of the I louse of the Tragic Poet as it would appear if restored, in the museum in Naples, and will perhaps give you a clearer idea of the appearance of the whole. Note the vestibule, with its peculiar style of Pompeiian

panelling; the Atrium, in two stories, with balcony and rooms for slaves the painting of Achilles and Briscis the passage to the Peristyle the Tablinuni the Triclinium the little shrine and the painting Iphigenia. Note also the roof of wooden rafters covered with tiles.

The picture now on the screen represents a restoration of the interior of the house as it must have originally appeared. It is correct in almost every detail, as owing to the perfect state in which the building was found, but little  be left to the imagination. Probably the entrance to the Tablinum was closed by a door or curtains. These have been represented as with drawn, and, as will he observed, it is possible from the street to see through the house from end to end, the little shrine at the back of the peristyle being plainly visible. This total want of privacy in such a house is repugnant to our notions of comfort, but it can hardly be denied that there is at) air of splendor in the extensive and richly decorated suite of rooms which is scarcely equalled with us in houses of a similar class. It shows the shrine and fine smooth white marble—like stucco, with which the whole interior of the house was covered, and which must have given it a very fresh and bright appearance.

Such then is the plan of the typical Roman house. In primitive times the Atrium, with the few rooms opening off it, constituted the whole house. It was the original Roman house in fact the house was called Atrium, and we have in Rome tire remains of certain very early buildings, which always retained this name, e.g., Atrium Vestae, the house of the Vestal Virgins and others.

The house took this fort)) partly on account of climatic conditions, which enabled one to live much in the open air, and partly because glass had not beet) discovered, and light and air could thus only be obtained through the large front door or through the opening in the roof. This Atrium, which was in the earlier times the general meeting-place for the family, was characteristic of the Roman house as compared with the Greek, in which latter there was a separation of the apartments of the men from those of tire women. In later times, as the demand for larger and more luxurious houses arose, tire Peristyle, with its accompanying rooms, were added, a feature which both in name and position indicates its Grecian origin.

(To be Continued.)





The Gurney Foundry Co., of Toronto, have issued a handsome calendar, with the new Temple Building as the central feature. The calendar calls attention to the fact that this building is fitted up with the company's Oxford radiators.



<article title="Correspondence." author="">

CORRESPONDENCE

Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher wilt not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.





QUALITIES OF FIREPROOFING MATERIALS.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—- Being deeply interested in the question of fireproof construction I have carefully studied the paper prepared by Mr. Burke, ''Two Questions in Connection with Steel Construction in Buildings," read at the annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects. This paper, as stated, was written to open a discussion as to the merits, or de-merits of the different methods in ruse, and before proceeding to criticize it—and tire statements of those who took part in the subsequent discussion I wish to congratulate him on the skill with which he handled his subject, so far as he carried it a subject interesting not only to tire members of the Ontario Association of Architects, but to all who practice the profession of architecture.

Mr. Burke has apparently taken as his text examples, "Stevenson Constable experiments Roebling's so-called tests and the Engineering Record's report of the Pittsburgh fire all useful in their own way- -but it is to be regretted that he neglected to emphasize the changes which have heel) introduced in porous terra cotta flat arch construction within the past eight years, and either must have overlooked or been ignorant of them. Flat arch end construction I)as superseded all other forms where porous terra cotta is used, and I think supplies the wants of both Mr. Burke and Mr. Curry. They give a level ceiling throughout, the tile being r in4" thick with an air space of nearly one inch between it and the lower flang of the iron beam thus





Sketch of Porous—

—Terra Cotta Flat—



















—1898 Design— This form of flat arch) was designed and introduced by Mr. Thos.



A.	Lee, of Denver, Col., and so far back as 1892 proved itself superior to all rivals and competitors, vide the report of the competition test made at Denver, Col., December, 1890. These

tests it may be noted were made independently of tire competitors by Messrs. Andrews, Jaques, and Rantoimi, architects of tire Denver Equitable Building Company, tire porous terra cotta flat arch defeating all competitors decisively.

Stevenson Constable's experiments (New York, 1896), so far as they went, and even the Pittsburgh conflagration, again concisely proved the superiority of porous terra cotta, the " Engineering New's " placing it tirsi. Evei) H. Maitrer & Son, for years the advocates of hard tile, now admit its superiority over all other materials vide page 24 of their new catalogue, which says, ' profiting by that experience (the Denver tests) we have since made all our hollow tile more or less porous." Surely this should convince the most skeptical, providing always Ire is seeking after the truth.

I would here summon a note of warning Architects should be careful to note tire difference between "Imard tile," which is placed on the market under the name of "terra cotta," and



''porous terra cotta." More than) one manufacturer of the former article now advertises it in such a way as to practically mislead the public, and to make it appear as if they were manufacturing the latter article.

Surely Mr. Burke cannot be in earnest when he advocates a modified sort of tire "Roebling arch." Many segimental arches have been designed, but so far none of them have found favor with the profession. The latest is probably the '' Mautrer & Sent's arch)," vide page 50 of their catalogue. All such arches have been used in combination with concrete (the haunches being levelled tip with that material, a practice much to be condemned.

I was under the impression there could be no two opinions as to the rise of concrete areas, either flat or segmental, but from remarks passed by members of the Ontario Association of Archi-

