<doctype type="text">

<article title="Terra Cotta in Architecture." author="Toiner, Joseph">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER



MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

TERRA COTTA IN ARCHITECTURE.*

By JOSEPH TOINER.



IN speaking of the treatment of terra cotta in architecture, I would commence by using the remark of one who has said "One of the most essential functions of architecture is expression, and all architecture should be, as far as possible, expressive of two things—its purpose and its construction. The question of purpose affects the general design of a building; the question of construction affects the special uses of the several materials composing it," and terra cotta really demands a special treatment at the hands of architects in order to produce the most satisfactory results. The uses to which terra cotta can, with more or less propriety, be applied are so many and so various that it is somewhat difficult to define where its application should commence and where it should cease. The plasticity of the material, whilst it gives great liberty and freedom to the designer and modeler, and as to artistic execution is capable of almost endless variety of treatment, yet from the nature of the manufacture it would, looking at it from the most successful and economical point of view, demand a limit as to the size of the individual blocks themselves. Terra cotta should not be made in too large pieces, as the larger the piece the more difficult it is to handle in the manufacture, and the greater the risk in the burning, and although I have seen some extraordinarily large columns and other work made by the Northwestern Terra Cotta Company and other companies, and which, as special pieces to suit a special purpose, were very good, they must have cost much labor and trouble and time in producing. I would not advocate pieces that would cube up more than six feet or seven feet, unless it is absolutely imperative for the sake of construction, and as much under this as possible, and the more readily and more easily a terra cotta block can be handled in the manufacture, the better the result, and I think the architect would be much helped in making his design and application of terra cotta work generally by paying an occasional visit to terra cotta factories and becoming acquainted in some measure with the manufacture, if only on the score of the old adage that "Ignorance is expensive, but knowledge is power. The most pleasing effects from the use of terra cotta will most surely come from those buildings that have been especially designed for terra cotta, because much can be done by the architect in studying his design to counteract and allow for any little irregularity of shape and outline contiguous to the material, for whilst it would be very difficult to design anything in terra cotta that could not be built in stone, yet a building could be designed for stone which could not be reproduced in terra cotta in the same way, and right here is where the co-operation of the manufacturer would be of much assistance to the architect. The matter of design and the manner of treating terra cotta are subjects for much thought, and require not only artistic ideas, but the exercise of good judgment, for if terra cotta is made to imitate stone, it immediately becomes a counterfeit; it is a deception, hence it is an error, and one of the greatest pleasures which arise from the use of terra cotta in architecture is the satisfaction engendered by the simple merit of the material.



RELATION TO BRICK AND STONE.



In speaking of terra cotta in combination with brick and stone, or in comparison with either one or the other, I would say that terra cotta has in itself more the nature of brick than stone. It can be used very successfully in combination with either one or the other, or both, according to the scope of the design, but its effect is often marred by the attempt to make it an imitation. Mr. Wagner, of the Northwestern Terra Cotta Company, says:

"The great difference between terra cotta and stone is that stone is ready for its designation after receiving the finishing touch by the carver or mason, whereas terra cotta, when it leaves the bands of the modeler or presser, has yet to be dried and burnt, and this is a slow process, and one that is not always crowned with success, as a piece of terra cotta will sometimes warp and twist and crack and be off color. When stone is in the building it can be adjusted and worked up and the face wrought upon with a chisel, because the body of stone is homogeneous throughout, so that the same identical surface may be produced ad libitum, whereas terra cotta has but one surface, which, once destroyed,



*	Abstract of a paper read before the Cincinnati Chapter of Architects.

can never be restored. Ends and unexposed parts may be trimmed like stone, but the face cannot be touched after burning." In the matter of smaller pieces, in comparison with stone, and the necessary frequency of joints in terra cotta work, and which may be a point of objection with some architects, I would say this is remedied and overcome by making a lap or cover joint on all washes, and it must be conceded that the class of modeling and ornamentation that is now being produced in terra cotta is far ahead of the general character of all stone carving, for terra cotta modelers are not mere mechanics, but artists, and appreciate the value of beautiful figures and graceful lines. And as to the surface finish of terra cotta, whilst terra cotta should have its own particular finish, yet, if so desired, any kind of masonic finish can be placed upon the surface of it. Mr. Sullivan, of Chicago, the eminent architect, says "The artistic possibilities of this fine material are limitless." There are several other important characteristics relating to terra cotta, and which make it stand preeminently to the front as building material, viz., color, strength, durability, fire-proof quality, adaptability for steel and iron construction, and economy.

COLOR.



In speaking of color, there is always a peculiar brightness in the general appearance of all terra cotta, which I think is due somewhat to the metallic condition of the ware after having been subjected to the high temperature of heat in burning, that lends a more cheerful aspect to buildings than any other building material known. Some twenty years ago two or three colors seemed to predominate, principally buff and red, but in the eighties an agitation of colors commenced, and demands for various colors were constantly being made, which demands were met as soon as they could be permanently and practically responded to by the manufacturers, until to-day enough colors can be produced to satisfy the most fastidious taste. I think a mistake is made where the terra cotta is required exactly to match the stone or brick in color. It the terra cotta part of the design has a special "motif" or expression, which it should have, that part of the design should most certainly be expressed in a slightly different shade of color to the brick or the stone—not too much to make it conspicuous, but enough to bring out the expression of the design readily, and here it would be well to add that architects must not expect perfection in the uniformity of color in every block of terra cotta, any more than the same expectation can be fully realized in the use of stone. Much has been said of late upon time subject of "white' or "cream" as a color, and many buildings have been erected wit Ii terra cotta of these shades of color, but it has yet to be proved whether these very light colors are the most serviceable to adopt in the atmosphere of our large cities.



STRENGTH.



As to strength, whilst terra cotta in itself has immense strength, both by way of support and resistance, yet it is never advocated that it should be placed into buildings in the same hollow condition that it comes from the factory, but, on the other hand, every block should be filled up solid with concrete or brickwork. The first crushing tests of terra cotta, as far as I can gain any information, were made in the city of London by David Kirkaldy on June 17, 1868, at the instance of Charles Barry, the architect, who had been using $140,000 worth of terra cotta in one building, Dulwich College, mentioned before, and amongst the many tests that were made I would present this one to your notice: A six-inch cube of Bath stone crushed at 88 tons per square foot; a six-inch cube of Portland stone crushed at 283 tons per square foot; a six-inch cube of solid terra cotta crushed at 442 tons per square foot. And which at once declared, at that time, the superiority of terra cotta over stone in this respect. Mr. James Taylor, in an article in the Clay-Worker, reports some crushing tests made in May, 1885, by the Boston Terra Cotta Company, which were eminently satisfactory, and which, in fact, showed a better result than the tests on the English-made terra cotta of previous years. Mr. Meyenberg, in the same paper, also bears testimony to the crushing strength of this material. Mr. Wagner, in the same paper, says: "The tensile strength of terra cotta is about 1,000 pounds per square inch; compressive strength about 10,000 and if the voids and the solid portions of a hollow piece of terra cotta were as one to one, it would compare favorably with good stone." Thus it will be seen that terra cotta is fully competent to sustain its proper proportion of weight in ·a building. The weight of hollow terra cotta with braces or reinforcements at intervals, made in the ordinary way, is about 70 pounds to the cubic foot, but when filled in solid it would weigh about as much as brickwork.

