<doctype type="text">

being estimated upon, making it almost impossible to leave anything unaccounted for in his bill of items. Later on this book may receive further notice at our hands. The second and more important work is

Building Construction and Superintendence," Part 2, covering carpenters' work, by F. E. Kidder, G.E., Ph. D., architect. Part 1, which was devoted to masons' work, bricklayers' and plasterers' work, was well received by the profession, and the volume now under notice is sure to claim equal notice. The plan of the work is something the same as that of the excellent English service published by the Rivingtons of London, in four volumes. Kidder's work, however, is more particularly adapted to American and Canadian usage, and to the materials employed for building purposes in this hemisphere. The work contains upwards of 500 explanatory illustrations, which give to it a useful value that will be appreciated where the architect has failed to give detail drawings for special or unusual work. The volume contains many illustrations of methods for preparing work not found in any other book, some of which are not only new, but are decided improvements over all other usual methods for performing the same work. There are two illustrations on pages 188 and 189 which show an effective method of building skylights, by which the drop caused by condensation is completely avoided. If arrangements can be made with the author--- who has bad the work copyrighted —several of these illustrations and explanations will be reproduced in this journal. This volume is to be followed up with Part 3, which will cover the other building tirades.



IN making window frames for frame



Window Frame buildings when the sashes are to be

for Frame House.

single or double hung, it is not necessary that the back of the frame should be lined in to protect the weights, as the window studs will answer that purpose quite well, as shown at A, Fig. 2. When, however, the window is double as in bays or quarries, the central mullion must be cased in all round, leaving a hollow space for the two sets of weights to operate, as shown at B, Fig. 2. In this example the hanging

















FIG. 2——SECTION THROUGH WINDOW FRAME.

Scale, 112 Inches to the Foot.





stiles are tongued into the inside grounds, while the outside ground is nailed in between the hanging stiles. The outside ground forms the outside stop for the upper sash, and is left thick enough to receive two thicknesses of siding, or two thicknesses of lathing and a roughcast coat, if the building is to be roughcasted. The outside casing should be thick enough to receive venetian blinds. The manner of finishing the inside of the window is shown in Fig. 2, and in the section shown at Fig. 3 a very good method of constructing and finishing the window sill inside and out is exhibited. The parting beads are let into hanging stile not less than three-eighths of an inch, and they project inside the opening one-half an inch. The sashes, of course, will be provided with bevelled meeting rails, to which should be

attached, when finished, one of the many sash locks now in the market. The sill is provided with a drip groove and subsill, and its inner edge is finished with a moulding and tongued apron. The inside casings are flush with the inside edge of the frame, or the stops, as Fig. 2, shows inside stops wide enough to have the joint













































































FIG. 3—DETAIL OF WINDOW SECTION.



Scale, 11/2 Inches to the Foot.





covered with casing, while Fig. 3 shows a narrow, beaded, invisible stop. The hanging stiles must, of course, be provided with axle pulleys, and with pockets. Frames should be set perfectly plumb in the wall, face and edge, to in sure good free working of the sashes. If set in the wall square and plumb, there will be no dashing of the weights, nor will they require any parting strips in the boxes. The sashes should be fitted

easy," but not so loose and easy as to render them liable to rattle during a wind storm. About 3-32nds of an inch play each way, before the work is painted, is quite enough space to allow for the sashes to work in, if all the other work is well wrought.



MANY builders insist in making their Chimney flues a little less in area at the top than

Construction.

at the throat, under the idea that as the



smoke and gases s rise to the top they get cooler, and of course contract, and therefore require less flue area than on their first entering it. To this method of flue construction is due many a '' smoky chimney," for, as the smoke and gases ascend, the nearer they get to the top of the flue the slower they travel, and as a consequence, the tipper part of the flue gets congested and prevents the lowest strata of smoke from getting up the flue, and the result is that it escapes into the room. Modern experiments have proven that a flue having equal areas top and bottom draws as well, and often better, than one having unequal areas, the smaller being at the top. Better results, however, are obtained by making the flue larger at the top than at the bottom the best results being obtained by making- the flue greater in diameter as it ascends, about half an inch to every twelve feet in height. For instance, a flue 24 feet high, being 9" X 9" at the throat, if built by the rule given above, should be 10" x 10" at the top of the chimney. Flues that are formed of eight-inch glazed drain tiles are generally efficient, and rarely—if ever—

