<doctype type="text">

<article title="Interior Lighting." author="">

INTERIOR LIGHTING.

A COMPETITION was recently instituted by the American Luxfer Prism Co., of Chicago, open to the architects of America, for building designs, the essential feature of which should be the securing of improved natural interior light. Fifteen graduated prizes, amounting in all to $5,000 were offered the competitors. A committee of award was appointed, consisting of Messrs. D. H. Burnham, W. L. B. Jenney, William Halabird, Frank S. Wright, architects, and Prof. Henry Crew, of the Northwestern University. The committee, having concluded their labors, report that 39 designs were submitted, each having been numbered as received, and discussed always under the title of its number. Only fourteen were found to be deserving of any

prize whatever. To the authors of these fourteen designs, prizes have been awarded in the following order of merit:

1st prize, $2,000—Robert Spencer, Jr., Chicago, III.

	2nd		1,000—Adami Boari, Chicago, Ill.

	3rd		500 S. S. Beman, Chicago, Ill.

	4th		300—Curtiss Hoffman Chic go Ill.

5th	200 Frederick S. Sewell Chicago, Ill.

6th	1 00—James E. Fisher r Bloomington, Ill.

7th	100—Hugo F. Liedberg ( Chicago, Ill.

100——Frederick S. Sewell	Chicago, Ill.

9th	100 Field & Medary Philadelphia, Penn.

	10th "	100—J. L. Wees, St. I Louis Mo.

11th	zoo J. L. Wees, St Louis Mo.

12th	100—Alfred Fellheimer Chic ago Ill.

13th	100—David S. Williams Fort Snelling, Miss.

14th	100— Howard Bowen, St Louis, Mo.





<article title="Color Decoration." author="Mitchell, F. Scott">

COLOR DECORATION.

THE following extract is from a lecture delivered by Mr. F. Scott Mitchell before the Master House Painters' Association of Hartlepool, Eng.

Any color may be made to serve two or more purposes by its use in different positions (1) With respect to shape of surface covered concave surfaces add a gray shade and subdue the tone of the color; convex surfaces reflect a maximum of light with the color, which thereby appears lighter and brighter ; and flat surfaces give a medium effect. Another color should always intervene to give full value to this arrangement. (2) With respect to contrast with other colors in juxtaposition—A medium tone of color will appear dark by contrast with lighter tints, and lighter when opposed to rich, darker colors. It will appear assertive or subdued as it is contrasted with colors more or less subdued than itself.

Country houses admit of cooler coloring and plainer surfaces, because of the ever-present beauty of nature's landscape with flowers and foliage, that contrasts to the disadvantage of man's best handiwork, arid if ornamental decoration be applied it should be of strictly conventional design on this account. Likewise, all coloring should be in neutral tints and shades, its value thus becoming enhanced by contrast with the incomparably brilliant products of nature all around.

Shop fronts in large and manufacturing towns should be always painted in light and cheerful tints, in face of the prevailing custom to the contrary. Wherever this course has individually been adopted, it has been proven that pale colors, it well varnished, last as long as their darker contemporaries, which are often a din color to begin with, while the lighter coloring actually mellows with age, and looks cleaner through the dirty accumulation of long neglect than the darker color did at the start. It is generally admitted that not only do the displayed goods look their best in contrast with pale tints on shop fronts, but the appearance of a whole street is

improved, and thereby the whole town appears to greater advantage where this is already the prevailing custom.

Entrance halls should appear of medium warmth and be cheerfully inviting in general coloring, as special contrast to the locality outside.

Drawing rooms should present a smart contrast to the entrance hail, though still cheerful in treatment, as it is essentially a room for the entertainment of friends. Coloring- may be light and airy, and such as will emphasize the complexions and dresses of ladies, as the drawing room is where they always have preference.

Dining rooms should be rich in coloring and not too dull. They should always be suggestive of richness and bountiful provision of the prime necessities of life, and sufficiently cheerful to have a stimulating effect on any who may approach the dining table with appetites impaired by worry or anxiety.

Bed rooms should give the impression of repose and cleanliness above all else, though not depressingly dull, since when sickness necessitates the occupancy of the room for any length of time, its decorations have much to do with the comfort and even the health of an invalid.



<article title="Architectural Wrought Iron." author="">

ARCHITECTURAL WROUGHT IRON.

IRON has been known and used for about five thousand years, says a writer in the Engineering Magazine. Tubal Cain, son of Lamech and Zillah (only seven generations from Adam) was ''the instructor of every artificer in iron and brass." The British museum contains a piece of masonry from an inner masonry joint in the Pyramid of Cheops, the oldest known edifice built by the hand of man. In early history the power and skill of the blacksmith was deified in the person of Hephaistos by the Greeks, or of Vulcan by the Romans, and volcanoes were supposed to mark the spot below which, in the nether world, he worked at his forge in shaping the thunderbolts of Jove or the armor of Mars. Dr. Schliemann, in his excavations at Mycenae and Troy, found numerous specimens of wrought iron, some of which may now be seen in the museum at Athens; Greek painted vases show anvils, hammers, pincers and bellows, and welding is said to have been invented by Glaucos, of Chios, 600 B.C.

In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries the blacksmith who could fashion an elaborate hinge was accounted the master of his trade, as in Venice was the bricklayer who could build successfully the fantastic chimney tops of that city. At that time bar and sheet iron were not to be found already manufactured, and the use of the file was not known ; but the paucity of materials and tools brought about great skill in the use of the hammer, and as, with the gradual introduction of mechanical appliances, many difficulties, especially of large or intricate pieces, were overcome, by degrees manual dexterity declined. The working in iron possesses, in common with painting: and sculpture, the charm of proceeding directly from the hand of the originator ; the personal element is pronounced.



To REMOVE INK SPOTS FROM PAPER. Shake 20 grams of lime chloride in 30 grams of distilled water until dissolved, let stand for some time, pour off the clear liquid into a dark (blue) flask and add grams of acetic acid to this liquid. In order to remove writing, etc., paint it with the fluid, using a fine hair pencil, press with blotting paper and dry By this method erasures are avoided on the paper, which is important with documents and other valuable manuscripts.

