<doctype type="text">

<article title="Terra Cotta in Architecture." author="Toiner, Joseph">



DURABILITY.



The advantage that terra cotta has in this respect needs no special proof in this paper, for they are all around us, and if we need a century proof in all ocular demonstration, we must surely wait a little longer. We know that timber will rot, stone will disintegrate, iron will oxidize, and all other materials will more or less yield to the destroying influences of the elements; but hard-burned terra cotta will stand in defiance of all weather.



FIRE-PROOF QUALITY.



Terra cotta is claimed to be fire-proof, and from what I understand of the results of our many recent fires, terra cotta did all that was claimed for it in this respect, and this is a very important matter, for in these days of tall buildings, tinder the present method of steel construction, it is very necessary that such materials be used, and in such a way as to render these "mammoth structures" or modern "bee-hives" as nearly as possible fireproof, hence the proper thing is to encase the iron work of the front of the building with terra cotta entirely, or brick and terra cotta combined, for stone is not a good fire-resisting material, and encase the iron framing with what is called "fire-proof terra cotta," so as to prevent the heat arising from a fire affecting it, for we know that if iron is not properly protected it becomes the frailest possible material in the event of a fire, but if properly protected it becomes an important factor in all high buildings.



As to the cost of terra cotta in comparison with stone, and which is the only building material that it legitimately comes in contact with in this respect (for galvanized iron, though much used, cannot be recognized in the category of constructional building materials), I would say that in perfectly plain work it is a sharp tussle between the terra cotta and the stone, and if it is a work of no repetition, stone is liable to be somewhat cheaper, for, although the cost of terra cotta, from increased experience and improved methods on the part of the manufacturers the past few years has been much reduced, the cost of stonework, from improved methods of cutting and planing, has been reduced also, but where there is much repetition of the same form, and where any amount of ornamentation is introduced in the mouldings, then the Cost of terra cotta is far below that of stone, and the effect of all such ornamentation is, from the plasticity of terra cotta as a material in its clay state, far superior to anything that can be produced in stone.

In conclusion, I would like to say a word about setting terra cotta Much terra cotta is marred by imperfect setting down by common brickmasons, and it can be at once seen that a good stonemason is the best man to set terra cotta. He can use a chisel, has been accustomed to set blocks of stone in alignment, and would be much more skilled in this connection with terra cotta than any ordinary brickmason. Hence a better job could be expected from a workman of this character: Terra cotta, when it arrives at the building should bc laid down on some floor to ascertain thc jointing that will be necessary to bring all the pieces together in good form, and thus the better will become acquainted with each individual block, and what it requires at his hands, before he puts it into the wall. If a stonemason cannot be obtained, thc next best man is one who has been accustomed to lay up best front brickwork. This is the final operation and requires just as much care and attention as any part of the manufacture.



A company has been organized at Owen Sound, with a capital of $25,000, to manufacture granolithic paving material.



Messrs. Reid & Brown, Front street east, Toronto, will shortly commence tile manufacture of a hot water boiler for heating purposes.



A handsomely printed catalogue descriptive of the "Daisy" heater is being sent out by Messrs. Warden King & Son, of Montreal.

We are told by Gassier's Magazine that in spite of the fact that there are, at present, in existence at least nine or ten processes for rendering wood non-combustible, none of them have been adopted by the British admiralty, though all have been subjected to careful and repeated trials. The United States naval authorities tried one kind of non-inflammable wood on the armored cruiser Brooklyn some time ago, but have since taken it up and replaced it with ordinary wood. The German naval authorities, who are profoundly convinced of the necessity of using non-inflammable wood in the construction of their warships, have made numerous experiments in this direction during the past four years without any tangible results.



MANUFACTURE OF FIRE CLAY IN BRITISH COLUMBIA.



THE Union Coal Co., of Union, Vancouver Island, B.C., have

commenced the manufacture of fire brick on quite an extensive scale. The clay beds connected with the company's mines appear to be inexhaustible. The brick for the company's first set of coke ovens was manufactured from this clay. Subsequently the company determined to erect the necessary buildings and plant with which to make the bricks themselves. A kiln is being built near the coke ovens, and the fuel for its operation will be supplied by the gas generated in the manufacture of coke. The company's output of fire clay last year amounted to 1 ,6oo tons, being three times greater than in 1894. Near at hand the company also own deposits of excellent building sand and gravel. A handsome building stone is brought from their own quarries, and the magnificent trees of fir, pine and cedar are cut into planks at the company's saw-mill, the only building material which it is necessary to purchase away from home being lime.





COLORS USED IN DRAWINGS.

A CORRESPONDENT of the National Builder gives the following colors used to designate materials in architectural drawings:

	MATERIALS.	COLORS TO REPRESENT THEM.

Brass.	Gamboge.

Brickwork (in section).	Crimson lake.

Brickwork (in elevation).	Crimson lake, mixed with burnt sienna.

Cement.	Sepia.

Concrete.	Sepia, mottled with burnt umber.

Copper.	Crimson lake, mixed with gamboge.

Glass. .	Cobalt (mottled).

Iron (wrought).	Prussian blue.

Iron (cast).	Payne's gray.

Lead.	Indigo.

Leather.	Vandyke brown.

Plaster.	Sepia.

Slate.	Indigo, mixed with crimson lake.

Steel.	Crimson lake, mixed with Prussian blue.

Stone.	Burnt umber.

Tiles.	Indian red.

Wood.	Burnt sienna.





THE TRADE JOURNAL.

There's a proper time for all things

The proper time to make a business proposition to a man is when his mind is on business, when he is right in the thick of just the business you want to talk about.

When a man sits down and commences to read his trade journal his mind is on just the business you want to interest him in.

The question of what to buy and where to buy it is one of the things he depends upon the journal to solve.

If you have anything to sell him and your ad isn't there to tell him all about it, some other fellow's will be.

That's why the other fellow gets the trade—and it's quite reasonable, proper and just that lie should.—Chas. Austin Bates.





The aggregate value of brick buildings in course of construction at Windsor, Nova Scotia, is placed at $225,000 and of wooden residences $500,000.

The Robert McCausland Stained Glass Company, of Toronto, are busily engaged on the contract awarded them three months ago for decorative glass windows for the new municipal buildings.

The Mechanics' Supply Co., of Quebec, have recently received the agency from Mr. Samuel Cabot, of Boston, for "Deafening Quilt," an insulating material, in the manufacture of which eli grass is principally employed.

Cape Colony, during 1897, consumed 69,920,051 pounds of cement, and stone and slate of all kinds to a value of In Cape Colony and Natal there were in 1897 in operation, 147 stone quarries, with only 78 employees, and 6 stone and marble works, with 256 employees.

The American Public Health Association will hold its twenty-sixth annual meeting in Ottawa on Sept. 27th, 28th, 29th and 3oth next. By suggestion of the Montreal Master Plumbers' Association, a Committee on Sanitation, of which Mr. J. W. Hughes, the well-known Montreal plumber, was elected chairman, was formed last year. This committee will give its special attention to drainage, plumbing and ventilation of buildings, and is expected to present an interesting report at the above mentioned convention.

