<doctype type="text">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



MONTREAL S NEEDS.



TILE Insurance and Finance Chronicle of this city, which, by the way, is the property of ex-Mayor Wilson Smith, calls attention to the fact that Montreal requires a few important public buildings to place her in rank with other cities of like importance. The list of requirements includes a new city hall, a public library, a national museum, a public assembly hall, an art gallery, a custom house and post office and gaol. Regarding the first of these, it is recognized that die present city hall is too good to be sacrificed at present, but the gaol is declared to be a disgrace to any government. It is urged that the cost of these improvements should be defrayed by private munificence and from the Federal and Provincial treasuries. Architects and builders would like to cherish the hope that sonic of these improvements will shortly be undertaken, but I must confess that the signs of the times do hot appear to point in that direction.



INDUSTRIAL CLASSES.



The total attendance of pupils at the classes of the Council of Arts and Manufactures throughout the province is t 100. The number attending the classes in this city is 375. It is said to be the intention of the Council to open new classes next year. They have also announced their purpose to make awards in the form of medals and useful articles to the most deserving pupils.



UNIFORM ILEIGHT 01' BUILDINGS.



The Montreal Real Estate Owners Association at a recent meeting resolved to petition the City Council to pass a by-law compelling the uniform height of buildings to be erected on new streets. The object is to prevent depreciation in the value of buildings of moderate height by reason of the placing of tall buildings alongside them. The suggestion is one that should receive the careful consideration of tile Council. For many years in Paris regulations governing the height and character of buildings fronting on the public thoroughfares have been enforced. Within the last two or three years, since the injurious effects of the skyscraper style of building have become manifest, regulations have been adopted in Boston and Chicago restricting the height to which buildings may be reared in the future. The Real Estate Owners Association would appear thorefore to be in line with the most advanced legislation on this subject.



A CRITICISM.



A correspondent of the Gazette, writing under the nom du plume of Civis," criticizes the constructional methods employed in this city in terms following ''In fireproof buildings, girders sustaining concentrated loads or bays of beams and masonry, arching should span, as well as be supported on steel stanchions fire protected. Also stone moulded window sills, cut in three pieces, while the stone ashlar appears but veneering with bed and butt joints conspicuously yawning, and misplaced. Such parsimony in stone may be observable in jerry structures, but absolutely insults the status of representative institutions.



WIND PRESSURES.



Mr. Chas. Baillarge, City Engineer of Quebec and ex-President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, writing to the Engineering Record on the subject of " Wind Pressures on Surfaces of Different Areas, says These differences may be

accounted for on the assumption that a gaie of wind presents areas of maximum pressure far in excess of the average pressure. For example, in a gale at Quebec the galvanized iron roof sheeting of four of the octagonal kiosks on Dufferin Terrace remained tlntorn, while a fifth kiosk, in the midst of the other four, had its sheeting bent, twisted and torn off, while the entire roof framing of cast and wrought iron, well bolted together, was wrenched from its eight supporting columns. The whole roof', weighing 2 1/2 tons, was raised to a height of sonic 40 feet, and carried a distance of about 300 feet, where it was dropped in a broken condition on the glacis ill the rear of the terrace. It is evident that in this case there was within the general stream of wind blowing up the St. Lawrence against the terrace an intensified current which struck the demoralized structure. I reduced the subject to figures at the time, some tell years ago, and found that while the anemometer indicated only 59 pounds' pressure, the stress 011 he roof of the kiosk which tore away and hurled it such a distance must have amounted to least 100 to 120 pounds to the square foot.'



NOTES.



Mr. Archibald Spence, inventor of the Daisy ' hot water boiler, died in this city recently, after an illness of eleven years.



As a result of government inspection recently, the city hospital has been declared to be no longer habitable, so that its early replacement may be looked for.



The news comes from Paris of the death, at the early age of 29, of the famous sculptor, M. Lecardonnel, who in conjunction with Cherest designed the Champlain Monument at Quebec.



The President of the Royal Canadian Academy, Mr. Robt. Harris, recently resumed work in his studio, Phillips Square, after having spent seven months in visiting the art galleries of ELtrope.





Messrs. D. Norman MacVicar and J. C. A. Heriot have withdrawn front tile firm of Brown, MacVicar and Heriot, architects, and have formed a partnership under the name of McVicar and Heriot, with offices in the Canada Life Building.



At the ball lately given by Mrs. Meighen, 140 Drummond street (formerly the residence of Lord Mount-Stephen ), an unique effect of lighting the main staircase and hall was produced with reflect ors plated outside of the stained glass windows anti ornamental skylight. As the art glass was exceedingly handsome, and the lights not spared, the effect was excellent. The job appears to be in for all time, as the rubber lead encased wire is laid firmly outside the house on the limestone, and does not make an un-sightly piece of work either, as the lead makes a fairly good match as regards color to the stone.



The Builders' Reporter and Engineering Ti Lit es, of England, recently contained the following Tile Canadians are showing loyalty by seeking professors of architecture and engineering in this country. The latest appointment is that of Mr. E. G. Coker as assistant professor of civil engineering in McGilI University, Montreal. Mr. Coker is tint only a graduate ill engineering of Edinburgh University, but he has bad ail unusually extensive training in experimental engineering in the laboratories of the Universities of Cambridge and Edinburgh Owens College, Manchester University College. London Kings College, London Fiusbury Technical College, and the Heriot Watt College Edinburgh. ILl 1896 he was offered the senior professorship of mechanical engineering in the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, hut declined the appointment in order to pursue further studies at Cambridge. in Montreal Mr. Coker has plenty of scope to exercise his abilities.







SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN.'



THIS renowned architect was born at East Knoyle, in Wiltshire, on October 28, 1632. His father, Dr. C. Wren, 'as Dean of Windsor, and young Wren was educated at Westminster School under the celebrated Dr. Busby, being afterwards entered, while yet only in his fourteenth year, as a gentleman-commoner of Wadham College, Oxford, where lie distinguished himself in mathematics. In 1650 he took his degree of B. A. and in 1653 that of MA. Evelyn spoke of him about this period as that i-are and early prodigy of universal science." In 1657 Wren left Oxford for London, where he became Gresham Professor of Astronomy, but four years afterwards he returned to Oxford as Savilian Professor of Astronomy. Before leaving London, he had, however, assisted in laying the foundation of the future Royal Society.

