<doctype type="text">

<article title=" SCIENTIFIC PLUMBING." author="">

dark place fusted away into an odd corner, but in any well contrived house it is large and airy, well lighted, and in a convenient position. The modern closet, by the substitution of earthenware for metal, by flushing, and by efficient trapping, is a very different thing from what it was twenty years ago, so that in some of its forms it also is almost perfection in the way of being cleanly and of being severely cut off from all source of contamination from the sewer. In the old day pipes, both for gas and for water, were often placed in the most awkward positions, frequently so placed that if anything went wrong it was a serious business to reach them for purposes of repair. Now they are all placed in convenient positions. There is a method for the distribution of gas pipes in every well constructed house, now easily understood, and water pipes are open to inspection, and indeed, are sometimes even ornamented.

Consider also the enormous advance in the method of trapping, by which the risk of communication with the sewer is reduced to a minimum, and the arrangement now carried out for thoroughly ventilating sewers without the danger of contaminating the air of the street or of the house itself. The arrangements also for the storage and distribution of supplies of water to town and village have also greatly improved, so that now, in any well regulated system, it is next to impossible for sewage to enter the current of water.

These, and many other improvements, are visible even to outsiders like myself, and I have no doubt that to the minds of many who listen to me other examples of advancement will occur.

I cannot help noticing that even in humble dwellings sanitary arrangements are now made to an extent not dreamt of twenty years ago. In our great cities, even in the slums, modern conveniences are being introduced into every dwelling; in our country villages, to which the town dweller goes for summer quarters, there to recruit his exhausted energies by rest and recreation and fresh air, every cottage almost has now the appliances of the modern plumber ; and the ubiquitous bicycle has improved such things in every little country inn by the wayside.

Now, what is the meaning of all this? Does it not mean that, in common with many other trades, the plumber has become more scientific? Here and there in the craft have arisen men of inventive ability who have recognized the detects of old methods, and who, with scientific instinct, have invented better. There is all the difference in the world between a man who works away, year in and year out, by rule of thumb, and the man who looks at things from a scientific standpoint.

Now, I don't wish you to be frightened by the use of the word scientific. There is really nothing mysterious about what we term science. Many, if not all her problems are mysterious, but science is simply knowledge of external things. Investigate their properties and the laws that regulate them. It has been well called "organized common sense." Science has to find out the laws that govern the outer world, the nature of things, the facts of nature, if you choose so to express the scope of science. The moment a plumber tries to recognise the exact nature of a particular phenomenon with which he is familiar in his trade he becomes scientific. lie applies principles to the execution of his work. It is his knowledge of things and of the laws of nature that regulate things by which he is guided.

This exhibition, however, is not intended only to instruct the public, but to stimulate invention among the younger members of the craft of plumbers. Permit me to say a single word to them. In the construction of all kinds of appliances efficiency is usually combined with simplicity. For certain purposes, of course, machinery must be complicated, but as improvements are effected it always tends to become more and more simple. This is consonance with nature. She always brings about important results by simple means. This appears to be especially the case in mechanics, and as all the physical phenomena in the universe are ultimately mechanical the principle holds good throughout. Movements of matter, whether it be of the molecule or the planet, occur with the least possible expenditure of energy in the most direct line, and in the shortest possible time. There is no waste ; there is simplicity there is parsimony. So true is this that if a philosopher gives a very complicated account of a phenomenon, involving intricacies that also bame comprehension, we may be almost sure his explanation is wrong. Nature probably attains her object in a much simpler way than the philosopher at first thinks, and it is the business of someone to find this out. Therefore the lesson for inventors is to attain their end by simple means.

Before I close I should like to allude to the delight one feels in looking at a well made bit of apparatus, efficient for its purpose. In my laboratory, as a physiologist, I have to use delicate appliances, and, therefore, I can, to some extent at all events, enter into the feeling of the workman who has a pride and pleasure at looking at a bit of good mechanical work. The sight of an engine, a modern turning lathe, with its many exquisite mechanical devices, even of a well made stop-cock, or a good well turned screw ; or, to come nearer home, a well-made bend in a pipe, a good solder joint, or a good piece of lead bossing, always gives rise to a certain feeling of satisfaction.

Young workmen, and it is to these I would address my closing words, should aim at efficiency, thorough ness, and, in short, at all the qualities that distinguish a good job from a bad one. A bad piece of workmanship is a moral offence, and it will not be forgotten, although it may be hidden away where no human eye can see it. Bad work by a plumber may bring about dire results to others ; at all events, it will inevitably deteriorate the man's own character. Good work well done will, of itself, yield much happiness.



A sandstone slab measuring 7 X 13 feet, 8 inches thick, and weighing 10 tons, has been brought from Nova Scotia to Sherbrooke, and is to be placed above the main entrance door to the new Sun Life building.

Mr. Alexander Bremner, of Montreal, has recently acquired the patent right for Canada of Baker's improved plaster board, and has fitted up a large factory capable of turning out large quantities of this material, the useful qualities of which are testified to by some of the leading architects and builders of Montreal

The negotiations for the purchase by an English syndicate of the C.P.R. cement works at Vancouver are proceeding satisfactory, and are expected to be concluded at an early date. It is said to be the intention of he new owners to increase the capacity of the works from 2,000 to 50,000 or 100,000 barrels per year, and ultimately to 1,000,000 barrels per year. There are said to be but few cement works north of San Francisco, and the demand for the material in the territory along the coast is said to reach 600,000 barrels per annum. Most of this demand is at

present supplied by England. The syndicate above mentioned will endeavor to obtain control of this trade, and also to supply the Pacific Ocean Islands, Australia, China and Japan, for which their works will be favorably situated, having ready to hand the transportation facilities of the C.P.R.

