<doctype type="text">



been before that we have no difficulty in understanding that we are reading poetry. Our grandfathers liked this kind of poetry and dabbled a little in composing it. They built Gower street and other dull quarters of that period in this manner. In a similar manner we have whole streets of wooden porches or verandahs, which are Tuscan, Doric, Ionic or Corinthian, built up of boards in the likeness of trabeated stone. They are as a rule well done, and are architectural forms which content the eye if they do not delight the mind, so that we may be glad they are there rather than a worse thing. Indeed, a fuller application of the order to the house would be a measure of safety. But let us not mistake such a system of design for anything better in style than this poetry of conventional expression which our grandfathers affected. Such poetry would find no sale now-a-days, and there is every indication that the day of conventional architecture in England is also ending.

The movement towards true design seems to have had a wavelike advance. Starting as a reaction from the extreme convention of classic formality, and adopting truth as a watchword, it found itself soon drawn back again by formalism ; Gothic formalism this time instead of Classic, that was all. The exposed construction which represented its idea of truth was not a large enough idea to save it from ending in a sham style. The movement seemed to come to an end, but in reality a younger generation has caught the idea and is finding that truth in design is something greater than the exhibition of construction. It is expression ; expression of everything—of function, construction and material.

The object of seeking truth in design is not the avoidance of falsehood as an immoral thing, but to hold on to truth for its own sake; because to hold to it, however hard it may be to do so, is the surest road to making a good thing. To design is to make first and above all what might be called a functional plan and to express it in elevation. In the plan is contained all that makes the poetry of the building. It is not throwing it into recognized architectural forms nor covering it with recognized architectural ornament that gives real poetical expression, any more than a few elegant thoughts, expressed in terms culled from poets and arranged, by the help of the printer, in a pattern on the page, make poetry. These efforts are properly called verses. There is no convenient term of the kind to define the kind of architecture which compares with it indeed production of this kind has so long possessed the exclusive right to call itself architecture that it seems like interfering with a vested right to deny it the title. But it architecture means the true poetry of building, it is to something else that the term should be applied—to the functional arrangement of parts both horizontally and vertically so that the nature of the building is expressed as truly as the nature and functions of an animal or indeed of that majestic creation of our own, the locomotive, are expressed by their appearance.

In the matter of construction it is no more reasonable that it should always be displayed than it is that we should wear our skeleton on the outside; but we may take a hint from our bodies as to the way in which construction is the groundwork of form.

Truth to material is the easiest nut to crack, for most if not all material has character which any one who has feeling for architectural design ought to delight in bringing out, and this is easily done since every material is most easily used in the way that suits its special characteristic.

In these three elements of design—function, construction and material—the mind of the designer displays itself, and in making the design proceed from them lies the straight road to style, the style which is the man, which gives the quality to design no matter to what period it may lean in form. It represents the interest the designer took in his work when doing it, and will be the source of the pleasure which others take in it when it is done.



THOMAS FULLER.

THE late Thomas Fuller, formerly chief architect of the Public Works Department of Canada, the intelligence of whose death at Ottawa last month was received with widespread regret, was born in Bath, Eng., March 8th, 1823, and was educated in Bath and London. His first large work (when only 22) was the cathedral at Antigua, West Indies, the erection of which he superintended. He came to Canada in 1857, and commenced practice in Toronto, with Chillion Jones of that city. In 1859 designs for the parliament build-







































THE LATE THOMAS FULLER.



ings, departmental buildings and Governor-General's residence were invited by public advertisement. His designs were awarded for the parliament buildings first premium, and for the departmental buildings and Governor-General's residence second premium. On the 2nd December, 1859, he was appointed architect for the parliament buildings, and the work, under his supervision was formally commenced on the 20th December, 1859.

In 1862 a Royal Commission was appointed to report on all the government buildings then in course of erection at Ottawa. In 1863, it having been decided to proceed with the works, new contracts were made with the former contractors ; Thomas Fuller and Charles Baillairge were appointed joint architects for all the buildings. In May, 1865, the services of Mr. Baillairge were dispensed with, and from that period until 1867 the whole duties devolved on Mr. Fuller, when the buildings were completed, with the exception that the completion of the library and upper part of the main tower remained in abeyance for four years, and were then carried out by the officers of the department in accordance with Mr. Fullers original designs.

