<doctype type="text">

<article title="Lathe Work in Interior Decoration." author="Hodgson, Fred T.">



data to enable him to make work from these designs or invent more suitable ones, and I am sure the country builder, who is left to his own resources to ornament and beautify the houses he builds, will be able to find many places that will be greatly enriched by the introduction of appropriate lathe work.

I have made no reference to balusters or newels, knowing that every builder must have some knowledge of these, and with this knowledge and the hints given herewith he will, be able to elaborate and vary his work in such a way as to make it handsome and in good taste.





THE DETERMINING QUALITY IN STAINED

GLASS WINDOWS.

By ROBERT MCCAUSLAND.



Considerable difference of opinion exists between the Old-World artists in stained glass and those in America with regard to the glass that should be employed in figure windows and church glass in general. Also as to whether painting, to any great extent, should enter into the formation of such windows. The fact that artists of undoubted ability conscientiously oppose each other in these matters is proof that good qualities are to be found in both styles. It may therefore be interesting

early glass, which, though often grotesque in detail, is charming in its color values.

as at Dawn the Eastern windows glow

With miracles of color and tracery fine,

While all the west is cold; till soft and long

The deepening shadows in the chancel grow,

And the day wanes—then like a flood of fire

The Great west Window all aflame doth shine,

And lends a mystic glory to the song

That floats from out the dim, half-lighted Choir."



What is the cause of this "mystic glory?" Is it the design or painting of the glass? It is perfectly safe to attribute the cause alone to color. All three qualities however are necessary in good modern work. The early glass is immensely valuable in proving to us the importance of determining color schemes that will enhance the architectural features of the interior, and it would be difficult to point to an instance where early windows fail in this respect, which is more than can be said of much recent work, the cause of which will be referred to later.

In the best modern English windows the designing, working cartoons, arranging the coloring and painting of the glass, are the work of carefully trained artists, each stage of the work receiving equal care and skill. The result under these conditions is invariably satisfactory and fulfils its purpose to a degree worthy of the closest observation.















































REAR View TORONTO UNIVERSITY. —CUMBERLAND & STORM, ARCHITECTS.



to note the points which constitute these qualities, and make both, to a greater or lesser degree admirable, though so widely different. The English method consists of painting with a brown enamel and amber stain on various colors and gradations of glass, technically known as "antique." The American method consists of a series of inlays of "opalescent" glass without painting, except in the flesh portions, which are usually executed in semi-natural enamel colors and afterwards backed, or plated, with a pale film of smooth opal glass, thus bringing the flesh into harmony with the draperies and accessories of the picture, the outlines of which depend largely on the lead lines to express the artist's aim.

The possibilities of either style are not gauged by individuals or centuries but lend themselves to a thousand and one phases which will always allure the creative mind.

The essential points of a figure window, or any decorative effort in stained glass, are 1st, color; 2nd, design; 3rd, painting. If the color scheme is satisfactory, one may forgive inferior design; on the contrary, however excellent the design or painting, if the distribution of color be inharmonious, the result is disappointing. This is forcibly illustrated in much of the

There is indeed a refinement and decorative grace in their best windows and a desire to maintain a symmetry of scale which others would do well to profit by. A disregard of this latter item has led to the perpetual ruin of some fairly good interiors, Trinity Church, New York, to wit, and Grace Church too, where one is asked to "go and view the windows "—not the church. Now truly the windows should not protrude themselves at the sacrifice of all else—but in the absence of an artistic governing influence, individuals and their choice of artist have too often a free hand—hence many churches contain a great variety of "specimens of memorial windows."

The importance of an equality in scale, therefore, as well as a continuity of design and studied color scheme throughout, must be apparent. It was this very principle that brought about the effects we so much admire in early glass.

Allow me to say in conclusion: opalescent glass is undoubtedly a fascinating medium. It possesses a kind of hypnotizing influence, not always soothing, but even in its most fantastic vagaries there is a certain charm about it which one can scarcely escape.

The question is, "Is it the true principle?" Let us consult our forefathers !

