<doctype type="text">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

A HOUSE IN ROSEDALE, TORONTO. - -R. J. EDWARDS,



ARCHITECT.



HOSPITAL, CHARLOTTETOWN, P.E.I. C. B. CHAPPELL,



ARCHITECT.



ALMSHOUSES, CHISLEHURST, ENG. A. T. TAYLOR, F. R. I. B. A.,



ARCHITECT.











































































PUTTING THE FINISHING TOUCHES TO THE TOWER OF THE



NEW MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS, TORONTO.



The accompanying illustration shows the roofers engaged in putting the finishing touches to the new municipal buildings, Toronto. The platform shown at the apex of the tower was erected for the purpose of putting in position a terra cotta finial 12 feet in height. When it is mentioned that this finial stands 300 feet above the ground level, it will be admitted that the job which is engaging the attention of the workmen is one requiring no small amount of skill and nerve. Messrs. Duthie & Sons, of Toronto, are the contractors for this work.

The total weight of this tower is upwards of 11,000 tons. It rests upon a foundation 72 feet in diameter. The tower itself is 32 feet square. The clock tower is 56 feet below the summit. The opening designed to show the clock dial is 20 feet in diameter, and from this point a magnificent view of the city is obtainable.



S. P. S. DINNER.

THE tenth annual dinner of the undergraduates of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, held on the 9th inst., was as usual a well attended and successful function. The chair was occupied by Mr. W. E. H. Carter. Among the invited guests, in addition to members of the Faculty, were the Minister of Education Mr. S. H. Townsend, President of the Ontario Association of Architects Prof. Mayor, Toronto University ; Mr. A. W. Campbell, Provincial Road Instructor, and Mr. Archibald Blue, of the  Ontario Mining Bureau. The Minister of Education, referring to the development of the School of Science, stated that in 1883 there were only 11 students, as compared with 160 this year. He likewise made the gratifying statement that so far as he was concerned the school should want for nothing in the way of equipment necessary to its highest efficiency.

The credit for the success of the dinner is largely due to the efforts of the following gentlemen comprising the committee Messrs. W. E. H. Carter, Chairman T. Shanks, Vice-Chairman; Alex. H. Smith, Secretary W. F. Thorold, Treasurer W. H. Boyd, W. W. VanEvery, F. F. Clark, C. H. Boehmer, W. F. Grady, L. Veates, J. B. Roaf, J. F. Wilkin. The menu was printed on white tracing paper, enclosed in cover of white drawing paper, having as a front spiece an artistic pen and ink sketch, the work of Mr. W. H. Boyd.

TORONTO CHAPTER OF ARCHITECTS.

THE Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects held a very successful meeting in the School of Practical Science on Monday evening, Nov. 14th. There was an attendance of about sixty, which augurs well for the success of these meetings during the winter. The Chapter meets on the evening of the second Monday in each month, and all members of the profession, students and all persons interested in architecture are welcomed.

The lecturer at this meeting was the Rev. C. H. Shortt, M.A., his subject being " English Ecclesiastical Architecture in the Time of King Henry." Mr. Shortt prefaced his lecture by a few remarks upon the great desirability of bringing home to the public the pleasure and benefit which they would derive from a study of the history of architecture, and showed clearly how the development of culture and good taste in the art depended not only upon the knowledge and experience of the architect, but also upon a  knowledge by the public of the difference between good and bad work. He urged the members of the association to become leaders in an organized crusade having that object in view. In his address on Perpendicular Gothic he dwelt upon the criticisms of the work of that period by Ruskin and others, suggesting that it was more severe than the faults of the work warranted, and making a strong plea for the right of recognition of many beautiful features of the architecture of the period. He conducted his audience through the transition from the early Norman work to the choir of Gloucester Cathedral and the veneering of the nave of Winchester, and showed how free from plagiarism was the work of that time, and how nowhere out of England could work of this character be seen. That was a period of monarchs whose orders were simply that a grand building should be erected, regardless of cost and conditions such as surround the architect of to-day. It was a period of wealth and prosperity in England. The lecturer referred to the introduction of colored glass in churches, and showed how it became a cause for the enormous windows of the period, divided into numerous panels by beautifully moulded mullions running to the top of the shield of the arch, and the probability that this led to the panelling of stone walls and the filling of the panels with paintings. After a brief discussion and a vote of thanks to Mr. Shortt, the meeting adjourned.

At the regular monthly meeting held in the School of Practical Science on Monday evening, December 12th, the chair was occupied by Mr. Helliwell. Mr. A. F. Wickson and Mr. W. A. Langton were unanimously reelected to represent the Chapter on the Technical School Board. Mr. F. S. Baker read a paper giving an Englishman's impression of "Domestic Architecture in the Eastern States," which was discussed at length by the members present. The next meeting will be held on Monday evening, January 9th, when a paper will be read by Mr. J. Wilson Gray.





PERSONAL.

Mr. John H. Tilden, of the Gurney-Tilden Company, has decided to be candidate for the mayorality of Hamilton.



The announcement is made in the public print of the intended marriage at Flushing, Long Island, N. V., on the 29th Inst., of Mr. Vaux Chadwick, architect, of Toronto, to Miss Bessie Murray

