<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and Friday evenings, is under the direction of Messrs. Henry J. Peters and George a Monette. Exercises are given in geometry and projection, and instruction in the details of framing, plans and elevations of buildings and the preparation of working drawings.

The class in Stair r Building and Building Construction is taught























 <article title=" Correspondence." author="">

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES.



By the courtesy of the management I am enabled to present to your readers some particulars regarding the evening drawing and industrial classes at the Montreal School of the Council of Arts and Manufactures oft the Province of Quebec, accompanied by illustrations showing specimens of the work of the pupils. There are classes in Freehand Drawing, Architectural and Mechanical Drawing, Boot and Shoe Pattern Making, Lithography, Modelling, Stair Building and Building Construction, and Plumbing. With the exception of the Mechanical Drawing class and the Plumbing class, which meet at 183 Congregation street and in the old St. Gabriel church, respectively, the classes are held in the Monument National, 218 St. Lawrence street.

The Freehand Drawing class is divided into junior and senior sections, the former meeting on Mondays and Thursdays under the direction of Messrs. Joseph St. Charles and J. H. Egan. In this preparatory class the pupil begins by drawing differently shaped blocks, and progresses to more complicated forms. The method of drawing from solids is one which has been recognized by the leading European schools, as best adapted for the instruction of beginners.

The advanced Freehand Drawing class, which is under the direction of Mr. E. Dyonett, A.R.C.A. meets every Wednesday and Friday. After one year spent in the junior class, students graduate into the advanced class, and are put to drawing parts of the human figure from plaster casts. As progress is made more difficult subjects are presented, until the full length antique figure is reached, after which the student is prepared to draw directly from a living model.

The class in Architectural Drawing, which meets on Monday

COUNCIL	OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES, MONTREAL—SPECIMEN OF PUPILS' WORK IN STAIR BUILDING CLASS.





by Mr. L. H. Blouin. It meets every Wednesday and Friday evening. Instruction is given in making drawings and tracings of building details, and in methods of construction. Special at-tent Ion is paid to the important subject of stair building, and explanations in relation to the construction of buildings. The

