<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MARBLE WORK." author=" BLAGROVE, George H.">



more we are convinced of its truth. It is evident that the full appreciation of form depends upon contrast. It may be a contrast of light and shade upon one material, as in the case of a bas-relief, or a band of carved ornament ; or it may be a contrast between the colors of two different materials, as in the case of a statue enshrined in a niche but in either case there are only two colors or shades to be broadly contrasted the introduction of a third would weaken the effect. The sharpest accentuation of form is obtained by projecting white against black, or black against white ; and this can be exemplified in reference to marble inlay or mosaic. The most feeble presentation of poses which are intended to be strikingly effective, may be seen in the " tortuous attitudinising" of harlequin in his variegated costume, the brilliantly contrasted colors in which quite distract attention from the form which it covers. If the man were arrayed in one color, we should distinguish his figure clearly against a suitable background. It follows that if the forms of architectural details are to be shown to advantage, they must be executed in  uni-colored marbles. No cornice or other group of mouldings can exhibit its lines in their full meaning when their contiguity is traversed by the irregular markings of a variegated pattern. It is safer to reserve the variegated marbles generally for use in large masses of plain surface only, where there is no form to be impressed upon the eye except that of the outline. Even veined marbles should be employed with caution for architectural features. It was the opinion of Sir William Chambers that marble columns should not be fluted ; and this was due to the feeling that the breadth of a veined surface ought not to be interrupted with sharp vertical lines.

Another point to be observed in connection with marble work is that all delicate mouldings, and sunk or raised enrichments, should be executed in marble of light color, if not white. Slight shadows and subtle gradations of light are overwhelmed by a depth of strong color. Dark-colored marbles require very bold treatment to give any appreciable emphasis to high lights and depths of shadow. Those who have been accustomed only to designing ornament in white marble, freestone, wood or plaster, will find themselves at fault unless they adopt a fundamentally different method in dealing with such a material as Ashford, or the dark green serpentine of Letterfrack, which, though not strictly a marble, is used and regarded as such by marble decorators. The mouldings and enrichments most effectively executed in dark-colored marbles are those of abrupt contour, which admit of sharp, concentrated high lights, and depths of shadow undiluted by reflection. Polish intensifies the depth of color when not exposed to direct light, while it increases the brilliancy of high lights. This is why polish should be applied, by preference, to dark-colored rather than o lightcolored marbles. It is upon plain surfaces, however, that polish comes most into requisition, as in walllinings and dadoes, and the hoxed enclosures to iron construction, to which marble is most extensively applied in modern work. It may, and indeed has been objected against the practice of veneering with thin slabs of marble, that the result is only to produce an elaborate sham. But everything depends upon how the veneering is done. If slabs of marble are affixed to a wall in such a  manner as to break joint, the joints at the external angles being concealed in mitres or in quirks of beds ; if steps are formed with treads, risers

and spandril ends of the same material, the very veins and patterns of the marble being so arranged that they shall run in unbroken continuity from one slab to another if, in short, every effort be made to deceive the spectator into imagining that the thin slabs are really solid blocks of marble, then the whole composition is a sham, and is utterly offensive to good taste. But if, on the other hand, the designer simply sets himself to produce pleasing decoration, instead of trying to imitate construction which does not exist, he will boldly confess that his decoration is only a casing, and does not pretend to be anything more, and his wall-linings will not be confined to the tiresome regularity of equal-sized slabs, breaking joint ; but he will consider himself free to use panels of forms which bear no relationship to solid masonry, being merely beautiful in themselves and his external angles may be treated with mouldings in a different material from the wall-linings, which they could not be if the whole were required to be an imitation of solid work. He will case up a girder with panelled soffit, side architraves, and moulded string courses above, all in marbles of different colors, because he does not wish to counterfeit a solid marble beam carried over an impossible hearing; and he will follow a similar principle in enclosing an iron stanchion. The Venetian architects of the Romanesque period treated the art of marble veneer upon sound principles, honestly exposing? the edges of the slabs, which they often decorated with simple nail-head enrichments.

There is one caution to be observed in the use of colored marbles, and that is not to employ too many colors. Of course this applies to every kind of decoration into which color finds admittance, but in dealing with marble the temptation is too often to revel in a variety of stones. Brecciatted marbles of large pattern find their place only in panels of proportionate size, in which the beauty of the material is fully exhibited, suitably framed. An adjacent panel, if smaller, may often be filled with the same breccia, taken from another part of the bed which is found to furnish the same pattern on a smaller scale. Thus may a frequently recurring? difficulty be surmounted without the necessity of resorting to different marbles for small panels. With uni-colored marbles, perhaps the richest combinations may be formed with crimson griotte, jaune Lamartine, dark green porphyry, Cardiglio, and the pale green campan, with the addition of black and white. We can scarcely indicate any that are uni-colored within the strictest acceptance of the term, but in those that are ordinarily so styled, the markings are so small and subdued, that they do but serve slightly to tone down the prevailing color. Hence it is that absolutely pure primary colors are not obtainable in marble decoration, and hence arises the importance of preserving clearly defined contrasts between the stones selected, avoiding any two between which a modified resemblance subsists.



In putting the plate glass front in the new Thomson block at Vancouver, the usual supporting post at the corner was dispensed with, and the ground edges of the glass clamped together. The front was designed by J. W. Mitchell, and the work executed by the Vancouver Plate Glass Co. This method has also been adopted in a new store front on King street west, Toronto.



Mr. Ryan, of Smiths Falls, contractor for the Carleton Place town hail, has brought suit for damages against one of the subcontractors, Mr. Win. Willoughby, of Carleton Place, who, being a member of the town council, was obliged to relinquish his contract owing to the refusal of the council to accept his resignation as a member of that body.

