<doctype type="text">

plete idea of the usefulness of the work to architects, builders and contractors. The volume before us contains upwards of 500 pages, o x 9 inches, and is illustrated by over 500 figured and scaled working diagrams, besides a large number of tables and other useful data.



Some Points on Estimating.

It is the close figures that makes the most reliable estimate, and where con-

tracts generally prove satisfactory all round. Every inch of material and every minute of time should be counted, and the figures should always avoid that dangerous risk ''that's near enough." There is no such thing in successful estimating as ''near enough " '' exactly right " is what is required, then you know what you are doing. Remember always, that it costs more to do the same work in an tipper story than it does in a lower one. Doors, same size, equal finish, same time, and furnished with same style of hardware, cost from one to three per cent. more to finish when in an tipper story. The higher tip, the higher the cost, and what is true of doors is also true of every other kind of work. It is utterly impossible to tell the exact cost of one part of a building by comparing it with the cost of a similar piece of work. You may get near it, but you should not be satisfied with that. It pays the estimator to estimate on everything and to be exact in every estimate. Avoid accepting figures that are not your own, and, above all, put no trust in estimates of cost as given in architectural books and journals, unless such estimates are itemized and you have gone over the figures yourself. Many a young builder has lost his reputation—and his money by taking it for granted that a certain house, illustrated, can be finished complete for the sum stated in book or journal. These are traps arid snares for the unwary -avoid them. Estimates obtained from an architect's once are generally correct so far as quantities are concerned, but are generally woefully lacking in the time, labor and prices. There are so many things the architect wots not of, such as scaffolding, handling material, and other things, that render his figures doubtful, that it is always better to make your own. It is just as bad to overdo an estimate as to underdo it, for in one case you lose your work and in the other your money, and in these days of close

yea, savage competition, it is the man who figures everything, and figures exact, that takes the work. If you cannot estimate with confidence in your own ability, or have no trusted workman who can estimate, you had better let ''contracting " alone, or you will find yourself in deep water before you are aware of it.



EVERY carpenter desiring to advance Wood-Carving, and better his condition should provide

himself with a few wood-carving tools, and should occasionally practice a little at the woodcarver's art. There have been great changes in the style and character of carpenter and joiner work during the last twenty-five years in this country. What was considered fairly elaborate work then would scarcely be tolerated now, and the substitution of hardwood finish for pine and other soft woods renders it absolutely necessary that a workman, to be held in any esteem, should have some knowledge of carving. He need not be an expert, but he ought to be able to carve an architrave block, a rosette, or a newel post, ornament the face of a drawer, or execute any little carved work that may be necessary about hardwood finish in an ordinary house. The price of a small ''kit" of carving tools, consisting

of, say, six pieces, need not be more than $1.50, and a few hours' practice of their use would enable any clever workman to execute plain carving with a considerable amount of success. Incised work, which is a simple matter, and which is performed with a V tool only, is much in vogue just now, and is very effective for some purposes when properly done and artistically designed. In fitting up country or village shops, it is astonishing how attractive the front of the shelving, counters, cornice and drawers may be made by a judicious introduction of a little carved and incised work here and there. Particularly is this true of drug stores and of barber shops having any pretensions. A little carving, too, may be applied to bars and bar counters, in the better class hotels and saloons, to their improvement. Indeed, there are hundreds of opportunities where a little plain carving will greatly enrich the work and bring credit and profit to the workman. At any rate, it will always be a source of pleasure to the workman to know he is able to perform a bit of carving should he ever be called upon to do it ; and, when an architect is confident he can get such work done, he will be apt to introduce in his designs a little of it at first, and more and more as the public become educated up to it. It is a lamentable fact that modern domestic architecture in this country is almost entirely devoid of carving, while in the older countries of Europe the most humble dwelling is often adorned with tasteful carvings to some extent. In Switzerland carvings and perforated woodwork are everywhere, in castle and chalet, and the lowliest cot often contains gems of fine carving.



<article title=" QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS." author="">

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

J.	C.,'' Kingston, Ont. writes '' What is the best material to use to fill up the joints in a maple floor that has been laid for some five or six years and has shrunk away ? It is a hospital floor and has to be waxed, and the filling of cracks ought to be same color as present floor, so as not to be conspicuous.

ANSWER. (1) If the floor is badly shrunk, it should be taken up and relaid. (2) If taking up is impossible, and joints are more than one-sixteenth inch open, fill with white lead putty, and color to suit. In a week the joints will be as hard as the flooring. (3) If joints are not more than one-sixteenth inch open or less, clean out well with pointed tool and hair brush, coat over the whole floor with Wheeler's patent wood-filler, or other reliable wood-filler, seeing that the joints are filled up flush. Let stand about an hour, then rub (across the grain) with excelsior, making sure the joints are well filled. The rubbing must be clone thoroughly, and continued, until the work seems dry. This done, let the floor stand for 24 hours, then --for a hospital shellac the floor, and you will have a smooth, unbroken floor. Before applying the wood-filler, thin it down with spirits of turpentine to a thick cream consistency ; apply with brush.



The Gurney-Tilden Company, Limited, of Hamilton, Ont., have opened a branch warehouse at 134 Bay street, Toronto, where a stock of their radiators, boilers and stoves will be kept constantly on hand for the convenience of architects, plumbers, etc. This branch will be in charge of Mr. George H. Taylor.



A nice stain for light walnut, or pine or oilier light woods, can be made by dissolving permanganate of potash in water, say one drachm to three ounces of water, or in proportion to give lie right shade. Go over the wood twice, wait five minutes, then wash the stain with clear water, let it dry, and finish as you like. For dark walnut mix the stain darker by using less water, or put of more coats. Pencil in the dark veins with acetate of iron.

