<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences." author="">

	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



given, were poorly attended, because the public did not know what the O.A.A. was. The subjects were not such as would interest the public, and they were not held down-town. The lecturers were unaccustomed to lecturing. All such efforts were far too spasmodic.

If the Association is to be of any use, if it is to live, a radical change must be made. The O.A.A. has a charter and it must not he allowed to get mouldy. The next annual convention is drawing near, therefore now is the time for action, which must be immediate and decisive. Architects outside Toronto see no advantage in remaining members. Let the Council think out a plan by which the 0. .A.A. can be made attractive to them something else than paying a subscription to help students. Put the idea of obtaining legislation into the background for a few years. Have no more " figure-head" presidents. Let us have new blood in the Council active men who are not worn out with the failure of their efforts in the past. Let the programme of the conventions be really interesting—worth going to Toronto for. If there are lectures, don't let the lecturers say they have not had time to prepare, and don't give us extracts from text books by way of lectures. Suppose the Council set to work, issue an earnest appeal to all the architects of the province to come to die convention, whether they are members of the O.A.A. in good standing or not, for the purr-pose of discussing its future, and let them have a scheme to submit. When all the architects have learned that the O.A.A. is a necessity, and when the public have learned it is a good thing, then legislation may be asked for and will be easily obtained. A good many besides myself would be glad to rejoin the O.A.A. if the Council can give us good reason for doing so.



Yours truly,



R.	W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.







TORONTO, December 16th, 1898.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—I am obliged to you for sending me a proof of Mr. Boos-field's letter. I have no remarks to make upon it except that, if Mr. Bousfield can propose any definite plan for making the Association of more value to the profession, the Council will be very glad to hear from him. Indeed, I am instructed to ask him to read a paper upon the subject at the next convention.



Yours truly,

W.	A. LANGTON, Registrar.







THE LYCH-GATE.



HAMILTON, Nov. 18, 1898.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—In defending some one whom we now know to be Mr. Gibson, for making use of a lych-gate, as it was supposed to be by the writer of your leader in October, ii seems I have struck a snag. The lych-gate has developed a serious and alarming argument as to, in what the skill of an architect lies, while it remains itself in the field as a subject for discussion as to the propriety of its use in these days. I feel inclined to get rid of the lych-gate first, as being the lesser subject, that I may have more room to deal with the other and larger question, so here goes. First, as to whether the lych-gate "has any real use." I would like to ask the writer of the leader if he has ever witnessed an old country scene, which, though I have nothing of the novelist about me, I will try shortly to describe. There has been a death in the village and there is to be a funeral in consequence. All the village takes a great interest in such an event, and crowds of rustics, male and female, old and young, collect not at the house or cottage, for that would not be village etiquette, but respectfully at the church yard gate. As the time for tile arrival of the funeral procession draws near, a lane is formed by the crowd along which the coffin bearers, on foot, followed by the mourners, may pass to the gate. The bearers reach the gate here there is a delay, they must await the arrival of the clergyman, who will come to the gate to meet the procession perhaps, too, it may be necessary to wait the arrival of other mourners from the country side. The bearers are not sorry to have the opportunity of taking a rest before proceeding with the coffin to the side of the grave. The gate is a lych-gate and forms a convenient place under which to rest the coffin, sheltered from sun or rain, and obviously it is more fitting to let down the coffin here than out in the open road. Here then is the use of the lych-gate. (Lych or corpse gate— from "lich," Anglo-Saxon for corpse). The lych-gate is an exceed

ingly picturesque feature and an adaptation of' it for the purpose of art entrance to a garden park or anything else, I maintain is perfectly legitimate, arid that the scathing criticism against such a procedure is absolutely uncalled for.



Now for the "skill of an architect " and in what it consists. I do not want to he too severe as the author of the leader which has given rise to these letters is to me an '' unknown quantity,'' but I feel like handling him without gloves. What does he mean by the sentence "On the whole there are few 'features' characteristic of former generations that remain in use in the present time, and can be imported bodily into modern work." He places the word features between commas, arid perhaps he attaches a different meaning to it than that which is usually understood by the word. By the word features we understand windows, doorways, spires, towers, columns arid a hundred other portions that go to make tip a whole design, even including lych-gates, all of which remain in use at the present time, and I say that art architect shows his skill by adapting these features to present day requirements. But the leader writer, according to his argument, would consider that an architect who made use of the lancet form of window and adapted it for, say, a staircase hall, was glaringly ignorant of the first principles of his profession. Then let one ask him how did "Mediaeval designers" "make features." If my clerk, with six months reading of elementary treatises on architecture made use of such art expression, and told me that Mediaeval architects

made features" I should tell him lie had better start arid read his book again for that he had missed the whole principle of the development of the art. l)id the "Mediaeval designer" MAKE features out of the requirements of his time or out of anything else?

Our unknown quantity says that architecture is " a process and he is right, and therefore he ought to know well enough that the " Mediaeval designer" simply assisted in the process of development, he did not make features, he could not do it any more than we can now-a-days lie adapted lie magic use of the work of centuries, the study of generations of his predecessors, and he adapted their work, and produced a further step in the gradual process of development. "Adapt" does nor mean

slavishly copy," but rather to curt and shape, turn and twist, if need be, to make a general outline arid even detail and make it suit a present day requirement. All architecture since the fifteenth century is classed as ''imitative," and if the word "imitative is a correct description of time work of the last three centuries, certainly time word "adapt" is appropriate. Our work therefore being

or adapted," it is not produced by the same process by which "good architecture" was produced in olden times. The development of architecture was due entirely to structural necessities—-a well known fact—to be observed in the work of all past ages. These structural necessities naturally differed in every climate, and were dependent upon the materials at hand. Nothing is more interesting than to trace the various steps of development front the earliest and rudest structures, first to time application of the arch, and then the various consecutive stages in the history of the arch, until the climax was attained in the pointed arch, which was, we may truly say, forced upon the "mediaeval designers" by the necessities of construction for a particular purpose. 



But I am not now lecturing to a class of students when next I do so I shall be glad to give your leader-writer a ticket of admission, as further remarks on the history of architecture would be more appropriate there than in your correspondence columns. I am sorry to have to inflict so long a letter upon you, but your leader is responsible for it.



Yours truly,



R.	XV. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.





[Mr. Bousfield's graphic description of the use to which the lych-gate still continues to be put in England accounts clearly for its invention as arm adjunct to an English churchyard, but not for its application as time entrance gate of a gentleman's house, which was the point in question. As to the larger questions—what is a feature did mediaeval designers make then arid why should we not adapt them to other purposes? We can only reply that we should call the lych-gate a feature that the mediaeval designers certainly made it to meet requirements such as Mr. Boos-field describes and we think its adaptation as a gateway to a gentleman's house is questionable, because it is formed to meet requirements which do not exist in a gentleman's house. Than they do still exist in a cemetery is a reason not for but against its ornamental application elsewhere.—EDITOR C. A. & B.]

