<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title="Quicksand" author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



water, so regulated that the coal is made to float while the shale falls to the bottom, and heavy iron tools have been carried to the surface by the sudden discharge of artesian wells. Quicksands (says Invention) that are encountered during the sinking of wells and foundations are all due to the influx of water when the work gets below ''spring level" or the level of water in the ground. The sand, being deprived of the support of the excavated part, is pushed from behind by the water current flowing in from all sides.



<article title="Action of Frost on Building Materials." author="">

ACTION OF FROST ON BUILDING

MATERIALS.

ONE of the most important features in structural materials of all kinds is their permanence under the influence of atmospheric influences. Of all these perhaps the one that exercises the greatest mechanical effect is frosty which tends to disintegrate bricks and stone by the expansion in the act of freezing of the water enclosed in the pores, with a consequent separation of particles of flakes when thawing ensues. Few readers have ever thought of testing the permanency of their goods tinder such conditions ; the winter time provides a seasonable opportunity and there is no reason why every manufacturer should not, if we have frost enough, be able to ascertain to what extent his goods will stand frost. This can be determined by a very simple test -. namely, by direct freezing. Let typical samples of the goods be chosen during frosty weather, and saturated with water, and then alternately Frozen and thawed a dozen times or more. Now, if the samples to be tested are weighed dry and the loss of weight by exfoliation determined also on the dry samples, the thing is accomplished. It would be possible to create a standard of permanency by counting a given percentage of loss as

unity (this would have to be chosen arbitrarily) and then referring other percentages of loss to it. Thus might be created a scale of permanency, and when about to enter into a contract this might be referred to just in the same way as the resistance to crushing strain is now quoted.



A cement for repairing cast iron tanks is prepared by melting



at a low heat (so as to prevent the brimstone catching fire) 5



parts of brimstone, 2 parts of blacklead and 2 parts of sifted cast iron filings. Before applying the cement warm the metal by laying a red hot iron over it. The metal must be perfectly dry, so as not to generate steam, and then stop up the damaged part with the cement applied in a soft state by gently heating it in an i-on ladle.





Artists' and Draughtmen's Materials, The Art Metropole, Toronto



The Robb Hot Water Heater, Robb Engineering Co. Ltd, Amherst N.S.





Boston Hot Blast System, Boston Blower Co. Geo. W. Reed & Co., Montreal

