<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND



PLASTERERS' PRICES.

At the last meeting of the Toronto Chapter of Architects, Mr. J. M. Gander, in the absence through illness of Mr. W. J. Hynes, submitted, on behalf of the Master Plasterers' Association, the following as a desirable schedule of charges to govern on extra work

	Metal lathing	35 cts. per yard.

	Lathing ordinary	7

	       1" lath	8

 nails to 4 ft—add             

	One coat mortar on lath	14

	Two coat work hard white finish	18

	Three	24

	Gauged work additional	15

	Dubbing out to be charged where plastering

	   exceeds 1" in thickness.

	Floated stucco sand finish	24

	   Jointing additional.

	Trowelled stucco	35

Portland cement plastering     80 cts. to $1.00 Governed by quantity and quality.

Keene's cement finish on Portland-—

	On brick walls	$1.00

	   On metal lathing		$1.25

	Lime whiting		4

	Rendering before strapping             

	Puggiug 1 1/2" thick		12

Moulded cornices one cent per inch in girth but not less than 15 cts. per foot run.

Material not to exceed 11/2" in any place.

All mitres over 4 in a room each to count as one foot by the girth.

Angle beads and chamfers, per foot run    

	Metal angles	15

TORONTO GUILD OF CIVIC ART.

THE Toronto Guild of Civic Art, which aims at fulfilling for Toronto the functions of the Municipal Art Commission of New York, has been introducing itself to the Toronto public by an exhibition of photographic prints of wall decorations kindly lent by the publishers, Messrs. Curtis & Cameron, of Boston.

The subject of mural decoration is at present chiefly before the Guild, as its only official function just now is to represent the city as a supervising body, to work with Mr. G. A. Reid in preparing his design for the decoration of the entrance to the new city hall. It is probable that there will be more work of the same kind for the Guild to do in the near future, for since the introduction of canvas as a ground for wall painting, the art has become so much more feasible that it is rapidly growing, and even commercial buildings have their wall paintings, while a great public building in the United States, such as the Boston public library or the Congressional library, is not considered complete until the walls are painted.

But the functions proposed by the Guild embrace all branches of municipal art. The members are not themselves professed experts, though there is naturally a strong representation in it of the friends and patrons of

































STUDY FOR MURAL DECORATION, ENTRANCE HALL, NEW CITY BUILDINGS, TORONTO.—G. A. REID, R.C.A.

From R.C.A. Exhibition



Window and door jambs 8" deep and under.. 10 cts. per yard. Center flowers, ordinary stock

24' diameter or under put up, each....... . $2.00 Enriched members, not over 2" ordinary

	stock	10 cts. per foot.

Larger or special centre flowers or enrichments governed by character and selection

All work modelled to be charged extra.

Allowance for hoisting charges to be made for all work over 2 storeys in height.

All work to be measured superficial openings half deducted.

Plasterers to be charged	35 cts. per hour.

Lathers to be charged	30

Laborers to be charged	25

All overtime to be charged rime and a half.

Lath per M yard	$2.50

	100	,,	25

Lath nails per lb.	6

Sand per yard delivered	$1.50

Barrel or barrow in yard	30

Mortar— Per load double team, $5.00; delivered $6.00

	single	3.00	3.50

		1.50	2.00

	4 " "	75	1.25

	brk. or barrow	75

	hod or keg	20

	pail, not less	10

	load shingling	mortar 	3.00

Putty—Per barrel in yard $2.50;	50 cts. extra.

	pail   	 25

	Plaster—Per barrel	2.50	50

	keg 	 75

	pail  	 40

	Patent plasters—per bag	with sand	50 cts.

	pail	35

Portland cement—Per pail	50

art, and one-third of the advisory board will always be composed of an equal number of artists and architects. The function of the body is rather to provide a disinterested body of public spirited men who are interested only in seeing that if the city decides to spend money on art, it shall be spent so as to get art. In New York this body is established by law, and all expenditure of money upon art, and all gifts to the city of objects of art, must be approved by the Art Commission. In Toronto the Guild of Art was recognized by the last city council in a resolution to '' avail itself of the services of the Guild as occasions arise.

It is desirable that architects should belong to a body of this kind—at least those architects whose interest in art is large enough to induce them to take a hand in a public work at the cost of but little more than their moral support and annual subscription of a dollar for expenses. The occasional meeting with other persons interested in fostering good art will also be a duty of membership, but ought to be counted as a compensating privilege rather than a burden.



The various manufacturers of sanitary ware at St. Johns, Que., have recently combined their interests under the name of the Potters' Manufacturing Association with the object of controlling prices. Mr. Edwin Plant, of Montreal, has been appointed selling agent for the association. Prices have been advanced from 25 to 75 per cent.

