<doctype type="text">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND



LEGAL.

A Canadian appeal case which recently came before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council reveals that disputes can easily arise between partners, says the Builders Reporter. In 1877 the late Simon Peters obtained a contract amounting to $529, 296 for the construction of a dock in Quebec. An extra work of $ 18,393 was afterwards ordered. Mr. Peters entered into an arrangement with Messrs. Moore & Wright to do part of the work on the understanding that, while appearing as partners, each would be paid at contract price for whatever was done. Instalments were duly received, and when the dock was completed the harbor commissioners offered $52,0 it as the balance. The amount was considered insufficient, and the courts afterwards awarded $87,468 as the amount clue. The partners could not agree about the proportion in which the money should be divided, and $68,972 were lodged in the hank. Litigation began and in 1896 the court held that as the agreement between the parties was not definite, the sect ion of t lie civil code should he applied which



ins that when t lie shares of part tiers are not fixed, they must be considered to be of equal amount. On appeal it was decided that Mr. Peters' representatives should be paid $27,667, the remainder becoming the property of Messrs. Moore & Wright, who were dissatisfied with the arrangement, and appealed to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The decision was given against the appellants on most of the points raised, and they were ordered to pay' three—fourths of the costs. The result is another instance of the risks which are incurred by infiniteness in the language of deeds, for in this case it was evidently intended that neither party the partnership should earn a dollar through the labors of the other.





PERSONAL.

The death is reported of Mr. Alexander McKinnon, a prominent contractor at Picton, Ont.

Mr. William Cooper, a well known contractor. of Clinton, Ont. was killed by falling from a scaffold on August t 17th.



Mr. Thos. A. Harvey, late of London, Out - , has recently graduated in civil engineering at Rennsselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y., has seen red a position with the Pennsylvania St eel Co., of  Harrisburg, Pa.



Mr. R. W. G. Bousfield has recently opened an office for the practice of architecture in the Spectator building, Hamilton, Ont. Mr. Bousfield is well known in the profession, having while a resident in Toronto taken an active part in the affairs of the Ontario Association of Architects. We trust that he may meet with success.

Mr. G. H. FelIowes Pyrnne, who was recently elected president of the London Architectural Association, was in the early 70s a draughtsman in the office of Mr. R. C. Windeyer, architect, at Toronto, Ont. In 1875 he returned to England and etiterecl the office of the late Mr. G. E. Street, R.A. , subsequently working wit h Mr. Swinfen  Harris, the late Mr. R. J . Witliers, and Mr. A. Waterhouse, R. A. He commenced practice in London in 1880, and has since designed many cliii relies, schools and vicarages.





It is reported that a company is in process of formation at Alwinston, Ont., the manufacture vitrified bricks,



The new city' directory of Montreal, recently published, gives the number of contractors as 560 carpenters and joiners, 90



plumbers and gas fitters, m6o painters, 90. The total population, inclusive of the suburbs, is 325,000.

The Dominion Government has expropriated the quarry belonging to Mr. Archibald Stewart, late contractor for sections and 2 of the Soulanges canal. The stone is required for use in the completion of the canal by the present contractors, Messrs., Ryan & McDounell.



In enclosing his subscriptions to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Mr. Geo, Schofield, of Fairview, B. C., writes ''I like your paper more and more, it is getting more beneficial and interesting all the time. I pass it over to the men and many valuable hints have they taken from it."

The assets of the Moir Granite Co., of Statistead, Ont., were recently purchased at auction for a nominal sum by the Eastern Town ships Batik. The stockholders, having lost what money they had invested, refused to redeem the property. The sale will in tidi way interrupt the operation of the quarries, which has for some time been conducted by Mr. David Moir upon a royalty.

WINNIPEG CLAY.

THOSE who have visited Winnipeg in the spring or autumn know something of the adhesive qualities of the clay in that locality. Until the present soft mud bricks of a light cream color are the only product of the local brick yards, but it is believed by some that clay' adapted to make a better class of building brick exists at no great distance from the city'. An American journal suggests that an opening exists for paving brick and sewer pipe and factories, but does not indicate where the raw material is to come from. It is a well—known fact to those acquainted with the subject that the manufacturers of these materials in the eastern provinces had many and serious obstacles to overcome before they attained the degree of perfection which has now been achieved. The difficulty of obtaining raw material embodying the exact constituents necessary to give to the manufactured product the durability and finish required, has been found to he one of the greatest obstacles to be overcome. The manufacturing apparatus to be employed, and the successful manipulation of the material so as to secure uniformly satisfactory results have only been determined as the result of long years of arduous experiment. In view therefore of the apparent lack of suitable raw material, and the limited local demand, it does not seem to us that our contemporary's advice in this matter could be profitably acted upon at the present time.



A NEW ARTIFICIAL STONE.

A SCOTCH firm is manufacturing an artificial stone which is said to stand every test, and to be impervious to all vagaries of the weather. T lie process is a simple one, and the ingredients of the stone, chiefly lime and sand, are not expensive commodities, so that it is believed that the artificial product will be able to compete with the real. The lime and sand having been thoroughly incorporated, are passed into moulding boxes, which may be of' any convenient size or shape, and these are placed within the converter. Water at high pressure, and having a high temperature, is then pumped into the converter to cause the necessary chemical union between the lime and sand, and the moulding boxes are also submitted to a temperature of about 400 degrees Fahrenheit by the action of superheated steam. In about thirty hours the surplus water is run off, but the heat is continued, in order to remove moisture from the moulding boxes, for another fifteen hours. The boxes are then removed from the converter, and the stone within them is practically ready for use. Experiments are now in progress from which it is hoped that other products of nature's laboratory, such as slate and marble, will presently be successfully imitated.



M r. C. P. Stowe, referring to the grinding of Portland cement at a recent meeting of the Civil Engineers' Climb of Chevelatich, said he found, in testing some foreign cements, that about 6o per cent, would pass I through a 200—mesh sieve, and about 80 Percent.



through one of 100 meshes. He had made some tests recently to ascertain the point of fineness at which cement ceases to be cement and becomes practically sand, and found it to the between mesh 200 and 400—mesh sizes. It was also found that much depends upon the mixture of  minerals before burning, the strength being about in proportion to the amount of mixing where the fineness is 200. He had some chimikems trout which a sand test would go higher than a neat one, and had found that a cement might be so fine that it will crystallize in a tieat test in such a way as not to carry the strength.

