<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARIMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE. BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



THE average life of a shingle roof was

Something About

Shingle Roots,	formerly placed at twenty-five years, but recent observations have proved

that the modern shingle roof does not live more than fifteen, and oftener, ten years and in many instances roofs that were shingled twenty-five or thirty years ago hold good, while neighboring roofs required re-shingling once or twice during the same period. Two reasons are given for the early decay and wear of the modern shingle. Latterly, shingles are made from fallen or burnt timber, and have but little life in them when cut into bolts. The lumbermen and mill men cut everything into boards that will make boards or dimension stuff and the culls, dozey butts and defective fragments of logs and burned timber are made into shingle bolts. The result of this system is that a large majority of the shingles that find their way into the market are half decayed before they are laid on the roof. Under proper architectural supervision such shingles would not be permitted to be used, but when the contractor is also the architect or superintendent, his interests are in the direction of cheap, and consequently, inferior shingles. Another cause of early decay in the modern shingle is that, as a rule, roofs are not now built with the acute pitch they were twenty or thirty years ago. A shingle will not last as long on a flat roof as on a steep one. The reasons are evident. The roof that sheds the water the quickest, dries the quickest, and lasts the longest. The pattering of the rain does not cut the shingles as it does on a flat roof; and tinder every condition a steep roof is less likely to leak than a flat one, and in case of a fire in adjacent buildings, a steep root stands a much better chance of escaping than one having a flat roof. It could be demonstrated by algebraical rules that, the steeper the root the longer it lasts, and a solution of the problem shows that, to get fair results, a roof should never be less in height than half the width of the house that is, one-half pitch. A quarter-pitch root, unless used on a cottage roof with hips, though a common roof in Canada, should not be employed if it is to be shingled, and further, it is offensive to good taste and is constructively bad, even when tied with collar—beams.



CONTINUING our remarks on the use of

Hip-Roof the 

Framing.	steel square, we take up the question of hip-roofs. Suppose the pitch



shown at Fig. 1 in the diagram, where the square is applied, is described on the architect's plans and specifications. Then the end of the blade of the square must only just enter the fence, as shown, and the tongue be adjusted to the pitch of the roof, whatever that may

be. Fig. 2 shows the square set to the pitch of the hip-rafter. The two squares as set give the plumb and level cuts. Fig. 3 shows the plan of a house 18 X 24 feet the rafters are laid off on the level, and measure nine feet from centre of ridge to outside of wall ; there should be a rafter pattern made, with 11w plumb cut at one end and the foot cut at the other. When the toot is marked off, place the end of the blade to the wall line, as shown in the diagram, and mark across the rafter at the outside of the tongue, and these marks on the rafter pitch will correspond with two feet on the level plan slide the square up the rafter and place the end of the blade to the mark last made, and mark outside the tongue as before. Repeat the process until nine feet are measured off, and then the length of the common rafter is correct, with the exception of half the thickness of the ridge-piece, which must be cut off the point of the



















































ratter in the plumb-cut. The rafters are laid off on part of the plan to show the appearance of the rafters in a roof of this kind ; but for working purposes, the rafters I, 2, 3, 4, and 6, with one hip rafter, is all that is required. For the hips and jack rafters, lay off a common rafter as explained, but make the pitch one-third ; that is, raise the ridge above the level of the wall plates one-third the width of the building. This pitch is obtained by employing the figures 8" on the tongue and 12 on the blade, which gives the length of one foot on the plan, and the plumb and level cuts. Next is the hip-rafter.

