<doctype type="text">

<article title="Church Architecture." author="Sturgis, R. Clipson">

CHURCH ARCHITECTURE.*

THE distinctive feature in the plan of mediaeval churches is the division of the building into a chance! crossing, transepts, nave and aisles. Whatever may have been the origin of the cruciform, this one thing is certain, that for all these peoples it signified the Cross which, except in the very earliest days, has always stood the foremost symbol of the Faith The aisles signified the Trinity. Besides these more obvious symbolisms, the chancel represented the Church triumphant, the nave the Church militant, or the new and the old dispensation. The chancel was further divided into sanctuary and choir, the one for the celebration of the Holy Eucharist, the other for the due rendering of the service. The sanctuary was fitted with altar, credence, piscina and sedilia, and the choir, besides stalls for clergy and choir, had lecture and pulpit. Side aisles contained side chapels and chantries, for daily or special services, and in these latter and also in the chancel, or chancel aisles, there were tombs, some of which were in themselves objects of veneration, as the last resting-place of saints.

All of these things represented some distinct phase of faith ·--the altar, the real presence of the Lord's body -the choir, the need of orders and ritual -chantries, prayers for the repose of souls of those who had died in the Faith. In so far as these beliefs are represented by these forms to-day, just so far and no farther are they fit forms for us to use. To all Christian bodies the cross is still the great symbol and the cruciform is ecclesiastically admissable and architecturally a boon. To the great mass of Christians, the apostles' creed is the utterance of their faith, and to them an expression of this faith in three-fold nave and aisles is fit and right. The chancel, with all its appurtenances, altar, sanctuary, choir, stalls, desk, etc., unfortunately belongs only to those whose ritual required these things, but where they are absent there is at least no reason why the ministers platform should be fitted up like an hotel parlor. Such opportunity as there is for dignity and reverential treatment should certainly be seized. Side chapels in a church whose service is said daily to a comparatively small number are in place, and a most useful addition. Chantries are practically antiquated, for prayers for the dead, when used, are said in private by a priest paid for the purpose.

So much for the circumstances under which these forms may be rightly used one word about the use of the form where the belief does not justify it. The architect who takes forms which have an ecclesiastical significance and origin, and uses them as artistic accessories where they have no significance, and where the faiths they mutely express are not believed in, is acting the part of a charlatan and playing upon the ignorance or carelessness of his clients. Even if his clients are willing to accept these things, it is an injustice to those to whom the forms belong in their entirety. Truth is the basis of architectural right and wrong. When mediaeval buildings used nave and aisles, chancel, sanctuary, Lady chapels and chantries, t hey represented vital forms of faith or served actual uses. Let us be equally true to—day, and em body in our churches only what those churches profess, provide not for mediaeval uses, now abandoned, but for modern needs.

Such, in the main, are the chief features of the old churches, which, as they answered needs similar to



Paper by Mr. R. Clipson Sturgis, Boston, read before the A. V of A.

ours, may be fitly followed to-day. There are other needs which are the outcome of growth and the advance of civilization, with which they were not called upon to grapple, and which we must solve for ourselves.



First, to finish with isolated or country churches before touching on the city problem, we need more or less ample accommodation for the clergy, for the choir, for the childrens' school, for the gathering of the various lay bodies who help in the great church work. For all these the old buildings give practically no precedent. Occasionally a vestry, a sacristy or an aumbrie was attached to the chancel. Even these were largely removed in Reformation days. There is, however, one rather apt lesson which the English ecclesiastical architects did most clearly teach, and that is, that if a need exists, the simplest and most direct solution is generally best, and if a place for a priest to vest was needed, they

a room of the necessary size where it was most conveniently placed for use, and this done, they found its architectural treatment practically settled.

The modern plan which one sees so often followed is to take some hard and fast well balanced scheme and let the morning chapel balance the vestry, the porch balance a lavatory and the Baptistry balance the rooms for mothers' meetings. This sort of thing may work well for large classic buildings, and sometimes seems the essential note in such plans, where the regular balance of the parts, and the relation of parts to the whole, are necessary to tile design but with churches



it is somewhat different, tile width and length of chancel have never had any fixed relation, nor has any such existed between nave and aisles, and tile meaning and use of the various parts . of the building have been a gradual natural growth, responding to need and fulfilled by a skill which was steadily improving. Such a growth cannot be reduced to a system such symmetry as exists is occult rather than obvious.

It may seem begging the question to thus pass over without comment churches built on classic lines, but I have for lack of time been obliged to confine myself to one country-—the one from which I believe we can learn most —and notwithstanding Wren's prolific production of semi-classic work, I do not think that either Wren or his followers have left a lasting mark on ecclesiastical architecture. Not a church rises in England to-day on the line of his work, while hundreds are following the lines of thought so rudely interrupted by the troubles of the Reformation. Nor does it in any way follow that the bodies who date only from the Reformation should hold to the models of chapel and meeting houses which were erected by their ecclesiastical forefathers, for we see clearly enough now that these men in the overzeal of reformers, a zeal which we cannot but admire, overthrew much that was beautiful and lovely and of good repute, and which was fit to make the service of God more reverent and more worthy. The barren meeting



houses, and despoiled and whitewashed churches are a warning, not a precedent.

When we turn from country to city churches we find ourselves confronted by wholly different problems. We have seen churches, built on the old plans, gradually surrounded by buildings which press in around them, crowd and overshadow them, until one must feel convinced that the solution has not been reached. Where in the country one can build low nave and aisles, and thus emphasize the height of spire and tower, of what use is this in a city where an office building, or even a

