<doctype type="text;ad">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



When the two lists have been made out, the first, which the accountant would call Resources, will be the larger, and the other, called Liabilities, the smaller, provided he is solvent. He will subtract the latter from the former, thereby showing his net capital or present worth.

The first thing to do in opening the books of any business is to make out lists in this way; in other words, to construct a balance sheet of the business.

The builder's balance sheet, preliminary to opening his books for the new year, will be something as follows:

R RESOURCES

Cash in hand                                    

Cash in bank	

Notes receivable                                  

Accounts receivable	

Work in process                                  (Under this head list the different operations in progress, setting opposite each the amount that is due at each time.)

Materials on hand	 (Under this head list the different lots of materials on

hand, extending opposite each its actual cash value.)

Equipment                                       

(Under this head list the different items of equipment, such as engines, derricks and machinery in general, scaffolding, benching, tools, horses, wagons, etc., putting opposite each its cash value.)

Other property	 (Under this head put a list of all other property in the

business, whether used specifically in building operations, or simply as a basis of credit. This would embrace real estate, including residence and all outside investments, like stocks, bonds, etc.)

LIABILITIES.

Notes payable	

Accounts payable	

Net worth or present investment n business	 (This is the difference between the two classes of amounts above issued.)

The two lists to which I referred in the early part of this article are here combined in one great statement. They are arranged in such a way that by including the builder's net worth their respective footings balance. The difference between the two classes of items, as previously explained, is the builder's net worth or real in-

vestment in the business at this time, and this is filled in  the second column along with the liabilities.



<article title=" ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE OF MR. DAVID KENNEDY, SOUTH PARKDALE,



TORONTO. —A. R. DENISON, ARCHITECT.



COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR A CENTRAL PUBLIC SCHOOL AT ST. THOMAS, ONT. —SIMPSON & ELLIS, ARCHITECT.



STAIRCASE HALL, RESIDENCE OF MR. DAVID KENNEDY, SOUTH PARKDALE, TORONTO.—A. R. DENISON,



ARCHITECT.



DESIGN FOR A SUBURBAN COTTAGE.—R. J. EDWARDS,



ARCHITECT.



The noticeable features of Mr. Edwards' plan are the manner in which the stairs are cut off from the reception and dining rooms, rendering a back stairway unnecessary and at the same time making the rooms positively free from drafts in winter; also the single nook off these living rooms, with its hearth and upholstered seat, above and below which shelves and drawers may be arranged for books, papers, etc.—a matter of some convenience in a house too small to have a library. Attention may also be drawn to the manner in which the built-in side-board and "pass" are arranged, in relation to the kitchen sink and dressers. The " pass" is arranged to turn on a central pivot and would be somewhat like a small barrel with bottom, top, one shelf, and an opening on one side to give access. It can be turned to an opening in the kitchen wall at will. The whole would be arranged by means of rubber strips to make a tight fit, so that no odors can pass out from the kitchen. It may be worth while to note the manner in which the smoke pipe from the furnace is made to do something towards warming two of the rooms. It passes up through a tin-lined groove in the brickwork of the fire-place, and the groove is covered with light iron gratings to screen the pipe but allow the air to flow in at the floor and out at or near the ceiling. The other features of the plan are sufficiently explained by the illustrations.



We 

Use 

Dougherty

Patent 

Process



Hamilton 

Radiators



The 

Gurney 

Tilden



Co. 

Ltd.

Hamilton 

ON



The 

Gurney

Stove& Range

Co. Ltd.

Winnipeg

H.R. Ives & Co. Mtl.

