<doctype type="text">

<article title="Plumbers' Meetings in Montreal" author="">

	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER



Mr. McKinley of Ottawa, hoped in the near future to see the plumbers buying their supplies from home manufacturers.

The toast "Corporation of Montreal" proposed by ex-President Lamarche, was ably responded to by Aldermen Beausoliel, Laporte and Gagnon.

Mr. Taylor gave a recitation which was received with great applause.

Mr. Dore, sanitary engineer, Montreal, also made a short speech.

The Chairman, commenting on the position of the wholesale manufacturers of Canada, said he did not see why they were not in as good a position to get the Canadian trade as the Americans ; they had a good protective tariff, and suggested that the Master Plumbers form a committee to see what could be done.

Mr. J. W. Hughes, in proposing the toast "Our

Guests," eulogized the wholesale hardwaremen in

Canada, and also the Executive Committee of the

National Plumbers Association, some of whom had

travelled thousands of miles to attend the meeting.

Mr. James Simpson, President Montreal Builders' Exchange, in reply, expressed the hope that many of the plumbers of the city would see the advantage of connecting themselves with the Exchange. Appropriate replies were also made by Mr. McMichael, of the James Robertson Co., Toronto, and Mr. J. W. Taylor, of the Toronto Radiator Co. A few remarks were also made by Mr. Moore, of Boston, Mr. Saunders, of Gode rich, and Mr. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Co.

The proceedings closed with the usual toasts to the Ladies and the Press and the singing of the National Anthem.

For the success of the Banquet credit is chiefly due to the following gentlemen comprising the Committee on Arrangements: P. C. Ogilvie, chairman ; F. Hart-man, secretary ; J. Watson, treasurer; P. J. Carroll, Thos. Moll, Alt. Paquin, I. Lamarche.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.















































MR J W HARRIS.



Mr. J. W. Harris, third president of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, was born in Buffalo, N. Y., but when about seven years of age removed to Montreal, where he has since resided. Previous to starting business on his own account he was for five years manager of the firm of Brodeur & Lessard. On the retirement of Mr. Brodeur he entered the business as a partner with Mr. Lessard. As an evidence that Mr. Harris thoroughly understands the plumbing and heating business it may be mentioned that he has satisfactorily conducted the steam heating plant in Laval University and fitted up several of the leading banks and other large buildings.





































MR. FREDERICK HORTAN.



Mr. Frederick Horton, 1st vice-president of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, was born in Yorkshire, England, and served an apprenticeship of seven years under indentures to the plumbing and heating business in one of the large contracting shops in England. On completing his term of apprenticeship he travelled for a time in England, Scotland and Wales. He then sailed for New York and lived in that city for about twelve months, thence removing to Montreal, where he considered there was a large field for plumbing and heating. After having been associated with plumbing establishments in Montreal for about three years he decided to build up a business of his own, in which he has been very successful. He was one of the most active promoters of the first plumbing association in 1887, and advocated and formed classes for the education of the apprentices to the plumbing trade held in the Council of Arts building, 96 St. Gabriel street. He was appointed instructor of these classes by the government of Quebec, jointly with the Master Plumbers' Association, and held the position for three years, when the demands of his business compelled him to resign. Mr. Hortan has carried out plumbing contracts in connection with many of the large churches, warehouses and handsome residences of the city.





































MR. GEO. C. DENMAN.



Geo. C. Denman, who was by an unanimous vote elected secretary of the Montreal Plumbers' Association, was born in Birmingham, England, in the year 1855, and came with his parents to Montreal in the spring of 1858. He was educated in the British and Canadian school. For fourteen years he was in the employ of the well-known firm of Gordon & Egan, and for the past seven years has been carrying on business with his partner, under the name of Denman & Ogilvie, 279 Bleury street.

