<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title="Walls and Wall Papers." author="Shuffrey, L.A.">

WALLS AND WALL PAPERS.*

By L. A. SHUFFREY.



NEW walls, if intended to be painted, should be plastered with Parian or Keene's cement, and have two coats of white lead and linseed oil and litharge mixed rather thin, to soak into the plaster and stop absorption. The third coat should be thicker and mixed with spirit of turpentine and color, and the fourth thicker still and mixed with equal parts of linseed oil and turpentine, with sugar of lead as a drier. The color should be darker than intended to be finished, each coat should be allowed to dry thoroughly before the succeeding one is applied, and should be well rubbed down with glass paper. The finishing coat is best stippled with large flat brushes, as a granular surface is obtained, the wearing properties are not impaired, and the unpleasant reflecting surface is broken up. The internal walls of large rooms and passages are best left from the trowel with a granular surface.

Any appearance of damp must have the cause removed, as no tinkering with the face of the wall will be a lasting remedy.

Any patching or chases should be made good with Parian or Keene's cement, which can be painted soon after, provided that the bed or backing has been first painted with oil color to prevent the damp from the cement soaking into it.

Extract from a paper read at recent meeting of the Architectural Association.

It is claimed for adamant plaster that it can be painted in twenty-tour hours, but my experience of it is that this cannot be done with safety it cement has been used in the wall or floor, as the salt from the Portland will continue to come through for weeks after the plastering is done. The manufacturers recommend a wash of barium chloride, but this I have not tried.

The most convenient way of finishing walls, and that most largely adopted, is covering them with printed wall papers. It is a simple process, and may be quite inexpensive, and they are easily cleaned off and renewed. Skilful paper-hangers are not difficult to find, so a badly hung wall paper should not be tolerated.

The surface of the wall should be rubbed over with glass paper to remove all excrescences, and it should then be clearcoled, and the papers hung without joint from top to bottom, having their joints carefully trimmed and butted. On new walls it is a good plan to hang white lining paper preparatory to hanging a more expensive paper. This gives the latter a much better chance as far as discoloration from the fresh wall is concerned.

Walls should be lined with brown paper before hanging embossed or strong papers, as otherwise they are liable to slide in shrinking, and open at the joints. It is a good plan also to line and clearcole preparatory to distempering walls ; it has an advantage over using a

Don Valley Pressed Bricks in all colors, Taylor Brothers, Toronto



Pease Economy Heating Apparatus, J. F. Pease Furnace Co., Toronto

