<doctype type="text">

<article title="Kingsley Water Tube Boilers." author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



KINGSLEY WATER TUBE BOILERS.

THE Kingsley patent water tube boilers, for which Mr. E. A. Wallberg, C. E., of Montreal, has been appointed agent for Canada, are constructed with two shells, an outer and an inner. The outer shell has vertical parallel sides and semi-circular top and bottom. The inner shell is fixed parallel to the sides and bottom of the outer shell by means of two flanged heads and numerous stay bolts, leaving a uniform space about four inches wide between the two shells, extending the full length of the boiler. The crown sheet is horizontal, and extends continually the full length of the boiler. It is flanged down three inches along each side for its entire length, and forms the top of the inner shell by being riveted to it along each side.



The tubes are threaded at their upper ends with standard pipe threads, and are screwed into the crown sheet. The bottom ends of the tubes are plugged with 14 inch iron and are then welded solid. The tubes are made of standard 2 inch iron lap-welded pipe. They are short enough in the fire box to leave an ample combustion chamber, and are longer behind the bridge wall. Any tubes can be readily screwed in or out of the crown sheet without touching any other tubes.



The crown sheet is strongly stayed by stay-bolts screwed simultaneously, at various angles, into the semi-cylindrical top of the outer shell and into the crown sheet. These stay-bolts and those connecting the two shells are headed on each end. The parts of the two flanged heads forming the ends of the steam chamber are likewise stayed by rods screwed simultaneously into each, these rods being headed at each end or fitted with nuts.

The water is contained in the tubes and in the space between the shells and extends tip a few inches over the crown sheet. As this water service extends unbroken for the full length and width of the boiler, no rapid fluctuations of water level can take place, although the boiler is a very rapid steamer. It is possible to supply any capacity of water or steam space by extending the outer shell upward above the level of the crown sheet to any desired height. It is sometimes desirable to thus increase the steam space where large volumes of steam are required at one time, which occurs in various industries.

Regarding the construction and efficiency of this boiler the

manufacturers say No steam drum is used on these boilers. This is claimed to be an advantage over most water tube boilers, as well as many other types, as a steam drum elevated far above and away from the hottest fire can of itself act only as a condenser, as it is the tendency of steam to cool and condense immediately on leaving the direct action of the fire. In the Kingsley boiler the tubes, being vertical and short, liberate steam very freely, and without friction or impediment, which in all water tube boilers with inclined tubes causes a large percentage of water to be carried up with the steam. This is also one reason why this boiler produces dry steam even under the heaviest forcing.

The feed water, entering at the front of the boiler, between the shells, below the level of the grate-bars, in passing tip becomes intensely heated before reaching the crown sheet. It is well known that water, heated to a few degrees above the boiling point, parts with most of its impurities, as mud and carbonates of lime and at a temperature of about 300 degrees Fahrenheit, equal to 52 lbs. steam pressure, it can no longer retain in solution the sulphates of lime, magnesia, etc., which form the much-dreaded scale in boilers. In this boiler these impurities, being separated by the intense heat, precipitate into the space between the cells, at the bottom of the boiler, where the heat is not sufficient to bake them into scale, and whence they can be washed out occasionally through the hand holes. This boiler is, therefore, by  construction, a perfect feed-water purifier, and no sediment or scale can gather in the drop tubes, because only purified water reaches the crown sheet from which the tubes are supplied.

The boiler, being internally fired, has the fire-box entirely surrounded with a water-jacket. The incandescent gases from the fuel, passing up among the short tubes in the fire-box, are drawn backward among the long tubes to the end of the boiler, whence they divide and return, half on each side, between the outer shell and the brick casing towards the front of the boiler. From this point the now nearly exhausted gases can either be carried

means of a saddle over the front of the boiler direct to the chimney, or they can pass down into a flue under the boiler along to its back end, and thence to the chimney. There is 110 appreciable difference in economy of evaporation between these two methods of circulation of the gases. The tubes are "staggered' in the crown sheet and are placed at such distances that the gases which pass zig-zag and strike each tube at right angles, while being confined on all four sides by the waterjacketed shell of the boiler, lose nearly all their available heat before they are returned on the sides. For this reason this boiler can be operated also as a locomotive boiler. The gases are passed out of the chimney only sufficiently hot to secure a good draft.

This boiler requires the same size of chimney as any other type



Duplex 

SanitaryBaths

Montreal and Toronto