<doctype type="text">

the filler until the pores of the wood will take no more. 3rd. Let stand about twenty-four hours, then sandpaper smooth and clean off well. 4th. To prepare the wax, take, say one or two pounds of ordinary bees' wax, mix with spirits of turpentine made hot over a sand bath, that is, put sand in common iron pot and put over a fire until the sand is made as hot as boiling water, then in a tin can or other suitable vessel pour in the turpentine and let it remain until the spirits is hot enough to melt the wax. Cut the latter in

small pieces and drop gently into the hot turpentine stir up until the whole forms a sort of thin d creamy mixture. Apply this to the prepared Boor, hot, with a clean paint—brush let stand for an hour or two, then polish with a hand ________ brush, either by hand, or with a long handle, and the brush weighted down. Brush until a fair polish is obtained. In a few days polish again, without applying wax, with the same brush. About a week or ten days after, polish again, rubbing a little plain bees' wax on the brush, and the Boor will look very well it the work has been properly done. Whenever the floor gets dull, or shaded, or scratched, simply polish again, using only common bees' wax on the brush, and the work will look as good as new. In many of the old Halls in England, the oaken floors have been waxed at regular intervals for centuries, and they look as well, yea, better, than when first laid. The fashion of having hardwood and parquette floors is becoming quite common in the United States, as well as in England, and in some of the most costly homes, nearly all the floors are of hardwood, and few carpets are used, there being only here and there a costly rug or mat. Floor wax is manufactured and sold by a number of firms in Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Chicago, and brushes made especially for polishing can be had from any of the firms selling the wax polish. '' Old English floor wax" is advertised by a firm in Cincinnati, and along with it is also advertised the brush. We shall be glad to receive from our readers anything supplementary to the foregoing.





<article title="The Champlain Monument at Quebec." author="">

THE CHAMPLAIN MONUMENT AT QUEBEC.

THE bronze statue of Champlain, to be erected between the post office and the Chateau Frontenac, at Quebec, is at present on exhibition at the Paris Salon. It will shortly be forwarded to Quebec and placed in position on the granite base, which is about to be constructed, and which will occupy a space 40 feet square. The statue itself is fifteen feet high and the base 37 feet, or a total of 52. Mr. Le Cardonnel, the architect whose design for the monument was chosen in corn-petition, is a student of the School of Fine Arts of Paris, and is the winner of several other important competitions. The sculptor is Mr. Paul Chevre. The inauguration of the monument, which is to cost $30,000, will take place in September.



The Great Northwestern Telegraph Company are installing a new heating system in their large building in Montreal, using the Kingsley water tube boiler installed by E. A. Wallberg.



The Cutler Manufacturing Co., of Rochester, N. V., the well known makers of mail chutes, are mailing to architects, in portfolio form, a series of five interesting pen and ink drawings by Harvey Ellis.





<article title="Disposal of Sewage of Private and Public Buildings." author="">

DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE OF PRIVATE

AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

I N an article contributed to the Transactions of the Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, on the ''Disposal of Sewage," Dr. P. H. Bryce, MA., M. D., secretary of the Provincial Board of Health of Ontario, recommends the method shown in the accompanying diagram for the purposes of a private house, large hotel or public building, as for















































DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE OF PR IVATE AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS.





instance a county poor house or asylum. Such a method, he states, will amply supply all the needs by a system of sub-surface field tiles, which, if placed under a garden, not only will dispose of the sewage without cost or nuisance, but will add materially to its productiveness.





<article title="Improved Methods of Testing Cement. " author="">

IMPROVED METHODS OF TESTING CEMENT.

THE German Portland Cement Manufacturers' Association, in conjunction with the testing department for building materials of the Royal Testing Laboratory of Berlin, have instituted elaborate investigations with the view of improving the methods of testing cement, so as to secure greater uniformity than at present in results of such tests. The same subject is now engaging the attention of a special committee of the American Society of Civil Engineers. The following general conclusions have been reached as the outcome of the German experiments

In mixing the standard mortar of one part by weight of cement and three parts of standard sand, as much as 8.8 pounds may be used, yet it must be considered that the strength of briquettes of this mortar decreases when the mixing is continued longer than three minutes. As it has been observed that more intimate mixture of the mortar than is attainable with the trowel promotes the uniformity of the separate results, another method of mixing, such as by machines, is to be preferred.

The amount of water for the standard mortar must be proportioned to the properties of each cement and ascertained in each particular case.

With respect to the fastening and holding of the molds, it is to be noticed that the tensile strength of the

