<doctype type="text">

<article title="CANADIAN CITY ENGINEERS." author="">

	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



CANADIAN CITY ENGINEERS.

VIII.

MR. John Gait, C.E. & M.E., the subject of our sketch, who has lately succeeded to the position of city engineer of Ottawa, the capital city of the Dominion, although well known in Toronto and Western Canada, is a native of Scotland, where he obtained all his early engineering training and experience.

His practical workshop and drawing office experience was first obtained at Kilmarnock, Scotland, and his scientific education at London and Glasgow, after which he was with large firms of consulting engineers and contractors as assistant engineer in many improvement works in the city of Glasgow and throughout Scotland.

His practical and scientific engineering attainments were considered of a high order, and crossing the Atlantic fully 20 years ago, he acted as engineer and draughtsman with the Baltimore Bridge Co., of the United States, and afterwards on railway construction.

Mr. Galt came to Canada about 16 years ago to take



















































MR. JOHN GAIT.



the position of general manager of the Boiler Inspection and Insurance Co. of Canada, but after four years' time began his active private practice as consulting engineer and expert. Of late years his practice was confined chiefly to general municipal engineering work, covering mostly the design and construction of water-works and sewerage systems.

In addition to being a civil, hydraulic and sanitary engineer, Mr. Galt is well known as a mechanical engineer, and at the time of his appointment had several large works on hand, aggregating about $1,000,000.

Mr. Galt is in the prime of life, being 40 years of age. He has a pleasing, genial disposition, with characteristic quiet firmness, exercising genuine good sound judgment and tact.



Backs of panelling, or any woodwork which has to be fixed against a wall, should have a thick coat of oil color before fixing. Before the next coat is applied the surface should be lightly rubbed down with glass paper, and the brad holes, open joints or cracks filled with hard stopping, and the dust removed.

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.



C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

WE had expected to be able to announce in this number the result of the Students' Competition for chimney designs. At the time of going to press, however, the report of the Committee of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects had not come to hand. We are therefore compelled to defer until our January issue publication of the decision of the joint committee, to whom were submitted the drawings in this competition.



DRAWING WITH LEAD PENCIL.

LEAD pencil has the advantage over most black and white mediums in that it gives us a delicate grey and a rich black, a clear-cut outline and broad masses of dark; it is clean and convenient, writes Ernest Knaufft in the Art Amateur. Pencil may be used upon any kind of paper, but rough paper is most commonly used. A hard or soft pencil may be employed throughout, or both hard and soft pencils may be used. As a general rule a soft pencil (say an F or a B), if allowed to touch the paper but lightly, gives the prettiest results. All artists object to work where the pressure of a hard pencil makes an indentation. It takes a little practice to use a soft pencil satisfactorily at first, for it invariably makes a darker tone than was intended. The pencil may be kept sharp by rubbing it upon a piece of sand-paper. A sharp point allows one to obtain clear outline, which is one of the most desirable things for a beginner, for though he may not use it in his final effect—that is to say, may not intend his drawing for an outline drawing—yet it permits him to separate one object from another in the beginning, which prevents slovenly drawing in the end. Let me explain: A shrub or a tree should be drawn in its entirety, and any drawing in which the final effect separates the branches to too great an extent, so that we cannot tell whether we are looking at one shrub or several shrubs, one tree or several trees, is, of course, bad drawing on the other hand, too, the drawing of a near-by tree which is so slovenly and indefinite that we cannot know whether it is meant for an elm or an apple, a peach or a chestnut-tree, is also bad drawing; and such indiscretion comes almost entirely from the students failing to give true delineation of the shadows among the branches and of the shape of the margin of the branches against the background. Now, to avoid this indefiniteness in your finished drawing, you should be most particular in your first sketch in mapping out the contour of shadows and margins in your preliminary sketch with a clear outline, no matter how much afterwards you may blur the shadows and margins in order to mass your foliage, that it may melt into the background. Then, wherever a shadow or contour should be brought out, you will be able to bring it out with exactitude if your preliminary outline is carefully done. There is here a mental attitude to be taken into consideration; the final effect of a shaded pencil drawing, if it be correct in values, depends upon the pressure of the pencil (if one pencil is used by which different degrees of dark are got). Now, it is no easy task, even after all your outlines are finished, to put in your shadows with a proper intensity. You have to be alert at every stroke of the pencil. If you do not press enough on the pencil your tone is too gray, if you press too much you have a worse result. If the tone is too dark and your rubber must be used you may smear the paper (though an expert with a rubber avoids smearing, for he cleans his rubber on the margin of the paper before using it).



Now, if the student, in finishing his drawing, has not only to worry about the intensity of his shading, but has also to worry about the shape of the shadow, why, his labor is increased twofold. Therefore, for this reason, endeavor, in your preliminary sketch to place all your principal shadows so that when you are making your final drawing your mind is occupied solely with the intensity of the tones.





From January 1, 1899, says a daily paper, the Vatican will be lighted throughout by electricity. Preparations for the installation have already been commenced. The motive power will be supplied by water flowing at a quick rate of speed from Lake Bracciano, which lies high up in the mountains twenty miles north of Rome. The Pope is declared to be taking great interest in



the work.

