<doctype type="text">

<article title="C.A.&B. Students' Competition." author="">

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.



C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

THE publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invites architectural students to submit drawings in competition for designs for four ornamental chimneys, for which first, second and third prizes of $15, $5 and one year's subscription to the ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER, respectively, are offered.



The chimneys may be of brick, stone or terra cotta, or any or all of these combined.

Competitors are required to show by plans, perspective sketches and details, with or without elevations, the chimneys and sufficient of the plan and arrangement of building to explain the reason for form and position adopted, and to show roofing and other adjacent features if affecting the treatment of the chimneys.

Drawings must be made with pen and perfectly black ink ONLY, on white drawing paper, bristol, or tracing linen, to the size of 15 X 21 inches, and must be so drawn as to give their proper effect when reduced to one-half this size. No brush or color work is permitted.

The competition will close at o'clock p.m. on Thursday, December 1st, 1898. No consideration will be given to drawings which may be received subsequent to that date and hour.

Drawings should be sent by mail or express, addressed to the editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, and marked on the outside " C. A. & B. Competition." All postage and express charges are to be paid by the competitors. Each drawing should be marked only with the non de plume of the author, and should be accompanied by a sealed envelope marked with the same nom de plume and enclosing the full name and address of the competitor. This envelope will remain sealed until the competition is decided.

The merits of the designs which may be submitted in this competition will be decided by a joint committee, composed of officers of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, whose decision will be final.

The right is reserved to withhold one or all of the prizes if, in the opinion of the judges, the designs submitted should be so inferior as to warrant such a proceeding.

Students are requested to read carefully the above conditions, absolute compliance with which will be required of each competitor.



<article title=Giorgio Vasari."" author="">

GIORGIO VASARI.

THE renowned architect and painter of Arezzo was born in 1512 and as early as the year 1524 he was taken to Florence, where he studied design under competent masters. Subsequently he travelled to Rome and other places, where, as he himself says, " I set myself to design all the best works that I could find, nor was there anything remarkable at that time, whether in Rome, Florence or any other place wherein I sojourned, that

I did not copy in my youth, works ancient and modern, in sculpture and architecture, as well as paintings."

As an architect, Vasari stands deservedly higher than as a painter as an historian of the arts, he occupies an eminent position, for he is the source from which all other writers draw their best and most important materials. Worn out by the pains and fatigues of a life unusually active and laborious, Vasari closed his mortal career on June 27, 1574, in the sixty-third year of his age, crowned with fame and honors and very sincerely lamented. His remains were conveyed to his native city of Arezzo, where they were laid in the tomb of his family, within the principal chapel of the Decanel church. He left behind him a very great reputation, more perhaps for the vast number than for the excellence of his pictures, but the beauty and perfection of his architectural works are universally admitted, and he was indeed an accomplished architect.



<article title="Engaged Columns." author="">

ENGAGED COLUMNS.

THE use of colonnades partially built into a wall, as we see exemplified in the banquetting hail at Whitehall, is not uncommonly condemned as a departure from the dignity and real use of columns, and as something false or absurd. It tested by the standard of common sense, there is no sufficient ground for such condemnation. Columns are points of support, and we may with equal correctness consider them in that light, whether insulated or engaged, for as supports they are equally valid in either case. We may regard the wall intervening between engaged columns as the means of enclosure, not of support assisting the columns, it may be, in the support of the entablature, but not an essential and integral part of the fabric. The great Doric temple at Agrigenturn and the Erechtheum at Athens suffice to show that even in the best period of Greek art this practice was not held to be opposed to the canons of good taste. The critics who would condemn engaged columns have, of course, a wide field for the exercise of their censorship in the engaged pillars or wall shafts of Mediaeval art, the use of which is an exactly analagous practice, inasmuch as they represent the points of support of the arches and vaulting which spring from the capitals. The truth is that there is perfect masonic propriety, whether in the wall shafts of a cathedral or in the engaged pillars of a Greek temple. They represent an accumulation of power at the particular point of the wall on which the principal weight is charged ; and not only have they constructive Lruth to justify them, but also great aesthetic value. These vertical lines of support convey to the mind the idea of the active and efficient support of any particular imposed weight far more satisfactorily than can be effected by presenting a plain unbroken wall of apparently uniform solidity and strength, and this idea is still more forcibly and distinctly produced on the mind when the vertical engaged shafts are of different color and material from that of the general surface of the wall. This practice, so prevalent both in Mediaeval and Classic art, gave rise to additional beauty and variety by the use of colored and polished marbles.



A ready means of taking a fac-simile copy of a drawing clone in ink which contains a salt of iron or copper is to lay over it a sheet of paper which has been moistened with yellow prussiate of potash and pressing on it, when the iron or copper salt will react on the paper and leave a copy wherever it comes n contact with the ferro-type paper.

