<doctype type="text">

<article title="Results of Experiments on the Strength of White Pine Red Pine, Hemlock and Spruce." author="Bovey, H.T.">



	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



1893-4,	in Quinze Lake Co., P.Q. They remained in water one year, and were received into the laboratory on October the 4th, 1895. They were all first quality timber, and generally speaking, straight in grain and free from knots and shakes. In order to determine the excess of moisture in the timber, three slabs, one near the middle and one at each end, were sawn out of the beams immediately after they had been tested and were at once placed in a chamber kept at a temperature of 212 F. by steam pipes. The moisture was also removed from the whole beams by drying them in the same chamber. Beam 36 failed suddenly under a very small load, the fracture commencing at a knot in the tension surface. On examination it was also found that the grain on the face was oblique to tile neutral surface, while there were shakes running from end to end in the neighborhood of the heart which, on the average, was below the middle of the depth of the beam. The results of this test should be discarded, as the beam was not of fair average quality. Beam 38 was cut out of beam 36 in such manner that the grain was straight.

Beam 43 failed under a breaking load of 23,000 lbs., but a somewhat long continued and slowly increasing deflection under a load of 22,000 lbs., seemed to indicate that at this point the beam failed in compression, although there were no apparent signs of crippling.

Remarks.—Beams 17 and 18, containing the heart, were cut from

















































































































































trees felled at Keewatin in 1894, and were ordinary 1st-quality timber. There were shakes in beam 17, reaching the heart at points. The grain on the lower half of the beam was straight, but ran cross-wise on the tension surface. From the time the beam was received into the laboratory to the date of the test, a period of 57 days, the beam lost 13 per cent. of its weight. After the test a 3-inch slab was cut out, and the weight of this slab on Feb. 15th, 1897, by which time the natural drying can be considered to have been completed, was found to be 28.037 lbs.

per cubic root. beam 18 was tested alter remaining in the laboratory 42 days, in which time it was found to have lost 8.79 per cent. of its weight. It failed by crippling and longitudinal shear, simultaneously. The grain for about 10 inches on each side of the centre was clear, straight and free from knots. The logs from which beams 31 to 49 were. sawn were felled in the Bonnechere district in the winter of 1894—95, and remained in the water for six months. They all contained the heart, and were ordinary 1st-quality timber. Beam 32 failed by longitudinal shear along a shake in the neighborhood of the neutral surface, but there were indications that this had been immediately preceded by a slight crippling.

Remarks.—Beam 22, 23 and 35, containing the heart, had lain in the water for a considerable time, arid were completely water-soaked. When tested, beams 22 and 35 were found to be hard-frozen. Beam 23 was also frozen, but riot throughout, as was shown when the beam was cut in two at the centre. Beam 22 was straight grained, free from knots, and failed with a sudden sharp fracture. Incipient decay had commenced near the heart of beam 23, which, however, was regarded as a fair specimen of ordinary commercial quality. It was full of large knots and the grain was curved from end to end. Beam 35 was straight grained, clear, comparatively free from knots and of exceptionally good quality; beam 40 was cut out of beam 35 after the latter had been tested. Beams 25, 26 and 29 all contained the heart. Beam 25 was a goad specimen, and was completely water-soaked. Beam 26 was saturated throughout, excepting for a depth of 1 inches from surface, and, although an apparently poor specimen, was considered to be of ordinary commercial quality. It was full of knots and its grain was curved.

Remarks. —Beam 24 was wet, but was in good condition and comparatively free from knots. Beam 27 was of ordinary commercial quality, with fairly straight grain and a large number of small knots. Beam 30 was of ordinary commercial quality, but with large shakes run-

