<doctype type="text">

[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS



ASE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIRNCF



AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICII THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



THE recent accident in London, Ont., Built-up Timbers. should remain an object lesson to all

builders who may be called upon to form long timbers by "building-up." A proper disposition of the butt joints should be insisted upon, and the character and quality of the timber should be subject to the closest scrutiny in order that sound and suitable joists may be selected for the purpose. While it does not always follow that a clear joist is always the strongest or best to select, it is an absolute certainty that a joist having a knot in it is not so strong as one devoid of knots, other things being equal. Many a clear joist has been so cut at the mill that the line of grain may ''cross" the width of the joist at distances varying from twelve to four feet. Now, it must be evident to any one having a knowledge of the strength of timber, that a joist having the grain of the wood running at an angle from its edges cannot in the nature of things be as strong in resisting a transverse strain as one having the fibres running parallel with the edges and sides of the joist. Here, then, is a pointer worth knowing, for many a fine piece of timber, suited perhaps, for the finest of joiner's work, may be totally unfitted to become a part of a laminated beam that may have to bear a heavy transverse strain. Again, a joist being "curly" in the grain should be discarded on sight. A curly piece of stuff is the most deceptive of all—it may look well, but is generally short in the grain. A "brasbey" joist, as well as one showing any signs of doze, should not be used, neither should a joist having sap or wane on either edge be permitted to form part of the beam. Perhaps the worst Canadian timber that might be employed in laminated beams, is hemlock ; it is ''brashey," short in the grain, and not strong transversely ; indeed, it ought not to be employed in any position or in any form, when it may be subjected to heavy transverse pressure. While being a very useful wood in many places, it should be avoided in beams. Norway or Southern pine, of the softer woods, seem to be the best adapted for beams that have to undergo much stress, and they have the quality of resisting fire about as long as most woods and are not subject to injury or degeneracy because of being constantly under strain, like most other woods. It is not good construction to bolt laminated beams ; it is better to spike them or to clamp them together, as bolting requires removal of timber, thereby weakening it, and renders it impossible for each lamination to do its own share of the work, as it may be hung on the bolt at some point, and make its neighbors carry a share of its burden and thereby cause a rupture which may lead to serious consequences. Too much care cannot be exercised in building up beams.

THE framing square in general use

Some Working

Hints,	among mechanics may often be used as

		a calculating machine if the one using



it is thoroughly acquainted with its capabilities. The long arm of the square is called the blade, the short arm the tongue. On the side shown in Fig. 1 there is a diagonal scale on the tongue. This is for measuring off hundredths of an inch. The lengths of lines between the diagonal d e and the perpendicular e f are marked in the latter. To take off 3-10ths and 4-100ths of an inch, place the compasses on the dots on the fourth line. 7-10ths and 3-100ths of an inch is formed on line 3.

1 inch, 8-10tbs, 5-100ths is the distance shown on line







































FIG. I.





5. The brace scale or rule is always on the tongue. This rule is easily understood ; the figures on the left of the line represent the '' run" or the length of two sides of a right angle, while the figures on the right represent the exact length of the third side of a right angled triangle, in inches, tenths and hundredths. The exact length of a brace with a run of 57 inches in the post and the same distance in a beam, would be 80-61 inches ; this is the length between shoulders. The vertical rows of figures on the blade constitute what is known as the " board measure." The superficial contents of a board are found thus Suppose the board to be 13 feet long and 15 inches wide. Look for 13 under the 1 2-inch mark on the inch scale ; follow the line this 13 occupies till under the 15-inch mark, the answer, i6 ft. in., is found. A useful addition to the steel square in solving mechanical problems is what may he termed a "fence." This may be made of any hardwood as follows: Dress a piece of wood to 2" wide,

