<doctype type="text">

<article title="Organization of the London Builders' Exchange." author="">

ORGANIZATION OF THE LONDON

BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

THE builders and contractors of London, Ont., met in the Knights of Pythias Hall on Thursday, Feb. 17th, for the purpose of organizing a Builders' Exchange. Representatives of about fifty firms were present, and the chairman, Mr. Scott Murray, called the meeting to order. After a few preliminary proceedings, the chairman called upon Mr. Thomas Cannon, Jr., president of the Toronto Exchange, who had kindly visited London









































MR. WILLIAM JEFFERY,



President London Builders' Exchange.





for the purpose, to address the meeting on the principles of a Builders' Exchange.

Mr. Cannon outlined the groundwork of a successful Exchange, and gave those present the benefit of the experience of the Toronto organization. In a very interesting talk, he fully demonstrated the fact that a Builders' Exchange, established on a proper basis, and rightly managed, would be of incalculable benefit to every member. At the conclusion of his address, he was tendered a hearty vote of thanks for the valuable information imparted.

The London Builders' Exchange was then organized, the following officers being elected for the ensuing year:

Honorary President, Mr. Thos. Cannon, Jr., Toronto.

President, Mr. William Jeffrey.

1st Vice-President, Mr. Scott Murray.

2nd Vice-President, Mr. John G. Pritchett.

Secretary, Mr. Geo. S. Gould.

Treasurer, Mr. James Luney.

Directors, Messrs. Thos. Jones, Joshua Garrett, Henry Stratfold, Charles Colerick, William Smith, Arthur C. Nobbs.

The following resolution was unanimously adopted Resolved, "that it is in the best interests of the Builders' Exchange of London that we become federated with the Exchange of Toronto, and that we request Mr. Thos. Cannon to present our desires to the Toronto Exchange and seek their co-operation to accomplish that end.

The directors have since secured commodious rooms on the second floor of the Ontario Loan & Debenture Company's Building on Market lane. The rooms are very pleasant, easily accessible, and centrally located. The officers hope to have 100 members on the roll of the Exchange by the 1st of April.

Our readers will no doubt be interested in the accompanying portraits and particulars of the principal officers of this new organization



MR. WILLIAM JEFFERY.



The President of the London Builders' Exchange, is one of London's prominent young contractors, and was born 39 years ago in that city. After passing through the educational institutions of the city with credit to both himself and them, he devoted his attention to learning the carpenter's and joiner's trade, and in due time became master of all its details. Fifteen years ago, in conjunction with his brother James, he started contracting under the name of Jeffery Bros. This partnership existed for 9 years, at the end of which time his brother withdrew. The business has since been carried on by Win. Jeffery alone.

Added to his efficient workmanship, Mr. Jeffery has displayed in all his business transactions those sterling qualities of fair dealing, and a watchful care over all the details of his business. By the practice of these principles, he has earned for himself a reputation that any contractor might be proud of. He is very enthusiastic in Exchange matters. With such a pilot at the helm, the London Builders' Exchange will soon reach the point where mutual goodwill and perfect confidence will characterize all transactions between its members.

MR. SCOTT MURRAY.



Mr. Scott Murray, 1st Vice-President of the London Builders' Exchange, is a native of Ontario, having been born in Woodstock. He has resided in London for the last 30 years. He is by trade a bricklayer, and is a member of the firm of Simpson & Murray. This firm are widely known for the excellence of their work, and for their ability to execute a contract with dispatch. They are both men of large experience, especially in sewer work and the higher class of ornamental work. Mr. Murray is universally liked for



































MR. SCOTT MURRAY,

1st Vice-President London Builders' Exchange.



his quiet unassuming manner and generous disposition. He is one of the promoters of the Exchange, and takes great interest in its success.



MR. JOHN G. PRITCHETT.



Mr. John G. Pritchett, 2nd Vice-President of the London Builders' Exchange, is senior member of the firm of Pritchett & Calhoun, plastering contractors. He is a native of London, born in the year

of Scotch parents, After serving an apprentice

