<doctype type="text;ad">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND  BUILDER



intention of the company to erect and operate a manufactory next year. It is presumed that the Toronto Street Railway Company will be large customers of the new concern, as this company at present purchase from Germany bricks of a somewhat similar character for use alongside their tracks.



A fine building stone of light color is being quarried on the islands on the Gulf of Georgia, and is being used in some of the important new buildings in course of erection in Vancouver, B.C. A stone of darker color from the quarries of Calgary is being used in the Molson's Rank Building. Some specimens of excellent marble have recently been brought to Vancouver from M'. 1. 1. Palmer's quarries on Texada Island, and it is reported that if these are found to be satisfactory, the material will be employed in the construction of the new Bank of Commerce building on Hastings street.



The City Hall Building Committee.—consisting of Mayor Wright, Aid. Meehan, Aid. Sanders, Aid. Wallis, Aid. Meek, Aid. Chant



—went to London yesterday afternoon. The party went at the invitation of Mr. Robert Porterfield, representative of the Gurney-Tilden radiators and boilers. Architect Darrach accompanied the party. Mr. Porterfield was anxious to have the St. Thomas aldermen see the firms Buffalo' boilers, made by Ives & Co., Montreal, before they awarded the contract for the heating of the city hail. The committee was taken to the Wolsley barracks, where six "Buffalo" boilers are being erected. Major Winn, who is superintending the construction, thoroughly explained the advantages of the "Buffalo" boilers to the deputation, and the committee evidently thought they were the best, as they afterwards stipulated that Mr. Porterfield's firm's radiators and boilers must be used in the heating of the new city hall. Mr. Porterfield is certainly a hustler for his firm. There were about half a dozen other representatives here in the interests of their boilers, but Mr. Porterfield showed that his goods were right up-to-date, and the "Buffalo' will be the hearing boiler in the new city hall. The committee unanimously decided to have the building heated by the Gurney-Tilden radiators and boilers, known as the Buffalo" boiler, and made by Ives & Co., Montreal.—The Daily Times, St. Thomas, Nov. 15, 1898.

PERSONAL.

The firm of Head & Co., architects, Rat Portage, Ont., has recently been dissolved.



Messrs. Hewitt & McLaren, architects, Ottawa, Ont., have recently dissolved partnership. Mr. McLaren will continue the practice and Mr. Hewitt has returned to Toronto.



Mr. C. H. Acton Hond, of the firm of Bond & Smith, architects, Toronto, was married in All Saint's Church, Toronto, on November 17th, to Miss Newton, of that city. We join our congratulations to those of many friends of the principals in the happy event.



The officers and employees of the Smart Mfg. Co., Brockville, recently tendered a complimentary banquet to Mr. John M. Gill,



president of the company, who, with his family, recently returned from a lengthened visit to Europe. Many kind things were said about Mr. Gill in the course of the evening.





Mr. A. J. Greenaway, who is a son of Mr. Greenaway, plumber, London, Ont., is at present travelling in Canada in the interests of the Ideal Mfg. Co., of Detroit, manufacturers of plumbers supplies.



The Chronicle calls the attention of the citizens of Halifax to the serious penalties imposed for neglect to comply with the requirements of the plumbing by-law of the city. The fine in such cases is $50, and after the case once gets into court it matters not whether the work has been done in he meantime, as the defendant is still liable to the amount of the fine in addition to the cost of making the alterations.







PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS

NOTICE

The Semi-Annual Examinations for Admission to the Study of Architecture and for Registration will be held on WEDNESDAY, 25TH, and THURSDAY, 26TH, of JANUARY, 1899, in the office of the Association, City Hall, Quebec, at 10 o clock in the forenoon of each day.

Intending candidates are required to give one months notice to the undersigned, accompanied by the necessary fees.

	For Admission to Study	          $10.00

	For Registration	         25.00

		JOS. VENNE, Secretary.

 Place d'Armes Hill, Montreal, Dec. 10, 1898.

Permanent Beauty Metallic Ceilings and Walls, Metallic Roofing Company Limited Toronto