<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MARBLE WORK." author=" BLAGROVE, George H.">

and thoughtful paper on "Sculpture" to the latest edition of the "Encyclopaedia Britannica," is strongly in favor of the ancient practice, which, he declares, '' really suggests the somewhat glossy surface of the human skin very much better than the dull, loaf-sugar-like surface which is left on the marble by modern sculptors. Here we have an assumption combined with an assertion. It is assumed that we are justified in seeking to produce a realistic resemblance to the human skin, and it is asserted that polished marble goes nearer to produce this effect than if it was left unpolished. Accepting the doctrine that the aim of the sculptor should be to produce a resemblance to human skin, which we may well do without carrying realism too far, we may seriously ask ourselves, "is the skin glossy in its normally healthy condition?" We feel bound to confess that it is not so

---certainly not more so than ancient sculpture whose polish has been dulled by time. The healthy skin presents a slightly-glazed surface only when it is tightly stretched over a bony protrusion, such as a raised shoulder or bent knee, and then its glossiness is softened by the minute down with which the skin is covered. The skin of a figure emaciated by famine or disease is often glazed, especially where it forms the only covering to the bones ; but the dry skin of the healthy subject presents, on the whole a dull texture. One property, already noticed, which living flesh possesses in common with statuary marble, is translucence but this property is largely nullified by polish. In so far as we increase the reflecting power of marble by polishing the surface, we reduce its absorbing and refracting powers, which constitute its translucence. Light, striking upon a highly polished surface, rarely penetrates beneath it, but is thrown off at once. Human flesh is soft, and how can the lights and shadows which fall upon polished surfaces present the same soft gradations of tone as those which rest upon smooth but unpolished surfaces? According to Professor Middleton, it is '' much to be desired that modern sculptors should, to some extent at least, adopt the classical practice, and by a slight but uniform polish, remove the disagreeable crystalline grain from all nude parts of the marble." But we contend that, unless the marble is to be placed very close to the eye it is just the lustre of this crystalline grain which is so helpful in softening the abruptness of strong shadows.

If the absence of polish produces the effect of softness, its presence must suggest the contrary idea ; and the hardness and closeness of surface produced by polish are surely associated in the mind with corresponding qualities in the mass of the material. This essential difference between the effect of a polished and an unpolished surface, places it in our power to produce striking contrasts of surface without the aid of color, some portions of a composition being polished, while others remain unpolished, there ought, however, to be no doubt in the mind of the artist as to when or where polish should or should not be employed.

If the reasons adduced against the polishing of nude statuary are held to be of sufficient weight, we are furnished with the outline of a principle which may serve for our guidance in the treatment of carved ornament generally. If it be the legitimate aim of the sculptor to follow nature as closely as possible in the counterfeit presentment of human flesh, then the surface of the marble should, in other cases, be made to resemble the surface of the object represented. Thus, while we should not apply polish to the nude figure nor to drapery,

we might at once mark the distinctive surface-character of weapons, armour, or other metallic objects represented. Foliated ornament we should never polish; and indeed it is scarcely conceivable that any representation of an organic form should be so treated. We shall probably not go far wrong if we agree that polish may only be applied to representations of artificial forms, and not invariably then. It we adopt Mr. Ruskin's view, as expressed in the '' Stones of Venice," that representations of artificial objects should be subordinated in sculpture to those of natural forms, it will necessarily follow, that in bas-reliefs or groups of carved ornament, the proportion of unpolished surface will always be in excess of that which is polished and we contend that the best effect is produced when this excess is large. When we compare the soft gradations of shadow and light which become possible upon an unpolished sculptured surface, with the sharp and restless contrasts in which polished surfaces abound, it seems evident that the latter should occur only exceptionally. Its startling brilliancy will afford occasional relief to the softer masses of the unpolished work. But the principle of repetition should never be forgotten. As the painter repeats his colors, the musician his cadences, and the architect his forms, so should the sculptor or carver repeat his areas of polished surface, that none may appear isolated or singular.

There is a practical objection to be urged against applying polish to delicately carved work, whatever it may represent, which will commend itselt to every architect. It is clear that we cannot rub the surface of marble without effecting a slight, it imperceptible, reduction of its bulk. What may become perceptible in the process is a modification of form, unless the polisher possesses equal skill With the artist who originally carved the ornament. We are informed by a foreign firm of marble decorators who have assisted in the production of works of the highest class, that they never undertake to polish a piece of carving after it has left the sculptors hands, notwithstanding that they have a staff of highly-skilled art-workmen at their disposal.

Reference has been made to Mr. Ruskin's views upon the subordination of the artificial to the natural in sculptured representations. That such subordination is appropriate, and, indeed, essential in all sculpture which has a story to tell, is we think undeniable. But Mr. Ruskin surely goes too far in asserting "that all ornament is base which takes for its subject human work." There is no doubt that sculptured trophies which relate to obsolete rites and customs appear ridiculous when reproduced upon modern buildings. But this is only because they have no significance for US. Let the trophies bear a close relation to the aims or requirements of modern life, and their appropriateness will at once be recognized, provided that their forms are agreeable to the eye.

To treat exhaustively of the uses of colored marbles, in their application to architecture, would seem an endless task. It is easy, however, to define broadly the limits within which their uses should be confined. It is well for us to recognize that variety and brilliancy of color cannot successfully be combined with elaboration of form. Mr. Ruskin has somewhere given expression to this doctrine, illustrating it by a comparison between the swan and the humming-bird-the first exhibiting perfection of form, and the second perfection of color. The more we reflect upon the principle inculcated, the

