<doctype type="text">

<article title="Thoughts for Architects." author=" Aitchison, Prof.">

THOUGHTS FOR ARCHITECTS.*

As architecture is pre-eminently a constructive art, construction should certainly be its foundation the very last thing that would be thought of now, for the aesthetic architect would leave that to the builder and the engineer. It seems ludicrous not to insist on an architect who is to build having such knowledge of statics as to know the proper method of resisting the force of wind, of water and of earth, and the thrusts of arches, vaults and domes. Statics would give us, too, important lessons in aesthetics, for it gives us the proper proportions of each part of a building when we know the height, the weight to be carried, and the strength of the material to be used. When these particulars are known and provided for, we may roughly say that we have only to accentuate the important part by mouldings, or have them adorned by the sculptor to make it into architecture.

* * *



IN my opinion we cannot do better than make students design in cast iron when they have succeeded in designing in the old world materials. It is too expensive a material to disregard its statical conditions. It is difficult to arrange a column or a stanchion so that its capital may securely carry a heavy superstructure with a large base. It is difficult to make the base of a thin column or stanchion wide enough to safely transmit the weight it bears on to a foundation of much softer material there are difficulties in the design of mouldings and floral ornament that can he cast, and there are absolutely no examples to imitate, so that the knowledge, care, skill and invention of the student are called into play. We cannot believe that the ingenious rnediaeva1 architects would have foregone the use of such valuable and powerful materials as wrought iron, cast iron and steel on account of Mr. Ruskin's objection that they were not mentioned as building materials in the Bible.

* * *



I AM rather surprised that architects do not see that degrees of excellence are possible in architecture, or, if they do see it, that they do not act on their convictions. The greatest living architects are contented with the same remuneration for their work as the apprentice just out of his time, and merely seek to get into a wholesale business. This greatly helps to degrade the profession in the eyes of the public, and gives a very wrong impression of the facts, as every architect well knows. Thousands of public monuments have been erected in Europe since the Golden Age of Greece, not to speak of important private buildings ; yet the Parthenon and the Caryatid Temple on the Erectheion have never been equalled since, nor the interior of the Pantheon, nor the west front of Notre Dame at Paris, nor the Cornaro-Spinelli Palace, nor the Scuola di San Marco, nor the Town Hall of Brescia.

	*	* *



RECOLLECT what an obtrusive art architecture is, and how strongly it forces itself on the attention ; how long it lasts and how it forces people to come to see it in its own country. If you would only think that it is the history of the present power and cultivation of the people, you would at least learn enough about architecture to be able to judge of its excellence as you do about the other fine arts you love, and be as proud of its excellence and as delighted with it as you are with the pictures, statues,



Extracts from the a address of Professor Aitchison, A.R.A. President at the opening meeting of the R I.B.A

poetry, romances and musical compositions of the day and when you do take the same interest in it you will certainly have your reward.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

PROPOSED RESIDENCE, BLOOR ST REET, TORONTO.



F. .S. BAKER, A. R. I. B. A., ARCHITECT.



PASSENGER DEPOT, C. P. RAILWAY, VANCOUVER, 13. C.



EDWARD MAXWELL, ARCHITECT.



OFFICE	BULLDING FOR THE LONDON AND LANCASHIRE LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY, MONTREAL. EDWARD



MAXWELL, ARCHITECT.



TRINITY COLLEGE SCHOOL, PORT HOPE. —-DARLING &



PEARSON, ARCHITECTS.



This school, which aims at providing a complete education for boys, was founded in 1865, and has achieved an excellent reputation. The building, which occupies a commanding site overlooking Lake Ontario, a mile distant from Port Hope, was rebuilt in 1895. It has been made as nearly as possible fire-proof, being- divided into five sections by heavy (ire walls, the only communication between these sections being on the line of the corridors. In addition the building is equipped with fire appliances for every floor.

The lighting, heating and ventilation of the class-rooms and dormitories has received the special attention of the architects. In connection with the system of ventilating and heating, a tunnel, ten feet wide and eight feet high, runs under the entire building. In this the fresh air is introduced and warmed before being conducted by ventilating shafts to the various rooms.

There are four stairways similar to the one shown in our illustrations, each running to the top of the building, and constructed throughout of stone and iron.

On the school premises, comprising upwards of twenty acres, are excellent cricket foot-ball and tennis grounds, and a skating rink ; there is also a large covered gymnasium, and a play-room for use in had weather.

The head master's house is situated in the school grounds, to the east of the main building.



According to a contemporary, in a recent house where a good deal of attention has been given to the ventilation there is a small ventilator in the ceiling and one in the base-board of each room. The latter is connected with a pipe which goes to the kitchen chimney. This method is considered a good one, because the heat of the chimney creates a continuous current, thus drawing out the stagnant air at the floor, and when the hot air register is open the ceiling one needs only to be slightly open to secure excellent ventilation.

A device that is being introduced into English schools and is of evident merit, says Architecture and Building, is heated hat and coat racks. It is made entirely of iron tubing, the horizontal bars supporting the hat and coat pegs, while the upright tubes are connected with a supply of hot air, which is allowed to circulate through the tubing. The advantages of this arrangement are very evident, both from the point of comfort and sanitation. Nothing can be worse than the damp, steamy condition of school cloak-rooms in wet weather, especially for young children, and in our modern steam heated schools this arrangement of hat and clothes' racks could be easily and inexpensively applied. When weather is fair and warm, the heat is not needed and would be cut off, but during the season of the year when most needed the heating plant of the building would he always in operation ready to furnish the necessary heat

