<doctype type="text">

<article title="Lathe Work in Interior Decoration." author="Hodgson, Fred T.">



















WROUGHT IRON GRILLR IN WINDOW OF NORDHEIMER BUILDING, KING STREET, TORONTO.—Curry & Baker, Architects.—Executed by Geo. Meadows.



LATHE WORK IN INTERIOR DECORATION.

By FRED. T. HODGSON.



T

URNING, as every mechanic knows, is the art of shaping wood, metal, ivory or similar materials, into forms having a circular section, and also of engraving figures composed of curved lines upon a smooth surface, such as beaded

rosettes. or angle blocks for door or window trimmings.



similar to that shown at A, Fig. 1. Turned work is executed on a machine the working part of which revolves very rapidly when used for wood turning, and less rapid when used for ivory, brass or iron. The art of turning is a very important one, and the expert is able to execute the most delicate articles of luxury and ornament, as well as works required for every day use. To be able to turn out work suitable for balusters, newels, angle blocks and similar work, does not require an extra amount of skill, and every wood-working shop



































FIG. 1.—CORNER BLOCK.





in the country generally employs one man if the proprietor does not feel competent himself, or has no time

—that is able to make just such work as I have mentioned with very little practice ; and the cost of a lathe for turning wood alone, and one suited to a small shop, ought not to exceed $75, a trifling sum compared with the advantages to be gained by having one in working order.

I do not intend to say much about the lathe itself, as this article is intended to show how lathe work may be applied, with good effect, to interior finishing, than to describe the machine or show its capabilities. It may























FIG. 2.





not be out of place, however, to refer briefly to the antiquity of the art of turning. The date of the origin of turning is lost. The art was probably known long before historians began to write, as the oldest Egyptian monuments had representations of the potter at work with his lathe, and in Scripture history we have in Jeremiah a distinct allusion to the potter and his wheel; this date is about 500 B. C. In Wilkinson's "The Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians" he

says "Potters are represented at work with their wheels in the tombs of Thebes and Beni Hassen. The potters' wheel, while it is run on the principle of an ordinary lathe, only vertical instead of horizontal, lacks some of the qualities of the modern lathe, inasmuch as it has no "tail block" or "back centre." This want















FIG. 1.—SUNKEN ROSETTES.





was supplied by Thedorus, a Greek mechanic and philosopher, about 560 B. C. He also placed his lathe in a horizontal position and gave the principle of the present lathe to us. Of course it has been improved step by step since first invented until its present, almost perfect condition was reached.

The possibilities of lathe work as an interior finish is unlimited; there are so many things to which it may be applied a few of which I will submit. A, Fig. 1, shows an ordinary turned corner block; usually this is left thicker than the casing and when in position a small moulding x is broken round the frame on its vested edge. This corner block may have the turned work either sunk or intaglio, or a turned rosette may be planted

on. In either case the turned block adds considerably to the appearance of the work, and the labor in putting on the finish is materially reduced as there are no mouldings to mitre, only the small band at x.

































FIG. 4.—WAINSCOTING.





If it is desired to make the work more elaborate a centre plough groove may be made in the casing, say an inch wide and three eighths of an inch deep, and the half of a turned moulding may be planted in the groove. This moulding is a straight piece of turned wood, any length, with simply a number of balls or ovals turned on it at regular intervals ; when finished it should be split down the centre with a thin saw. In this case the balls or ovals will require to be one inch in diameter. It will readily be seen that the turner may exercise his taste in the design of moulding, as he may alternate the ball or oval with a bead or angle, or he may make one long and one short oval, or change the shape one hundred ways. As a trick of the turning trade, I might first say, that the professional takes two pieces of stuff, joints them to right dimensions, then glues another piece of stuff on the paper. He then centres his work on the line of the paper joint, and when finished in the lathe he forces the blade of a knife or a chisel in the joints arid the paper splits and separates nicely and

