<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondence." author="">

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



Among the few architects who contributed drawings to the recent R. C. A. exhibition at Toronto were Messrs. A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., and Prof. S. H. Capper, A.R.C.A., of this city. The former exhibited a pen and ink perspective of tile Jubilee Nurses home, Montreal General hospital, and the latter four drawings, viz., a new Orphanage for Girls, Whitinch, Glasgow, with separate drawing of doorway; Club House, Barnton; St. Mark's Venice.



For some time past the financial difficulties of McGill University have been the subject of public comment. The endowment funds of the university have not kept pace with the increased expenses due to the new buildings erected and departments established in recent years with funds generously donated for the purpose. As a consequence, salaries have had to be fixed so low that but for the privilege given the instructors of engaging in out side pursuits its they would not be able to maintain their positions. Such a condition of affairs is incompatible with the best interests of the students and the university. It is therefore gratifying to learn that there is a probability of the endowment funds being placed at an early date on a satisfactory footing through the munificence of Mr. W. C. McDonald and Lord Strathcona, to whom the institution is already under heavy obligations. In this connection I am pleased to record the recent gift by Mr. McDonald of $15, 500 as an endowment fund to the Department of Architecture for the purchase of supplies and materials.



MEETING OF WHOLESALERS.



The Plumbers' Wholesale Supply Association of Toronto will hold their annual meeting in Montreal at the rooms of the Montreal Builders' Exchange on the 15th and 16th of this month.



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The last of the winter series of lectures under the auspices of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was delivered by Prof. S. H. Capper, in the art gallery on March 29th. The subject of the lecture was "Ancient Rome." The lecture was illustrated by numerous lantern slides. The audience was large. Rev. J. Edgar Hall presided, and at the close moved a vote of thanks to Prof. Capper and the P. Q. A. A.



MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



The membership of the Builders' Exchange is still increasing rapidly. The Exchange will shortly inaugurate a series of instructive lectures on different subjects relating to the building trades. Arrangements for these lectures which are to be given by the members once a month, are well under way. Messrs. Simpson, president, and Sheppard, secretary, have been requested to learn what dates would be most convenient. The secretary advises me that Mr. J. W. Hughes, the well known plumber, of this city, will give the first lecture of the series, his subject being "The Value of Organization." Every member should take advantage of the opportunity to hear these lectures, the inauguration of which is highly creditable to the management of the Exchange. Further particulars will be given from time to time in these columns.



MONTREAL ART ASSOCIATION.



The Spring Exhibition of the above Association is now being held in the art gallery, and is attracting considerable attention. There is a better display of architectural drawings than usual, although there is still room for a vast improvement in this particular. The architectural exhibit includes color drawings by Mr. Edward Maxwell of new C. P. R. depots at Vancouver, B. C., Moosejaw, N. W. T., and McAdam Junction, N. B. Messrs. Cox & Amos show drawings of the new tower and spire of St. Luke's church at Waterloo, Que., the new Montreal Hunt Club house and the Church of the Advent at West mount. Messrs. Saxe & Archibald exhibit drawings of residences on Grosvener avenue, Westmount, and Mr. Arnold Findlay has some foreign sketches. In view of the fact that the annual meeting of the P. Q. A. A. will this year be held in Montreal, it is hoped that another architectural exhibition similar to that of 1896 may be undertaken.

MOULDING MARBLE.

BRIEF mention was recently made in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER of experiments conducted at McGill University by Professors Adams and Nicholson, .which had resulted in the discover)' that by means of pressure alone marble can be moulded into almost any desired form while retaining its strength. Further details of this wonderful discovery will no doubt be received with interest by your readers.

As before stated, the discovery at McGill shows that, however brittle a rock may seem to be, it is in reality a plastic substance, capable of flowing into new shapes as surely, if not as readily, as putty or dough is moulded.

The experiments so far conducted have been made chiefly with pure Carrara marble, and the process followed is thus described in detail by Prof. Adams Columns of marble two centimeters and two and one-half in diameter and about four centimeters in length, are very accurately turned and polished. Heavy wrought iron tubes are then made, imitating the plan adopted in tile construction of ordance, by rolling long strips of Swedish iron and welding the strips to the bar as they are rolled around it. When the welding process is completed, the core of soft iron, around which the Swedish iron has been wound, is drilled out, leaving a tube of welded Swedish iron six millimeters thick, and so constructed that the fibres of the iron run round the tube instead of being parallel to its length. The tube is then very accurately fitted on to a column of marble. This is accomplished by giving a very slight taper to both the column and the interior of the tube, and so arranging it that the marble will pass only half way into the tube when cold.

The tithe is then expanded by heating so as to allow tile marble to pass completely into it, and at the same time leave about three centimeters of tile tube free at either end. On allowing the tube to cool, a perfect contact between the iron and the marble is obtained, and it is no longer possible to withdraw the latter. Any very slight failure to fit at any point, if such a failure exists in any case, is rendered harmless by the fact that. under a compara-                  MARBLE COLUMN BEFORE

A 0 AFTER PRESSURE.





IRON COLUMN INCLOSINO THE

MARBLE READY FOR SQUREZING 





tively low pressure, the limestone is found to be sufficiently elastic not only to till up any such minute space, but even to stretch the tube, and, on the pressure being relieved, to contract again to its original form, so that it will drop out of tile tube which has been thus enlarged.

When the marble has been firmly placed in position in the tube, an accurately fitting sliding steel plug is inserted in either end, and by means of these the marble is submitted to a pressure far above that which would be sufficient to crush it if not so enclosed. The machine employed in obtaining tile pressure is so arranged that it (the pressure) might be maintained for weeks, or even months, if required. Under these circumstances the conditions of pressure to which the marble is subjected are those to be found in the "zone of flow" of' the earth's crust.

Under the pressure which is applied gradually, and in some cases continued for several weeks, the tube is found to slowly bulge until a very marked enlargement of the portion surrounding the marble takes place. The tube is then cut longitudinally, by means of a milling machine, along two lines opposite to one another.

When thus cut the marble within is found to be firm, so much so in fact that it holds the respective sides of the iron tube, separated as they are, so tightly together that it is impossible without mechanical aids to tear them apart. By the means of a wedge they can be separated, but the force of the blow frequently has the effect of splitting the marble through longitudinally.

In one experiment conducted by Professors Adams and Nicholson, the column of marble was reduced from 40 to 21 millimetres in height.

The deformed marble differs somewhat from the original rock in having a dead white color, the glistening cleavage faces of calcite being no longer visible. Although not so hard as the original rock, it is still firm and compact. especially so when its deformation has been carried out very slowly. No accurate measurements as to its strength have yet been made, but it will withstand a very sharp blow, and fragments of it weighing tell grams have been allowed to fall from a height of over eight feet onto a wooden platform from which they have rebounded without breaking. Thin sections of the deformed marble, when examined under the microscope, show that the calcite individuals composing the rock have, in many cases, been twisted and flattened, and in the majority of cases, a very fine polysynthetic pressure-twinning has been produced in them, with movement along gliding planes, as well as several other structures seen in nature in highly deformed rocks.

The experiments show that limestone and marble, even when dry and at ordinary temperatures, possess a certain degree of

