<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondence." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



HAMILTON

A Minor





The City Hall

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)



THE city of Hamilton, Ontario, known as the "Ambitious City," certainly occupies as beautiful a natural situation as any City in Canada. Those who visit it merely on business bent, fail to know it as it is worthy to be known, unless they spare a little time to take a run to the top of the "Mountain,' (as t is erroneously called), and inspect the really fine view to he obtained from that height. The magnificent bay, and the lake beyond the "Beach," the well-wooded Dundas valley

and the highlands beyond, form a picture well worth the visit while the city itself, with its many picturesque residences half hidden by foliage, from that point of view is a very pleasing sight. The city, viewed from its own streets, does not look as attractive, but it is being vastly improved year by year by the sweeping away of old buildings and the introduction of new substantial business premises in their room. A walk round the residential portions of the city reveals, however, a remarkable sameness of design, and one wearies of the repetition of projecting tiled gables, overhanging stories and verandahs, so similar in outline if not identical. This is no doubt due to two causes at least, the materials at hand and cheapness desired by the owners. Picturesque effects are easily obtained, and at small cost, by the style commonly used. Few seem to care about the introduction of stone, and the new residences of stone might be counted on the fingers of one hand. There seems to be very little originality among the designers of houses, even in plan, for in outline, forty-nine out of every fifty houses seem to have the same general idea. Speculative building is to a certain extent responsible for much of the sameness; cheaply produced plans, used over and over again with little variation, have no doubt been found very convenient, but that is all the more reason why those responsible for the design of houses should at any rate try to get away from repetition. "Ambitious" as the city is supposed by outsiders to be, it is difficult to find evidence of this character in the place itself. It gives the appearance of being financially crippled. The streets for the most part are in a deplorable condition, except the two principal streets for say a couple of hundred yards or so from the centre of the city, along their lengths. Block pavements worn out beyond repair; grass growing where the traffic is not heavy, give it anything but an ambitious smile. On the whole the old macadam roads and the square, plainly built, hipped-roofed houses of thirty years ago are to be preferred to the attempts at modernizing.



As a summer resort, if money were to be invested with a view to attracting visitors, the natural situation of Hamilton would make it a formidable rival to Toronto, and one would like to find the citizens wake up to the advantages of their mountain slope for park purposes, instead of "kicking" because there is no money to lay out On the improvement of the "Gore." The Gore, let it be understood, is an area at the junction of the two principal business streets, of the shape the name implies, planted and turfed, railed in and jealously guarded against dogs; containing seats and a fountain with a dozen turtles in the basin. The Gore extends one block east and west, and at the widest part is about fifty feet across. The citizens have for years desired the extension of this magnificent park eastward 50 feet, but the thought of terracing their mountain has apparently never entered their heads.

BY THE WAY.

TRANSLUCENT oyster shells are said to be used instead of glass in the windows of the buildings in Manilla. An average window, 6 feet long by 4 feet wide, contains about 260 of such panes, which temper the heat of the sun, the shells being very low conductors of heat, and also prevent the blindness which is induced by the fierce glare of the sun in that part of the world.

xxx



MR. Win. Stuart, contractor, of Ottawa, has recently returned from Dawson City, where he erected a building for We Canadian Bank of Commerce. The expensiveness of material and labor may be realized from the fact that the building referred to, although constructed of logs, cost $13,000. Mr. Stuart is authority for the statement that lumber costs $200 per 1,000 feet. An ordinary pane of glass 16 inches by 12 inches can be bought for $2.50; a common door costs $22 and a newel $6.

xxx



A BROWN stone monolith, measuring 15 feet in length and 9 feet at the base, was quarried at Washburn, Ohio, prior to the World's Fair at Chicago, the purpose being to transport it to the fair as a feature of the Wisconsin exhibit. After $5,000 had been spent on labor on this the largest block of stone ever quarried, funds could not be raised to transport it to Chicago and place it in position at the great fair. After having lain in a bed of sand and water for six years, the great stone will now be sawn into blocks and used in the construction of a residence and barn at Menasha. After all it will thus serve a more natural and useful purpose than the one for which it was originally intended.

xxx



ON several recent occasions the Building inspector of Montreal has compelled the tearing down of buildings which were constructed in a manner contrary to the provisions of the city by-laws. I have rarely if ever heard of action of this kind being taken by the building inspectors of Toronto and other Canadian cities. I am curious to know the reason. Are the architects and builders of Montreal lacking in knowledge as compared with those of other cities, or are they more eager to evade the law? Are the building regulations in Montreal more stringent, or is the inspector more alive to his duties than the gentlemen who occupy a similar position in other cities?

xxx



THE first strike of workmen in the building trades is believed to have been that which occurred about 1450 B.C., in connection with the erection of the Temple of Thebes. The masons complained of the insufficiency of the monthly allowance of provisions granted to them by the contractor in lieu of cash. They stated that they were being cheated by the use of false weights by the contractors clerks. The difficulty was temporarily tided over by the Pharaoh of the period making a liberal grant of corn to the dissatisfied workmen. This soon became exhausted however and the strike was resumed. The trouble only came to an end when the governor of the city, before whom the case was presented, drew an order for corn on the public granary.





The Cutler Manufacturing Company, of Rochester, N.Y., have published a monograph with ten plates of classical architecture on the shores of the Mediterranean, by Russell Sturgis, F.A.I.A.

