<doctype type="text">



















	7	. /7. 







[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOE PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



ONE of the troubles with a fiat roof in Ice at the Eaves. our Canadian climate is the accumulation of ice at the eaves. This is often

very troublesome, as the ice rises above the level of the roof, and the water banks up and rises above the flashings, and runs down the walls on the inside, or finds some seam or leak under the covering and drops on to the ceiling below. A number of devices have been tried to prevent this accumulation, but in most cases the experiments have been failures, for if the roof at the eave can not be kept at the same temperature as the main body of the roof, or at a higher temperature, the water running down from the warmer portion will surely freeze when it reaches the colder projection during the frosty season. The accumulation, therefore, can only be prevented by keeping the whole surface of the roof at one temperature, or by some special device at the eave that will keep the flow of water at the same or a higher temperature than it acquires on the roof. There are several ways by which this result may be accomplished. The first, and in our opinion the best, is to leave a sufficient space between the ceiling joists and the rafters to prevent the heat from below affecting the roof, and having the space well ventilated in order to preserve a uniform temperature between the ceiling and roof from end to end. This prevents any thawing above the eave, and consequently there can be no flow, or if there be a thaw the flowing will be uniform as much at the eave as elsewhere. Another method is to cut off the roof boards five or six inches short of the inside wall, and build in a good solid trough between the joists or rafters to receive the water from the upper part of the roof, and then continue the roof to the eave the same as usual. The metal forming the covering of the roof passes into the trough, forming a metal gutter, and is taken up on the lower side and continued to the eave, just as it would be if no trough was there. The water flows into this trough from the upper roof, and is conveyed from the trough to the drain by a proper leader, which passes down on the inside of the building, then through the wall to connect with whatever conveniences are provided to take the surplus water away. The theory of this device is, that the trough being placed where the heat from the rooms below can reach it, ice cannot form, and an open avenue will always be provided to admit of the free flowing of water. The theory is correct, but in practice it does not always work as is expected. If the house, shop, store or factory is vacant during a frosty term, some of the conditions are changed and troubles ensue. Another method of getting rid of the ice, and a good one, too, is to connect a steam pipe —when steam is used with the heating system and carry it up to the underside of the roof boarding at the

eve on the outside of the wall (the pipe may be boxed in), and when ice commences to accumulate, to turn a current of steam through the pipe ; the result is generally satisfactory. A 1 1/2-inch pipe is sufficiently large for the biggest roofs. The steam pipe should be so arranged that it could be cut off and turned off the heating system at will. The device is not an expensive one either to install or to operate when wanted. From thirty to sixty minutes' application of steam through the pipe will clear any eave of ice, no matter how great the accumulation may be. There are other methods more or less effective, but the three main ones are those mentioned in the foregoing.



MORTAR is used to hold the parts of a Mortar Joints, wall together, and also to prevent the

fracture of the bricks or stones by insuring an even distribution of pressure notwithstanding

b



any irregularities in their beds. Thick joints should be avoided where possible; they not only injure the appearance of the work, but, when the weight of the superincumbent walling comes upon them, the mortar is squeezed out, projects beyond the face of the wall, catches the rain and leads it into the walls, rendering the work liable to injury by frost, and the surface of a building finished with thick, coarse joints of mortar can never be made to look neat or workmanlike. In order to make neat work certain rules must be adhered to, among which are the following In flat or flush joints the mortar must be pressed flat with the trowel and the surface of the joint made flush with the face of the brickwork. Such walls are not very ornamental, but are suitable for many buildings and for interior walls that are intended to be whitewashed or painted. Struck joints are formed by pressing back the upper portion of the joint while the mortar is moist, so as to form a sloping surface, which throws off the wet ; the lower ·side of the joint is cut off with the trowel to a straight edge. These joints are usually struck along the lower edge. This is the joint usually made by Canadian bricklayers. Keyed joints are formed by drawing a curved iron key or jointer along the centre of the flush joint, pressing it hard, so that the mortar is driven in beyond the face of the wall ; a groove of curved section is thus formed, having its surface hardened by the pressure. In some cases the moist key is dipped in ashes, which are thus rubbed into the surface of the joints. Raking and pointing consists in removing the original mortar joints to a depth of about 34 of an inch in from the face, filling in with good mortar, and finishing the joints in one of the methods described. Pointing is not advisable for new work when it can be avoided, as the joints thus formed are not so lasting as those that are finished as the walls

