<doctype type="text">

<article title="Ontario Association of Architects." author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

(Continued from Page 11.)



thing if some kind of amalgamation with the Canadian Institute could be arranged and the library removed there. This would enable the registrar to control the really necessary business of the Association at a moderate cost.

Mr. Dick said the members must not delude themselves with the idea that the examinations could be carried on at a cost of ten dollars or any such sum. By the courtesy and good nature of the gentlemen who had conducted them that had been rendered possible, but it was not to be expected that that could continue ; it would he an imposition on good nature.

Mr. Burke remarked that in the English association the work of the examinations was conducted gratuitously by some of the busiest men in the profession.

The Registrar pointed out that the printing of the examination papers alone cost $25, and that when the examinations were held at the School of Practical Science the remuneration for the necessary attendant was two dollars per day for the five days. Last year the examinations had been held in his office, and there was no printing done, because only two students were examined.

The President said that in making his suggestion he had not thought so much of the actual expense of carrying on the examinations, but of giving the students something to work upon in the way of a diploma or degree.

Mr. Aylsworth thought it would be productive of better results were the work divided among three committees.

Mr. Gregg, in order to simplify matters, put his motion in this form " That a committee be appointed to consider the suggestion made by the President in regard to the government taking over the examinations, and to report to-morrow."

Mr. Siddall moved in amendment, that in addition to the subject mentioned in the President's address, the whole future conduct of the Association be also included.

Mr. Burke said he would be very glad to support Mr. Siddall's motion if he would separate it from the other. Mr. Siddall said that would meet his views just as well.

The President then put Mr. Gregg's motion to the meeting as follows " Moved by Mr. Gregg, seconded by Mr. Jarvis, that a committee be appointed to consider the suggestion made by the President with regard to the government taking the examinations, and to report tomorrow. ' (Carried.)

Messrs. Gregg, Jarvis, Siddall and Baker were appointed as the committee.

Mr. Siddall then said the committee he wished appointed was one to consider the whole future of the Association, and to bring in recommendations for improvement or any other recommendations they may think desirable. It had been stated that things were not in a proper state, and that there was very little prospect ahead of the Association. If that was the position it was necessary that they should take stock of themselves, and he wanted a committee appointed to do that.

Mr. Baker, in seconding Mr. Siddall's proposal, asked if it could not be accomplished by adding two members to the committee already appointed.

After some further discussion as to the desirability of one committee considering all the matters referred to, on motion of Mr. Siddall, seconded by Mr. Baker, it was resolved that Messrs. Aylsworth and Gray be added to the committee already appointed, and that it consider in addition to the question already submitted the question of the position of the Association and its finances.

The Registrar then moved the following resolution, which was seconded by Mr. Curry ''That the Ontario government be requested to make a systematic test of Canadian building material, the test to be conducted by the School of Practical Science, assisted by a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects."

Mr. Jarvis asked if it would not be advisable to add to that that some members of the Association be associated with those making the tests. He thought it ought to be seen that the piers or materials on which the tests were conducted were not much better in ma-

terial or construction than those in every clay use for building construction.

The Registrar said it was intended that these should be Association tests made by the government machinery but with the co-operation of the Association.

The resolution was carried.

The convention then adjourned until 10. 30 on Tuesday morning.





SECOND DAY.

The proceedings of the convention were resumed at 11 o'clock on Wednesday morning-, the President in the chair, when Mr. Edmund Burke read a paper opening the discussion on '' Steel and Iron Construction." [This paper, with the discussion thereon, will be printed in a future issue.]



REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE.



The report of the Special Committee appointed to consider the question in regard to examinations, the position of the Association and its finances, was then read by Mr. Gray as follows:

JANUARY 2, 1898



Report of Committee appointed by the Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects to consider the following questions, viz.,



1st. The question of Examinations.

2nd. ''	the Finances of the Association.

3rd. To consider the future working of the Association. Your Committee met and beg to report as follows

RE EXAMINATIONS.- -Your Committee beg to recommend that the suggestion of the President, re Examinations, Degrees, etc., be referred to the following Committee, viz., Messrs. Gordon, Wright, Wickson and Siddall, to confer with the Council and to report at next meeting.

FINANCES. --This Committee beg to recommend to the Council that clause No. in the by-laws under the heading "Salaries of Officers" be altered to read as follows "The salary of the Registrar shall be fixed by the Council from time to time," and also recommend that the salary shall not exceed $100 for the duties of Registrar and Librarian. The Committee strongly recommend to the Council that the Registrar be instructed to make every effort to collect the membership fees outstanding; and that clause No. 4, on page 5, under the heading "Members Fees," be enforced after this effort has been made.



THE FUTURE WORKING OF THE ASSOCIATION.  While the results from the untiring efforts made by the present and past members of the Council and Registrar, to further the objects of the Association, have been in some respects disappointing, this Committee would urge that those efforts be not relaxed, until they arc rewarded by success. Your Committee would recommend that the word TEN in clause No. 2 of by-laws passed by the Association at the annual meeting be struck out, and the word FIVE be substituted. Your Committee strongly recommend the united effort of the members of the Association to encourage and maintain by their counsel, advice and personal attendance the local chapters inaugurated by the Association.

Signed, on behalf of the Committee,

J.	WILSON GRAY, Secretary.



On motion of Mr. Gregg, seconded by Mr. Siddall, it was resolved that the Report of the Committee be received for consideration.

Mr. Dick suggested that the report be taken up subject by subject, beginning with that referring to the examinations. The report simply made certain recommendations, without giving any argument as to why the course recommended was thought advisable. He thought the Chairman of the Committee should state the reasons which induced them to come to the conclusions expressed.

Mr. Gregg moved that the first clause of the report, recommending that the matter of the examinations be referred to the Council, be adopted, and that Messrs. Wright, Gordon, Wickson and Siddall be appointed a committee to act with the Council in carrying out the recommendations of the report.

Mr. Gray seconded the motion.

Mr. Curry said he did not see any necessity for such a motion as the one before them. The committee had been appointed for the purpose of bringing forward some scheme of action, but the only thing they had done was to recommend that a number of gentlemen be added to the Council in the consideration of the matter. The Council had not refused to do its work, and it had not been shown that it was unable to do it, and under the circumstances he thought the motion was rather a peculiar one to be made.

