<doctype type="text">



it was evident members were not prepared to pay the fees necessary to continue it in that way. The question was, how long are we going to continue going to the parliament buildings looking for legislation? In his opinion it was perfectly hopeless, as there was a feeling abroad among the members of the Legislative Assembly that no more so-called class legislation should be enacted, or anything tending to the creation of close corporations, and however wrongly, the amendment sought by the Association had been regarded as of that description. He thought the only thing they could do was to curtail the expenditures and put things on such a financial basis as would render possible the carrying On of the Association ; it would not do to go on eating up the surplus as has been done, until now little more than $1,000 was left of it. He saw no reason, however, for abandoning the Association. The duties of the registrar had been onerous in the last few years, mainly by reason of the extra work devolving upon him in connection with the attempts to secure amendment to the act of incorporation, and the cessation of those attempts would make possible a reduction of expenditure. He thought there was no reason why they could not continue as a voluntary association, without regard to the Act, which had really given them nothing. They had conducted the examinations under it, and what had it all resulted in ? Students seemed not to think it of sufficient advantage to induce them to register and pass the examinations, knowing quite well that they were not debarred from practising by neglecting to pass the examinations; and he was not sure that it was advisable that they should be debarred in this age of competition. In regard to the suggestion that the examinations should be handed over to the government, he thought it would be wise to ascertain whether there was any inclination on the part of the government to assume them before spending time in discussing it. He did not see the analogy between the work of an architect and a civil engineer or an electrical engineer. The profession of an architect covered a very wide field, a man might be a poor constructionist arid yet a very good designer, and capable of doing work in one or two divisions of his calling, not upon constructional lines or the lines upon which he would be examined. In the case of an engineer, it was essential that he should be thoroughly versed in that one particular line. Passing the examinations would not necessarily make an architect of a man, although it was no doubt a good thing to have as many architects as possible know as much as possible about construction and sanitary science, but that alone would not make an architect; a man who chose to call himself an architect had so many different lines upon which lie could make a living that he was not forced to depend upon any degree to enable him to do so.

Mr. Gordon said it seemed to be assumed by most of those who had spoken that it would be a desirable thing to have the examinations taken over by the government but he had not heard the first reason assigned for that opinion, while many reasons occurred to him why that course was not to be desired, even if the government were willing, which he ventured to doubt very much. The only objection raised to retaining them was on the score of expense, but he had ascertained from the treasurer that a ten dollar bill would more than cover the expense of the last examination, which was a mere bagatelle. It was true this was effected only by the self sacrifice of the examiners, but no complaint had been heard from them, indeed he had heard it remarked by some of them that acting in that capacity was a good thing for them, because the study it necessitated was beneficial, though there was no financial recompense. The holding of the examinations was the central point in the act of incorporation, and something they ought not to be willing to abandon until good reasons were given for such action. He agreed with Mr. Siddall when he said that in order to increase interest in the Association it was necessary that they should do not less than they had been doing, but more. He thought that was perhaps, one of the best things that had been said in the meeting. It had been running through his

mind, and evidently through the mind of the President also, and perhaps others, that there were many ways in which interest might be created apart altogether from the question of legislation. If it was thought that through lapse of time such changes would take place in the government as might at a future period place them in a better position to advance their aims in that direction he had no objection to waiting. The object sought was very important, and if anything could be gained by waiting they could well afford to do so. In the meantime they must not neglect more immediate improvements, or disregard the necessity of stimulating the interest of the members, and he heartily endorsed what had been said by the President about placing before the young men some incentive. Their object should be to adopt such means as would give them a standing before the public, as compared with those who did not belong to the Association. It had been pointed out that the standing conferred by membership was becoming recognized in courts of law, and further advance might be made along that line. He did not wish at the present time to bring up the broad question in regard to degrees, but, speaking to the present motion, he thought that the inauguration of some such system of conferring a certain position in the Association would do a great deal towards increasing membership. It had been said that many were in the Association only looking to see what there was in it for them. Unfortunately that selfishness was an element in all human nature, and the degree would give a status which to some extent would carry with it a financial interest. If any such scheme as that were adopted it would be desirable that they should have control of the examinations, because the one must of necessity work in with the other.

Mr. Baker said that before Mr. Gregg's motion was put he wished to say that he felt sure none of the members were surprised at the somewhat despondent view taken by the Council of the result of their efforts. He felt sure all most thoroughly appreciated the work they had done, and he wished more power to their elbow. But in every undertaking there were stages when things looked at their worst, and it was then that they began to improve. Was not this the time for all to take hold with a will and pull the Association out of the hole it was in? They must not be too despondent. He did not think the attendance had been so bad at the local chapter as some thought, and he believed that it was going to be a success. He thought Mr. Gregg's motion might be enlarged so as to include within its scope the whole question of reducing expenses. In regard to the examinations, he thought they should only be held in the event of there being a reasonable number of applicants. Certainly no government would think of holding an examination where only one in each class presented himself for examination, as was the case at the last one held.

Mr. Gregg expressed an entire willingness to change his motion in the way suggested, but in that event thought there should be further discussion of the financial question. He would change the motion and make it read " That there he a committee appointed to report to-morrow upon the present state of this Association with regard to examinations, finances and membership, and to see what can be done."

Mr. Gray thought the questions proposed to be amalgamated in the one motion were too wide to be properly dealt with by one committee in the short time at its disposal. The questions of finance and keeping up interest in the Association seemed to him very much wider in range than the mere question of handing over the examinations to the government. Then he thought if there was to be any system of conferring degrees the Association must necessarily retain control of the examinations. in regard to the question of expenditure, he thought that was not so much in connection with the examinations, but in the management of the library and the registrar's fees. While he in common with all the members fully appreciated the excellent service given by the registrar, he thought some reduction in that direction was necessary. He thought it would be a good

(Continued on Page 16.

