<doctype type="text">



are erected. During a severe frost, however, when the walls are going up, it would be impossible to strike good joints ; then pointing may be resorted to during better weather. Pointing is, moreover, often resorted to when it is intended to give the work a superior appearance, and also to conceal the defects of inferior work. In repairing old work the mortar of which has become decayed, raking out and pointing become necessary. Both in old and new work, before pointing, the original mortar should be raked out with an iron hooked point, and the surface well wetted before the fresh mortar is applied. In flat joint pointing the raked joints are filled in with fine mortar and struck flat with the trowel or jointer. Tuck-pointing is chiefly employed on better-class brickwork ; the joints, having been raked, are "stopped," that is, filled with mortar. This is colored or rubbed over with a soft brick until the joints and bricks are of the same color. A narrow groove is then cut along the centre of each joint, and the mortar is allowed to set. After this the groove is filled with pure white lime putty, which is caused to project so as to form a narrow white ridge, the edges of which are cut off parallel so as to have a raised white line about 1/8 of an inch wide. This work requires considerable care and skill on the part of the workman, but when well executed it causes inferior work to look as if it had been executed in the best of materials, laid in very fine joints ; in carrying it out, any defects in the work, such as irregularity of joints, are corrected by smearing over the face and striking false joints, so that defective work is disguised and made to present a good appearance. Bastard tuck pointing consists in forming a ridge from 1/4 to 3/8 of an inch wide on the stopping-itself, the edges being cut parallel and clean. There is no white line, the projecting part of the joint being of the same color as the remainder. Blue or black pointing is done with mortar mixed with coal ashes instead of sand. Sometimes colored mortars made for the purpose are used. Masons' or V joints project from the face of the wall with an angular V section. With good mortar they throw off the wet, but when inferior lime is used they soon become saturated and destroyed by the frost. The best joint for general purposes is the '' struck joint." It is the easiest made, and is the most lasting.





<article title="Plumbers' Meetings in Montreal" author="">

PLUMBERS' MEETINGS IN MONTREAL.

REPRESENTATIVES of the Plumbers' Supply Association and of the Dominion Master Plumbers' Association met in Montreal at the beginning of the month and satisfactorily adjusted their business relations.

A meeting of the Master Plumbers' Association was subsequently held in the rooms of the Montreal Builders' Exchange, the following executive officers being in attendance Joseph Wright, Toronto, president W. Smith, London, Ont., vice-president; G. McKinley, Ottawa; Win. Stephenson, Winnipeg; Joseph Lamarche, Montreal, past-president; P. J. Carroll, W. J. Hughes, representing St. John, N. B., and W. Harris, representing Halifax, N. S.

The relations between the plumbers and the supply firms were considered, as also the sanitary regulations prevailing in the various cities. In this latter connection a deputation was appointed to wait upon the proposed new local Health Board and endeavor to secure improvements in the sanitary regulations of Montreal.

It was decided that the next annual convention of the

National Master Plumbers' Association shall be held at Quebec from June 29th to July 2nd. The executive will meet at 9 a. m. on June 29th and the convention will open at 2 p. m. on that date.



ANNUAL BANQUET OF THE MONTREAL ASSOCIATION.



A very pleasant evening was spent by the members and guests of the Master Plumbers Association of Montreal at the annual banquet of the association in the Queen's hotel, Montreal, on Thursday evening, Feb. 3rd, at which Mr. J. W. Harris presided. Occupying places of honor beside him were Mr. James Wright, president of the National Association ; Mr. Stevenson, of Winnipeg; Mr. Smith, of London ; Mr. G. McKinley, of Ottawa, and Mr. W. Mansell, of Toronto, secretary of the National Association. There were altogether about one hundred persons present, among whom were the following Mr. McMichael, of the James Robertson Co.; Mr. Booth, Toronto Steel Clad Bath Co.; Mr. J. M. Taylor, of the Toronto Radiator Co.; Lieut. -Col. Massey, of the Gurney-Massey Co.; AId. Gagnon, AId. Beausoleil, Aid. Laporte, J. P. Lamarche, T.

Christie, J. McArthur, Robert J. McLaren, W. J. Wall, Z. St Aubin, E. Hebert, A. J. Martin, A. Paquin, T. Lessard, T. E. Rouillier, D. Dugas, Z. E. Martin,

G.	C. Denman, P. C. Ogilvie, A. S. Walker,

W.	Stephenson, James Simpson, J. Lecompte, J. Hoffner, Joseph Mansfield, H. H. Brosseau, Geo. Moffatt, ex-Ald. Germain, Z. Cusson, G. Lecompte, T. O'Connell, A. J. Murray, John Watson, Capt. J. H. Wynne, P. J. Canab, Alex. A. Robertson, J. A. Hughes,

W.	R. J. Hughes, R. J. Lockhart, Louis A. Payette, G. Pelletier, Alfred Blais, S. E. Crevier, F. Duclos, J.

M.	H. Robinson, C. E. Thibault, N. Simoneau, F. Hurturbise, H. A. Lamontagne, H. G. McLaren, R. U. Robins, Capt. J. Giroux, Ernest W. Thurber, James A. Sadler, T. Moll, J. M. F. Trembly, W. Skead, Jas. Addison, John Burns, J. P. McEntor, M. Beaupre and others.

Mr. F. Hortan, Secretary of the Banquet Committee, read telegrams and letters of regret from Mr. J. Doodey and Thos. Campbell, of Halifax, N. S., P. Fitzsimmons and Mr. Picard, of Quebec, Messrs. Perrier and Burton, of St. John, N. B., Mr. Foote of Boston (one of the New York delegates), H. K. Ives and Mayor Prefontame of Montreal. The maritime province delegates were snowbound.

After justice had been done to the excellent menu the president proposed the toast "the National Association of Canada," which was ably responded to by Mr. James Wright, the President of the National Association, who said every member of the local association would find a friend in the National Association, and he had no doubt, as he had said in the afternoon, that if the roofers and steam-fitters would all affiliate with them, and take Canadian goods only, it would be of great benefit to themselves and the supply houses. He would try and do all he could to have Canadian goods used by every member of the Association, and hoped they would all see their way to deal with Canadian firms.

Mr. Smith, of London, the vice-president of the National Association made a few remarks on the same theme, and said as they expected to have a revival of home trade before long they would not require American goods in any form.

Mr. Mansell, of Toronto, Secretary of the National Association, made a few interesting remarks, and Mr. Stevenson of Winnipeg made an excellent and witty speech.

