<doctype type="text">

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



shown in sketch at A A, while a drain pipe ran beneath one side of one of the remaining piers.

That the public needs protection is well demonstrated in this specimen of work, and it should serve to punctuate the lessons taught by the London City Hall disaster and the collapse of the roof of the public hail in Oshawa.

It is high time that the government should insist that every person who desires to assume the tide of '' architect,' shall first pass an examination to discover his fitness for the responsible duties which an architect is called upon to perform.





ST. JEAN BAPTISTE CHURCH COMPETITION.

FOLLOWING. are the conditions and the report of the judges in the recent competition open to the Catholic architects of Montreal for plans for the new St. Jean Baptiste church to be erected in that city



CONDITIONS 01" COM PETITION.



The syndics and churchwardens of the Parish of St. John Baptist of the city of Montreal invite the Catholic architects of this city to compete for the preparation of plans for a church, vestries parochial residence, a chapel for the use of congregations, and a sub-basement, that the above named parish proposes to erect on Rachel street.

Two or three competent judges will be named to choose the plans.

The following are the conditions governing the com petition

1st. The successful architect will prepare all final plans and specifications with the help of the syndics and churchwardens.

2nd. The second prize will be $200.

3rd. The third prize will be $100.

The churchwardens will entrust the preparation of final plans and the superintendence of the works to the successful architect, provided said architect shall possess the proper qualifications and give the required securities.

The plot of ground on which the proposed buildings are to be erected is situated on Rachel street, facing also Sanguinet and Drolet streets, and on a lane in the rear.

For the size of ground see the plan exhibited in ''Hospice Auclair."

The competitors are not compelled to follow a special style—Gothic only being excluded.

The ''facade" of church must face on Rachel street, the parochial residence on Sanguinet street, and the vestries on Drolet street. The chapel to be situated where deemed best by the architect.

AU drawings to be made to a 1/8 scale.

The following plans are required Front elevation, side elevation, plan of sub-basement, plan of main floor, longitudinal section, transverse sections of sanctuary and of galleries.

All the plans to be drawn on ordinary drawing paper, not glazed nor polished.

Plans to be lined only, with the exception of floor plans and sections which shall be colored so as to show the nature and kind of materials used in the proposed construction.

The plans must not bear the author's name, but will be marked with a motto or signed with a fictitious name. A sealed envelope marked with the motto or fictitious name, anti containing the name and address of the competing architect, will be sent in with the drawings, and the said letter is to be opened only if plans bearing same motto or name are accepted. All drawings to he delivered without cost at "The Hospice Auclair '' on or before the twenty-fifth day of April, 1898, without any indications whatever of the name arid residence or the sender.

The churchwardens allow 35 (lays for the preparation of plans, commencing to count at the time or the first publication of advertisement in La Presse and La Patrie.

The total amount voted for the construction of proposed buildings is

$130,000.

The roofs and walls are to be fireproof.

The church is to be sufficiently large to contain 450 pews. The same number of pews to be placed in the basement.

The sub-basement must be 14 feet high, and be filled with closets, etc., etc.

In the church the following requirements to be considered

An incline organ loft at least two concealed galleries for religious congregations, each of which must seat from 50 to 6o people one specially wide aisle in the centre ; one good aisle (transverse) eight confessionals in the main church and eight in the basement one room for catafalso one baptismal font, and one record room an easy communication for choir buys from basement to sanctuary several doors on main facade and as many as possible on other streets—one on Sanguinet street and one on Drolet Street the sanctuary door to be above the level of communion rail as few columns as possible, and at all events not more than six the pulpit to be as near the sanctuary as possible the altar, now under construction, not to be taken into consideration by the architects the chapel to contain from 800 to 1,000 people the chapel to be so situated that on particular occasions it may be opened and permit those occupying the chapel to see the ceremonies in the main church the heating apparatus to be placed under the sacristy and to hear the several buildings the building to be particularly well drained a door to be provided in cellar for carriages.

Size of vestry, about 26' x 30', fitted with wardrobes, closets, etc., etc. For other details see the parish priest.



REPORT OFT HE EXP E RTS.



In estimating and deciding the merits of the different competitive plans, we were compelled to guide ourselves by the written conditions imposed on the architects, and to follow them very strictly.

We First took into consideration the main object of the proposed

building, the place occupied by the public, compared with the situation of the sanctuary where the ceremonies will be celebrated, an(l the facilities offered the audience to hear the predication.

Starting From this principle, we made a thorough study of all the drawings, trying to determine which plan solved most perfectly the



problem of disposition of pews and pupil, and also of acoustics.

We are of the opinion that all minor detail of plans must give way before those primordial conditions.

An important condition in posed by the wardens of the parish of St. John Baptist is the limited cost of $130,000. We consequently had to carefully study the different schemes and propositions of the architects in the light of the probable cost of their proposed building.

After a very careful study of all plans and propositions submitted as well as written explanations sent in by some of the competitors, and guiding our decision by the conditions imposed by the churchwardens of the parish of St. John Baptiste, we came to the conclusion that the plans signed In hoc signo Vinces " were those which best answered a]] the imposed conditions.

The second prize is given to he plans marked " Ad Dei Gratiumn," and the third to those. marked " Lcce.

We cannot but feel that praise is clue to all the other competitors. Their plans were all very artistic, beautiful and rich in ideas.

We had a very hard task before us, and it was not without much study that we came to a decision.

 Hoping that this will be accounted satisfactory, we remain, very humbly,

	(Signed)	1. N. BERLING UET, Architect.

		DECARIE, Ptre. (Dissident).





THE COMPETITION EVIL.

THE following letter, from the chairman of the committee in control of the Stratford City Hall competition, in reply to objections urged by a Toronto firm of architects to the terms of the competition, clearly indicates that by entering competitions of this character architects are cutting their own throats:



GENTLEMEN,—In reply to yours of the 11th inst., would say

The regular architectural fees at the present time are simply a matter of bargain, and we know for a fact that 4 10970s above the average paid for such work this season, and furthermore, some of your best Toronto men would only be too pleased to secure the appointment at that figure (no travelling expenses either). (2) The information we have sent Out we consider covers (Itlite sufficient instructions to enable an architect to form an idea of what we require, unless relating to the old building. This should be personally inspected in order to obtain the necessary information required. Several architects have already done so. (3) Experts may be appointed to assist us in the final selection of plans, but we will reserve the right to make such appointment, However, you may rest assured no favors will he given we want the best. (4) As to being misled regarding final cost, I would refer you to '' Municipal Buildings" Toronto Expert work no doubt—but from such Good Lord deliver us, or we are swamped.

In conclusion, would say the terms we are offering are much more liberal than those lately given by St. Thomas. We are informed that that municipality had a large number of first class designs submitted-- —quite sufficient to choose from and obtain a most creditable building, fully in keeping with their other public edifices.

Yours respect fully,

GEO. F. INGRAM.





THE ST. THOMAS CITY HALL COMPETITION.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—The experience gained by at least some of the gentlemen who ventured the risk of competing for lie building plans, elevations and specification of the new St. Thomas town hall lately advertised in your admirable journal, is not a pleasant one.

That they might fail in such a competition was one of he contingencies for which they were quite prepared but that the Chairman of the Building Committee should have failed to acknowledge the receipt of' the papers, and also to advise them of the result of the competition, was what they did not expect

Alter retaining the papers about a month they were re turned to express charges and without a line of advice or information from the Council as to the result.

They would still be ignorant of the fact that the first and second prizes were awarded by the councilors to two of their own townsmen (the only two local architects competing) had they not seen the announcement in one of their city papers.

The amenities usually prevalent among business men seem to have been entirely ignored.

J JEDEX

12th May, 1898.



Mr. C. B. Chappell, architect Charlottetown, P.E.I in renewing his subscription to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Writes

take three or four other architectural papers, but would not be

without yours.



Hammers are represented on lie monuments of Egypt twenty centuries before our era. They greatly resembled the hammers now in use, save that there were no claws on the back for the extraction of nails. The first hammer was undoubtedly a st one held in the hand. Claw hammers were invented some time during the Middle Ages. Illuminated manuscripts of the eleventh century represent carpenters with claw hammers. Hammers are of all sizes, from the dainty instruments used by the jeweller, which weigh less than '2 oz. , to the gigantic hammer of shipbuilding establishments, some of which weigh as in much as fifty tons and have a falling force of from ninety to 100. Every trade has its own hammer and its own way of using it.

