<doctype type="text">

<article title="Quicksand" author="">

QUICKSAND.

VERY little is known by the general public about quicksand, and that little is usually obtained from novels. Such information is usually wrong, being composed of a pinch of truth and a handful of fiction. The sensational novel goes so far as to give to quicksand some attributes that belong only to living creatures. No ordinary observer could distinguish quicksand from any other if it were dried ; and it he wished to restore its fatal property artificially, be would, in all probability, fail. Suppose he fills a bucket with it in the dry state, and soaks it with water ; it does not in consequence become mobile. If he drains the water off from the bottom, the sand will be found wedged firmly in place, and if the water be measured it will be found to equal thirty per cent. of the bulk of the sand, or about twenty per cent. of its weight. From this we may infer that a cubic foot of dry sand weighs nearly 94 lbs. This, for sand, is very light weight, for there are other qualities of sand which weigh as much as 171 lbs. Quicksand, when examined under the microscope, will be seen to have rounded corners like river sand, as distinguished from angular or '' sharp " sand, which will pack more solidly than the other. It is quicksand that is used in the hour-glass and in the smaller egg-boiler, partly because of its fineness 'and partly because it does not obscure the inner surface of the glass by scratching. The lightness of quicksand is the quality which will lead us most surely to the cause of its reputation, and to illustrate this, the bucketful of sand must be loaded with water from below, and made to overflow very slowly. The upward current will be found to loosen the sand

and to raise the surface very slightly, separating and lubricating the particles so that they are easily displaced. The bucket now contains quicksand, and this sand, from the support it receives from the water, has its weight or supporting power reduced. In the dry state it weighed nearly 94 lbs., but if weighed in the water it is reduced to 321/2 lbs., and its mobility prevents any animal from walking on it. The mixture of sand and water weighs quite 112 lbs. per cubic foot, or nearly twice the weight of water, and bulk for bulk nearly twice the weight of a man, hut it is too thick to swim in, and the person engulfed would soon be too exhausted to escape. He would probably die of suffocation if not drowned by an advancing tide, for quicksands are found mostly within the influence of tides. He would not be swallowed by the quicksand, because it is so much heavier than his body. Quicksands require in all cases an upward current which is not quick enough to form what is called a spring or fountain. It may be formed in two ways in tidal rivers and on the shores of tidal seas the rising tide may saturate a porous stratum of

below high-water

ground	mark, and when the tide falls

a return current is established through the same porous (sandy) ground with a sufficient velocity to loosen the sand, as above described. This sand, as soon as the rising tide reverses the current, ceases to be " quick." The other case is that when a slow current of fresh water finds an exit through a surface of sand above or below water. This is a permanent quicksand. Any sand and almost any material might have the quality of quicksand imparted to it by means of a suitable current.

Coal is separated from shale in an upward current of

Duplex Sanitary Baths, Toronto Steel-Clad Bath & Metal Co. Limited, Toronto, Montreal