<doctype type="text">

tongue and the 12" mark on the blade, over the working line. The tongue gives the cut for the top of the rafter, and blade gives the cut for the bottom. As the building is 26 feet wide, we must repeat the marking on the working line thirteen times, as thirteen is half of 26. Care must be taken in laying of the lengths or the ratter



















will not fit exact. To get the length and bevels of a rafter for a one-third pitch the figures to be employed are the 8" and 12" marks. The square must be applied as before, using the 8" mark on the tongue and the 12" mark on the blade. Keep the tongue to the right, which gives the plumb cut on the top of the rafter, while the blade gives the level or bottom cut. The square must be applied thirteen times as before. In all cases the square must be applied half as many times as the span measures in feet. Roofs more acute than the ones shown may be dealt with as follows: For instance, if the roof is half pitch or at right angles, 12" and 12" on the square will give both pitch and bevels. When a roof is more acute or ''steeper" than a right angle, take a greater figure than 12" on the blade, but keep the 12' on the tongue, thus For a three—quarter, or ''gothic pitch, take 16" on the blade and 12" on the tongue, and repeat on the pattern, half as many times as there are feet in the span. Whenever an architect's drawing for a roof is to be followed, it is an easy matter to find out how to employ the square to get the length and bevels of the rafters, by laying it on the drawing as shown at







Fig. 3.



Fig. 3. Of	something depends on the scale to which the drawing is made. If any of the ordinary fractions of an inch are used, the intelligent workman will have no difficulty in solving the problem. Sometimes there may be a traction of a foot to deal with in the span of a building. In such case it may be dealt with as follows Suppose a building 26' 8" wide, deal with the feet as shown, then, as 4 is the half of 8', apply 4" on the blade and 2' on the tongue marks for a quarter pitch, and 4' and 4" for a half pitch. The lines down the tongue will be the plumb cuts at the top of the rafters, and the lines along the blade will be the bevels to sit flat on the top of wall-plates. To make good close work, be exact in lining off and sawing, and the result will be satisfactory.



SOME PAINT TESTS.—The results of some paint tests were exhibited at the October meeting of the Civil Engineers Society of St. Paul, says the Railway Master Mechanic. Twenty odd samples were shown of black and more or less rust-roughened plates of sheet iron, which had undergone six months exposure to locomotive smoke while suspended from the roof of the Union Depot train shed, about 50 feet above the tracks. The iron plates, originally new and bright, had each received one coat of paint and had been subjected to equal exposure. The red lead samples gave the best results next came the white lead, followed by the iron oxides and the asphaltum, which were generally in much better condition than the graphites. An anti-rust specimen was the brownest specimen of the lot.

DOMINION PLUMBING AND HEATING

SUPPLY ASSOCIATION.

THIS is the title of a new organization, composed of manufacturers and wholesale dealers in plumbers' goods and heating apparatus, formed at a meeting- held for the purpose in Montreal on April 15th. The following officers were elected

President -J. R. Wilson, of Thos. Robertson & Co., Montreal.

First Vice-president - A. A. McMicheal, of James Robertson & Co., Toronto.

Second Vice-President - W. H. Wiggs, of the Mechanics' Supply Co., Quebec.

Secretary-Treasurer—A. G. Booth, of Toronto.

The above, with the following-, compose the Executive Committee Col. F. Massey, of the Gurney-Massey Co.; Wm. Greig, of Warden, King & Son A. Lariviere, of Amiot, Lecours & Lariviere, and J. M. Taylor, of the Toronto Radiator Co.

A gentleman interested, to whom a representative of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER applied for information, stated that the new association was simply an enlargement of the local association established in Toronto last year. The restrictions imposed by the Dominion Plumbers' Association had become so burdensome that the manufacturers and wholesalers were compelled to organize for mutual protection. As an illustration of the nature of these restrictions, this gentleman stated that manufacturers of brass goods were forbidden to sell to the T. Eaton Co., who are extensive buyers of this class of goods. Another regulation is that wholesalers shall not sell to or recognize as a legitimate plumber a person who does not carry on business and display his goods in a window on a business thoroughfare. As a proof of the absurdity of this regulation, it is stated that two of the leading- plumbers of Montreal  have no office or workshop on a business  street, but make their headquarters at their  place of residence.

While apparently willing to comply with what they consider to be reasonable regulations for the welfare of the trade, the members of the Dominion Plumbing and Heating Association express their determination to unitedly resist arbitrary dictation at the hands of the master plumbers' organization. They affirm that all the supplies required by the trade can now be produced and sold in Canada at much lower prices than the plumbers would be obliged to pay for imported goods of equal quality.



THE CANADIAN CEMENT INDUSTRY.

THE annual report of the Ontario Bureau of Mines, recently



published, states that the number of men employed in the manufacture of cement in the last four years has increased from 168 to 231, the wages paid for labor from $44,878 to $89,060, the quantity of cement manufactured from 85903 barrels to 181,495 barrels, and the value of the cement from $109,834 to $246,425. The greatest increase, however, has taken place in the production of Portland cement, which has gone up from 30, 580 barrels to 96, 825, while the natural rock cement has only increased from

55,323 barrels to 84,670. In value natural rock cement shows an increase of $27,349, while Portland cement shows an increase of $109,242. This no doubt is largely if not chiefly owing to the growing interest in the building of good macis in our towns and cities.





Arrangements are in progress for the annual convention of the



National Master Plumbers Association which is to take place in



Quebec the latter part of June. The President, Mr. Joseph



Wright. of Toronto. is at present on visit to British Columbia

