<doctype type="text">

ever, will give the operator an idea of how the figures are applied. Let us suppose we want a " mitre-cut" for a nonagon or nine-sided figure Find the figure 9 on the outside of the circle, and following the line inside, we find the figures 22 1/2 and 9. These figures indicate that we are to take 9 inches on the tongue and 22'2 inches on the blade lay on a line same as for braces or rafters—mark down the tongue; this line will be the bevel or mitre for the angle of a nonagon. Try it by cutting nine pieces of stuff all the same length at the long points, using this bevel at each end. In like manner all the other bevels are obtained. We recapitulate the figures and polygons

For a triangle	4 in. on tongue, 7 in. on blade, blade gives cut.

	square mitre	12			12		"	tongue	"

	pentagon. sides				133/4

	hexagon, 6	4		"	7	"	"

	heptagon, 7	6	"		121/2	"

octagon, 8

	nonagon,9 "	9	"	"	"	"

	decagon, 10	3	"	"	"

Undecagon, 11 sides... 31/8

ducdecagon, 12 sides.. 4	145/8 

hexadecagon, 16 sides. 3	15



This table and diagram will be found very useful, and will save much time to the workman if he will memorize the whole matter. If this is not possible, it will be well for him to copy it and paste the copy to the inside of the lid of his tool chest. The lines making the " crow's

by which the manufacturers agree not to sell goods to other than legitimate plumbers and fitters.

It is the hope of the executive committee, comprising Joseph Wright, President, Toronto Wm. Smith, Vice-President, London ; W. M. Briggs, Treasurer, Montreal ; Win. Mansell, Financial and Recording Secretary, J. B. Fitzsimmons, Toronto ; C. E. Pickard, Quebec Thos. Campbell, New Brunswick ; G. A. Perrier, Nova Scotia T. Stevenson, Manitoba ; Joseph Lamarche, Montreal, that those plumbers and fitters who have hitherto held aloof from the Association, will become a part of it, and take part in the proceedings at the forthcoming convention.

In addition to the business programme, the local association is making arrangements to give delegates a most hospitable reception to the Ancient City. With this object a number of excursions to interesting points in and around the city have been planned, and special care will be taken for the pleasure and comfort of the ladies who may accompany the delegates to the meeting. The local committee who have these matters in hand is composed of Messrs. R. Sampson, C. E. Pickard, A. Forest and W. H. Wiggs.

Mr. Joseph Wright, the president of the association

































ROYAL VICTORIA HOSPITAL, MONTREAL.



teet" at the end of the radii show the direction of the sides necessary to be made to form the figure required, as indicated by the number on the outside of the circle.



DOMINION PLUMBERS' CONVENTION.

ARRANGEMENTS for the third annual convention of the National Association of Master Plumbers, Gas, Steam and Hot Water Fitters of Canada, to be held in Quebec from the 29th inst. to the 1st of July inclusive, are nearing completion. The headquarters of the Association during the convention will be at the Victoria Hotel, where the business sessions will be held. The programme which is being arranged for the occasion is designed to afford both profit and pleasure to the delegates. It might be well just here to mention that the convention is not intended to be one for delegates only, but is open to every one who is a master plumber, gas, steam or hot water fitter, and no one will be held by any action to be taken unless he is or becomes a member.

For the benefit of those who are not familiar with the present workings of the association we will state that about two years ago the men who directed its affairs, with the object of protecting the interests of the contracting plumber and fitter, adopted in July, 1896, certain "Trade Resolutions," which have received the assent of the Manufacturers' Supply Association, and

while on a visit to the Pacific Coast last month, brought about the organization of Master Plumbers' Association at Vancouver, and it is understood that a representative of this new association will attend the Quebec convention.

Arrangements have been made with the railways for return tickets to delegates at one and one-third fare, on the certificate plan. Those not acquainted with the certificate plan should at once write the secretary of the association, Mr. Win. Mansell, Adelaide street west, Toronto, for particulars.





QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

A CORRESPONDENT, writing from Burk's Pails, asks he following: "I will be glad if you can give us any information as to the best methods of waxing floors, preparing the wax, and where it may be procured, etc.? Perhaps some of your readers may have some suggestions they would be willing to give through the columns of your paper.''



The following is offered in reply 1st. The floor should be of good sound hardwood, and should be perfectly clean and smooth. 2nd. Fill with any of the regular wood fillers ; Wheeler's is one of the best. If a color is wanted, mix the color with the filler ; rub in

