<doctype type="text">

<article title="Corresponcences." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



Frequent meetings of the Council of the Association have been held during the last six months, at which matters of importance were considered. At the preliminary examinations held on July 28th and 29th, three candidates presented themselves, none of which, however, succeeded in obtaining the required number of marks. Owing to the increased responsibility to the public imposed on the Association by the Quebec Architects' Act, the Council have fixed as the programme of studies for the preliminary examination, the following Arithmetic, Mensuration, Geometry, Algebra, Freehand and Linear Drawing, Universal History, Histories of Canada, England and France, also the translation of French into English, and vice versa.



The Council have given much consideration to amendments .s to the by-laws and regulations of the Association, as well as to applications for membership in the Association, of which there have been received 86, and accepted 75. The by-laws will be kept on view at the offices of the Association, where persons desiring to do so may examine them. The refusal of the application of Mr. Richard Waite, of Buffalo, for membership in the Association, gave rise to considerable comment on the l)art of persons unacquainted with the circumstances of the case. The following letter, addressed to the local press by the Secretary of the Association, will be a sufficient explanation of the matter:



It is unfortunate that there is a tendency to rush into print without due knowledge of the subject dealt with. With reference to the paragraph in your issue of this date, reflecting upon the action of the P.Q.A.A. in refusing the application of Mr. R. A. Waite for membership, I beg to say that under our Act of Incorporation and By-Laws, without reflecting in any way on the ability

and status of Mr. Waite, it is not in our power to accept him. Membership is restricted to those who were definitely and regularly practising in the province of Quebec previous to the date of the passing of the amendment of the act, and excludes those who may be domiciled in a foreign country.

Jos. VENNE, Sec. P.Q.A.A."



The 3rd and 4th of November are the dates selected for the eighth annual meeting of the Association, for which the following is the programme



FIRST DAY—Session to open at to o'clock punctually in the rooms of the Association, New York Life Building, Montreal. I, Reading of the Minutes; 2, Presentation of the Annual Report of Council ; 3, Statement of the Treasurer ; 4, Election of Officers



5, Address from the Retiring President. Afternoon session to open at 2 o'clock punctually. t, Consideration of Amendments proposed to the By-Laws of the Association ; 2, Motions by members and other business ; 3, Address from the President-elect. Evening Assemble at 7:30 at the Wiger Place Hotel Dinner at 8 o'clock ; evening dress.



SECOND DAY.—1, Visit of inspection to the new building of Chemistry and Mining, McGill University, to meet at the building at 10:15 ; 2, to the residence of lion. G. A. Drummond to view the Picture Gallery, to meet at 2:15 ; 3, to the Architectural Department, Engineering Building, McGill University, to meet at 3:30.



MONTREAL PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION.



The Association recently appointed a commit tee to examine the amendments, recently enacted by the city council, to the city plumbing by-law, and make a report thereon. A Committee has

likewise been appointed to confer with the Council of Arts and Manufactures relative to the instruction to be given in the plumbing classes.



REAL ESTATE OWNERS' ASSOCIATION.



THE above association at a recent meeting gave expression to their regret that they had not been invited to participate in the discussions of the committee which has in hand the revision of the City Charter. The association likewise placed itself on record, as being opposed to the introduction in the new charter of any changes which would have the effect of increasing the present tax on real estate.



PLUMBING AND VENTILATION.



MR. J. W. Hughes, of this city, chairman of the Committee on Sanitation of the American Health Association, presented the following report at the meeting of that organization held in Ottawa last month

From such information as has been obtainable from the large field covered by your committee, we are justified in reporting an Increased interest in all matters relating to what may be termed

practical sanitation, or the carrying out, in actual work, of the theories and plans of the advanced thinkers and experimenters in sanitary science. The work of our association and kindred organizations, as well as the untiring efforts of individual sanitarians in tile past, has resulted in awakening an active inquiry and interest, and there is no longer heard the scoffing remark and sneering insinuation when alt improvement is suggested that involves a pecuniary outlay. This is especially noticeable in the

plumbing department of our work. We are of opinion that there is a tendency, ill some cases, to rush from all extreme apathy and do—nothing policy to one of too great an elaboration and complication in the carrying out and planning of plumbing apparatus

safety, effectiveness and simplicity are the requirements. Sewers, public and private, are to-day better constructed and more carefully planned than in the past, but the question of the best method for the disposal of sewage has yet to be solved, and is becoming of more pressing importance every day. That our great towns and other centres of population can continue to use the rivers and streams as public sewers, without serious danger to tile public health, goes without saying. We are pleased to note an increased and practical interest in the question of the disposal of so sewage by means of irrigation farms and other plans than that of running it into the streams.



The ventilation of the public buildings is receiving the attention that its importance merits ; the introduction of the power fan, combined with the developments of cheap electrical force, has opened up a large ticld of possibilities ; whether the effectual ventilation of private buildings and dwellings will receive its solution from this source is a question. The greatest objection to the introduction of a system of ventilation into a private building, that will at all approach I he necessities of the case, especially in northern climates, is the greatly increased cost of fuel. Fresh air cannot be introduced, warmed and expelled at the rate required for an apparatus that will be even approximately effective without a largely increased fuel bill. The question of effective and economical ventilation of dwellings is one presenting many difficulties and large profits to the inventor who Call solve it.



A PROTEST AGAINST THE PROPOSED MONUMENT TO



GENERAL MONTGOMERY AT QUEBEC.



THE Women's Canadian Historical Society have put themselves on record in the following resolution as being opposed to the erection of' a monument to General Montgomery at Quebec



That, whereas an international monument is proposed to be erected to Gen. Montgomery in the public square of Quebec, we, the Women's Canadian Historical Society, do hereby enter a protest against such action and do appoint a committee to deal with the question and to confer with the other historical societies in the matter."



THE City Building Inspector has ordered a house in process of construction on St. Lawrence street to be torn down. Tile foundations are declared to be defective. The inspector is deserving of commendation for his vigilant efforts to enforce compliance with the requirements of the building by-laws.







The eighth annual convention of the Association of Railway Superintendents of Bridges and Buildings is now in Progress at Richmond, Va. An Interesting and instructive programme, including a number of valuable papers, has been prepared for this occasion.

