<doctype type="text">



have three panels in width the stiles and muntins should be 412 inches wide, each panel being eight inches wide. The bottom rail and the lock rail ought to be equal in width to one-tenth of the height of the door, and the top rail, and all other rails, of the same width as the stiles. The mouldings in the panels should be one-quarter the width of the stile. Doors made of these proportions are always well balanced, and whether ornamental or not always have a graceful appearance. Doors should always be hung so as to open into the principal rooms, and, in general, no door should be hung to open into a hail or passage. As to the proper edge of the door on which to affix the hinges, that will depend altogether on conditions, as some doors may be finished on one side with mouldings in the same style as the finish in the room, while the other side may be finished in some other style, or be devoid of mouldings altogether, and again, something depends on which side of the frame and on which jamb the door must be hung on. These conditions render it impossible to lay down any fixed rule defining the edge of door on which the hinges must be affixed.

		THE operation of scribing, to be done

	Scribing,	properly requires some skill and care.

		Its object is to bring the edge of one

piece of wood to fit close up to an irregular surface. Thus, in putting down base boards round a room, not only when first down, but often after the shrinkage of the joists and the floor, or sagging of the timbers, when gaps will be left between the lower edge of the base board and the floor, the work of laying base may have to be done a second time, when scribing will be necessary to fit the base close to the floor. The operation of scribing is as follows The base board having been placed in position with its upper edge to a true line, a pair of suitable compasses is taken and opened to the greatest distance that the lower edge of the base board is anywhere from the floor. One point of the compass is often drawn along the floor, keeping the joint of the compass as near to a given angle with the floor as possible, whilst the other point is made to scratch a line on the face of the base board, which line will, of course, be exactly parallel with the floor line, and to this line made on the base board, must the work be done. The superfluous wood may be removed either by ripping with a saw or by use of the draw-knife.



Slag bricks are now being made in many parts of Germany by a method recently described by Herr Lurman. Briefly, the molten slag is discharged direct from the furnace into a tank of water. The slag here crumbles to pieces, and part of the siliceous acid it contains is dissolved in water. To this mass there is added a portion of finely ground slag and about 10 per cent of slaked lime. About six or eight days are required for the mixture to harden, and this it is left to do in moulds of suitable shape, under pressure applied either with a hand or steam-worked toggle-joint lever. The strength of the bricks produced is about the same as that of ordinary burnt-clay bricks. For flue and chimney building they are specially adapted by reason of their heat-resisting qualities.

Remember, it is advertising ink that makes the public read and think, and turns the buyers' feet and face directly towards your business place. Therefore, if you have anything to sell, in advertising ink display it well.



<article title="Prominent Canadian Contractors." author="">

PROMINENT CANADIAN CONTRACTORS.

VIII.



THE LATE MR. SYLVESTER NEELON.



WE present herewith a portrait, with some particulars, of the late Mr. Sylvester Neelon, of St. Catharines, contractor for the masonry of the new municipal buildings, Toronto, whose death was recently recorded in these columns.

The late Mr. Neelon was born at Sackett's Harbor, State of New York, in 1825, and while very young removed with his parents to Port Dalhousie, at the lower end of the Welland canal, where he attended the village school. As a lad his first employment was found on board a timber vessel. In a short period he had attained the rank of mate, then of captain, in which capacity he sailed the lakes for many years. He afterwards formed a partnership with the late James Norris. The firm engaged in building and buying boats and in freight transportation on the upper lakes and Welland canal to lower lake ports and Montreal. They were the first to adopt the towing of vessels by tug or steamer on the lakes. In these enterprises they amassed a large amount of money and property. The firm dissolved in 1869.



































THE LATE MR. SYLVESTER NEELON.





Mr. Neelon was afterwards extensively engaged in the grain and flour milling, shipping and ship-building, and other lines of trade.

In the year 1885 Mr. Neelon went into contracting, building a number of sections of railway. He was the principal agent in the construction of the Niagara Central railway, into which he put a large amount of money. He was associated in large contracts both in the United States and Canada, and in connection with the late John Elliott, took the contract for the masonry in connection with the erection of the new municipal buildings at Toronto. Mr. Elliott's death occurred in the early stages of the work. Afterwards there arose the dispute between Mr. Neelon and the architect regarding the quality of the stone, resulting in the dismissal of the contractor and the assumption of the work by the city under the direction of the architect, with the particulars of which our readers are already familiar. This and other business complications in which he became involved, filled with trials the later years of his life.

Notwithstanding the extent of his private business enterprises, Mr. Neelon evinced a deep interest in the welfare of the city in which he lived. For many years he was a member of the city council, and also represented the county two terms in the provincial legislature.

