<doctype type="text">

<article title="Pomeii-A City of the First Century." author="Adams, Prof.">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



FOMPEII—A CITY OF THE FIRST CENTURY.4'

By Prof. ADAMS, McGill University.

(Conclusion.)

THE House of the Faun is larger, occupying a whole insula or block, and alt bough laid out in the same general plan, is more elaborate, and is always considered to be the principal house in  Pompeii.

it has two atria, which is very unusual. The Tablinum, following the usual custom——but unlike that in the Tragic Poet's House— opens off the Atrium. The Peristyle is large and has a corresponding room opening off it— the Exhedra—used as a reception room—while behind the Peristyle, occupying the whole rear of the block, was a spacious garden also surrounded by a colonnade.

But what renders this house remarkable, even more than its size and beauty, is the richness of its decorations, but especially of its mosaics of these may be especially mentioned the Nile Mosaic, which forms the threshold of the exhedra, and the Battle of Issus, which forms its pavement.

While the mosaics are numerous, The wall paintings are few in  number. The house dates back to the time of the Republic in time 2nd century B.C., and impresses one with its air of elegant simplicity, being quite different in this respect to the more recent and munch be—painted houses, which oft en, it must be confessed, have a tawdry appearance.

A few photographs will serve to give an idea of the house as it now stands.

Just inside the vestibule at t threshold in mosaic is the word, H.A.V.E." (Axe or Hail).

Vestibule rises by two steps and we enter t lie larger Atrium.

On the little pedestal stood the wonderful bronze of t lie Dancing

Faun, which gives its name to the house and which is now in the

Museum at Naples.

When we walk into t lie Atrium we see the Impluvium amid 'lab— linum, and further back the columns of the Peristyle.

Turning to the right and passing through a passage we enter the Peristyle. The roof of the covered walk around the columns has fallen in. The columns are all of brick and rubble work covered wit Ii a very fine stucco to I imitate  marble this has in many places scaled off.

The wall at the back of the garden shows t It is well, for here the stucco is arranged to imitate panelling iii marble, in buff colors. 'rite stucco is still hard, smooth Ii and polished. The little shrine,

like that of the Tragic Poet's		House, but simpler iii design, is

seen on the right.

The character of the wall beneath the stucco is seen at the other side of the garden, where the stucco has cc completely scaled off Lumps of lava, held together by mortar, forums a coarse rubble work, forming the greater part of the wall. The arch over the doorway is made of traxertine blocks, as is also the sides of the door, were, however, the  travertine alternates with courses of flat Roman bricks.

The character of Roman brickwork is seen in t his photograph of a brick wall bricks longer amid thinner than ours, like tiles— mortar lasts longer than brick. Such bricks are usually considered to be characteristic of Roman work, but precisely similar bricks are not in use in Naples.

About 700 skeletons have been found in t lie city so far, which would show that 1,200 to 1,500 persons must have perished. In some instances, where the victims, instead of being smothered in ashes, were overwhelmed by a fine mud which was ejected during part of the eruption, Fiorelli hit on a most ingenious method of restoration.

The objects over which this mud flowed were enveloped in it as in a plaster mould, and where these objects happened to be human bodies, their decay left a cavity in which their forms were as accurately preserved and rendered as in the mould prepared for the casting of a bronze statue. Such cavities bad often been observed. In sonic of them remnants of charred wood accompanied wit Ii bronze or other ornaments showed that the object enclosed had been a piece of furniture, while in others the remnants of bones and of articles of apparel evinced but too plainly that the hollow had been time living grave which enclosed some unfortunate human being. in a happy moment the idea occurred to Signor Fiorelli of filling imp the cavities with liquid plaster, and thus obtaining a cast of the objects which bad been inclosed in them.

Almost immediately behind the House of the Faun, Sig. Fiorelli has just finished the excavation of a house which rivals, if it does not surpass, any in Pompeii

The walls are covered with fine painted stucco and the Peristyle contains many marble timid smaller bronze statues. A fountain

played in the centre, and a little marble runnel about the edge of the Peristyle carried off the water. The lead pipes which supplied water to the fountain are still in perfect order.

On the door handle are inscribed the words Casa Vettiorum.''

	This photograph of the Peristyle	taken during the progress of

the excavations, shows it as it appeared when freed from the ashes. The boys, with their baskets and trunks for carrying off time excavated material, are seen in the background.

In this house nothing has been removed, and those parts which have been burned or broken have been carefully restored, the garden of the Peristyle has been planted with flowers, and we now have this Roman house of the first century precisely its it appeared the day before the city was destroyed.

This photograph shows one of the little shops (they were all small in Pompeii) which occupy the ground floor front of all the large Pompeiian houses, and to which attention has already been drawn. This particular shop forms part of the I'm-omit of the House of Sallust, and was probably occupied by a dealer in oil or wine. 



*	Abstract of a lecture delivered before the resident members of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects at Montreal, January 2Oth, mt98. The lecture was illustrated by lantern slides.

broad counter, formed of irregular slabs of marble set in mortar, runs around two sides of' it, and in hints omme were large holes, beneath  which large earthenware vessels were set containing the goods for sale. The next slide shows one of these shop fronts with the woodwork restored from existing evidence of many kinds.

The arrangement was very simple part of the trout was hinged so that it could be let down to form it projecting counter, amid at night pulled imp to form a closed shutter. Every Roman shop, whether in  Italy or iii distant colonies, seems to have beet. arranged in this way. Moreover, all Roman shops appear to have been quite small, exactly as is still the case in the East. A rich dealer may have a large warehouse, but his actual shop is mitt larger than those of his poorer fellow-tradesmen."

These shops had no windows and no light except what entered from the open front they were, in fact , nothing more  than large

holes in the wall, differing, however, in no respect from many of the small shops in the older parts of Naples amid elsewhere mm southern Italy at the present day.

This photograph shows the front of a large block of buildings facing the wharves in Naples. Shops of his kind are seen on either side of an arch way heading to fine apartments about the minor court. It is building is of course much  higher the Pompeiian buildings, which were scarcely ever over two stories high. It will also serve to give some idea of the class of rookeries whose existence in Naples makes that city one of  the most congested in Europe.

Several bakers shops have been found in Pompeii all in a tolerable state of' presentation.

From various inscriptions in Pompeii, as well as from the examination of the shops, we know of the 

existence in the city of workmen of many of lien trades- dyers, goldsmiths, pastry cooks, fruitsellers, carpetmakers, carters, salt workers, tisliermeit, muleteers, coachmen, hitim ters, fullers, booksellers, etc., and much might  be said about these, but time obliges us to pass on, in order that we may get a glimpse of another feature of  this ancient world, Pompeiian art.



The most characteristic and remarkable re remains of ancient art in Pompeii are its mosaics and its wall paintings. The bronzes, however, although in general not equal to  those of Herculaneum, deserve a passing word of notice. '' Some of the smaller bronzes especially are unsurpassed for character and form of execution and have been reproduced in thousands, and are to be seen in all auditoriums Simcli particularly is  the statuette mit I of the Dancing 1' limit found in the House of the Faun and from which  the house derives its name. Nothing can exceed the vigor and animated way in which the figure is executed It is  unbearded and has the horns and tail of a goat. An oaken garland with acorns

some of which seem to have fallen from their shells encircles his head and proclaims hamumis his sylvan character. His Imlude displays all the animated gestures of a drunken man lims xx idespm e udl arms seem to accompany the movements  of his feet , timidi he snaps his fingers for joy."

Another very graceful statue is t the Narcissus, found in one of the smaller houses in Pompeii -  His inclined head and earnest expression, as he listens for the voice of Echo, are admirably rendered, and it is considered one of the finest works yet discovered at Pompeii.

Perhaps the most celebrated  bronze of all antiquity is the Mercury in Repose, discovered in Herculaneum It is nearly life size. The messenger of the gods is seated and clearly reposing after rapid flight - The left foot and right hand both ectitribtite toward bearing the weight of the body. The left holds a small piece of bronze rod, which perhaps originally formed part of the Caduceus

--the only part of this beautiful figure which has been host to us. the detail of the muscles and of the winged sandals is admirable and every line of the composition  is exquisite.

The mosaics of Pompeii, although in execution by into uneamis equalling the best efforts of modern art, are remarkable for their excellence of design, and are so abundant that the dwellings of' even this small and comparatively unimportant town have afforded many specimens good enough to be transferred to the palaces of Naples and ranked among their most precious ornaments. The Pompeiian mosaics are masterfully executed in black and white, but sometimes in colored marbles.

The walls of almost all the better class houses in Pompeii are elaborately painted The colors employed are generally bright and seem to our taste rather gaudy. The deep red, known as Pompeiian red is very largely used. But in the half clarkuiess of the houses when they were roofed in and provided with their ctmrlaimis and bamigimigs, The lie colors were probably sufficiently subdued.

The style of decoration adopted is remarkable and very striking. The wall surface is divided off into numerous compartments, usually set in an elaborate  frame in imitation of architectural effects. Pilasters with arelmit rax-es amith coritices often festooned and elaborately decorated. Balconies half open doors with figures advancing through them evidently suggested the scheme.

Wit the framed compartments are represented tirmis, groups of statuary, etc., while the centre or chief compartment of each wall usually contains one of the pictures for which the city is so famous. This style of mural decoration is midit peculiar to Pompeii, but is found in the other buried cities of the Campagna amid also in Rome, in the few buildings of the salute period which remain. It was derived from Alexandria where kings, great generals and statesmen lived to decorate their great halls of state with columns of priceless marbles, glorious statues and paintings by the great masters of the time. The ordinary citizen was obliged to content himself with a cheap reproduction of these glories; he had therefore false pilasters frescoed on his walls, framing false pictures and statutes reproduced by the same hirecess, and doubtless felt a pleasure like that of the kings and great lords when they walked in their

