<doctype type="text">

<article title="Safety of Elevators." author="Floyd, Fred C.">

SAFETY OF ELEVATORS.

MR. Fred. C. Floyd Elevator Inspector, Boston, Mass., read a paper entitled ' Modern Elevators " before the International Convention of Building Commissioners and Inspectors, in which he suggested the following additions to laws governing the installation and operation of elevators for passenger and freight service:

i.	It is of first importance to introduce a provision that every elevator, whether for freight or passenger service, shall be operated by a competent attendant who shall not be otherwise employed.

2.	It should also be made the duty of owners and tenants of buildings to notify the building commissioner or other authorities of any elevator accident upon or within their premises.

3.	The inspection of new elevators in the absence of the manufacturer or his representative is often attended with difficulty in consequences of new appliances and their complicated character. A test of these devices by the manufacturer in presence of the inspector before the elevator has been accepted and placed in commission, should be made compulsory by law.

4.	Some improved method of attaching hoisting ropes seems to be demanded, two accidents having recently occurred in Boston on freight elevators, caused by ropes pulling through the socket at the yoke or crosshead. One of these accidents was fatal to the operator, who fell with the car, the safety appliance o( which was inactive and therefore useless in accomplishing the object for which it was designed. Here was an instance in which hoisting rope and safety appliance were both defective at the fatal moment. A legal enactment would guard against such accidents by requiring a more secure method of attaching the ropes.

5.	[t should also he prescribed by law that elevator hoisting machinery shall be located where inspection and supervision shall not be difficult by reason of darkness and inaccessibility. This important and costly equipment is now too frequently placed in a contracted space in a dark basement and at the top of the shaft, or near the ceiling adjacent to the shaft, where a man cannot reach it except by introducing his body from a ladder through an opening too small to admit of comfortable passage, and into a space in which he cannot stand erect. I am aware that floor space is valuable, but if it is none too valuable for storage it is none too valuable for the location of expensive machinery that accomplishes such vast results and that sustains such responsibilities as the safe conveyance of human beings.

6.	The number of infractions and defects discovered by the elevator inspection of the Boston building department is sufficient proof of its necessity, and the inoperative safety appliance is so frequently met that some remedy other than by inspection is called for, and I suggest a law that would provide for such an adjustment as will cause the automatic engagement of the safety apparatus each time the car descends to the bottom of the shaft, thus preventing rigidity by frequent operation.

7.	Opening-s at street entrances to freight elevator shafts that extend to the sidewalk might be abolished with positive benefit to all concerned, and I recommend a legal requirement that such openings shall begin two or three feet above the sidewalk. The outside wall would thus afford protection against falling into the basement, and the maintenance of a gate, which now is so perplexing, would be unnecessary, while the delivery

of freight would be attended with less manual labor, for the reason that a level platform would be feasible extending from wagon to elevator platform, thus permitting the use of a truck for transferring the freight.



<article title="Strength of Building Stones." author="">

STRENGTH OF BUILDING STONES.

THE chief elements of strength in building stones are briefly described in a paper by Prof. Alexis A. Julien of Columbia College, as follows



1.	Interlockment of grains, of which three stages occur irregular aggregation, in helter-skelter disorder and with poor consolidation ; parallel sorting of grains; and dove-tailing, or interpenetration. The last is most thoroughly effected in the crystalline stones, and on it far more than on the specific gravities of the constituent minerals depends the weight, taken in mass.

2.	Coherence between the grains, effected in two ways. First, cementation, mainly of the fragmental stones, \by means of various natural cements, the presence of siliceous cement being the reason for We special excellence of certain sand-stones. Second, surface or capillary adhesion between the minute plates and grains, especially in the crystalline rocks. An important distinction must be made between the two classes of voids in a stone, the pores and the cavities, this involving the subject of the different destructive effects of cavities and pores when filled by flakes or films of ice. This question also includes the solubility of stones and their cements in fresh and salt water, upon which there is need of further investigation.



3.	Tension among the mineral grains, and the active stresses which survive in stones and affect their strength, of which three classes occur. First tension produced by crystallization second, tensions produced by subterranean strain ; third, tensions produced by present physical conditions ; all of which may cause a stone to behave very differently from previous specimens examined and tested.

4.	Rigidity, or absence of mobility among the grains of a stone. Evidences of internal motion, flexibility, and plasticity in stones may be attributed to three sources. First, cleavage planes of cleavable minerals, particularly mica ; second, gliding planes, illustrated by the miniature faults abounding through all varieties of stone third, the presence of a lubricant, such as oil, bitumen, and especially of water. The influence of water in nearly all stones is most important, and there is need of special methods for determining the strength of wet or moist stones, especially as regards diminution of rigidity from this cause.





PERSONAL.

Mr. J. M. Mallory, architect, has recently opened an office in Vancouver, 13. C.



Mr. Joseph Wright, of Toronto, president of the National Plumbers' Association of Canada, has just returned with his



family from a trip to British Columbia.



Mr. Wm. Burney, architect, has severed his connection with the Wm. Cane & Sons Manufacturing Co., and removed from Newmarket to Ottawa, having accepted a position with Messrs. W. C. Edwards & Co., of that city.







The executive of tile National Plumbers' Association have in preparation a directory of all master plumbers in Canada.



The corporation of London, Ont. is threatened with suits for recovery of fees by some of the architects who submitted designs in the recent Victoria Hospital Competition.

