<doctype type="text">

In 1867 he entered into a competition for the state capitol at Albany, New York state, and was awarded first premium. In a second competition he associated himself with Mr. Augustus Layer and prepared a joint design, which was accepted.

Their design for the city hail, San Francisco, Cal., was awarded first premium, and being accepted, Mr. Layer then left to take charge of the work, Mr. Fuller remaining at Albany until a change of politics brought a change of architects.

In 1881 he was asked to return to Ottawa to accept the position of chief architect of the Dominion government. Having accepted this position, he remained in charge until he was superannuated in 1897. During his term of office there were erected from his designs 140 public buildings, which include six drill halls, the Langevin block on Wellington street, the printing bureau, all the experimental farm buildings, and many other prominent buildings.

He was elected a Royal Canadian Academician by Lord Lorne, and his original design for the Parliament buildings and Governor-General's residence are now in the National Art Gallery.

In 1853 he was married to a daughter of W. Green, J.P., of Bath, England, who survives him. Mr. Fuller also leaves three children, all of Ottawa-- Mrs. Greene, wife of Mr. George M. Greene, barrister Mr. T. W. Fuller, architect, Department of Public Works ; and Mrs. Moore, wife of Mr. W. H. C. Moore.



<article title="Architecture in New Zealand." author="Fripp, R Mackay">

ARCHITECTURE IN NEW ZEALAND.

MR. R. Mackay Fripp, F. R. I. B. A. ,Victoria, B.C., sends us the following interesting though somewhat discouraging description of architectural conditions in New Zealand, from which country he has recently returned I went to Auckland about two and one-half years ago and found building in a very extraordinary condition, particularly in the direction of domestic work which is extremely expensive and entirely without interest from an architectural point of view. Nearly all buildings are covered with mean little hip and valley roofs of galvanized iron which gives a very abject appearance to the town. The detail is entirely ''stock" manufactured by the mills. Front doors are of a few stereotyped patterns. Inside doors, windows, skirtings and architraves, even verandah posts and mantel pieces, are all repeated hundreds and thousands of times ; shingles applied to walls and gable ends and the thousand and one uses to which they are turned in this country are (or until I showed them how they might be used) practically unknown. Shingles split and uncolored are used for roofs, and soon turn black and twist, but galvanized iron is fast driving them out. The method of framing is much the same as in Canada, but timber being very costly, as much as $30 per mille for plain sawn stuff, it is used with greatest economy, there being no such thing as shiplap beneath the weather boards and finished doors, which are laid direct on the stud and joist respectively. Partitions and inside surfaces of walls are lined with rough boards 8 to 10 inches by 1/4, 3-16 and 1/2 inch ; though all sold as half inch in thickness, it varies tremendously. Scrim, a very coarse open webbed material like sacking, is stretched, taped and tacked before the skirtings, architraves or wooden cornices are fixed. On the scrim, wallpapers, for the most part very commonplace in character, are laid. The ceilings are mostly composed of 1/2" x 12" boards with a moulded batten

(mill stock, of course) nailed over the joints ; and these flimsy, ugly mushrooms cost about twice as much as a well designed and carefully detailed house costs here. The labor is slow, the methods antiquated, and the architects being not quite but almost entirely drawn from the ranks of the builders, not frequently the architect cares nothing about his work beyond the interesting fact that a commission more or less reduced to meet the demands of his employer is attached to the ''job." Such a state of affairs is hopeless, so much so that though a man of some ability occasionally finds himself in New Zealand, he almost invariably soon leaves in disgust.



During my sojourn in Auckland, I imported fine red roofing tiles made on a French system in Sydney. I also obtained a few thousand bunches of redwood shingles, and advertised for and found a couple of men who knew how to cut a shingled arch, lap a hip or an angle, and dip the shingles before laying. By refusing to use any stock door, sash, moulding or turning, and by designing everything myself, and seeing it made too in many cases, I succeeded in breaking through the stereotyped style of work, though not without some fierce opposition on the part of the builders, and less open but not less bitter resentment of many of the architects.

To give you some idea of the very great difficulty I experienced in getting work executed in New Zealand, I may mention that I made 24 sheets of detail drawings for a house that would not cost more than $5,000 here. Now that the ice is broken, so to speak, I hope and believe that the younger architects will keep the fight going and gradually improve matters.





<article title="University of California Competition." author="">

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA

COMPETITION.

THE jury have given their award in the preliminary competition for plans for the University of California. Out of one hundred sets of plans submitted, the following have been chosen to enter the final competition Barboud Bauhain, Paris ; E. Benard, Paris ; F. Blunschli, Zurich ; D. Dexpradelles and Stephen Cod-man, Boston Rudolph Dick, Vienna ; J. S. Freed-lander, New York ; Howard & Eichmuller, Paris Howard & Cauldwell, New York ; Howells, Stokes & Hornbostel, New York Lord, Hewlett & Hull, New York ; Whitney Warren, New York. Successful competitors in the preliminary competition will have six months in which to perfect their plans for the final competition, and a sum of at least $20,000 will be devoted to premiums for the best plans. These premiums will be awarded to at least five of the competitors.





PERSONAL.

Mr. (. M. Miller, architect, Toronto, has removed to new and more convenient offices, Nos. 51 and 52 Victoria Arcade building, 18 Victoria street.



Mr. R. Mackay Fripp, F. R.J.B.A., has returned to British Columbia after an absence of two and a half years spent in New Zealand. Mr. Fripp has opened offices in the Board of Trade building, Victoria.



The firm of Simpson & Ellis, architects, Toronto, has recently been dissolved. Mr. Simpson retains the office formerly occupied by the firm at 91/2 Adelaide street east, while Mr. Ellis has temporarily opened an office in the same building. It is understood to be his intention, however, to remove to new offices at an early date.

