<doctype type="text">



proof of structural weakness. These accidents unmistakably affirm the necessity of a standard of qualification on the part of those who undertake to design and erect buildings—particularly those of a public character. If the title Architect was restricted to persons who had passed a qualifying examination, as is now the case in the province of Quebec and the State of Illinois, the public would at least be enabled to know who were qualified to put up safe structures, and could then govern themselves accordingly. Under present circumstances anybody is at liberty to call himself an architect and to design and erect buildings of every class. So long as this condition of things shall continue, accidents involving injury and loss of life will be the inevitable consequence.



THE New York Herald of the 16th of

The Sanford

Mausoleum.	January prints an illustration and description of a mausoleum to be erected



by Senator Sanford, of Hamilton, at a cost of $ 100,000. The design is that of a Grecian temple, 30 feet long and 18 feet wide, with heavy root, supported on all sides by polished pillars. The structure, which will weigh 300 tons, was designed by Charles E. Tayntor & Co., of New York, and is to be constructed of Vermont granite. The interior will be finished in American marbles and mosaics, with massive bronze doors and lined with steel. While admitting that art is cosmopolitan, we fail to see anything in the design or materials of this structure the equal of which might not have been obtained in Canada. Several structures of this character, creditable alike in design and execution, have in recent years been erected in Toronto, London and elsewhere, with native materials, and at a cost by comparison greatly below that of the proposed Sanford Mausoleum. It is therefore to be regretted that Senator Sanford has not seen fit to encourage and aid art and industry in the country from which his wealth has been derived.



THE courts at Massachusetts have lately Equal Rights for decided that a municipal corporation

Labor.

has not the legal right to provide in its contracts for special privileges to union workmen. A firm of builders who had entered into a contract with the city of Boston for the construction of a bath house, were restrained by the Mayor from completing the work on the ground that they were not employing union workmen. The Mayor's action is said to have been dictated by the unions. The contractors thereupon applied to the courts for an injunction restraining the Mayor from interfering with the fulfillment of the contract. The injunction was granted, the court holding that "There is no authority in law for any officer of the government, state or municipal, to force a discrimination as was attempted in this case between workmen in respect to the privilege of labor on public work paid for by taxes levied upon all, for no reason except that some workmen belong to a certain party, society or class, and others do not; thus giving labor and the benefit of it to one class and denying it to another, regardless of their rights, needs, qualifications or merits, or the public welfare."



IT is gratifying to observe that Alder-Sewer Ventilation, man Denison, a well-known Toronto

architect, has given notice of his intention to move in the City Council for a report from the City Engineer on the advisability of providing some

adequate system of ventilating the sewers. The subject is a most important one, and as such will we trust be dealt with in a thorough manner at an early date. There is little room to doubt that the infectious diseases which have been so prevalent of late in what are supposed to be choice residential districts of the city originated in foul exhalations from the sewers. The precautions exercised by architects for the preservation of the health of the future occupants of the houses built under their direction are to a considerable degree nullified by the sewer gratings at the street levels, the foul odors from which assail the pedestrian, and in summer find their way into the houses through open windows. The public health demands that greater attention be paid to this subject, and that improved methods of sewer ventilation be adopted, especially in the northern part of the city, where in some cases the sewers have dead ends, and owing- to the tendency of the gases to rise to the highest level, the evils to which we have referred exist in an aggravated form.





The Builders' IT is with satisfaction that we record the organization of a Builders' Exchange at London, Ont., particulars concerning which are printed in this number. The new Exchange appears to have started out under favorable auspices, being supported by the leading contractors of all trades. The promoters have announced their desire to work in affiliation with the Toronto organization, the officers of which rendered valuable assistance in connection with its formation. The purpose in view is to secure the formation of Builders' Exchanges in all the leading cities of the province, and it is hoped that from these may ultimately grow a provincial organization, such as the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER endeavored some years ago to have formed. If well managed, these local Builders' Exchanges will be able greatly to improve building conditions in the localities where they exist. It is only reasonable to expect that the benefits which have followed co-operation of effort in other lines of business will accrue to the building trades also as the result of the adoption of a similar course of action. There are many abuses existing which will never be removed except as the result of concerted effort. This movement towards organization has therefore our best wishes for success.





Col. Waring, Street Commissioner for

Ashes in

Mortar.	the city of New York, is given as authority for the statement that ashes



mixed with lime make a mortar superior in point of lightness and strength to mortar composed of lime and sand. By the substitution of ashes for sand the cost of the mortar would be reduced by more than one-third. The effort will probably be made to legalize under the building laws the use of ashes by the manufacturers of machine-mixed mortar, now almost universally used by New York builders. The discovery of the value of ashes as an ingredient in the manufacture of mortar is said to have resulted from experiments recently carried out by Mr. Joseph A. Shinn, of Pittsburgh, Pa. Mortar composed of nine parts of fine anthracite ash intimately mixed with one part of fresh lime and properly wet with water, when 30 days old, gave an average tensile strength of 65 pounds per square inch, as compared with 15 pounds per square inch in the case of mortar composed of lime and sand. The crushing strength

