<doctype type="text">

<article title="Battleford Memorial Tablet." author="">



BATTLEFORD MEMORIAL TABLET.

WE reproduce on this page the design for a memorial tablet to be erected in the Toronto armories by the Battle Column Association, in honor of their comrades who were killed or wounded during the campaign of 1885. The design is the work of Mr. C. D. Lennox.

The tablet will be about three feet wide by 5 feet high, cast in bronze, out of a bronze field piece donated for the purpose by the militia department, backed by a large marble slab, and having in addition to the names of the killed and wounded, medallions showing the regimental badge or inscription of the various corps



















































































comprising the Battleford column. The estimated cost is about $200.



<article title="Sanitary Matters on the Coast" author="">

SANITARY MATTERS ON THE COAST.

MR. Geo. Watson, plumbing and sewer inspector, of Victoria, B.C., in his annual report to the city engineer, for the year 1897, suggests that the provisions of the by-law be made more definite in order that the occupants of the Chinese quarter may be compelled to observe the sanitary regulations. It is also recommended that provision be made for an examination of all journeymen plumbers. The report states that under present conditions the inspector is at times obliged to issue permits for plumbing to persons who are known to be incapable of doing the work properly.



<article title="The Toronto Guild of Civic Art." author="">

THE TORONTO GUILD OF CIVIC ART.

THE charter granted by the Province of Ontario to the Toronto Guild of Civic Art states that it is the purpose of the Guild to act as a purely supervising, consulting and advisory body to promote and encourage civic art, including mural painting and decoration, sculptures, fountains and other structures or works of art or of an artistic character and to arrange for the execution of works of art by competent artists, to be chosen by competition or otherwise ; and to hold exhibitions from time to time of works of art more especially connected with mural decoration, architectural and



















































































stained glass designs, sculpture and kindred subjects and for the said purpose to appoint an advisory board to carry out the objects of the Guild, with powers to be declared by by-law, provided that in all matters the services of the advisory board shall be without remuneration ; under the name of "The Toronto Guild of Civic Art.'

Mr. B. E. Walker, manager of the Canadian Bank of Commerce, is the president, and Mr. W. A. Langton, Registrar of the 0. A. A., secretary of the Guild, from whom any desired particulars may be obtained.



The Guelph Foundry Co. has been formed to manufacture hot blast furnaces, etc., for which purpose the company are fitting up with improved machinery the Gowdy foundry.

