<doctype type="text">

<article title="Organization of the London Builders' Exchange." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ship in his own city, he removed to the neighboring Republic to gain further experience in the trade. Since returning to Canada he has been very successful, and a few years ago joined his business interests with those of Mr. James Calhoun, also a plastering contractor. Mr. Pritchett takes more than a passing interest in municipal affairs. He has filled the





































MR. JOHN G. PRITCHETT,

2nd Vice-President London Builders' Exchange.





position of Reeve of the Township of Westminister, and is also an ex-alderman of the city of London.



MR. GEG. S. GOULD.



Mr. Geo. S. Gould, Secretary of the London Builders' Exchange, is engaged in the plastering trade. Mr. Gould is of English birth, but as his parents removed from London, England, to London, Ont., when he was only a boy, he received his education and early business training in that city. Mr. Gould's father was a contracting plasterer of large experience, and upon his retiring from the business in 1870 he was succeeded by his son, who carried it on for five years, after which he returned to his native land and spent 3 years in acquiring a larger experience in different branches of his



































MR. (GEO. S. GOULD,

Secretary London Builders' Exchange.





business than could be obtained here. Upon his return to London Mr. Gould associated with himself Mr. Henry Stratford (also a native of England), and from then to the present time they have always enjoyed the reputation of standing in the front rank in their line of business in Western Ontario. Among the many prominent buildings they have finished may be mentioned

St. Paul's and St. Peter's Cathedrals and the military buildings in London and the Church of Our Lady, Guelph. Mr. Gould has always been interested in Association work, and has sought to advance Exchange principles whenever an opportunity occurred. He possesses the qualifications necessary for the arduous and responsible duties of the position to which he has been elected.

MR. JAMES S. LUNEY.



Mr. James S. Luney, Treasurer of the London Builders' Exchange, is a native of Cornwall, England, and came to this country in the year 1871 when 22 years of age. Mr. Luney is by trade a bricklayer, and, in connection with Mr. E. Parsons, started a contracting business in the year 1873. This partnership existed 14 years, Mr. Parsons then retiring. Mr. Luney, by his untiring energy and careful business methods has achieved success, and owns and occupies one of the prettiest residences on Grand Avenue, South London. Among some of the important buildings that stand as a credit to his skill can be named the Granite Block, Waterloo Block, Kingsmill's Terrace, Knox Presbyterian Church, Colborne Street Methodist



































MR. JAMES S. LUNEY,

Treasurer London Builders' Exchange.



and other large churches in the city. Mr. Luney has always taken a deep interest in municipal affairs, was a member of the School Board for a number of years, and is also an ex-alderman of the city of London.



The City Council of Kingston have appointed Mr. Joseph W. Power, architect, to make an inspection of the city buildings to ascertain whether they are in a sate condition. The appointment of a competent plumbing inspector for the city is being urged. The statement is made that plumbing work is being put in by boys, while competent workmen are unable to find employment.

The Beamsville Pressed Brick Works have been sold to Mr. Geo. Crain, an enterprising business man of Brockville, Ont. It is the intention of the purchaser to remodel and refit the works, and about the first of April commence the manufacture of high grade pressed brick. It is understood that the works will be under the management of Mr. W. F. Taliman.



Messrs. D. B. Brown, T. M. Rowan, R. H. Gillespie and J. M. Rowan have acquired 500 acres of land In the township of Caledon, within three miles of Orangeville, 400 acres of which contain a solid bed of marl, varying in depth from eight to twenty-one feet, with an average of thirteen, underlying which there is said to be an extensive deposit of yellow ochre, while on top of the marl lies three feet of peat. The owners have not decided whether to sell or work the property. The marl is pronounced by leading chemists to be particularly good and suitable for making Portland cement, putty, whiting and Paris white (which answers the same purpose as Paris green). The quality of the marl can scarcely be excelled, as has been proved by comparison with different Canadian and American deposits of a similar nature.

