<doctype type="text">

<article title="Builders' Accounts." author="">

BUILDERS' ACCOUNTS.*

A PROPER set of accounts to the business man, in whatever line of industry or trade he is engaged, is in effect the chart and compass by which he sails the ship of his business undertakings. It is just as necessary for the builder to know where he stands with respect to resources and liabilities, and in regard to profits and losses, as it is for the merchant. It is just as important for him to know the actual profit in each of the structures he puts up as it is for the merchant to know the profitableness of each of the several departments of his business.

Builders, it has always seemed to me, are especially prone to neglect their accounts. Sometimes this is due to a lack of acquaintance with accounting methods, and sometimes it is due to a willful disregard of what men in other lines of business have learned to profoundly respect. Account keeping, properly considered, is one of the simplest things to which the builder's mind can be directed. Many who neglect their accounts do so from a misapprehension of the requirements of the case. They seem to argue that account keeping is mysterious, and then conclude that they have no time for mysteries, and must necessarily devote themselves to the practical work of their calling in order to accomplish results. If account keeping could be made as simple to them as are the mechanical operations of building, they would undoubtedly give Just as much care to the supervision of their accounts as they now give to the mechanical construction of their buildings.

I have been requested by Secretary Sayward to prepare for publication in these columns a short series of articles of a character to help builders in their struggles with account keeping. In responding to his request, I do so with the hope that I shall be able to show builders that the principles of account keeping are no more beyond the comprehension and reach of the busiest builder than are the various mechanical operations with which he is brought into contact day by day. I hope before I am through to point out methods so simple in their application that the builder who prefers to keep all his accounts in a pocket memorandum book may do so and still proceed upon an adequate and scientific plan. At the same time other builders who prefer a complete and detailed set of books, presided over by a salaried bookkeeper, shall also have at their command a system that

* Abstract of an article by A. 0. Kittredge, F.L.A., in The Bulletin.

they will understand, and which shall be in its results in such a

 condensed form as ever to give them the information that they require for planning their operations.

Before entering upon a discussion of the principles and methods of account keeping for builders, let me direct attention to the difference between what I shall call accounting in these articles and what I would designate as book-keeping. There is far more book-keeping in use in builders' offices and far more of good bookkeeping available to the builder Than there is of accounting. It is the latter that is particularly lacking. Accounting means the plans and specification, while bookkeeping means the mechanical work or the placing of materials in the positions demanded by the plans and specifications.

My effort in the present articles will be along the same lines, to show the builder, and the builder's bookkeeper, where he has one, how to arrange the accounts in a way to show day by day, and more particularly at the completion of every operation, just where he stands financially.

At the first of a year, and particularly in a season when, of necessity, building operations are retarded or are abandoned altogether, it is very natural for the builder to use his leisure to look about him for the purpose of estimating his financial condition. He accomplishes this end by putting into one list all the articles of property which he owns, including cash on hand, materials, equipment, accounts that are owing to him, his interest in incompleted work, etc., at their actual value. In another list he puts down what he is owing so much to each of several people for supplies furnished that have not been fully paid for, so much to each of several sub-contractors who have not been fully paid for the work that they have done, and including notes outstanding and all accounts with creditors.

However he may make out these two lists, the builder will attempt to do the work correctly, for he will realize that the accounting he is thereby doing is with himself alone and not with anyone else. Accordingly, if any mistake is made in the estimates, either making the amount too much or too little on either side, it will be against himself and by no construction to his own advantage. Therefore he will desire to value things correctly, and neither to over-estimate the amounts that are due him nor to under-estimate the amounts that he is owing to others.



The Malleable Iron Co. Ltd. ornamental iron work Montreal, Quebec



The James Morrison Brass Mnfg. Co.  Metal Finish Workmanship

Toronto, Ontario







