<doctype type="text">

there is much work to be done. In old work there is often scouring to be done, old paint to be removed, cracks to fill up, and extra sand papering to 'be done, that must be considered if the contract is to be made reasonably profitable. Painting old work without first cleaning arid rubbing it down is sure to end in disappointment to some one concerned. It is impossible to make good work by applying pant to a dirty or unprepared base. When the work is to be grained the old paint should be removed or so rubbed down with pummice stone that the surface is as smooth and even as a plate glass surface, and after the first coat is applied it should stand for several days and should then be rubbed down with fine sand-paper and made smooth before the next coat is applied.





<article title="London Builders' Exchange." author="Gould, George S.">

LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

WE are indebted to Mr. Geo. S. Gould, secretary-treasurer, for the following resume of the proceedings of the above exchange since the time of organization

We were incorporated April 19th, under the name of the Builders' Exchange of the City of London, for the various purposes specified in the declaration of incorporation.

We occupy very comfortable rooms in the Ontario Loan and Debenture Company's building, on the corner of the market, and they are in constant use.

Our board of directors have had plenty of work to do so far in preparing laws and rules for our guidance, and our general exchange meetings have been made interesting by the discussing of, and passing upon the same.

We have now upon our roll 70 members in good standing, 10 accepted applications as well as applications from the bricklayers, plasterers, plumbers and painters.

You will see from the enclosed list of names upon our roll that the exchange proper is composed of eight different sections. Every section having seven firms in good standing on their roll is entitled to elect a representative to the board of directors in addition to the trade director elected at the annual meeting of the exchange. Our sections as organized are as follows

BRICKLAYERS' SECTION. —President, Joshua Garratt vice-president, Geo. Everett secretary, C. Simpson, 422 Rectory street ; treasurer, Ed. Martyne delegate, John Nutkins. Meet every Monday at 8 p.m.



CARPENTERS' SECTION. ---President, Win. Tytier; vice-president, Thos. Jones; secretary, C. A. Smith, 90 Wharncliffe road; treasurer, Jno. Shopland; delegate, John Purdorn. Meet every Thursday at 8 p.m.

PLASTERERS' SECTION.—President, J. G. Pritchett



vice-president, John Fenn secretary-treasurer, Geo. S. Gould, rear of 292 Dundas st ; delegate, J. G. Pritchett. Meet every Tuesday at 8 p.m.



MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS' SECTION. ---President, John Logan secretary, J. W. Caurse, 93 York street. Meet every Monday at 8 p.m.



PAINTERS' SECTION.---- President, Geo. Burdick vice-president, Em. Fitzgerald ; secretary, Geo. Berry, 748 Princess avenue ; delegate, W. C. Morrison. The night of meeting is the first Thursday in every month at 8 p.m.

The plumbers are waiting until the applications for membership from the members of the Master Plumbers Association, now before the board, are acted upon before proceeding to form a separate section.

The general meetings of the Exchange are held on the second Tuesday in every month at 8 p.m., and the Board of Directors on the Thursday preceding the general meeting at 8 p. in., and at other times when summoned by the Executive.

Our members are all busy at present, I believe, but the bulk of the work is being done at a very low figure.





WIRING OFFICE BUILDINGS.



MUCH difficulty is encountered in wiring office buildings on account of the necessity of having to alter offices, and the consequent changes 10 the wiring for electric light meters. The accompanying sketch illustrates to a certain extent a method adopted by Mr. H. F. Strickland, and which has been put into practical use. By it a building can be so wired that a suite of offices can be interchanged from one meter to separate meters, or vice versa. The sketch shows a section of an office building with a threewire service in the corridor, with taps for each office. The four wires extending out of wall are two from service and two from outlets. The dotted lines might be termed a loop circuit, and by













































































M ETHOD OF WIRING AN OFFICE BUILDING.





this circuit the current can be either connected direct to each office through a separate meter or carried through one meter to all the offices, and the meter can be placed in either Office. An additional cost of running two wires through the offices, with a tap coming out beside each meter outlet, will save considerable expense in the future. Mr. Strickland, the electrical contractor, 77 Adelaide street east, Toronto, is the originator of this method.





An increase of wages has recently been granted to the journeymen carpenters of Winnipeg.



The Plumbers' Union of Ottawa has instructed its members to refuse to sign rules adopted by Messrs. Butterworth & Co., under which workmen are charged for windows broken by them in houses where they work, and for the time of other employees in cases where work is imperfectly done and requires further attention.



A United States government report says heavy wood is harder than lighter wood; the wood of the butt is therefore harder than that of the top; the darker summer wood is harder than the lighter spring wood. Moisture softens, and seasoning, therefore, hardens wood. Wood is much harder when pressed longitudinally than when pressed transversely to the fibres, and it is somewhat stronger tangentially than radially. Though harder wood resists saw and chisel more than softer wood, the working quality is not always a safe criterion of its hardness.

