<doctype type="text">

<article title="Correspondences." author="BOUSFIELD, R.W.G.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER 



HAMILTON

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BU ILDER.)



IN my letter last

month I mentioned that improvements were being made to the appearance of the city by the removal of old buildings and the erection on their sites of substantial business blocks. There is plenty of room for improvement yet, hut great changes may be expected in the next few years. The two newest blocks are the offices of the Sun life Insurance Company of Canada and the Spectator Printing Company's building. The

Sun Life building is the



work of Messrs. Wm. 



and Walter Stewart,

architects, and the Spectator, of Mr. W. 6. Witton. The Sun Life is a handsome white stone structure in Italian Renaissance, and when finished bids fair to be one at any rate of the handsomest buildings in the city. Unfortunately, the site is not rectangular, and as the panelled ceilings follow the angles of the walls, everything is on the skew. A good deal of marble is introduced in dados and architraves of doors; there are panels of beautiful onyx in the dado, and when the decorators gel at the plaster caps of the marble columns in the hall, and the moulded friezes and so on, the effect will be no doubt very rich. There is some very good carving in stone inside and out, executed by Mr. F. Turner. The principal contractors are George Webb and L. Medley for the brick and stone work Dixon, the carpenter's work ; Hoodless & Son, the finished hardwood ; the marble work has been carried out by Forsythe, of Montreal Ross Bros. are the painters and decorators, and R. Dow the plasterer, some of whose moulded work is very good indeed.

The Spectator building forms a contrast to the Sun Life, being dark in general color, Connecticut stone and brown bricks. Its internal finish is very plain and simple throughout, there being no attempt at decoration, except, perhaps, in the entrance hall, where a little marble is introduced. George Webb and Press & Sons were the principal contractors. Several other buildings of importance, as factories and warehouses, have been erected this year all about the place, and the opening of the new Waldorf Hotel and the extensive alterations being carried out to the Royal of long standing (under Mr. W. P. Witton) all show that Hamilton is a ''live town" and will have an important future. It is probable that an officer will be appointed to look after the interests of the city, much in the way that Mr. Fleming does for Toronto, and it is well for the city that its merchants and other business men are waking up to the fact that their premises put up forty years ago are not suitable for extension of trade, nor do they give an idea of prosperity to the visitor. Insurance companies and banks have taken the lead in the work of improvement, and it is for others to follow suit. The next thing to do is to return to Council the proper kind of pushing business men. The days of sticking in the mud are passing away, and Hamilton may yet deserve its name of " The Ambitious."



I am pleased to learn that a movement is on foot for the organization of a Builders' Exchange for this city on similar lines to the present organizations in Montreal, Toronto and London. It is reported that conditions in Hamilton as regards prices, etc., are not satisfactory, and it is believed that the formation of a Builders' Exchange would be the means of bringing about an improved state of things in the building trade. The success which has attended the formation of exchanges in the Canadian cities above referred to should be a strong encouragement to the builders of Hamilton to organize on similar lines. R. W. G. BOUSFIELD.



CORRESPONDENCE

[Letters are invited for this department on subjects relating to the building interests. To secure insertion, communications must be accompanied by the name and address of the author, but not necessarily for publication. The publisher will not assume responsibility for the opinions of correspondents.]



<article title=" A REJOINDER." author="Gibson,C.J.">

A REJOINDER.



TORONTO, Nov. 3rd, 1898.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, --—In the last number of your journal is a paragraph in which you proclaim as ' ignorant of that knowledge which is a first requisite of his profession " a City Architect of your acquaintance who placed a lych-gate at the entrance to the grounds of a slimmer residence.

Once there was a dictionary published in which a crab was defined as a red fish which walked backwards." This was said by a celebrated naturalist to be a very good definition except that it was not red, was not a fish, and didn't walk backwards.



Your criticism of' my "lych-gate" is a very good one, only it is not a lych-gate.



Perhaps a journalist who is ignorant of the meaning of the words he uses might also be considered " ignorant of that knowledge which is a first requisite of his profession " but that is merely a technical ignorance for which there may be hope, but for the lack of intelligence which so stigmatizes one who for twenty years has earned a living at his profession there is no hope.



Yours truly,

C.	J. GIBSON.





As Mr. Gibson's name does not appear in the paragraph to which his letter refers, and he denies having used a lych-gate in the position specified, we fail to understand why he should have felt called upon to don his armor and assume the defensive.

EDITOR C. A. AND B.]





HAMILTON, ONT., October 31, 1898.

<article title="Correspondence." author="GAMBIER BOUSFIELD, R.W. ">

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR,--Referring to a leader in the October issue of the C. A. and B.—a lych-gate at the entrance to a summer residence--and why not ? I do not know the gate in question, nor do I know the architect of it, though [ hope he will let us know his identity. But will you in the meantime please say why you object? I cannot imagine the objection. It is a picturesque feature and serves a useful purpose as a covered seat, and I cannot for the life of me comprehend your stricture. The skill of an architect is to adapt features and details to present day requirements. There may be in the minds of some a superstitious idea that because of its connect ion with funerals and churchyards it should not be used in connection with a summer residence, but that is all the objection I can see to it, and I entirely fail to see that because he makes use of a lych-gate the architect is ignorant of first requisites, and has made a glaring display of his ignorance. Please let us know upon what the objection is based, and what on earth has caused such an outburst so altogether unreasonable.

Yours truly,



R.	W. GAMBIER BOUSFIELD.





Application has been made for incorporation by the Canadian Plate Glass Co., with head offices at Montreal, and a capital of $10,000.

Mr. Ernest R. Roiph, architect, formerly of Toronto, now holds a position with the C'. P. R. at McLeod, Alberta, has recently sustained a severe bereavement by the death of his young wife.



'rite adaptability of Cabot's Insulating '' Quilt," composed

cured eel grass, in refrigerator cold storage and ice-house insulation, is clearly explained in a neat circular just to hand from Mr. Samuel C-abet, 70 Ruby street, Boston, Mass., who is the patentee and sole manufacturer of this material.



Application has been made to the Dominion government for the incorporation of the Beaver Portland Cement Company, with headquarters in Montreal, and a capital stock of $t 50,000, The company seeks power to acquire lands in any part of Canada containing clay, marl and other substances suitable for the manufacture of Portland and other cements, and to carry Oil business as manufacturers of and dealers in cement, lime, brick, tile, pipe, artificial stone, etc. Tile names of the applicants are James Dobson and Charles J. Webb, manufacturers, both of Philadelphia; Ralph Peverley, of New York, manufacturer; Robert T. Hopper, merchant, Robert D. McGibbon, Thomas Chase Casgrain, William Forrest Robinson, book-keeper, all of Montreal, Que.; Robt. D. McGibbon, Robert T. f-lopper and William F. Robinson ate to be tile first or provisional directors of the company.

