

<doctype type="text">

suggest the remedy. It certainly looked as it a majority of the members were not much interested, when they neither contributed their fees nor attended the Convention. He did not see anything to be aimed at except to get the government to take over the examinations. The examinations were the one thing of practical good they could point to as having been accomplished by the Association. He thought it would be a great pity if they were allowed to drop, but the Association could not carry them on without funds. lie therefore thought it was desirable that the government should be induced to take them up, and did not see any reason why they should not, as they could be carried out in connection with the work of the School of Practical Science, which had all the necessary machinery for carrying them out.

The President said that to stand still meant practically falling back, and unless some effort was made at progress they would certainly find themselves dropping out of existence in a little time, and it would be a great pity that all the energy and effort hitherto expended should come to naught. If the examinations were not maintained the charter might lapse, and they would then be in a worse position than at the time of the Association's inception. He therefore agreed with Mr. Dick, that steps should be taken to keep matters going and have the examinations held. He thought there was reason to believe that, if asked, the government would be willing to take over the examinations. If they did so it would facilitate the plan of having degrees granted which has been proposed.

r.	Kennedy (Barrie) reminded his hearers that Rome wasn't built in a day. While the Association had not done all that had been anticipated, yet he thought it had achieved much of good. Public notice had been drawn to the profession, and membership in the Association did confer a better status on an architect. He had noticed that in the law courts, when giving testimony, architects were asked if they were members of the 0 .A.A., and if they were it added to the weight of their testimony, and he thought that was a good deal.

Mr. Aylsworth expressed himself as being in harmony with Mr. Kennedy's views. He did not believe in giving up all effort to have the act amended, but if that could not be accomplished they might endeavor to get the government to carry on the examinations and conferring of degrees. But even if that could not be done they might do what had been done in England, where more use was made of their title than was done here, and make use of the title granted by the act, of Registered Architect. He thought it would be a great mistake to let the Association lapse altogether, for there was no knowing what good it might, in the future, accomplish.

The President said he hoped his suggestions would not be interpreted as intended to take the place of the first aim of the Association, viz., the improvement of the Act they were merely intended to keep up the courage of members for the present, and hold them together. If the government assumed the examinations and granted a degree, he hoped that plan might, so to speak, be welded together with Mr. Gorgon's idea, and the degree conferred by the government form one of the degrees contemplated by his scheme. In a conversation with Professor Galbraith he had learned that the position they desired to assume was quite in accord with what was being done with the civil engineers at the present time. The civil engineer might, on the one hand, engage in office work, and then go to the government university and by his experience in practical work obtain the title of C. E. On the other hand, he might attend the School of Practical Science for three years and at the end of that time get a degree, but he had then to engage in practical work, to show that he had done actual work, and he could then go back to the university for its degree. He thought that was exactly what the architects wanted ; that, at all events, would be preferable to the present position. If the government took up the examinations they would be carried on in the manner provided for by the Act students could study the stipulated number of years in an office and pass the examination, or attend the School of Practical Science for the necessary period and afterwards

take up the office work, take the examination and get the diploma or degree. He thought this would prove an incentive for the students.

Mr. Burke said that Mr. Aylsworth and some others seemed to have formed a wrong impression of the position he took. So far from advocating the giving up of the Association, while there was an association of half a dozen members he might be counted on as one of them, but he called the attention of the members to the fact that the funds were decreasing year by year. No business house would go on year after year with an increasing deficit, but they would cast around to discover the cause of the decline. That was what the Association should do, they should look around for the cause of the apathy and lack of interest and endeavor to devise some means which would result in a more general contribution of fees. He thought members who did not pay their fees should have their names dropped from the roll, because they were availing themselves of the benefits accruing from membership without giving any equivalent for it. It was surely worth something to a man to be able to use the title conferred by membership in the Association.

Mr. Gregg said that he was prompted by Mr. Burke's remarks to move that a committee be appointed to consider the suggestion made of having the Provincial government take over the examinations, and to report tomorrow morning. Professor Galbraith, the Principal of the School of Practical Science, was a member of their board, and had always shown sympathy with them, and the committee he proposed might confer with Professor Galbraith and, if possible, with Dr. Ross, the Minister of Education, and would be able by the morning to have a pretty good idea as to the feasibility of the proposal. He thought the suggestion in regard to the examinations was a good one, and there was no reason why time should be lost if the matter could be put in shape now. He therefore moved for the appointment of that committee.

Mr. Siddall said that while he had listened very attentively to everything that had been adduced, he did not feel at all convinced that the adoption of the course suggested was desirable. Although the feelings expressed by members seemed almost unanimous in favor of the motion, he thought the proposed action was going against first principles. He thought the control of the education of the students should be in the hands of architects, and it the examinations were handed over to the government, as suggested, one of the principal objects of the Association would be gone it would have less to do than heretofore, which he thought was not a good thing. Indeed, he believed that one reason the Association had not gone ahead more was that it had not enough to do ; a meeting had been held once a year, and that was about all that was generally known about the Association. He thought a new spirit needed to be infused into the Council, that some of the younger members, those who had not practised ten years, ought to be made eligible to serve on it. For these reasons he was not inclined to support the resolutions before them.

Mr. Gregg said he had not suggested any names for the committee, but he would now suggest that Mr. Siddall be a member of it.

The President said it was a misapprehension to think that if the examinations were taken over by the government the Association would not have anything to do with them. They would be controlled and carried out under the act just exactly as they are now, and the government would appoint architects as examiners.

Mr. Siddall remarked that if the Association once surrendered its control of the examinations there was no telling what might happen in the future, the government might appoint any examiners they liked.

The President replied that they were governed by the act.

Mr. Kennedy thought handing over the examinations to the government would place them in a position too much subject to political influence.

Mr. Curry said it was impossible to continue carrying on the Association as it had been conducted in the past

