<doctype type="text">

<article title="Master Plumbers of Canada." author="">



laws. But there is still an immense amount of missionary work to be done before the masses and the classes can be got to believe that most cases of illness are caused by the violation of nature's laws, which arc God's laws, for He made them, and that any infraction of them will be followed by a sure punishment.

If our people drink sewage polluted water, they will have to bear the pains and penalties, as well as the expenses incidental to an outbreak of typhoid fever. If they inhabit filthy dwellings, breathe a polluted atmosphere, and live in the midst of unsanitary surroundings, they will be subject to the penalty of having some filthy disease. Man can no more take into his system thc germs of disease and expect to escape the penalty, than he can swallow arsenic or laudanum and escape the effects of these drugs. If instead of looking upon an outbreak or illness as a mysterious dispensation or Providence inflicted upon us for our sins in general, we would understand that the sin or violation of God's sanitary laws was visited by the punishment made and provided, there would he more attention given to the state of the drains, the source of the water and milk supplies, and our legislators would not hesitate to pass, and what is more important, enforce, laws calling for good plumbing, pure water, effective drainage, light and ventilation in our dwellings in proportion to the needs of the occupants.

Your committee would recommend our association to point out to our legislators the necessity already great in our large and growing cities, for the careful supervision of tenement houses and the dwellings of the poor. Already there is overcrowding; dark rooms are becoming common; absence of sunlight and ventilation is producing the usual results, and it our large towns wish to avoid the sad and costly experience of other countries the question must be taken up at once. Plumbing by. laws and general sanitary regulations are needed for the protection of the masses and especially for the poor who are unable to protect them' selves.

The rich employ the best talent and use all precautions against the admission of disease-producing elements into their homes. The poor man, alas! is compelled by his poverty to live under such conditions as his purse will allow.

The state has a duty in this matter, that of protecting those who cannot protect themselves in sanitary matters, and your committee would strongly urge upon our legislators in the Dominion parliament the passing of a law for the Dominion, covering these important questions—a law laying down the general sanitary principles and preventing the use of improper materials or the employment of wrong methods, whether in the city, town, village or the isolated dwelling.

The public press has recently given an account of a terrible state of affairs in connection with a certain public work. Accounts of the outbreak of diphtheria and kindred diseases in lumber camps, and similar places are not infrequent, and the little hamlets and villages are frequently visited by death-dealing scourges that would have no existence were even the most elementary sanitary laws known and practiced by the inhabitants.

Men are employed by the government to educate our people in such questions as the manufacture of cheese and butter or the rotation of crops; surely the health of our inhabitants, the most important asset we have, is of equal importance.

Millions have been spent in inducing the foreigner to come to our country; surely a few thousands could be spared to protect and prolong the lives of our much more valuable population.

As long as the death rate in any district remains above normal, it proves that valuable lives are being wasted, the saving of which would at least be of equal value to the country, with the introduction of foreign emigrants to take the place of those needlessly sacrificed.

In the special line in which we are interested progress has been made. The call for the better class of fixtures is becoming more frequent, better materials arc being used, and slowly but surely the public is being awakened to the fact that good plumbing pays, that the best is none too good, and is in the end the cheapest, and that every man who can caulk or solder a joint is not entitled to be called a plumber.

Rigid examination and certification of plumbers will, we hope, soon be thc rule, and the inspector of plumbing be considered as necessary to the completion of the roll of municipal officers as the mayor or city surveyor.

To secure these things we must work shoulder to shoulder—not crushing a weak brother, but rather lending him a helping hand, for on the uplifting of our calling and the proper appreciation of it in a great measure depends the health of large numbers in our cities and towns.

Respectfully submitted,

J. W. HUGHES, Secretary,

	JOHN WATSON,		Sanitary Committee.

	J.	W. HARRIS,



On motion of Mr. Sampson, seconded by Mr. Forest, the report was filed and the secretary instructed to furnish extracts to the press.

The following report of the Essay Committee was read:

REPORT OF ESSAY COMMITTEE.



In view of the present condition of association matters in our district, your committee take this opportunity of making a few remarks.

Our committee is of a more diversified nature than in any other city in the Dominion, and, consequently, the aims, interests and opinions of those who are looked to to form and maintain a local association make it difficult for them to amalgamate on the same lines, and the action that is deemed necessary and right by one part is apt to be looked upon by the others with a certain amount of distrust, and as an effort to curtail their chances in doing business. While, at the same time, some of those who are in a position to know and do better fail to act up to the principles which are taught in the association, and, instead of seeking steadfastly to maintain the benefits that the association seeks to secure for the trade at large, take advantage of those benefits and then personally sacrifice them by giving them over, with sometimes a little more, to secure work which they would often be better without. These combined causes make it a difficult task to show to the trade at large that there is any value to be received for the money they are called upon to contribute for the association expenses.

It is a singular problem to explain how a man with more than the

average amount of brains necessary to conduct both the commercial and mechanical business of plumbing, who has spent all the working hours of his lifetime to learn the mechanical part, and all that ought to be his leisure in mastering the commercial part, can deliberately sit down with a price list, a discount sheet and an architect's specification and make out some of the tenders which were put in for work during the past few years.

Whether it is greed for work or ignorance, the result is most disastrous, both to themselves and the rest of the trade, and sometimes to their creditors. We venture to say that there is not a man in the business today who does not hope that when the time comes that he has to lay down his kit and hand in his time sheet his business will be continued by a son, a son-in-law or other heir, and think what a while elephant a business is, part of which is conducted on these lines. Whether it is possible for association teaching or experience to improve this condition is a problem that must engage the attention of the thinking men in all trades, but especially in ours.

Trusting that these few remarks may bear some fruit is the wish of your committee.

C.	E. PICKARD. A. FOREST.

	R.	SAMPSON.	J. B. LANE.

0.	MATTE.

On motion the report as read was adopted.

The announcement was made that reports from Ottawa, St. John, Winnipeg, Fredericton and Stratford had not come to hand. Some of them were said to be in the mails.

Mr. Day intimated that there were 27 members in good standing in Halifax.

On motion of Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Allison, the reports of the secretary and treasurer, although not entirely complete, owing. to the illness of the treasurer, were received and Messrs. Allison, Watson and Crump were appointed an auditing committee. This committee reported having found the treasurer's books correct. They referred back the secretary's report for further consideration, until such time as complete returns should bc received from the various associations.

A communication was read from the wholesale dealers extending greetings and tendering an invitation to the convention to partake of their hospitality at the Chateau Frontenac.

On motion by Mr. Meredith, seconded by Mr. Lesperance, the invitation was accepted.

A telegram was also received from the Master Plumbers' Association of the United States, extending greetings.

A communication was read from the local association at Vancouver, B. C., requesting Mr. Wright, the president, to act as the representative of that association.

Lieut. Col. Massey briefly addressed the convention expressing his pleasure at witnessing the friendly relations between the plumbers and supply firms.

A communication was read from the wholesale dealers with reference to resolutions passed recently by the executive committee. The letter was as follows:



JOSEPH WRIGHT, ESQ., President Master Plumbers' Association.



DEAR SIR,—Regarding the within resolution, the members of the executive committee of the Dominion Heating and Plumbing Supply Association, at present in Quebec, having met together and discussed the same, beg to suggest to the Plumbers' Association that thc proper channel to refer this resolution to would be the secretary of the Dominion Heating and Plumbing Supply Association for their official consideration

at their next meeting.	J. M. TAYLOR.

	F. MASSEY.

	W. H. WIGGS.

On motion of Mr. Smith, seconded by Mr. Mansell, it was resolved that a telegram be sent to the chairman of committees from whom reports had not been received, instructing them to continue in their position until discharged by the association.

On motion of Mr. Mansell, seconded by Mr. Pennington, Messrs. Matte, Pennington, Denman, Allison and Day were appointed a standing Committee on Resolutions.

On motion of Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Smith, Messrs. Watson and Burns were appointed substitutes for Mr. Harris and Mr. Montpetit.

The meeting adjourned until eight o'clock.



EVENING SESSION.



The convention reassembled at 8:30 p.m., Vice-President Smith in the chair.

The Committee on Resolutions reported as follows:



REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RESOLUTIONS.



(I)	From Mr. Barton, Halifax. The committee appointed to report on the resolutions, (10 first recommend that the executive use their influence to get the New Brunswick members doing business in Nova Scotia transferred to the Halifax local association; that they also use their influence with the master plumbers of western Nova Scotia to persuade them to join the Halifax association.

(2)	Regarding vice-president's report, your committee desires to express its approval of Mr. Smith's suggestion regarding combines; we think them detrimental to the welfare of our association.

(3) Regarding Mr. Carroll's report, committee recommend that Mr. Carroll's suggestion with respect to secrecy of the business carried on by the local associations be concurred in.

(4) We are sorry to hear that the local association of Quebec has not worked satisfactorily for the last year. Recommend that the members of this association do try to get them to unite according to the Quebec committee's report.

(5)	We take much pleasure in the good work done by the executive officers and hope that every member of this association will continue to assist them in every way possible, as only by united action can we succeed.

(6) We recommend that the report of the sanitary committee be received and adopted, and also that a copy of the same be given to the press for publication.

0.	MATTE. GEO. C. DENMAN.

	M.	DAY.	JOS. PENNINGTON.

K.	J. ALLISON.

