<doctype type="text">

<article title="Builders' Accounts." author="Kittredge, A.O.">

ployed, as, for example the Cash Account. Values being the same on both sides of the Cash Account, the balance must represent the amount of money on hand. But suppose, for purposes of comparison, that the values on one side of the Cash Account were represented by various issues of a depreciated currency, worth all the way from sixty-five cents to ninety cents on the dollar, and that the values on the other side were gold, or, in other words, at par: required, in the light of the balance shown between the two sides of the account, the value of the currency on hand. This may be regarded as a ridiculous illustration, and yet it is no more ridiculous than the way in which the Merchandise Account is ordinarily made up.

With two sets of values in use in our transactions, a very rational proposition is to divide the Merchandise Account into two parts, so that each part of the account shall have its own set of values. Let one part be called "Buying Account" and the other "Selling Account." The Buying Account is made up of cost values or articles taken at cost prices, while the Selling Account takes the same articles at selling prices. The Buying Account is charged with all costs, such as materials, labor and expenses. In turn, as the jobs are finished up, it is credited with what they have actually cost. Then the balance in this account at all times will represent the materials remaining on hand or work in progress taken at cost prices. At the time that we credit this Buying Account with the cost of a job we debit the Selling Account with the same cost. In turn we credit Selling Account with the price we get for the job. Then the balance in Selling Account will always represent our profit or loss, as the case may be.

This fairly illustrates the theory that is at the bottom of the recommendations with respect to builders' accounts which follow. The two Parts of the Merchandise Account here described may be called on the builder's books Buying Account and Selling Account as above mentioned, or other names may be given to the two parts, if other names are preferred. The first might be called "Building Account" or " Contract Account" or "Costs of Operation." Either of these terms perhaps better expresses the idea that is in mind than Buying Account, which name more appropriate in a mercantile business, and yet it represents just what the builder buys, namely, materials, labor, etc.

The second account might be called "Results of Operations." But inasmuch as the first represents costs, called by whatever name it may be, and the second represents the sales of the articles produced by those costs, perhaps Selling Account for the second is as good a name as could be found for it, irrespective of the style of the term that may be applied to the first. However, the names that are employed for these accounts do not make the slightest difference. It is the distinction between them that is vital.

In what has preceded we have treated the Buying Account, as we will continue to call it, as though a single account was to include the cost of all operations. Our argument has been that we should know what each particular operation produces, and therefore there is the necessity of opening up a cost account or buying account with each operation. We should debit the schoolhouse, for example, with everything that goes into it, taken at cost price, including both labor and materials, expert service and special expenses, and, further, it should be debited with its pro rata share of our general expenses, such as office rent, salaries of general superintendent, draftsman, estimator, bookkeeper, and all other items of a similar nature which require to be spread over the entire amount of business we transact.

The plan, therefore that is recommended for use is indicated in the accompanying formulae, and in general terms may be put as follows: Open an account with each and every contract, job, or piece of work. Debit it with all costs of labor, materials, and expenses that belong to it, and in addition with its pro rata of general expenses. When the contract is finished close this account (costs) into the general selling account. Selling Account receiving all the costs of work on the debit side, and the contract prices on the credit side, will then show by its balance the loss or gain of the business as a whole. Knowing by the plan the cost of each job we execute, and having before us the contract price, we can at once determine our profit (or loss) on any piece of work that we may desire to inquire into.

It is impossible in an article of this kind, if held to reasonable dimensions, to explain every detail, or to provide answers to all the questions which the builder's bookkeeper will be prompted to ask. A few words, however, about the prorating of general expenses, and the management of those materials which the builder buys in quantities and portions out to the different jobs

and contracts as necessary. I will limit myself for the present to these alone, proposing to explain other points, and these as well in further detail, through correspondence, if the reader is minded to address me.

First with respect to general expenses: An account with general expenses, by which is meant all those expenditures which ate of such a character as to make it impossible to charge them specifically to the jobs and contracts, is to be opened up. It is to receive die charges as they occur. Instead of waiting to thc close of the year to deduct the amount of this account from the gross profit, the expenses are to be prorated or distributed as the work proceeds.

For this several plans may be suggested, to only two of which will we give attention. Both of these anticipate at the outset an estimate of what the gross amount of the general expenses will be for the year. This is to be made out in the light of the experience of thc past. If general expenses amounted to $10,000 last year, and we expect our rate of expenditure will be about the same this year, then $10,000 very possibly is the figure we will fix upon as the basis of our calculations. If we estimate that our contracts for the year will cost us in labor and materials $200,000, then by way of distributing this amount we should put into the costs of each operation an amount for general expenses equal to five per cent. of the cost of materials and labor.

When we charge up this amount to thc job, we of course credit the general expense account. Then the accuracy of our estimate of expenses, etc., and the correctness of the basis of our distribution will be demonstrated by the expense account balancing at the close of the year. If it does not balance, the discrepancy must be adjusted through the loss and gain account.

As the transactions of the year proceed, we watch the indications very carefully. If it becomes evident that our percentage allowance is too large or too small, we vary it accordingly.

Thc above represents one plan of prorating expenses. The objection to it is that, comparing contracts one with another, materials and labor vary in their respective proportions, and also in relative cost. Some jobs are more in materials and less in labor; others are almost all labor. Sometimes the materials are relatively very expensive, and in other cases they are very cheap. Occasionally all the labor is of a common grade, and then on another job the labor is all of high skill. One year's business may run to one extreme and the succeeding year's business to the other. Is there then a better basis for distribution of general expenses than a per cent. on general costs?

Manufacturers in various lines, for a long time past, have used the labor part alone and have based the percentage for distribution purposes upon it. Lately they seem disposed to go a step further, using as the unit or basis the " man-hour," that is, the hours of labor irrespective of price paid. The application of this plan would be as follows: Ascertain the number of hours' labor expended upon all your contracts last year by employees of all grades and kind. Divide your total general expenses for last year by this number. The quotient will be the price per man-hour that your expenses have been costing you. Keep careful track of your labor on each job the present year in the same general way, and in closing up the account of the cost of each contract, charge it with an amount equal to this price per man-hour, multiplied by the number of hours labor expended upon it. Credit this amount to the general expense account in the same way as explained in connection with thc first method.

Now as to materials carried n stock Open up an account, to be called by some such term as "Materials," to which charge everything in the shape of material that cannot be charged direct to the contracts. When materials are taken from this general stock for use on special jobs, charge thc jobs with them (always at cost) and credit materials. The balance in Materials Account then at all times will represent the amount on hand at cost prices. Any materials which have been charged to a contract that are left over on completing it are to be changed back to Materials Account, when they arc put in stock and the account with the contract credited in like amount.



It is advisable not to use chrome greens on new walls as there is danger of their being turned in color by the presence of the caustic lime in the wall. The steady glare of gaslight, too, has been known to have a yellowing effect upon these colors.

Tar spots on woodwork are difficult to remove, and always show through subsequent oil paint coatings which become dirty and do not dry. To prevent this the tar should be scraped off as much as possible, and the spots coated twice with a strong glue water, which will insulate the tar completely.

