<doctype type="text;ad">

Coarse grained surfaces should not be stained at all, but if they are so treated a coat of paste filler should first be applied. This fills up the grain of the wood and prevents the stain from penetrating so deeply as to darken the wood more than is required.



To MAKE A WOOD VARNISH TO STAND BOILING WATER. --Seven hundred and fifty parts of linseed oil are boiled in a strong copper pan in which is suspended a bag containing 150 parts of litharge and 92 parts of powdered minimum. After the oil has been boiled so long that it become dark brown in color, the bag is withdrawn and replaced by another containing a clove or garlic (1), this operation being repeated several times with fresh portions of garlic. Meanwhile 500 parts of finely powdered amber have been melted by heat1 along with 6o parts of linseed oil, raised to the boil and now stirred into the main bulk of boiling oil After boiling a further two to three minutes the varnish is left to settle, the clarified portion being subsequently decanted and stored in well-corked recipients.—Oils, Colors and Drysatteries.

Dr. Carnelly, in his "Report on the Heating and Ventilation of Schools," wherein he supported the view that mechanical ventilation by propulsion is the best method in practice for ventilating schools, quoted quantities between 800 cubic feet and 1,400 cubic feet of air per head of accommodation as supplied by mechanical arrangements in good order at certain schools reported upon, so that 1,500 cubic feet per hour would seem to be a good allowance.



Woodwork intended for varnishing requires extra care bestowed upon it from the beginning to secure an absolutely smooth surface, and, after the fourth coat, should be applied one or more coats of French oil, varnish, or pale copal for delicate tints, being rubbed down between each coat with pumice stone powder and water, and a felt float to remove all inequalities. This can be repeated until the work has the finish of a coach panel or Japanese lacquer tray. Work of this kind is expensive, but very durable, and should be designed with this finish in view with very simple mouldings and large plain surfaces.



Luxfer Prisms, Luxfer Prism Co. Limited, Toronto



Builders and House-furnishing hardware H.R. Ives and Co. Montreal

