<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED To FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED To THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



THE average width of a shingle is four  inches. Hence when shingles are laid



four inches to the weather, each shingle averages sixteen inches, and 900 are required for a square of roofing.



If laid 4 1/2 inches	8oo per square.

	''	''

	5	''	720

	" '' 512	''	655 ''

	" " 6	"	6oo "	"





This is for plain gable roofs. In hip and valley roofs when the shingles are more or less cut to meet the conditions, add 5 per cent. to the foregoing figures. A carpenter will carry up and lay in the roof from 1,500 to 2,000 shingles in a day of 10 hours, or 1 1/2 to 2 squares of plain gable roofing, so that the art of shingling at the present rate of wages may be put down at $1.00 per square, exclusive of cost of material, scaffolding and nails. To lay down roof boards and carry to roof is worth about 25 cents per square, and to cut and place rafters is worth about the same, 1. e., 25 cents per square. This would make the total cost for labor $1.50 per square. This, of course, is calculated for buildings up to 2 1/2 stories high Buildings more than that will



cost for roofing, per cent. more per square for each additional story.



FEW painters know, with anything like Hints For Painters, exactness, the amount of paint required

to cover a given surface, and this lack of knowledge often leads to disastrous results in estimating. It may be well to give a few facts that have been arrived at by experience. A gallon of well mixed paint will cover from 450 to 630 superficial feet of wood. On a well prepared surface or iron the gallon will cover 720 feet. In estimating painting over old work, the first thing to do is to find out the nature of the surface, whether it is porous, rough or smooth, hard or soft. The surface of stucco, for example, will take a great deal more paint than wood, much depending on the circumstances—whether it has been painted and what state the surface is in. A correct estimate of repainting woodwork CANNOT be made from the quantities only; a personal examination ought to be made in every case where there is much work to be done. Trusting to quantities or measurements alone will only tend to lead the contractor into a trap; there are so many unforeseen conditions cropping up all the time that the painter should see the locality and the work to be painted, when such is possible, before he gives in his figures for the work. There is painting and painting; it can be done well and it can be done indifferently, and no other trade will admit of greater scamping, and, unfortunately, in this country, low prices, bad estimating and unprincipled competition, have done much to bring into disrepute a very respectable calling. A slovenly inartistic painter will often repaint and regrain on work that ought to be well rubbed with pumice stone or sand paper before the first new coat is laid, but the work goes on without even cleaning or stopping, and the result is a bad name for painters all round. In three coat work the following amount of materials will be required to cover 100 superficial feet of new woodwork Paint, eight pounds ; boiled linseed oil, three pints ; spirits of turpentine, one pint. The work, to do it as it should be done, will require over two days for one man. According to an authority forty-five yards of first coat, including stopping, will require five pounds of white lead, five pounds of putty, and one quart of linseed oil. Painting, when done well, and the best materials are employed, should remain fresh and good for seven years, but the most done now-a-days does not last over four. It pays both owner and painter better to have the work done well at a good price, and good materials employed, as the work lasts so much longer and is much more

satisfactory.





As a rule, everything being equal, Proportion of Doors. single doors for dwellings should be as

2 is to 5, and to entrance doors for buildings intended for public use they should be as to

2. If the width is given and the height required of a door for a dwelling, multiply the width by and divide the product by 2 ; but if the height is given and the width required divide by and multiply by 2. When two or more doors of different widths show in the same room, it is well to proportion the dimensions of the more important by the above rule, and make the narrower doors of the same height as the wider ones, as all the doors in a suit of apartments, except the folding or sliding doors, have the best appearance when of one height The proportions for folding or sliding doors should be such that the width may be equal to four-fifths of the height, yet this rule needs some qualification, for if the width of the opening be greater than one-half the width of the room, there will not be sufficient space left for opening the doors, also the height should be about one-tenth greater than that of the adjacent single doors. Where doors have but two panels in width the stiles and muntins should be one-seventh the width, or whatever number of panels there may be, the united width of the stiles and muntins should occupy three-sevenths of the width of the door. Thus, in a door thirty-five inches wide, containing two panels in width, the stiles should be five inches wide, and in a door three feet six inches wide the stiles should be six inches wide. If a door three feet six inches wide is to

