<doctype type="text">

<article title="The Morality and Economy of Competitions." author="Creswell, B.">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



callousness or indifference the rural town councillors of remoter England positively select with a rare pains and discrimination the worst designs—not merely or necessarily the most hideous and ineffective, but just those which are most laden with studied assumptions they can not support, which pretend to qualities above their kind and station, and which cry out their sham importance—— precisely those designs which are least fitted to exist, which most insidiously degrade and pollute the morals of all who pass beneath Ii heir walls. The custom is to speak in fulsome terms of the enobling influence exerted upon the mind of man by true and refined architecture of lofty aspirations. If this be a just and true estimate of the potency of architecture to influence and modify the ever-changing moral tendencies of a people, and I do not think many will dispute it, we are entitled to apply the reasoning to the Other side of the picture, and turn our attention to the false and mean qualities which characterize the greater part of our architecture. What horrors of infamy then do we not see being daily inculcated at our street corners, gentlemen, and what iniquitous deeds must be those performed in the trades of our bricklayers, masons and carpenters. And of these insidious stimulants to moral degradation, which are daily rising inch by inch throughout the country, some of the most evilly—intentioned are those raised in public competitions. The influence of these to undermine the pure motives of humanity in those whose life is spent under their shadow is the stronger and the more to be deplored, since the buildings hold a significance in being for the most part public buildings, the property of the township. The sermon of their stones is preached from an authorized pulpit. It is sufficiently melancholy that that class which, as has been said, is cultured in a positive ignorance of matters relating to art, and which is permeated with the undignified instincts and ambitious of small trade, should hold the privilege of perpetuating these deplorable instincts and ideals in the majority of' the public monumental buildings in England but it is a great deal mote melancholy that architects (in acquiescing in a system of competitions which grants these unfeeling creatures the choice of some forty designs) should have added the privilege that enables them to secure a design which portrays their own meagre commercial instincts, and their motives of brag, assumption, and self-advertisement much more thoroughly and effectively than they could reasonably have hoped to obtain from a private architect. It is true that an assessor is most usually appointed, but it is certain that he has little authority wit Ii the average town council upon a question of design, and nearly all conditions of competition expressly state that his award is not held hitidiog upon the promoters, as will be shown hereafter. The tendency of our deformed system is to secure that a great deal of architecture is soundly and thoroughly vile, which otherwise might have been merely weak and poor.

There is a general approval of competitions On the ground that they give young men an opportunity of showing their work. I have heard them called the young man's friend," a touching phrase, which, however, lost in pathos from being employed by a young man who wins competitions- As, however, a young man must look to compete forty times for every first award he wins we may further consider them the " young man's enemy," for it is appalling to think of the host of young men who have thrown away their best energies and hopes in the preparation of useless drawings. The great names in art are not altogether those of men who have risen to acknowledged supremacy in early life, and early success is usually vastly detrimental to the artist. The very essence of true power is that it shall come of long vigils of self-denial and long years of self-contained labor. A genius usually has to make his own public. In these days the matter for remark is not slow acknowledgment of worth, but rather the numbers of men who spring into superficial notoriety, and who are never again heard of, or whose names are never associated with arty admirable or commendable work. This is because men spring into notability  specious and meritrecious 'qualities. Merit is content to wait demerit is lot. The men who are most successful in their professional life, in their art, are those who start with— out fallacious incentives, false aids, amid without haste, amid without greed of those rewards of acclamation and patronage which is the gift of the deserting British public.

It is a common usage to exclaim against the promoters of the competition when there has been inequitable treatment of the competitors, or a precedent has been made in few irregularities. This, however, is unreasonable. Competitions are not a matter of philanthropic consideration—there is no suggestion of philanthropic motives or of mutual concessions for mutual benefit. In any other 

transactions involving such large outlay amid such

weighty consequences, the architect, in common with his fellow citizens, protects himself according to commercial usage, amid there is no reason why lie should make an exception in the case of competitions. A town council desire something for which it is

prepared to offer certain moneys or advantages, amid architects, by accepting those terms, have committed themselves beyond dispute as being satisfied with them. The promoters, regarding the matter solely as a commercial or business enterprise, can only suppose, from the rivalry amid enthusiasm the competitions evoke, that they are esteemed and valued of the profession. It is a conspiracy on the part of the public, on the promoters, that has led to this lax amid lament able state of affairs, butt a conspiracy of greed amid weakness on the part of the profession.

The conditions of competition as now drawn tihi may be in general very fairly described as a sham legal instrument it is a sham form of contract wherein the obligations of my competitors are clearly and exactly defined, and the obligations of the promoters set in such loose, ambiguous terms as render them open to any interpretation that subsequent t events may show to be most profit —able to t lie promoters. The conduct of a public  or limited competition is clearly a matter of contact, and it is the business of each party to see that his interests are properly protected in its terminus. In is, therefore, weak amid foolish for competitors to cry out and protest when they find that they have the worst of the bargain. It is usual in such cases to charge the promoters with having broken their word, with having falsified their explicit undertakings, but surely redress for such injury as is here claimed lies not in the sympathetic columns of the professional press, butt in an action at the flight Court. The truth is, however, t hat it is very rarely that promoters of competitions go back on their precise undertakings or falsify their explicit promises. This is nor for any qualms of sentiment or conscientious scruples, but for slicer lack of any precise undertakings to go back upon, and utter dearth of any explicit promises to falsify. When an assessor's award is set aside, or when the winner of the first premium is supplanted in his commission to do the work, there are invariably long and loud protests pathetic appeals to common honesty and fair treatment from its poor architects, who forget our greedy rivalries for the moment and are bound in our common sympathy of misfortune. Someone read a paper once on Professional Etiquette. " One does not think it could have been unduly long. This common misfortune may be described as the only bond of sympathy still existing among us. But to keep to the subject of conditions of competition, I have drawn up a table which enables me to substantiate what I say. This table gives the gist of thirty-two conditions and instructions, as sent to competing architect s, taken haphazard from hue portfolio lately instituted for this is purpose, in the library of the Royal Institute of British Architects. Upon this  I find that in 50 per cent. of cases an assessor is appointed, that in 77 per cent. the premium charges in commission that in total ease is the winner of the first premium promised the work, but that, on the contrary, 54 per cent. state that the committee is '' not bound to accept first award,'' and 35 per cent. state that they do not bind themselves '' to accept thin first. or any design." That in no case is the assessor's award stated to be absolute, but that, On the contrary, in 100 per cent. (estimated on a basis of thirty-two instances) of the cases it is expressly stated or clearly implied that his award will not be absolute—that the committee do not hold themselves bound by his decision. I may also call your attention to other little delicacies offered, where the thoughtfulness of promoters is again instanced. In order to mitigate the fevered enthusiasm arid passion of emulation wit It which they have noticed we fling ourselves into competition, they have docked the commission in some 16 per cent. of the cases by making the per cent. include quantities or other extraordinary expenses. I also discovered four cases where no conditions existed at all, anti also a little gem, where there was no

offered, and yet another, where the ten guinea premium was to merge in commission if the work was carried out within five years.

I submit, that of the general run of competitions not one grain of professional or artistic enthusiasm has place—if enthusiasm may be estimated in grains. The desire to compete is born of unrest , worldly ambition, weak unbalanced inclinations amid false hope bred of an incontinent longing for the plums of life before the just harvest time to be got, not legitimately, butt by a short cut. Every one knows that the knack of winning competitions is not the knack of design. Even Sir Gilbert Scott admitted that his designs made in competition were necessarily different from those he would have made for a private client. Professor Kerr has insisted that the mutant who wins is the man who gets the best

