<doctype type="text">

veloping on occasion into hurricanes and cyclones, like to that which last month devastated a portion of the town of Merritton. It is to be hoped that wind storms approaching in velocity the one referred to are not likely to occur at frequent intervals in the future, as the result of changed climatic conditions. At all events it would seem that increased wind pressures are likely to characterize the climate of this country in the future. Architects would do well, therefore, to take this new factor into account in the designing of their buildings, and exercise greater care than hitherto in the design and construction of roofs and projections, such as chimneys, towers and spires.



ARCHITECTS owe it to themselves, as What an Architect well as to their clients, to make them-

Should Know.

selves thoroughly acquainted with the

history of Architecture. If this were the universal practice, meaningless and out of place features in design would not greet us at every turn as they do at present. The fact should be apparent to every designer that if his work is to be above ridicule, it must be founded on an accurate knowledge of architectural styles. Herein lies the principal difference between true and sham architecture. The architect who places a lych gate at the entrance to the grounds of a summer residence, proclaims himself ignorant of the knowledge which is a first requisite of his profession. This, however, is precisely what a city architect of our acquaintance did quite recently. Hitherto, in Canada, no adequate opportunity has been afforded for the study of architecture, yet books on the subject have been sufficiently available to render inexcusable such glaring displays of ignorance. With Departments of Architecture, in charge of competent professors, at McGill University, Montreal, and the School of Practical Science, Toronto, supplemented by the examinations of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects and the Ontario Association of Architects, means now exist by which students may become thoroughly equipped for the practice of architecture, and the work done in the future should be to a large extent free from the absurdities and crudities of the past and present.





The Proposed Palace Hotel for Toronto. We print in this number a reproduction of a water color drawing, by the architects, Messrs. Geo. Harding & Gooch,

of New York, of the design for the palace hotel which is shortly to be erected in Toronto. We learn from Mr. Aemelieus Jarvis, the promoter of the enterprise, that it has been decided that the building shall consist of nine stories, instead of seven as shown in the illustration. In lieu of illustrations of the plans, which are as yet in a transition state, we give a letterpress description of the general character and arrangement of the building. The carrying out of this undertaking will especially benefit that section of the business portion of the city bounded by Yonge, Adelaide, Front and Jarvis streets, where a large amount of city property is located, In conjunction with the improvement of St. Lawrence market, it will no doubt be the means of stopping the present tendency of trade to move westward and northward, and save a heavy skimp in real estate values within the district described by the above named boundaries. It is to be hoped that the City Council will deal with these important projects with greater celerity than has marked their deliberations in

connection with awarding the contract for elevators for the new municipal buildings.



THE Dominion Trades Council, in Day Labor VS. annual session at Winnipeg recently,

Contract.

reiterated its previously pronounced opinion that all public works should be carried out by day labor rather than by contract. A committee was appointed to urge this view upon the government and endeavor to secure its adoption in a practical way. We are not in a position to say what Purpose is actuating the Trades Council in seeking to bring about this radical change. Probably, it is thought that if all public works were under the direct control of the government, there would be the opportunity to compel the employment on such works of union labor only. Regarded from this point of view, we can see where advantages might accrue to organized labor. From the standpoint of public economy, however, experience has demonstrated that the minimum of cost in the construction of works of this character is attained under the contract system. Not long ago, the municipal authorities of London, England, took the construction of public works out of the hands of contractors, and had them carried out by day labor under the direction of the municipal officials. The result was not satisfactory. While in a few instances savings were effected, in others the losses were so great as to more than offset them. The experiment was tried for a sufficient length of time to permit the results to be averaged and the total showing



was most unfavorable to the day labor plan. The same results followed more limited experiments in the same direction by the Council of the city of Toronto. There is no ground to hope that the outcome would be different were the method to be tried in connection with government works.



Workingmen's Relief Systems. THE principal features of the Work  men's Compensation Act, which recently passed the British Parliament,



and which is now in operation throughout the United Kingdom, have previously been referred to in these columns. in view of the extent to which this legislation departs from all past precedents in the direction of placing responsibility for the workman's safety entirely upon the shoulders of the employer, the latter has suddenly found himself placed under obligations such as he had never dreamed of, and for which, therefore, he was entirely unprepared. The adoption of this legislation in Great Britain is taken as an indication of what should be expected and prepared for on this side of the Atlantic. Employers of labor in contracting and other lines in Canada should therefore give this subject consideration, and acquaint themselves with the nature of the legislation thus far enacted by other countries for tile protection of the laboring classes. Some particulars of the German Workingmen's Insurance System, as presented by Mr. J. C. Monagahn, U. S. Consul at Cheming, should prove interesting in this connection

The system aims to alleviate the condition of workmen and their families (1) in cases of sickness, (2) in cases of accidents incurred at work, (3) in cases of feebleness, wasting disease s, decreased capacity for work and old age. In cases coming under No. there is given free



medical treatment, money during period of sickness with which to obtain medicine, nourishment, etc., or, if desired, free treatment in a hospital and support for the family, and money, in case of death, is supplied the

