<doctype type="text">

<article title="C.A.&B. Students' Competition." author="">

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT. ______

C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

THE publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invites architectural students to submit drawings in competition for designs for four ornamental chimneys, for which first, second and third prizes of 815, $5 and one year's subscription to the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, respectively, are offered.



The chimneys may be of brick, stone or terra cotta, or any or all of these combined.



Competitors are required to show by plans, perspective sketches and details, with or without elevations, the chimneys and sufficient of the plan and arrangement of building to explain the reason for form and position adopted, and to show roofing and other adjacent features it affecting the treatment of the chimneys.



Drawings must be made with pen and perfectly black ink ONLY, on white drawing paper, bristol, or tracing linen, to the size of 15 X 21 inches, and must be so drawn  to give their proper effect when reduced to one-half this size. No brush or color work is permitted.



The competition will close at o'clock p. in. on Thursday, December 1st, 1898. No consideration will be given to drawings which may be received subsequent to that date and hour.



Drawings should be sent by mail or express, addressed to the editor of the CANADIAN ARCIHTECT ANI) BU ILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, and marked on the outside ' ' C. A. & B. Competition." All postage and express charges are to be paid by the competitors. Each drawing should be marked only with the non de plume of the author, and should be accompanied by a sealed envelope marked with the same non de plume and enclosing the full name and address of the competitor. This envelope will remain sealed until the competition is decided.



The merits of the designs which ma)' be submitted in this competition will be decided by a joint committee, composed of officers of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, whose decision will be final.



The right is reserved to withhold one or all of the prizes if, in the opinion of the judges, the designs submitted should be so inferior as to warrant such a proceeding.

Students are requested to read carefully the above conditions, absolute compliance with which will be required of each competitor.



ADDRESS TO STUDENTS.*

ARCHITECTURE is a structural art and therefore the art of construction is the most necessary thing to be known. The science of construction is statics; consequently the elements of statics must be known. A knowledge of statics, too, gives us a true ratio between every part of the structure, and it gives the real shape that each part must take ; if we were as clever as

Extracted from an address by Prof. Aitchison, R.A., President R. I.B.A., and reprinted from the Journal of the Institute.

Nature, it would in all probability give us a beautiful shape. Unfortunately, we are far from being so clever, and consequently we have to learn by other means how a beautiful shape can be made out of the necessary shape. For this purpose we must study deceased architecture and Nature. Every piece of deceased architecture that we admire can be made to show us the aesthetic laws that govern it and produce its excellence, and these laws are as capable of being employed now as then. Every important portion of an ancient building may have the reason extorted from it as to why it pleased at its creation, and pleases us now but from our greater knowledge, and from the necessity of using other materials, we may see that the proportions then used are not now applicable; for instance, a Greek Doric column showed the statical knowledge of its day, but it certainly does not now. Our materials and climate are different, and the aesthetic sentiment of our day is probably different too so we must get some of our hints and solutions from Nature's works. There are in the first place human beings and animals, and there are thousands of different sorts of trees, of leaves, of grasses, of buds and fruits, which have beauty in different degrees, and we should learn from these how the beauty we want can be attained by various shapes and various proportions.



Without the gifts of the mathematical and the artistic capacities no man should become an architect ; but there is another requirement which we call planning that is, how to make each room, hall, passage, and staircase answer its purpose, and how to pack them in the most convenient way. This may he called common planning; but there is artistic planning as well, which is the choice of forms which are not only appropriate for use but are agreeable to the eye. I would by no means discourage any one who loves architecture and will study it from being an architect, for there are various degrees of power and excellence in architectural works, all of which make up the realm of architecture. We do not despise the violet because it is not so grand or so lasting as the oak.

The smallest cottage, if perfectly arranged, perfectly constructed, and perfectly proportioned, may be as delightful to contemplate as the mansion, the palace, the town hall, or the cathedral, though it does not require the same knowledge, the same daring, the same invention. You must bear in mind that nothing great is reached in the fine arts without simplicity, but lovely simplicity is reached by great labor? and takes about ten times as long to arrive at as ornateness. '' Oh what a power has white simplicity Just now there is a great inclination to get effects by exaggeration, or by ways that involve little thought or trouble, such as by the distortion of the orders, the sticking on of bits of rustication all over a building, or by putting water-gates into 1 he attics of buildings.

We must not forget the proverb that " the human mind is greedy of novelty," so much deplored by William Morris and by Mr. Ruskin, though the desire for novelty is natural to man, and cannot be overlooked or overcome for each generation has not the same knowledge nor desires as the preceding- one. in eating, the most delicious food soon palls, hence the proverb of '' Nothing but eel-pie." Let us, instead of deploring- the taste for novelty, echo Tennyson's words '' Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change." True novelty is obtained by development. We see how Nature develops her types and it we had lived in the palmy days of Greece, we should have seen how the young- clodhopper was developed into grace and beauty by training.

It is rather nauseous and rather ridiculous to hear so much talked of a new style, particularly when it is supposed that a clever man can invent it. The real new style is to be attained by the improvements that come about by the altering of proportions through our greater knowledge of statics and the strength of materials ; by making- our buildings perfectly suitable to the new requirements of our age ; by the suiting of our mouldings to the climate, by the greater cultivation of outline, and by a deeper knowledge of our own light and shade,

