<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title="Walls and Wall Papers." author="Shuffrey, L.A.">

tinted paper ground, as the joints need not show, which they would do in the case of the latter.

The varieties of wall coverings which may be suitably used for the space usually called the filling are numerous. Immense talent has of late years been employed in the designing of wall papers, until we have almost more than enough, and there is a temptation, when choosing from a number of ambitious designs, to forget that in most cases the wall on which they are to be hung should be looked upon as a background a purpose for which many of them are eminently unsuitable ; and if there could be more connection between the designing and the using of them, the designs and coloring would be very much modified. I am now referring to the large flowered designs in natural colors which are exhibited in drapers' windows, accompanied by the notification that they can supply the chintz for hangings to match them. A less interesting arrangement I cannot conceive.

A piece of English wallpaper is twelve yards long by twenty-one inches wide, containing sixty-three square feet. French paper is nine yards long and eighteen inches wide, containing forty and one-half square feet so in estimating the quantity required, half must be added to the measure for English paper, and the price considered in relation thereto.

The simplest wall paper consists of a pattern printed from a wood block, in repeats, with distemper color on previously distempered roll of white paper, and in this form is suitable in use from the servant's bedroom to the principal reception room, the dignity required depending upon the form of the design and coloring, and if we had nothing more than this, we should still be very well off.

The varieties of embossed coverings for walls now available for decoration are numerous. They have the merit, when hung on an ordinary plaster wall, of presenting a wearable surface, and one that is capable of decoration, after hanging in various ways, either by painting all over, parti-coloring, rubbed out, or stippled effects. The skill displayed in the Japanese leather papers in design, modeling and treatment of the surface with metal and color, make them very popular, and they have been used in place and out of place until we are rather overdone with them.

A luxurious finish to a wall is covering it with silk damask or brocade, and this plan can be adopted with more propriety now the electric light is more general, and the dirt and discoloration from gas got rid of. It

may be treated as a continuous band round the room or introduced in the form of panels.

In either case it should be so arranged as to have a solid back to prevent the accumulation of dust behind it, and to enable it to be brushed.

Lastly, I may refer to the hanging of real tapestry, which I consider has a value beyond any other wall covering, either as covering the entire wall, suspended from the top, or in panels. No other decoration is required, and a tinted white for the woodwork appears to give the best value to the tapestry colors.



<article title="The Toronto Builders' Exchange." author="">

THE TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

As a result of the improved building conditions prevailing in Toronto as compared with recent years, the Toronto Builders' Exchange is in a more prosperous condition. The membership has increased fully 25 per cent., and the Largely increased daily attendance at the Exchange rooms and at the meetings, is evidence of a growing interest by the members generally in the work of the organization.





The Robb Hot Water Heater Robb Engineering Co, Limited, AmherstN.S.



Compare the Heating Surface of the Kelsey with any other Hot Air Furnace Made, The James Smart Mfg. Co. Brockville, Limited