<doctype type="text">

<article title="The City Garden." author="Langton, W.A.">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



front door, instead of to the sidewalk 40 feet away. How to do this is not so difficult a problem as to tell why it is not oftener done. A greater difficulty consists in dispossessing the servants of the back of the house so as to utilize the extensive piece of ground that is so often wasted there. How to make both the front and back elegant and still find room for coal delivery, scavenger's withdrawals, drying clothes and other proceedings which neither the public nor the owner's friends are invited to view, is a difficult problem and for small houses perhaps impossible ; but it has been done in fifty feet of frontage, and an enthusiastic planner surmounts the insurmountable so often that if architects would give their minds to the grounds as much as to the house, we might see much more made of them than we do now, both as features on the street and as places for retirement out of doors.





STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT. ____

PROFESSIONAL INSTRUCTION.

THE irreducible minimum urn of knowledge necessary for those who practice architecture has been rather obscured by the attempts to raise the qualifications of its incur hers. instead of teaching a few things well, authorities on professional education have been tempted to put before the student a large number of subjects more or less allied to the calling of architects, for which only a superficial knowledge can be expected this attempt to raise the qualifications of the architect has rather defeated it self by keeping a large number of students back from an ordeal they are riot willing to undergo. Imagine in architect's pupil attempting to become proficient in such varied d and opposite sciences as chemistry, mat mathematics, physics and geology , by a course of lectures, to be followed by another Loin so treating of building construction, and the various trades and arts of which it is composed. No doubt air intelligent youth will acquire e a general smattering of these subjects, but of what practical use or application is a question of doubt. If they are gone through hr lore he enters an architect's office, it is ten chances to one that we will quickly forget all he has learned by the time his term expires, and that during his pupilage he will relieve his riririri of all this school raining. I it at all probable that a pupil will trouble his head about the mathematical principles involved in a piece of construction he may be engaged on, or that he will be able to apply his mechanical learning to the r' stresses of a roof or the equilibrium in of an arch, etc. It is very doubtful whet her he retains in iris memory the rules he learned respecting the composition and resolution of forces, and the application of those principles to practical building. Does he remember the principle of moments sufficiently to be able to put them to any account ? How far, too, does his knowledge of geology come to his aid when he is visiting any building ?——or his chemistry help him in his study of the solvent properties of acids on stone ? It seems to us much of the practical value of this pre-pupilage training is almost lost, except, indeed, as a discipline, and all educational methods 'ire x valuable as disciplinary in fact, school or college training can give all that is necessary in a general academical sense. Far better to



post pone the professional course till the actual lime of pupilage, and the second year of the term seems to be an appropriate time for the pupil to begin a course of instruction on these subjects, so that they may be. carried on concurrently with his practical office work. If this could be managed agreeably to the master, and without it overtaxing the pupil, what a gain it would be to the student, for the course of studies could be so arranged that it would help the student just when he is beginning to pick up his facts and experience. He wants to know, for instance, why walls of brick are made of certain thicknesses, generally by additions of half a brick what bonn is why footings are formed as they are how concrete and mortar are made. At that very time he would learn the rationale of the whole thing. Natural doubts as to the composition of brick, the varieties of stone, the rinralities of timber, would speedily be set at rest by lectures on these subjects, which no master could afford to give himself. As the anixances in his office experience, he wants to know why this and that is done ? why roofs and partitions should be framed as they are ? and a hundred other questions of a constructive kind will snuggest them— selves for solution. At this juncture the student will begin to feel a real interest in discovering the reasons why and wherefore. He will flinch his progress wonderfully assisted by the alternate aids of the drawing desk at office, and the class-room lecture or demonstration by having to draw the construction to scale, and hearing time theory explained. Thus, theory and practice will go our hand in hand in hand, and the mathematical demonstrations will, having something practical associated, be more clearly understood and remembered than if given as a school subject months or years before the practical exemplification appears.

But, it may be asked, what ought the minimum attainments to be ? We answer, just sufficient that thematics to enable the student to work out a formula, or to solve equations our structural questions just enough mechanics to enable mire strident to determine tire stresses of a structure of stone, timber or iron. Sufficient geological knowledge may be given to enable the pupil who has any curiosity to find for himself to what particular stratum or formation a particular stone belongs, and from what pen it has been obtained, and to know the varieties and properties of the great

Limestones and sandstones of his country, at he least can expect a young man who has a dozen or more very practical subjects to make up and become familiar within a short period to know more, is to expect him to do an impossible thing. Of what immediate use, for instance. would it be to question him  the specific gravity and chemical constituents of any of the Plutonic rocks or greenstones, or in what strata the serpentine rocks of Canada are to be met with, in what series, or in xvliam gi or.mp it will be enough if he knows sufficient mineralogy or chemistry to enable him to describe the mineral character, the specific gravity, tire



percentage of silica, lime and other properties and durability of stones which hr ure in use every day In ventilation on, heating and  sanitary science, he ought to know sufficient to understand nil that u t us necessary to he ul tiny hr habitation non rind n oust mention all find beyond we should advise him to di fn until ii after his term has expired and he thinks of preparing in form of the professional  examinations, when mm more mniv inner. ni and comprehensive course ungirt tic gone through at the option of the candidate. Till this period urn arrives, we think the pupil's attention mini and study should be limited to a few of the unianir scientific f-mu ts and principles of mis in t arid these should be learned thou thoroughly instead of being mixed up with a lot of irrelevant matter that may never be wanted or xvii what is quite as stupid t Incur bouts of application to architecture n and building obscured d rim lost sing hut of 'munch a vast ii number of rust ruin t urns arid details The courses consist of  instruction not given at University College, University College and at the technical school and colleges in London affirmed the pupil's nut mc s for carrying out the arrangement we suggest

In	this connection he may mention noun 'i bull the sections of which are before ins, providing for the  examination of architects anul regulating the practice of the profession in the state of Illinois. The Ontario Association of Architects have already taken a similar course. The examination will  be special reference to the construction of buildings, and will test further knowledge of the candidate in the strength of materials and as to his ability to make practical application of such knowledge in the ordinary professional work of an architect , and in the duties of supervisor of mechanical work in buildings, especially in the ways of sanitation. The bill has passed the legislature 'inch us a proof that trans Atlantic architects are beginning to see the advantages of certificate of competence.—The Building News.





COLORS AND THEIR AFFINITIES.

Black upon white sorrows nothing lost.

White upon black gives a very bad emust.

Black upon reni is a purplish line.

Red upon black brings a brownish stew.

Green upon fine is tine color of bog.

Plume upon green shows tire color of logs.

Brown upon black gives brown very dark.

Black upon brown is the color of harks.

Purple upon imuke the lighter it takes.

Yellow upon xvirite gives a  clear cast.

White upon yellow brings a much shorter last.

Brown upon yellow shows a bismarck tone.

White upon brown is as coin as the zones.

Red upon pink some ruse for the ground.

Pink upon red will not go down

Silver upon all colors ruseni in cheapness lies.

Goiri upon all colors will always harmonize





FAMOUS DOMES.

HERE is a list of the principal domes of tire world and their dimensions, showing tire importance of that of Mosta

St. Peter's, Rorric, is 333 feet in height, with an interior diameter of 137 feet.

The Pantheon, Rome, is only 146 feet high, bunt it hints a diameter of 142 feet inside.

St. Maria, Florence height, 275 feet diameter, 137 feet.

St. Paul's, London Height, 220 feet diameter 108 feet.

Santa Sophia, Constantinople height 182 feet diameter, 107 feet.

Tire dome of Mosta is 200 feet high and 124 fi et mum diameter, sixteen feet larger than the gremum dome of St Paul

One of the largest domes in India n tine land cr1 domes is tirat of Gol Gomuz at Beejapore, measures 175 feet irugir and r 124 feet iii diameter, ranking like that of Most m, between St Peter's and St. Parri's. Tire exterior height is 198 feet. This dome covers tire tomb of Mohammed Shah, tire sixth king of the Moslem dynasty in Beejapore, who rued in 1689, so that the building is nearly contemporary with St. Paul's. Tire name signifies tire Rose Dome.'' Tire Sultan is buried murder it with flue simple inscription, Suntan Mohammed, a dweller in Paradise."





The first bas-relief in terra cotta is said to have been made by the King of Sicyon, his daughter having traced on the wall the outline of the face of her lover who was about to leave her. It was then filled with clay by the king, and afterwards baked in the furnace with the tiles.

We learn from Indian Engineering that the grand mmnreienrt mosque near Masti Gate—-the only relic in Lahore of the Pathan

period—is undergoing repairs. A local paper has condemned the hmud taste tirmmt has prompted the replastering and lime-washing of the outer walls. It is said that some of the best preserved specimens of fresco painting, of what we may call tire Patluani school at its best, is to be found iii this Musjid. Unfortunately', tire repairing masons have desecrated the work of the old masters by laying our big blot cues of flaming, flaring colors.

