<doctype type="text">

<article title="New Manitoba Lien Act." author="">

NEW MANITOBA LIEN ACT.

FOLLOWING IS a brief summary of the provisions of the new Mechanics' Lien Act passed at the last session of the Manitoba Legislature, and which went into operation on the 1st of June last



Any person, unless he signs an agreement to the contrary, who performs any work upon, or furnishes any materials for the erection or repair of any building, etc., shall have a lien for the price of such work or materials on such budding, etc. No lien can be had for a less sum than $20. A lien, upon registration, shall arise and take effect upon the commencement of the work or service, or from the placing of the materials, as against instruments registered or unregistered. The lien shall attach thc estate or interests of the owner. Mortgages against property existing at time of commencement of work or placing materials upon the ground, have priority over a lien to the extent of the actual value of the land at time of commencement of improvements. Insurance money upon

property upon which a lien exists is liable to application in reduction of lien after the satisfaction of mortgage placed upon the property before the commencement of the improvements. The owner is not liable for a greater sum than payable by the owner to the contractor. Where lien is claimed by any person other than the contractor, the amount is limited to the amount owing to the contractor or sub-contractor or other person. Persons liable on a contract for the payment of money shall, where the amount is $15,000 or under, retain 20 per cent. of the amount of the contract price for a period of thirty days after the completion or abandonment of the work. Where thc amount is over $1 5,000, 15 per cent. shall be retained. All payments up to 8o per cent., or 85 per cent., where the contract price exceeds $15,000, made in good faith, and before notice of any lien to be considered good, and operates as a discharge to the owner. Payments of the percentages retained by owner may be made to discharge liens after thirty days from the time of the completion or abandonment of the work. Payments made by owner or contractor to persons performing work or furnishing materials, without notice of lien and in good faith, are considered good. This does not apply, however, to the percentage moneys, which must be retained by the owner. Liens, after notice of registration, have priority over all judgments, etc. Mechanics and laborers, whose lien is for wages, have, to the extent of thirty days' wages, priority over all other liens, as against the percentages retained by the owner. All other liens rank equally, there being no priority by virtue of prior notice or registration. Where a contractor makes default in the performance of contract, the percentages shall not, as against a wage earner claiming a lien, be applied on account of damages, etc. Every device to defeat a lien is null and void. "Wages embraces all moneys earned by a mechanic or laborer for work done, whether by the day or piece work. During the continuance of a lien, no portion of the material affected shall be removed so as to prejudice the lien. When material is actually brought upon the ground to be used in connection with any building, it shall be subject to a lien in favor of the person supplying same until put into the building.

Liens are to be registered in the land titles offices. A claim for a lien shall state: Name and residence of persons claiming lien name of owner of property to be charged; person for whom work has been done or materials furnished ; time within which work has been done, and a short description thereof; the amount claimed; the description of the land to be charged, etc. (Schedule of form is contained in act.) A lien may include claims against any plumber of properties, and a number of persons may unite in one lien. Claims are not invalidated by informality. Liens registered are an incumbrance against the land. A lien of a contractor or sub-contractor, to be effective, must be registered during the performance of the contract, or within thirty days after the completion thereof. A lien for materials may be registered before or during the furnishing thereof, or within thirty days after the furnishing or placing; a lien for services at any time during the performance of the service, or within thirty days thereafter. A lien for wages at any time during the performance of the work, or within thirty days after the last day engaged. Liens not registered within times above stated to cease to exist. Liens registered to cease to exist if proceedings be not taken within ninety days after the work or service has been completed or materials furnished. Upon death of lien-holder, his right shall pass to his representatives. A lien may be discharged by a receipt signed by the claimant or his agent duly authorized. Money may be paid into court for security of Hen. Court may vacate the registration

of lien on any ground. Taking of promissory notes or other security by the claimant does not destroy right to lien. Lien-holders are entitled to know terms of contract from owner. Court may on summary application order production of contract for purpose of inspection. Any number of lien-holders may join in one action.

Actions to enforce a lien shall be tried before a judge of the court of Queen's bench at regular sittings, or, when the aggregate amount of the liens do not exceed $1,000, by a local judge of the court in whose district the cause of action arose. Local judge has all the powers of a local master under the Queen's bench act; may determine the issues involved or refer same to a judge of the court of Queen's bench. Persons who have not, at the time of trial, proved their claims, may be let in to do so upon certain conditions, (proceedings are laid down as to mode of trying issues resulting from the registration of liens). Any decision on a lien by a judge is subject to appeal where the amount involved is over $100. The plaintiff's cost in an action to substantiate a lien shall not exceed in the aggregate 25 per cent, of the amount of the lien. The same provision applies in case costs are awarded against plaintiffs. Ordinary judgment may be given where a person fails to establish a lien. The act not to apply to liens existing prior to the passing of the act. The former lien act (chapter 97 revised statutes and chapters 28 of 58 and 59 Vic. and 14 of 59 Vic.) is repealed.



USEFUL HINTS.



Boiling hard putty in a little water to which has been added a small quantity of raw oil will cause the putty to absorb the oil while hot. After pouring off the oil, the putty may be easily worked into good condition.

Fine bolted whiting is a good thing to add to graining color for oak when it is desired to thicken it without changing the shade. Melted bees' wax, or soap dissolved in hot water, and added to the color while warm, may also be used.

The maximum economy of metal in a plate girder exists, says J. A. L. Waddell in Indian Engineering, when the weight of the flanges is equal to the weight of the web with its stiffening As for the question of deflection, there is no need of figuring on it at all, because any depth of web that will involve the greatest economy of metal in the girder will provide ample stiffness.

HARDWOOD FILLER.—The following is found in Meyer Brothers'

Druggist:	Use boiled linseed oil and enough powdered starch to make a very thick paste—add a little japan and reduce to proper consistency with oil of turpentine. Add no color for white oak or white ash; for other wood add enough color to cover the white of the starch. For dark ash and chestnut use little raw sienna; for walnut, burnt umber and a very little Venetian red. Apply the filler with brush or rags, let dry for several days, then sandpaper.

Stucco is made by diluting very fine newly-baked plaster in a hot solution of white Flemish glue, so as to make a soft paste. Various coloring substances are added to the paste to imitate marble. These colors are the same as those employed for painting houses. When the mixture is dry it is polished with pumice stone and then with whetstone and tripoli. A final polish is given by rubbing it with a piece of felt and soapsuds and then with oil. With this imitation marble pillars, floorings and children's toy marbles are made.—Science Francaise.

For heat resisting putty, a handful of burnt lime is stirred in 20 grams of linseed oil and boiled down to the ordinary consistency of putty. The elastic mass is then allowed to dry in a thin layer in a place not reached by the rays of the sun. It becomes very hard. For use the putty is held over the fire or the cylinder of a lamp, and the cracks caused by heat or the cracked pieces are cemented with it. Over the lamp cylinder the putty becomes soft and very pliable, but after cooling it gets very hard and binds the different materials very firmly together.

The Germans are showing a predilection to paper floors, an important advantage in the use of which is said to consist in the absence of joints, whereby accumulations of dust, vermin and fungi dangerous to health are done away with. The new paper floors are bad conductors of heat and sound, and, in spite of their hardness, have a linoleum-like, soft feel to the foot. The cost is considerably lower than that of floors made of hardwood. The paper mass receives a small addition of cement as binder, and is shipped in bags in powder form. The mass is stirred into a stiff paste, spread out on the floor, pressed down by means of rollers and painted with oakwood, nutwood or mahogany color, after drying.

