<doctype type="text">

<article title="Master Plumbers of Canada." author="">

	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA.

	PRO CEEDING OF THE	THIRD ANNUAL	CONV ENTION OF THE



 NATIONAL. ASSOCIATION AT QUEBEC.





C ANADA'S ancient and historic city of Quebec has so much of interest to offer visitors that it has become the Mecca of travellers from all parts of the world. It was therefore wisely chosen as the meeting place of the third annual convention of the National Association of Master Plumbers of Canada.

The convention opened on June 29th, and closed on the evening of Dominion Day. The following delegates were in attendance Burns1 E. Lesperance, James Sadler, Thos. Forest, T. Christie, J. Brunet, P. J. Carroll J. Watson, J. W. Harris, M. Montpetit and Jos. Lamarche, of Montreal J. Higman, Ottawa M. Crump and M. Dity, Halifax H. Hogarth, J. K. Allison, W. H. Meredith, Jos. Wright and W. Mansell, Toronto J. Pennington, Windsor C. E. Pickard, Quebec Wm. Smith, London Joseph Wright representing Vancouver, and Wm. Smith representing St. Thomas, as these places were unable to send delegates.

The Executive held a session in the morning, at which the various matters to be brought before the convention were considered.

The first business session of the convention opened at p. m., Mr. Wright, the President, being in the chair,

Messrs. Higman, of Ottawa, Allison, of Toronto, and Lesperance, of Montreal, were appointed a Committee on Credentials.

The following gentlemen, representing manufacturing and supply firms, were in the city during the convention, and were admitted to the preliminary session P. McMichael, of The James Robertson Co., Toronto and St. John, N. 1.; W. Robinson and L. Payette, of Warden King & Son, Montreal J. NI. Taylor, of The Toronto Radiator Co., Toronto E. Hebert, of H. R. Ives & Co., Montreal H. McLaren & Co., Montreal W.

H.	Wiggs, of Mechanics' Supply Co., Quebec L. 11. Quebec

Gaudry,	C oh. Massey and R. Lockhart, of

The Gurney—Massey Co., Montreal Geo. Moffat, of The Robert Mitchell Co., Montreal ; Charles Robertson and A. A. Robertson, of The James Robertson Co., Limited, Montreal Geo. H. Booth, of The Toronto Steel—Clad Bat Ii Co. , Toronto, and A. Saunders, of the Goderich Organ Co.

Communications were read from Mr. Wiggs, of '[he Mechanics Supply Co., Quebec, and J. XV. Hughes, of Montreal, regretting their inability to be present.

The President, after welcoming the representatives of the supply houses, handed the Secretary his annual report, which was read to the convention as follows

 PRESIDENT s REPORT.



To the	Delegates and Members of the National Association of Master Plumbers, Gas, Steam and Hot Water Fitters of the Dominion of Canada.

 GENTLEMEN —— So swiftly do the in out its	it is difficult to realize that a year has elapsed since you did me the honor of placing me in ; the chair, It must be pleasant to you, as it is to me, to see again the familiar faces of your brethren in the craft.

Since the formation of our- Association, two years ago, the day has passed when a master plumber, gas, steam or hot water fitter regarded his fellow craftsman as an enemy, for whom lie had no use, and whom he hoped to assist to get off the earth. Education and experience have taught us, not only the uncharitableness and moral wrong of such a feeling, but also its utter inexpediency and futility from a business point of view we have found, as have other industries, that cutthroat competition can only lead to mutnatext errriinaton or self-destruction we now regard each other as men who must of necessity be coadjutors and co-workers for the mutual good and profit of the trade

In our city, when we met together in local association, we speedily discovered two facts that we did not know by sight even men whose names were household words in our business, and secondly, that these men, instead of being evil disposed adversaries, were mighty good fellows. Then let me welcome you all as good fellows to a convention of an honorable industry.

The importance of a convention like ours is not to be underestimated. We are a acting not for ourselves alone, but for all those engaged in our line of business, whether members or not, throughout the Dominion of Canada Every one of these must be more or less affected by legislation of this assembly. Let us remember then the great diversity of conditions that prevail in a country as large as ours the variety of local practice in a constituency so dispersed and varied In matters where national practice is uniform we can adopt uniform arid rigid rules, but in

reference to local affairs there must be an elasticity of law that wilt permit local associations to make local rules not conflicting with the National Association and By-Laws.

relations with manufacturers and dealers in general during the latter part of last year were not very satisfactory Complaints have come to the Executive Committee from St John N. B., that T. McAvity & Sons and Thos. Robertson & to Limited, of Montreal and others, were violating the resolutions signed by them.

Your Executive Committee took the charges up and wrote these tirriis, and they denied the charges, and it was as thought best for your President to visit Montreal and investigate I was able to meet at the Windsor Hotel Messrs. McAvity of St. John, T. Doody, Provincial Vice-President for St. John N B. and P. J. Carroll, Provincial Vice-President for Quebec, and I am pleased to report that we were able to adjust all charges satisfactorily to all. I also made an appointment to meet Mr. Robertson, of Thos. Robertson & Co., Limited, of Montreal and P. J. Carroll, Provincial Vice-President. We met again at the Windsor Hotel, Montreal, and were able to adjust matters satisfactorily

I have also met the manufacturers and dealers of Toronto. One of the points discussed was the interpretation of the term Master Plumber Gas, Steam and Hot Water Fitter, as set forth in our regulations My interpretation differs from those given by sonic members of the local association in London, Montreal and Toronto this should come before this convention and be settled.

I am pleased to report that we have local association from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. I was at Vancouver and organized a local association there on the 27th May. I am sorry I was not so fortunate in Victoria, B.C., as the trade there were out for a good time, keeping the Queen's birthday for three days, all the time I was there. Vancouver, B. C. will try and get the plumbers to form a local there.

I visited Winnipeg on the 1st May and met the officers of the local association and dealers at the Manitoba Hotel. We were able to adjust all their grievances satisfactorily.

During tire year I have made five visits to Montreal, two to Ottawa, one to London and Hamilton on business connected with the Association at Hamilton I regret I was not able to get a meeting of the

plumbers

The I Executive Committee met in February last in Montreal. The meetings have been a great help to our Association, manufacturers and dealers. A printed report of these meetings has been sent to all members. In closing, I extend my sincere thanks to the officers of the Association, to the members of the Executive Committee, and to you, the members of the Association, for the unfailingly courteous treatment and assistance which I have received from you at all times, at the same time trusting you will kindly forgive any shortcomings in my administration.

The future of tine Association is in your hands. I ask your to give your best thought to the deliberations of this convention, and your best efforts and enthusiasm to the promotion of our common interest throughout the corning year.



On motion of Mr. Allison, seconded by Mr. Lesperance, the report of the President was received.

The report of the Executive Committee was next presented, as follows

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITEE.



Your committee have pleasure in submitting their annual report to the third annual convention for the year ending June 30th, 1898.

Three meetings of the Executive have been held as a whole during the year, the first meeting being held on the waters of lake Ontario on our National Day, 1st of July, 1897. The second meeting was held in the Royal City of Montreal on the 2nd day of February, 1898, and the third meeting was held in the city of Quebec on the 29th of June.

At the first meeting, on July 1st last, the main business transacted was the appointment of a sub-Executive Committee, whose duty it was to consider all grievances submitted to them for adjustment and decision President  Joseph Wright , Mr.

J. B. Fitzsimmons and W. Mansell Secretary, were elected a sub-committee with full executive in power Several matters of more or less serious import  were brought before this sub-committee during their first six months in office at their several meetings held for 

that purpose all of which were handled with care and consideration At the beginning of the present year, a circular was issued by Vice- President Carroll and his colleagues of the Executive throughout the Dominion , asking their opinions as to the advisability of holding a full Executive meeting in the city of Montreal about the 1st of February, and as the replies were all in favor of same, a summons was issued calling the meeting together on the 2nd of February.

At the several meetings held on that date and the day following, very important business was transacted, some of the fruits of which are already being reaped. Joint meetings were held by the Executive and representatives appointed by the manufacturers and jobbers, where many misunderstandings were corrected and the best of good fellowship prevailed no decision was arrived at till the conclusions were satisfactory to all present.

It is very gratifying to be able to record in this report, that the advice of our Executive at that meeting, to the manufacturers and jobbers present with us then, has been adopted by them, and they have formed their different associations into a Dominion body. It is also very gratifying to report that the hopes of our last year's Executive have been assured by the zealous action of our President, who, in the interests of this Association, went as far as the Pacific Coast, and by organizing an Association of Master Plumbers, Gas, Steam amid Hot Water Fitters in the city

