<doctype type="text">

Backing for hips may be obtained by any of the usual methods.

		IN estimating the cost of chimneys,

	Chimneys.	the size of flue and thickness of wall

		must be taken into consideration ; but

where these conditions are defined the cost may be easily determined, the total height being known. Suppose a chimney to have a flue 4 X 8 inches with one thickness of brick outside. This will require 25 bricks to the running foot in height, and at the present price of labor and material, will be worth 75 cents per foot to furnish materials and labor and erect. Thus, a chimney 25 feet high will cost for bricklayer's work, $18.75. This, of course, does not include foundation or necessary carpenters' work. Chimneys having flues 8 x 8 inches require 30 bricks to running foot, and are worth 85 cents per foot to build. When the flue is 8 x 12 inches, 35 bricks are required for each running foot and cost of building will be 90 cents per foot. Chimneys with flues 12 X 12 inches require 40 bricks per foot and cost $1.05 per foot. A two-flue chimney—one flue 8 x 8 inches, the other 8 x 12, requires 56 bricks to foot, is worth per foot to build, $1.40. Two flues 8 x 8 inches, 45 bricks to foot, is worth $1.30 per foot. Chimneys having three flues, 8 x 8, require 66 bricks per foot, and are worth $1.60 to build. A chimney with two flues 8 x 8 inches and one 8 X 12 inches requires 75 bricks per foot, and is worth to build, $1.90 per foot. The cost of chimneys with any number of flues may be found by using the above as a basis to work from. Chimney breasts require about 95 bricks per foot in height, and is worth about $2.10 per foot to build; but if the chimney is in a corner, and the breast runs diagonally, the cost for labor will be increased at least 25 cents per foot. If there is a fire-place, and a grate to set, and a throat to make to flue, the cost will increase to $2.50 or $2.75 per running foot. These prices, of course, are for common bricks; if pressed or ornamental bricks are introduced into the work, 25 per cent. over and above the extra cost of bricks must be added to the cost. If ornamental tops are added to chimneys, extras must be charged to cover extra labor and extra cost of materials. There is no provision made for scaffolding or for colored mortars in the figures presented. Where these are necessary, their cost must be added to the figures given.



MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE

THE first annual meeting of the Montreal Builders'

Exchange took place in the rooms of the Exchange,

204 St. James street, on Monday, December 12th.

A large number of the members were in attendance. The directors presented their annual report, as

follows

GENTLEMEN,—In presenting to you our first annual report of this organization, we do so with a feeling of satisfaction at the progress and growth we have experienced and which, if not quite up to the expectations of some of the promoters, is on the whole most gratifying.

There are a number of our members who constantly make use of the rooms and its privileges, and they have done so because it has proved beneficial to their business interests,—the privileges afforded and the benefits derived have proved an ample return for the membership fee; on the other hand it is a source of regret that a number of our members have failed to take that active interest in furthering the objects of the exchange that they should do. We felt justified in starting the Builders' Exchange on a membership of 40. The roll has steadily increased and we have now 113 members in good standing.

Your board appointed a committee on admissions, composed of the following names: Messrs. J. W. Hughes, Thos. Forde, C. W. Trenholme, W. T. McLaurin, J. H. Hutchison, Jas. Paton, Jno. Wighton. These gentlemen have performed their duties to the entire satisfaction of the board.

Your board elected the following names as honorary members:

Messrs. Danl. Wilson, Robt. Weir, Moise Martin, Hy. Bulmer.

In order to interest and instruct our members your board made an effort to get some of our members to read a paper on some subject and Mr. Hughes kindly consented to do so, and presented a most instructive paper on the value of organization, at which a number of our members were present.

Conforming with a resolution of the board a letter was sent by our secretary to all the prominent insurance companies, monied corporations and Montreal City Council, real estate owners, federal and provincial governments, etc., protesting against the importation or encouragement of alien contractors and labor.

A letter was also received from a firm of architects complaining of delay they experienced in contractors neglecting to send in tenders in proper time. A copy of the letter was sent by your secretary to all contracting firms who were members.

A letter has been written to the city clerk in regard to the new building by-law, asking for information and what progress was being made towards its adoption.

Your board has instructed its legal adviser to apply for our charter ; as this has to be obtained through. the council of the local legislature, and as this body has not met since the date of our organization, we have not been able to take any steps in regard to the matter until the present time. The notice of application appears in the papers this week.

Our reading table has been well patronized, and the matter supplied for mental improvement has been greatly appreciated.

Your board, in accordance with the by-laws, has had to post the names of eight firms for non-payment of dues.

It is our sad duty to record the death of two members, viz., W. M. Briggs and F. W. Horton.

In conclusion, your hoard would most strongly urge on the members the necessity of greater co-operation and to come forward and assist their incoming board in furthering the general interest of our exchange.

Messrs. Chas. Trenholme and James Robinson were appointed auditors. They have kindly gone through our secretary-treasurer s books and we will now have the financial report for the past year, certified by them.



STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURE.—1898.

RECEIPTS.

105 annual subscriptions @ $15	$1,575 00

2 semi-annual subscriptions @ $7.50	15 00

Rent of drawers	2700

	$1,617 00

EXPENDITURE.



Expense account, 11 months	$37875

	clerk, 11 months	180 00	558 75

	rent,		36663

	925 38

Furniture account	384 94 1,310 32

		306 68

	Balance in bank	306 68

Stock account,

Furniture account	$384 94

Dec. 9, 1898. Audited and found correct,



C.	W. TRENHOLMF

	JAMES ROBINSON	Auditors.



After hearing the directors' and secretary-treasurer's reports for the year, which were considered highly satisfactory, a motion was unanimously passed that the same Board of Directors remain in office for the ensuing year. A vote of thanks was also unanimously accorded to the board, the Committee on Admissions, the auditors, and to Mr. George J. Sheppard, the Hon. Secretary-Treasurer, for their efforts in the interest of the organization.

The board is composed of Messrs. James Simpson, President ; C. T. Williams, Vice-President ; Peter Lyall, Amos Cowen, John McLean, F. Fournier, W. P. Scott, Directors, and Geo. J. Sheppard, Hon. Secretary-Treasurer.

