<doctype type="text">

<article title="New Haeting Furnace." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



NEW HEATING FURNACE.

A PATENT has been granted to Mr. David W. Robb, of Amherst,

N.	S., for a new heating furnace, as shown herewith. The claim is in the combination of a series of upright tubular sections. having tine contour of a horse-shoe, the inner walls of the tubes projecting and rounding inwardly from the edges, the sides of the arch provided with segment-shaped circulating tubes, a special front section of the same general character but without circulating tubes and having boxed enclosing spaces, fire-door, and boxed hearth plate extending across the front of the grate, a special fire













































NEW HEATING FURNACE.



bridge section having circulating tubes and boxed fire bridge, a



special section at the rear of the fire bridge section having the tubular boxing continued across the lower ends and having the circulating tubes replaced by a boxed deflector, a rear section having boxed rear enclosing spaces with smoke flue and soot holes, and the tubular boxing continued across its lower ends, an ash-pan forming part of the base and supporting the sections and a grate in said ash-pan. The circulating tubes are D shaped in

cross-sections with the flat face turned outwards and continued to project beyond the tubular space to form rims, one of which is rabbeted to form joints, and tubular sections provided with segmental circulating tubes in the crown and with nozzles at the lower ends and the top of the crown. The inner wall of the tube resembles the elongated bottom of the letter U in cross-section, a square edged rim at one end of said wall projecting at a right angle to plane of said section, and a similar but rabbeted rim at opposite edge, with bolting logs on said rims and a segmental circulating tube in each side of crown, etc.





Oil must be used in the first coat of paint for brickwork, says the Painters' Magazine. for it is the oil which forms the material which binds the pigments together. Certainly' brickwork must be perfectly dry when the paint is applied, for otherwise it would soon scale off. If the proper precaution is observed in the work of painting this kind of work there will be little cause for complaint and the protection added to this kind of work by paint is almost. as great as is the protection added to woodwork.









ARTIZANS' IIOMJ2S

$500 PRIZE - $500

The Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association appropriates this year the stint of $500, the same being a portion of the income of a hind bequeathed by Dr. George 0. Shattuck, to he awarded as a single prize to the author of best scheme for housing fifty artizan households.

The programme is all unusually interesting one, since the requirements are few and the greatest freedom is allowed to competitors.

The prize will be awarded by a jury of experts.

Drawings must be delivered on or before September 12, 1898. For programme and full particulars, address

HENRV D. DUPEE, Secretary Executive Committee. Mechanics' Building, Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.



Stained Glass, B. Leonard Manufacturer

Paristone and Asbestos Wall Plaster, The Alabastine Co. Ltd.



J.F. Pease Furnace Co.