<doctype type="text;ad">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



CHIPS.

Mr. Lacroix, building inspector Montreal, has publicly denied the rumour that the new theatre re building on Guy street is insecurely constructed.

Mr. F. J. French, one of the inspectors of paving for Toronto, has recently invented an interlocking paving brick, for which lie has applied for a patent.

A handsome new building is in process of construction at New Westminster, B.C., for the Bank of British Columbia, from plans prepared by F. N. Rattenbury and J. G. Tiarks, architects.



The decoration of the walls and ceilings of the new Bank of Commerce Building at Montreal has been commenced by Mr. W. T. Scott. Numidian marble will form the foundation for these decorations.



Messrs. J. A. Ballantyne and H. Comn, of Ottawa, have recently purchased a site for a brick manufactory at Billings' Bridge. It is their intention to install machinery for the manufacture of all kinds of building brick.

Rev. C. Harper Shortt delivered a lecture on the 4th inst. before the Women's Art Association of Toronto on King Hetiry's

Gothic." The lecture was designed to awaken a deeper public  interest in architecture.

The following persons have recently passed the plumbers examination at 'Vancouver, B.C.: R. F. Scott, C. Weeks, 0. Laursen, W. U. Walpole, B. Weeks, M. H. Thompson, A. Paton, H. McQuarrie, W. H. Braden, W. K. Blackmore, A. Green, A. Shead, S. Mortimer, P. G. Moran, A. J. Morton.

A meeting of the builders connected with the Montreal Chamber of Commerce was held recently to consider the new city charter and municipal by-laws. The meeting decided to recommend that Chapter XII, Art. 1st, of the new charter read as follows : ''That the bureau of assessors be composed of eight persons of practical experience in building construction, as follows : One architect, one real estate agent, one civil engineer, and five practical builders." It was also resolved that Sec. 9, Chap. 28, page 1 15, of the new charter shall road as follows : ' That the bureau of arbitration be composed as follows : One city assessor and four commissioners named by the court or a judge in Chambers, of which one is to be a lawyer, one an architect, one a practical builder, and the other a real estate agent. The above commissioners in expropriation to select one of their number to act as president."

Don Valley Pressed Bricks in all colors, Taylor Brothers, Toronto



Bathology, Duplex bath, Toronto Steel-Clad Bath & Metal Co. Limited, Toronto