<doctype type="text">

<article title="Pomeii-A City of the First Century." author="Adams, Prof.">

	THE	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



palaces in the midst of their masterpieces. This economical process of fresco was invented in Egypt and we find certain of the Latin writers expressing their contempt of the 'Egyptian Invention' which they accuse of having ruined art, very much in the same terms as those applied to photography by many people of our own day.

All these mural decorations and paintings are, when uncovered, as bright and fresh as when first painted but when exposed to the action of the air fade considerably and if allowed to remain in Pompeii exposed to the weather are gradually destroyed.

The wall pictures above referred to fall into two groups. The first, to which by far the larger number of pictures belong, consists chiefly of scenes from Grecian mythology. The second class consists of representations of the ordinary scenes of every day Pompeiian life— scenes from the street, the tavern and the amphitheatre.

The execution is in both classes rather inferior, often very poor, but in the pictures of the first class the composition , arrangement and grouping is usually excellent, and points to the conception and execution of the pictures as the work of two different men of' very different ability. Furthermore the pictures of' this class are often represented by a number of copies in the several cities of the Campagna, so that it seems certain from these and other considerations that in these paintings of' the first class we have reproductions by the comparatively inferior artists of the time, of certain celebrated Grecian paintings of the Alexandria school, the originals of which have in all cases been lost, but references to

The difference between these Pompeiian artificers and those of our utilitarian age is especially noticeable in these rooms. All these articles are designed and executed with a wonderful artistic grace. The master hand of the artist is displayed in a simple but unaffected manner, whereas our household chattels, being made to a pattern and in vast numbers, though they answer their purposes admirably, may justly be said to testify rather to the skill of the artisan than to the taste of the artist.

"By the help of the innumerable objects contained in this unique collection, we can follow out all the hours of Roman day, in their several duties and amusements. We sit, or rather recline, with the wealthy nobleman at his meals, and criticize his table furniture, and almost pronounce upon the flavor of his dishes, or the age of his wine. We peep into, the dressing room of his wife, and see her toilet apparatus, her rouge, her mirrors, her ornaments—in short, all the weapons with which she fought off the approaches of time. We penetrate into the kitchen, see the charcoal lighted in the brazier, hear the water bubbling in the urn we sit with the student in the library, go out into the fields with the farmer, visit the shops of mechanics and artizans, and accompany the surgeon in his professional calls ; we go with the respectable to the theatre, and with the wild young man to the gaming table, and see him lose his money to a Greek blackleg." And what strange inconsistencies we meet with in Pompeiian life

There the wealthy citizen, leaving a house in which Grecian art had surrounded him with an atmosphere of ideal beauty, went to





























































BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA, VICTORIA, B. C.



which are to be found in the works of Certain of the classical writers.

The pictures of the second class, on the other hand, are inferior in conception and arrangement and are represented by single examples. They follow no ancient model but were in conception and execution the works of the contemporary Pompeiian painters. They represent local scenes and personages.

Whatever may be their merits or demerits as works of art, these pictures are certainly of transcendent interest in that they have served to throw a flood of light upon the manners and customs of the Romans, and are our sole informants, with regard to ancient style, coloring and treatment of light and shade.

In one of thc rooms of the new house" which was being excavated at the time of' my visit to Pompeii, and of which I threw a photograph on the screen showing the men at work, I photographed panel on the wall, which had just, the day before, been freed from ashes after having been concealed for nearly 2,000 years. The colors were as bright as the day on which it was painted.

In concluding, I would like to show you, in rapid succession, a few slides of' photographs of certain cases in the Naples museum, containing the collections of domestic implements and appliances found in Pompeii. The collection of small bronze articles numbers some 14,600 specimens, and is a unique feature of the Naples museum. The museum is a mine of wealth to the antiquarian, representing, as it does, almost our only source of acquaintance with ancient domestic life, and containing as it does specimens of all the every-day articles of personal use and ornament which eighteen centuries ago were connected with the public and private life of the Roman citizen.

the amphitheatre, where he sat for hours witnessing the most cruel and brutalizing of sports, men hacking each other to pieces, or fighting with wild beasts, till the sand of' the arena  became soaked with blood. The tasteful amateur of art, when we look upon him from the side of humanity and philanthropy, is not much above a New Fiji Zealand cannibal. Nor is this all. The discoveries of Pompeii and Herculaneum present a fearful weight of evidence, in addition to that which literature had previously furnished, that among the Romans the vice of cruelty was attended with its twin vice of licentiousness.' If virtue, as Tacitus and Pliny tell us, was not to be found in Rome—it is certain that Pompeii was not the place to look for it. "The foulest epigrams of Martial, the grossest descriptions in Petrinius and Apulcius, are illustrated in the remains of those cities, in sculptures and pictorial representations which Cannot be described, hardly alluded to. What must be the tone of conversation and sentiment, and the standard of morals in community where such abominations were tolerated, not to say, favored? There is much in the character and history of the Roman people which we may justly admire—their energy, their perseverance, their constancy in adversity, their political wisdom and their executive and legal ability. But we are not called upon in so doing, to overlook the most obvious moral distinctions, and insist that the influences which formed their civilization were as efficacious in training the individual to excellence as in making the nation powerful."





Mr. Walter Grose, of Montreal has been appointed sales agent for Quebec and the Maritime Provinces for the Gurney, Tilden Co., of Hamilton.

