<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" THE HISTORY OF PLASTERING." author="">

____	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER.	vii.



THE HISTORY OF PLASTERING.

Plastering is (says Mr. G. T. Robinson in his introductory chapter to Mr. Millar's standard work on the subject) one of the earliest instances of man's power of inductive reasoning, for when men built they plastered. At first, like the birds and the heavers, with mud, but they soon found out a more lasting and more comfortable method, and the earliest methods of

 civilization were directed, it is considered, to plastering, evidence being afforded that man had very early attained almost to perfection, in compounding material for the purpose and, in fact, some of the earliest plastering which has remained excels, we are told, in its scientific composition that which is used at the present day. The pyramids of Egypt contain plaster work executed at least four thousand years ago, and this to some extent still exists in perfection. Dr. Petrie in his " Pyramids and Temples of Gizeh," shows how serviceable and intelligent a co-operator with the painter, the sculptor, and the architect was the plasterer of those early days, and that to his care and skill we owe almost alt we know of the history of those distant times and their art.

Very early in Greek architecture the use of plaster has been found consisting of a true lime stucco of most exquisite composition, and it is known to have existed in Greece about 500 years before the Christian era, the temples being covered with it externally and internally, and some of it remains in very preservation to this day.

During the Middle Ages plastering existed, Mr. Robinson continues, only as a craft, and its highest function was to prepare a surface to he painted on, nor was it until the commencement of the Renaissance in Italy that it showed any symptoms of revival.

Glancing back at what English plastering was before this period, mention is made of the fact that the ancient Britons used houses built of hurdles plastered inside and out with mud—the old "wattle and daub," in fact much of which is still done in the West of England. Evidence is also afforded that the Anglo-Saxons plastered many of their buildings inside and out, as well as the Normans. All this was, of course, the ordinary lime stucco, for the use of plaster of paris or calcined gypsum was unknown in this country until the time of Henry II., who, on a visit to Paris in 1254, so admired the superior whiteness and fineness of the walls, that he introduced it here. But plaster or lime stucco was, as yet, in England only considered as a structural necessity and not as a decorative adjunct. That its fireproof qualities and sanitary influence were known is evidenced by the edict of King John, who, after the great fire which destroyed the timber-built London Bridge in 1212, issued an edict that "all shops on the Thames should be plastered and whitewashed within and without. All houses which till now are covered with reed or rush, let them be plastered within eight days, and let those which shall not be plastered within that time be demolished by the Aldermen and lawful men of the venue (overseers), and let all, houses in which brewing or baking is done be plastered within and without that  they may be safe from fire."





THE

SAFFORD RADIATOR LATEST

OUR NEW CATALOGUE

Is the most comprehensive and up-to-date Radiator hook of the season



Contains

Several specially unique applications of the Radiator Many new Styles of Radiation



Shows how to pipe the latest systems for Steam and Water H eating as applied to large buildings.

Has more information on the subject of heating than in all the best works combined. Send for copy.





THE DOMINION RADIATOR COMPANY LIMITED

TORONTO, ONT.







FOR MECHANICALLY DRYING EVERYTHING

THE F. D. CUMMER & SON CO.,

	Hundreds in operation.	CLEVELAND, OHIO