<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	11



bec, the Legislature, at its last session, passed an amendment to the Architects' Act,'' restricting the use of the title '' architect

to qualified persons in England thc registration movement has been steadily gaining ground, the President of Thc Society of Architects " in his last address expressing the conviction that the bill would become law; and in the state of Missouri a measure— similar in effect to the one already passed in Illinois—is now before Congress.

And here it may he noted that the English bill is a much more comprehensive measure than our own. It not only seeks to restrict the use of the title to persons qualified to perform the duties of an architect, but also endeavors to prevent unqualified persons from attempting to perform those duties ; and the American acts are still more restrictive—while our governments have never been asked to do more than restrict the use of the title to those who are qualified. On the whole, therefore, I think we need not despair of ultimately obtaining the amendment asked for.

The year has been a very quiet one and there is little of importance I can bring before you which is either new or interesting.

The early part of the year was marked by an unprecedented number of building failures, resulting in considerable loss of life and destruction of property. As usually happens at such times, after a score or more of lives have been sacrificed, public attention was directed to the unsafe condition of many of our public buildings, and efforts were made in some quarters to ascertain the extent of the hazard for the most part without any practical results, because, as a rule, those having the care of the buildings in charge neglected to put the work into competent hands.

As mere instances of the danger to the public existing under the present system, I may refer to three incidents which came under my notice at the time:

1.	At the inquest following the London city hall disaster a coroner s jury actually went out of its way to state that more than ordinary care was used in the construction of the beam that failed, in face of the fact that the safe load upon the floor carried by this beam was only something like ten pounds per square foot.

2. Under the influence of the public alarm caused by the London and Oshawa failures, the council of one of our oldest cities commissioned its leading architect to examine and report upon the condition of the buildings owned by the corporation, and, at a subsequent meeting, an alderman who was not present when the appointment was made, is reported to have spoken very violently in opposition to his employment, charging the council with reckless and unnecessary expense, one of his reported sentences being, '' Me and Jimmy Jones as known' the strength of timbers could ha done it without costin' nothin','' ('' Jimmy Jones '' standing, if I am rightly informed, for the corporation superintendent of buildings).

3. In another town a local practitioner was commissioned to build a public hall—the upper storey of a building twenty-four feet wide—and proposed using for the floor, which was to have no intermediate supports, 2 in. x 12 in. joists at 16 in. centres. The London disaster occurring about this time, he evidently became frightened, for he sent his drawings to me (probably having seen my name as president of the Association), explaining that he was afraid the floor would not be stiff enough, and asking if I thought there was a cheaper way of making it strong than by nailing g in. x 3 in. hardwood strips (Queen post fashion) on the sides of the joists.

Curiously enough the journals containing accounts of these building failures published, side by side with them, a series of attacks upon the Association, the writer asserting the principle of registration to he wrong, and, with all the confidence in the world, advocating municipal supervision in its place, just as though the failures there reported did not afford the most complete refutation of his theories.

Municipal supervision is a very good thing (if properly carried out) as an additional safeguard, and what hope could any sensible person have of getting it properly carried out, under existing conditions, anywhere in Canada ? But, to substitute it for scientific knowledge in the architect, as a means of avoiding building accidents, would he about as sensible as providing for the storage of naptha, a combustible building heated by an open fire and safeguarded by an elaborate fire protective system, as a substitute for an incombustible one heated by steam pipes. There is danger in both danger is inherent to the condition—but, how different.

As these letters have been very fully answered by the Registrar, I need not take up your time by further reference to them. But I would like to say a few words in answer to another kind of attack continually being made upon the Association. I mean the complaints of those writers who censure the Council every time they hear of members of the Association entering a badly conducted competition, or accepting lower fees than in their opinion should be charged for work; and the objections of others who are continually crying to the Council to (10 something—they never say what—to make the Association of more interest to its members.

To the first class of objectors I wish to l)point out that the Association is not a trades' union," and does not believe in trades union tactics.

It is true that the Council has, as a matter of education to the public (and to the profession as well), prepared a set of competition regulations, and forwarded copies upon occasion to building committees, as suggesting the standard of fair conditions necessary to induce the best class of architects to compete : and it has analyzed and pointed out objectionable features in other conditions, and advised members against entering competitions where the conditions were unfair, and some members of the Association who have disregarded the advice have been sorry for it afterwards.

But the Council has never sought to coerce its members to any line of action, either in regard to competitions, fees, or other matters in the conduct of their business. It is not its province to

(10 50.

These matters are personal to each practitioner and do not concern others, or the profession generally ; and the Association has no right to interfere, save when the matter is of such a nature as to involve dishonest dealing upon the part of the practitioner.

It is, as Mr. Darling so lucidly pointed out in his presidential address, the indisputable right of an architect to fix the scale of tees for his own practice at what he considers his services are worth, and—however foolish it may be for him to differ from the recognized tariff—nobody has any right to complain, provided lie charges everyone the same.

But it is clearly not honest for the individual who is ready to sell his services to a close-fisted client for 2 or 3 per cent., to charge 5 per cent. or more for the same services to the easy-going one who neglects to make a bargain with him beforehand, and I think this Association should take some steps to prevent the man who wishes to act in this dishonest way from making use of the tariff of the profession to collect, from clients who do not bargain beforehand, larger fees than he makes a practice of accepting from those who do. Possibly some good might he accomplished by an official notification to the courts, that the schedule of charges generally accepted by the profession as fair remuneration for professional work is not intended to over-ride any standard an individual practitioner may, by his own practice, have set up for himself.

To the second class of objectors —those who complain that the Council is not active enough, and that the Association fails to give a direct return for the fees paid - I would like to explain that the Association has never promised a direct and immediate return, in benefits, to its members. it was not formed for that purpose.

The sole purpose for which it was established is, to so educate the public and the profession, as to raise the status of Canadian architecture and establish a standard whereby the public can distinguish between competent and incompetent practitioners.

Amid yet it seems to me that for the few short years our Association has been in existence, it has not altogether failed, even, to be of immediate and direct benefit to its members.

With the aid of the Faculty of the School of Science (I might also say by aiding the school, for, although the initiative is due to the Association, the school has done no small part of the work), the Association has already placed within the reach of its members and architects generally, a large amount of exact technical data, gathered from experiments upon the building materials we are using every day ; and has laid the foundation for a more extensive system of tests, which, if the government will but grant us the assistance we ask, will soon place the architect employing Canadian material beyond the necessity of using for his structural calculations, data derived from experiments made upon foreign materials of which he knows little, tinder conditions of which he knows less.

It has formulated and placed at the disposal of the cities and towns of the province a set of building by-laws and regulations while, if adopted and enforced, would result in great benefit to public and architect alike.

It has held conventions and exhibitions, and given public lectures on subjects calculated to raise time standard of architectural knowledge and educate the public to a just estimate of the value of high architectural skill.

It has dealt with fraudulent and unfair competitions, and has prepared a summary of the conditions essential to fair competitions, which, if adopted by building committees amid insisted upon by architects, will result in benefit to both.

It has got together a library for time use of its members and their students, which (although but a small one) has been selected with unusual care, having special reference to the needs of students and those practising in small places where books of reference are difficult to obtain.

And last, but not least, it has fostered an "esprit de corps and feeling of fellowship among its members, which is gradually bringing all the better men in the profession into sympathy with each other's higher hopes amid aims, and enabling them to work together with one common object—the advancement of the art they love —or ought to love.

No one conversant with the condition of affairs prior to the formation of the Association can tail to see a marked advance in this respect—an advance which to many would, alone, he a sufficient warrant for its existence.

This record would not, I venture to say, have been a very discreditable showing had the Association been established for the express purpose of benefiting its members amid nothing else, but, as I have said before, the real object of the Association is purely an educational one —- to so educate the public and the profession as to raise title status of Canadian architecture and establish a standard whereby the public may be enabled to distinguish between qualified and unqualified practitioners.

In pursuit of this aim also the Association has at least performed its duty. In addition to the various achievements (if I may he

pardoned the expression) already referred to, most of which are distinctly educational in effect, it has defined the course of study best adapted to the education of persons intending to qualify themselves for the practice of architecture, carried on the examination required by the "Architects' Act," held lectures for students, and even furnished  students with books free of charge. In fact, it has done almost everything a purely voluntary association can do to produce a high standard in the profession, but it can never be fully successful in this while the Act remains in its present shape.

Voluntary examination may be all very well in its way ; it will

