<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE TEACHING OF ART AND DESIGN." author="">

THE TEACHING OF ART AND DESIGN.

THE importance of the relation which should subsist between the teaching of art and design and the industrial development of a nation, has long been recognized in European countries, and of late in the United States. It is gratifying to observe that in Canada also the subject is attracting attention. The Executive Committee of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association, held on April 28th, adopted the following comprehensive resolution

Whereas;—fully appreciating the merits of all that may be said relative to the necessity of technical schools being established by those in authority to whom attaches the responsibility for the life and growth of our commercial enterprises, it is expedient to direct attention to the teaching of art and design which is an important part of the education which should be imparted to the young people of the country who propose to give their after years to labor in industrial pursuits.

Technique is all important in building a boiler, loom or other machine which gives the

power Or means to produce a finished article. This branch is important, but it is only a very small part of the result to be attained.

The product, whether it be of metal, wool, cotton or wood, is only of value in the commerce of the country according to its utility and appearance.

Designing in all branches is so wrapped up in the values of a manufactured article that all countries are vieing with each other to excel therein.

In designs the taste of the British manufacturer at the great exhibition of 1851 was so crude as to shock the taste of the world, the result being that the Prince Consort, at the request of Jones, Redgrave, Playfair and others, established the Kensington School of Art and Design. This example was quickly followed by the establishment of many similar schools throughout the country, a notable result being that in K867 Great Britain was awarded the palm in decorative art.

It was the art schools of France that made that nation the leader of the world for many

years in the production of the finest chef d'oeuvres but with the British, German and American nations all working for the highest excellence of design and color in their manufactures, the commerce of France soon found competitors of equal strength.

In Canada no strong effort has yet been made to develop, in our schools, the art needed in our manufactures. While our industrial establishments are giving every sign of extensive development and expansion, every facility should be afforded by our government to supply competent designers to them; and in no way can this be so well done as by equipping and supporting industrial art schools, where art and technique work hand in hand.

It requires years to develop acknowledged lines of design in art and many countries and periods have become known in the commercial world by the peculiarities of their designs. This may be instanced in the following in design class, as Persian, Turkish, Grecian, Byzantine, Renaissance, Empire, etc.

It is by going into the value of a design that appreciation of an article is forced upon us. Mr. Leslie Jones in an able paper says " By going deeper into the study of a design we get down

to examining and analyzing the forces and undercurrents of power that lie in a great piece of work. We appreciate that there is something more than mere existence of form and color, even if it is arranged according to the laws of ornament which defy all errors. Take for instance two designs precisely the same in character executed by two different persons. Both works might be termed excellent, both true to the character of form and the laws of ornament. Yet one may have something the other has not. There seems to be a touch of life in one that speaks a gentle and thrilling message which the other does not do. Surely, then, there must be more of the soul of the designer that finds its way to affect us in this mysterious manner than of the other which affects us not. All the knowledge we have from the ancients to the present day amounts to little when compared with this creative genius which flows from the inner soul."

This emphasizes the fact that it would be in the interest of the whole country that the government should establish and equip industrial art schools in all the leading manufacturing centres of the Dominion to the end that our manufacturers might be supplied with designers possessed of artistic abilities.

Whereas;— there are no existing schools constructed or equipped to meet the necessities herein alluded to;

Resolved, that this Association use its efforts to induce the proper authorities to establish, or contribute to the support of schools of art and design

in the manufacturing centres of the country that will promote he growth and development of our industrial institutions.



FIRES IN ROOFS.

Astonishment is frequently expressed at the rapid spreading of fires

which occur in the roof spars. The flames distinctly break out in the one gable, then appear at the other, and suddenly the whole roof is on fire. We are inclined in such cases to believe in several sources of the fire, and to harbor a suspicion of incendiarism. According to Sendtner, a fire brigade officer of Munich, that suspicion may be quite unjustified. He saw that one of the rafters at the end of a hail had caught fire. The hall became filled with smoke, but he distinctly observed that little blue flames began to creep along the beams; they reached the other gable, found more convenient ground there, and all at once the whole roof was ablaze. The observation suggested to him that the fire spreads with the aid of a kind of dry distillation in the wood. Experiments confirm this view. We read in the "Gesundheits-Ingenieur" that he rigged up roof models of spars and sheet iron without any intermediate wooden parts, and set fire to the lower end of a spar in the one gable. The hot gases travelled along the ridge, the other gable caught fire, and soon all the spars burned as if each had been set fire to.





The duration of slate roofs is variously placed, but is usually given as sixty years. A resident of Bangor, Me., informs a contemporary, however, that in 1863, when lie was living in England, he assisted in removing the slate from the roof of a building of the Plymouth dockyards that was known to have stood over 300 years. After the old building had been torn down a new structure was erected on the same site, and the slates, after being redressed, were placed on the new roof, and at last accounts were still there.

POST OFFICE, HAMILTON, ONT.

