<doctype type="text">

<article title=" RHYTHM IN DESIGN; OR, THE ANALYSIS AND APPLICATION OF HARMONIC FORM." author=" BOND, F. Bligh ">

all straight lines are convenient-- too convenient, alas

for builders, but where is the excuse ? A very slight alteration would restore to the line an harmonic quality. The Burgundian architect effected this by the very appropriate use of a counter curve in the centre, almost annulling the straightness of the remnant of the line.

1 must now revert to the basic or geometrical forms, which are founded on the straight line. Architects can never ignore these. It is impossible, and it is not desirable, that we should get quite away from them. Architectural construction, which is dependent on equilibrium, can never violate the laws of stability in the mass, and therefore squares, levels and perpendiculars will form the framework of building for all time. But if architectural with general design is to be regarded as the expression of living forces, as may be inferred from the rules I have laid down, then it becomes a question how we are to confront and deal with those basic elements of straightness and rigidity which are in themselves dead, and devoid of rhythmic energy, and are, as one might say, the skeleton within the living flesh.

Straight lines in their absolute nakedness are expressive only of passive stillness and monotony. An ornamental arrangement of straight lines only can never satisfy, though under certain conditions it may please, but you will most assuredly find that the pleasure to be derived from straight lines is not a positive pleasure at all, but at best an agreeable feeling of reaction experienced by way of contrast after the eye has had an overdose of luxuriant curvature. The use of the dead square line should, I think, be reserved by future designers for tombs, mausolea, and such-like temples of death, as an emblem of eternal stillness and inflexible destiny.

Nature gives us no argument for the use of the absolute straight line, as no natural line is really straight, but, from some point of view or other, will be found to possess subtle curves. Her lowest order of forms— the crystalline produced by the action of simple molecular forces, is constructed, it is true, upon a geometrical basis ; but they all present, in the natural state, certain irregularities of outline, which redeem them in the mass from absolute monotony.

In the vegetable kingdom the rhythmic expression of the living forces of growth and expansion comes into fuller play, and the characteristic outlines indicative of the vital forces peculiar to each herb becomes more complex and beautiful as we ascend the scale of evolution. In the infinitely varied outlines of growing things we detect a harmonious working out of two forces--- the alternation of development and restraint, or the lines of interaction between energies of opposite tendency, giving us a variety which can never stale.

All these forces, together with the pendent curves produced by gravity, and the perception of continuity of structure, are translated by the inner perceptive faculty as harmony, and conveyed to the inner sense as beauty.

Reverting for a while to what I said concerning the use of square lines in design, and the inharmonious result of a mere mixture of straight lines with curved ones, I cannot of course be supposed for a moment to advocate a wholesale departure from straight lines in design, nor do I. But there are two ways of using them, having markedly different optical results. If used unskilfully in, let us say, an architectural design, the straight line will assert itself among countless other features very clearly, and its native harshness will not

be disguised; and why?- because it is not combined or interwoven with lines of other tendency, so as to suggest to the eye any more harmonious line formed by the sum total of all the features. It is all the difference between a mechanical mixture of two different elements, and their chemical combination. But it is possible, and easy enough if proper care be given, so to regulate your smaller features in a design that they may form a series of points upon a general ''line of suggestion," the effect of which upon the eye will be sufficiently obvious to withdraw attention from the rectilinear backbone, and the severity will disappear. The minor features yielding the chosen "line of suggestion must be of sufficient size and frequency to form a well-marked series, but they need not in themselves take any particular shapes so long as they are of the right projection. Their individual shape does not count in the total effect, except in a secondary manner. In one direction only, the horizontal, does the unadulterated straight line appear to be correct and satisfying, and the reason for this appears to he that the straight line is expressive of constant or uniform motion, which is a kind of motion only natural in a horizontal direction.

Vertically all propulsions of force are subject to the laws of gravity, causing progressive retardation in rising, and acceleration in falling, yielding more or less parabolic figures, and I feel quite clear that, unconscious though we may be of the existence and requirements of our " dynamic sense," it is always urging us most strongly to obey these laws in design.

I feel I ought to make one exception, in favour of the use of the vertical straight line in a limited manner, and that would be when it is used in the formation of a pendent. In such a feature my rules would permit of its use, as it there symbolizes a constant force acting vertically downwards.

I now wish to speak briefly on the subject of the simplest and most elementary of harmonic lines -the circle. This beautiful figure expresses either of two sorts of motion, and can be built up from each. It is formed

(1) By the motion of a point at a uniform distance about a centre.

(2)	By two rectilinear motions of equal period and extent, acting upon the same point at right angles to one another, and alternating in time.

The circle, or sphere, is the simplest of natural forms, and very close and perfect approximations to it are found in organic nature. But though it is the parent of all other graceful forms, it is not fitted for indiscriminate use in design, on account of two characteristics

(1)	In general design, because of its monotony.

(2) In architecture, because it is not a form subject to the laws of stable equilibrum.

The latter objection applies, of course, only to spherical or circular masses, not to circular spaces, as these, having no weight, cannot offend the law of equilibrium.

Parts of circles, or parts of spheres, are, however, a matter of everyday use and convenience, and were it not for their extreme and sometimes painful monotony, might be considered the most essentially useful element in architectural design. The ease with which purely circular forms may be struck, as distinguished from the more complex harmonic sweeps and curves, tends to make them permanently popular, and long custom has rendered them traditionally correct.

We have next to consider the elliptical form, which is directly derived from the circle, as the circle yields

