<doctype type="text">

<article title=" RHYTHM IN DESIGN; OR, THE ANALYSIS AND APPLICATION OF HARMONIC FORM." author=" BOND, F. Bligh ">



acoustic curves, or the resultants of compound pendulum vibrations. These most interesting and instructive little machines are not nearly so well known as they deserve to be, but with their aid I have sought, and have found, a perfect correspondence between mathematical correctness and and aesthetic value, in all the forms which have come under my notice ; and having tested the effects of some thousands of these lines upon my own perceptions, I have fully satisfied myself not only that in our recognitions of abstract beauty we are fully under the dominion of those permanent mathematical principles of ratio which rule in the physical domain, but that these principles, in their application, might be to a large extent classified and formulated by the use of the designer, and a grammar of harmony constructed.

The most lamentable result of the want of training of the harmonic sense is that we are by no means so sensitive as we should be about the employment of crude and makeshift forms, and our natural delicacy of perception has been blunted by the adherence to false rules and unworthy models, whose sole merit has, in many cases, been their antiquity.

What perceptions of form Nature has educated us into by inviting us to observe the growth of herb or limb, we have to a great extent corrupted by the blending of natural or harmonic forms with those of a geometrical or hard mechanical sort, in ways utterly unnatural and utterly preposterous, until now many of us do not know a good line from a bad one. There is, of course, speaking of geometrical forms, always an exception to be made where architects are concerned, for building conveniences demand a certain squareness and angularity of outline ; but I contend that a skilful architect, knowing his grammar of harmony, would never be mastered by such conveniences, but, whilst duly respecting them as necessary conditions, would always, in his designs, rise superior to them, and make them subservient to his harmonic scheme, when they would be traceable only as basic forms, lending stability and repose, but whose nakedness is draped by the skilful hand of the designer, so that their severity is lost, whilst their vigor is retained.

I have now reached a point at which I must try to clearly define rhythm. I will try to formulate (1) its nature, (2) its application to design.

(1)	Rhythm is the effect of natural motion or motions having periods bearing a definite ratio to one another, acting in a given direction, and combining to form an harmonic sequence or series of movements.

(2)	Rhythm in design is the art of registering and applying or adapting the forms created by the interaction of these natural motions in their various phases ; the sequence of their relationship being thus tabulated as a curve, so that the eye may simultaneously grasp and understand the whole period of the movement, such curves forming the basis upon which a complex design may be built up.

From the foregoing we deduce the following

(a)	Every line is a progression and should be viewed as such in order to be truly understood.

(b)	Every true line, except the absolutely straight line, is an harmonic progression, and pictures the operation of a force or forces. In its dynamic nature lies its vitality, and its artistic character is directly dependent upon its correct representation of force.

I will also add

(c)	Every complex line or curve possessing the above nature has the attribute of beauty, the eye perceiving the consistency of the law governing it.

(d)	The arbitrary juxtaposition of curves following different laws, or not containing the same harmonic elements, is inferior in beauty and in force or vitality, the eye detecting as discord the divergence in principle.

I could illustrate by abundant examples both these latter rules which I have postulated. But a few considerations, by way of illustration, are all that will be necessary for the present, and I think both principles will be found easy of application if a little study be given to them. Let me ask you to make a collection of all kinds of harmonic curves, and study them intelligently, tracing the direction of the forces of which they are the resultants, and you will soon begin to acquire what I may style the "dynamic sense," which is really a more intelligent development of the "harmonic sense," by which we instinctively perceive beauty. The application of these to design will become easier and more certain. Especially in designing wrought-iron scrollwork will the process be found beneficial.

But before studying complex curves, there is much to be learned from the careful consideration of the simplest harmonic forms the circle, ellipse, spiral and parabola. Of any of these, we seem to be licensed, by our intuitive sense of what is proper, to take parts only for use in architectural and general design, or, if desired, to put two similar segments of the same curve in opposition, as in pointed arches, foiled circles, ogees, etc. What we are not entitled to do is to produce a mongrel curve, simulating a complex harmonic curve, by joining together, end to end, portions of simple or circular curves. This is an important rule, generally disobeyed, especially in late Gothic or Renaissance designs. The instinct of designers would seem to have been sadly blunted, or to have gone much astray, when they could be satisfied with such mongrel or crippled curves as these very generally are.

Let my rule be applied, for instance, to that most hideous of curves, the so-called "three-centred ellipse." This curve is without consistency, following no uniform law, and therefore destitute of dynamic vigor. Its effect on the really sensitive eye is quite painful, yet it passes muster frequently among latter-day architects.

In respect of the more subtle and sophisticated "fivecentred ellipse," most of us have not our harmonic sense sufficiently attuned to feel its harshness. In the same bad category I must place the Tudor four-centred arch, and all those ogees which are compounded of circular curves of varying radius.

Neither is the combination of two segments of the same circle in contrary flexure a satisfactory one



It is far from being as pleasing as Ho-



garth's line of beauty, which follows a uniform harmonic law from end to end—that is, it represents the whole period of a certain complex vibration.

Not to unduly multiply instances, I will content myself with mentioning one of the worst transgressions of all—namely, the junction of the circle and the straight line. Frequently one sees what is called a flat arch

that is, having horizontal voussoirs, and to this is giver. rounded corners. The form may have conveniences, as

