<doctype type="text">

<article title=" SAFETY FROM FIRE IN HOTELS." author="">

SAFETY FROM FIRE IN HOTELS.

The burning of the Windsor Hotel at New York has made conspicuous to everybody who reads the newspapers that it is of the first importance that a hotel should be fireproof. But this is no new idea to the public who use hotels ; nor was it a surprise to Greater New Yorkers who have avoided the Windsor, when they wanted to put up for the night in town, that at last it has been the scene of a catastrophe. It was known to be a fire-trap and lost custom on that account. It is not merely to satisfy the building department that a hotel must be fireproof. Its custom depends upon its being so. The main difficulty is however not in making the building fireproof but in making it fireproof without detracting from that appearance of luxury which is considered necessary in the finish and appointments of a first-class hotel. If it were only a question of dealing with men, a thirteenth century fireproof severity with nineteenth century arm chairs might perhaps become the style of finish most popular for hotels satisfying the mind by being evidently fireproof and the eve by a spacious, architectonic dignity. But women are not so one-sided. The same woman who lies awake at night in a hotel for fear of being burnt in her bed, would be anything but pleased with an incombustible interior finish. There must be, rightly or wrongly, in a hotel such elegance and luxuriousness of finish and furnishing that, even if the building is fireproof and will not burn down, we fill it with combustible material enough to cause death to its inmates from panic or suffocation or even from the spread of the flames. The Home Life Building is an example of the way in which fire can find food in a fireproof office building. One would expect a hotel to furnish more food of this kind rather than less ; at any rate its carpets, curtains and upholstery will be the source of an easily produced and pungent smoke, which is in itself a danger. How much smoke will produce suffocation or how little smoke a panic we cannot tell. But it is necessary to make provision to prevent either danger. In other words no matter how thoroughly fireproof the structure of the hotel may be, the system of fire exits must be as complete as if the building itself were combustible. It would be safe to say that, tried by a genuine standard, any one of the usual precautions is ridiculous. The rope which is to be found beside the window in every bedroom of a New York hotel suggests nothing but the fulfilment of the letter of some by-law. The only persons who could possibly use such a means of exit from an upper window are the young men who are usually to be found in the cheaper rooms which look into interior courts—the last place one would like to lower one's self into in case of fire. The skeleton iron fire escapes on the outside would, above a certain height, be bad enough for most men, in the hurry and whirl of a fire, and impossible for women. But more than this they would not be easily found. There is in New York, tacked upon the inside of the door in every room, a small plan of the building with stairs and fire escapes colored red, which presumably satisfies a by-law, but in case of need would mock an architect. Nor are the notices "to the fire escape" at the turning of a passage, certain to be of use in the midst of hurry and fear and smoke, unless the way they indicate is so obvious that it is apparent without their aid. The first essential in providing for safety from fire in a hotel is a simple plan and obvious exits. Indeed it is not too much to say that the backbone of a hotel plan must

be, as it is in a theatre, the exits. They must be so plain that no one can miss them, and there must be exits at each floor. The stairs cannot be taken account of at all in providing for descent in case of fire. Here then is the problem—exits on every floor and the old gymnastic fire escape ruled out.

There must be a fire exit at the end of every passage and at each end if the passage is a through passage. This for two reasons. In the first place one must presuppose ignorance on the part of the guests about anything more of the plan of the hotel than where the stair or elevator lies in relation to their rooms, and, both stair and elevator being out of the question, as being the channels for smoke, it is necessary to make sure that if they flee in any direction from the smoke they will ultimately come to a fire exit. In the second place, as staircases and elevator shafts are likely to he near the centre of the building, the ends of passages are more likely to he especially free from smoke, than especially sought by it. The end of every passage should open upon a balcony large enough to safely accommodate a number of people at once. Over the door to the balcony may be, framed in iron, heavy glass of the luxfer prism order, sufficient to illuminate the passages, but not likely to be soon injured by heat. All other openings should be kept as far as possible away from the balconies, so that they may come in the centre of a vertical band of blank wall as wide as possible. They will thus be as free as possible from smoke.

If then we may assume that the inmates are safely got out of doors, and are there in safety for the moment, it only remains to get them to the ground. This is comparatively easy. The balconies should communicate with a tower large enough to contain an easy and expanding staircase, with a door and landing at the level of each balcony and a door at the bottom to the street. Here is a means of descent cut off from the fire by solid walls, and with its openings for light and its door of exit looking away from the fire, with nothing to burn in its own structure and no direct communication with the source of smoke. The guests of the hotel ought, even in haste and fear, to feel a consciousness of security when they get this far, and descend without panic to the level of the sidewalk. It would be easy to contrive a pair of doors at the bottom which would be closed to entrance from the street but would fly open outwards when approached from the inside. As to the other doors at the ends of the passages, there is no occasion why they should ever be locked. They should be spring doors opening outwards in the thickness of the wall, and should have painted on them in letters that he who runs may read, "fire escape—push." With a legend like this at the end of every passage, no guest could go to and from his room without learning what to do in case of fire; and, if we are right in supposing this is to be a good plan and its use became common, every traveller would be so familiar with it that in case of fire the guests would act together with some approach to the precision of drill.

From the designer's point of view there is no doubt that the towers and balconies would form an admirable external motive. There is usually more inclination for towers on the part of designers than reasons for their introduction. Here is a reason which not only demands their introduction but indicates that they should be conspicuous, both to call the attention of present guests to their use, and to remind the public, as possible guests, that here they will be safe from fire.

