<doctype type="text">	

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

The exits from such buildings shall be made to open outwards and in conformity with the provisions of this by—law.



All aisles and passage ways in assembly or concert halls, or theatres, shall be kept free from temporary seats, or other obstructions that might interfere with egress, and no person shall be allowed to occupy any of the aisles or passageways during any performance, lecture, service, exhibition, concert, hall or other public assemblage. The width of the passage ways and aisles to be similar to that required in section 105 for theatres, etc., excepting that for churches, minimum width must be 4 feet wide when seats are on both sides, and ft. wide when seats are on one side only, and the sides of same may he parallel.

The stairways and exits from any hall or main corridor in such buildings, also the stairways and corridors in any lodging, tenement, or apartment house, or hotel, or other similar building, in which 30 or more persons lodge at night, and where the exits from the same to the street are in common to all the occupants, shall be indicated at night by a gas, or electric light, enclosed a glass globe, colored red.

In halls, churches, or other such buildings which are temporarily occupied at night, the said lights shall be kept well lighted during the term of any lecture, service, exhibition, ball, or other public assembly, until the audience or assembly has departed from the building.

In hotels, lodging, tenement or apartment houses, or other buildings of similar character, occupied during the night by 30 or more persons, the said lights shall be kept lighted from dusk to dawn, and said building shall also have one or more gongs so placed, and of such size and number, as to give an alarm throughout the house in case of fire, and in every sleeping room there shall be conspicuously posted directions for escape in case of fire. In all hotels, where deemed necessary by the inspector, there shall in addition be one or more competent watchmen on duty during the night.

The inspector may make further requirements for prevention and escape from fire as may be reasonably necessary.

SECTION 108. - It shall be the duty of the inspector, as soon after the passing of this by-law as possible, to visit and inspect every existing theatre or public building, and if any be found in any important respect to be contrary to the provisions of this by law he shall immediately give to the owner of the building, notice in writing, requesting him with but a reasonable delay to do anything required to he done as far as practicable, to bring said building in conformity with the requirements of this by—law.

If any such owner to whom notice has been given as aforesaid, makes default in complying with the directions therein contained within the time specified, he shall be liable to the penalty in section 209 of this by-law, and until he has complied with such directions, no assemblage, representation or performance whatsoever shall he held in such theatre, hall or building, and the inspector is hereby empowered to placard on the outside of the building near the entrance in a conspicuous position, that this building is dangerous.

SCHOOL BUILDINGS.

SECTION 109. - No second class building hereafter erected, or which may be altered to be used as a school, shall exceed three storeys in height above the pavement.

Any school building hereafter erected exceeding three storeys in height above the pavement shall be a first class building.



Every second class building used as a school, which is more than one storey in height, and which is capable of containing 400 or more pupils, shall have at least two stairways placed as far apart practicable such stairs shall not be less than five feet wide in the clear, and shall increase six inches in width for every fifty pupils which the school building is capable of containing over 400.

In school buildings which are three storeys in height, the stairs shall be constructed of incombustible materials, except the treads, which may be of hard wood. The said stairs, whether in a building of two or three storeys in height, shall be enclosed on at least three sides with solid brick or stone walls.

An assembly hall may be made in the second or third storey of such school building, provided that such hail is used exclusively for school purposes.

VENTILATION.



SECTION 110.—AII school buildings, churches, concert or assembly halls, or public buildings, where a number of persons may assemble, also all factories or workshops where a number of persons are employed, shall have an efficient system of ventilation, and such system shall he shown and indicated upon the plans of the building when they are submitted to the inspector for approval, as provided for in section 22.

INSPECTOR OR HEALTH OFFICER MAY ORDER BUILDINGS UNFIT



FOR HABITATION TO BE VACATED.



SECTION 111 Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the inspector that any building or part thereof is unfit for human habitation, by reason of its being so infected with disease as to be likely to cause sickness among the occupants, or by reason of its want of repair has become dangerous to life, he may issue an order, and cause time same to be conspicuously affixed to the building or part thereof; the said order shall also be personally served upon the owner, agent or lessee, if they can be found, in the city or district, requiring all persons therein to vacate such building for the reasons to be stated therein aforesaid.

Such building or part thereof shall, within ten days thereafter, be vacated ; or within such shorter time not less that twenty-four hours, as in said notice may be specified.

But said inspector, if he shall become satisfied that the danger from the said house, or part thereof, has ceased to exist, may revoke such order, and it shall thenceforth be inoperative.

TENEMENT HOUSES.



SECTION 112.—NO building for a tenement or lodging shall be erected on any lot where there is another building, unless a spare as hereafter mentioned is maintained between time said buildings if one of the buildings is one storey high the space shall riot be less than ten feet if both buildings are two storeys high the space shall riot be less than twenty feet if both buildings are three storeys high, or if one of then is three storeys and the other two storeys, t lie distance shall not be less than thirty feet if the buildings are over three storeys high the distance shall not be less than thirty-five feat.

Between the rear of arty building, erected or converted to the purposes of tenement, or lodging house, which is not over two storeys high amid the rear line of a lot, there shall be a distance of not less than ten feet, unless the rear line of said lot is a lane of not less than fifteen feet wide; if the said building is three storeys or over in height time distance from the rear line shall not be less than fifteen feet, unless the rear line of said lot is a lane, in which case the building may be within eight feet of time lane.

Such open spaces may be modified or lessened in special cases, with the consent of the inspector, and may he dispensed with on a cornet lot with the permission of the inspector.

In every such tenement or lodging house, every habitable room except rooms in an attic storey, shall be in every part not less than eight feet in height from the floor to the ceiling ; arid every habitable room in the attic of any such building shall lie at least eight feet in height from the floor to the ceiling throughout not less than one-half the area of such room.

Every habitable room in such tenement and lodging house, and every habitable room in any other building, shall have at least one window connecting with the external air, either on a street,

square, lane or court, or into a light shaft, the dimensions and position of which shall be approved by the inspector.

The total area of window or windows in every such room communicating with time external air or with a light shaft, , shall be at least one - tenth of the superficial area of every such room; and the top of one, at least, of such windows shall not be less than seven feet and six inches above the floor, amid the upper half, at least, shall he made to open to full width when the windows of said rooms are fitted with double or winter sashes the said sashes shall have ventilating openings of not less than 24 square inches to each sash.

A habitable room in any building lighted by a sky light placed in the ceiling, and having a shaft not over six feet in depth between the ceiling and the external air, shall be considered as equal to a room with a window opening to the external air or to a light shaft, as described in the preceding paragraph, provided that the said skylight is fitted with a metal ventilator of a pattern approved of by the inspector, and being not less than eight inches  diameter in the tube, and that the opening in the ceiling below the skylight, if fitted with a sash or sashes, shall have said sash arranged to open. Every room used as a sleeping room shall have a fanlight over the door made to open.

No tenement or lodging house, or any portion thereof, shall he used as a place of storage for any combustible article, or any article dangerous to life or detrimental to health nor shall any horse, cow, calf, pig, sheep, or goat be kept in said house.



ELEVATORS FOR STORAGE OF GRAIN OR COAL.



SECTION 113. Elevator buildings (which term shall be interpreted as including all buildings intended solely for t lie receipt, storage and delivery of grain or coal, in bulk) shall only be erected on a site approved of by the city council Said elevator may be constructed with bin walls, made entirely of wood, pro

