<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE TEACHING OF INDUSTRIAL ART." author=" LIVING, Marion">	

178	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



THE TEACHING OF INDUSTRIAL ART.

The following correspondence took place recently between a former student and teacher of the Ottawa Art School who is now the principal of the First Technical School of Ottawa, and the manager of a well known manufacturing company, who has manifested a deep interest in the development of industrial art in

Canada:

193 Sparks St., Ottawa, August 31st, 1899.



DEAR SIR,—Your letter of the 28th makes me wish to write a careful and perhaps lengthy reply, as it touches on a subject in which I am deeply interested and about which I am at this moment in some doubt. I answer your last paragraph and question first—I do consider you have reason for objecting to the Canadian schools, and had you been educated in an Art School expecting the teaching there to fit you for using an artistic talent for the profit (financial) or pleasure of those who worked hard to give you this education, you would he still more decided in your objections. My experience has been of such a nature that I think I am right in saying that I have the proper evidence for considering that the Art School system of Ontario is so wrong that every school is a stumbling block in the path of art and unconsciously dishonest when it undertakes to teach any child or adult submitted to its care. This may he too strong—I wish I had the opinions of others who have had my experience, but I shall give a proof in the effect of a system of work as nearly opposite as I could make it to that prevalent in other schools. Last October 1 start-a school here with the aid of two young men who were almost as interested as myself in this idea. I had been educated in the Ottawa Art School, spent all the time I could in studying there during eight years, worked harder and more steadily than any other student, being the prize winner in all the different branches at different times. The last few years I was pupil teacher.

I had grown to he so fond of the institution that it was not easy to awake to the fact that it was a sham, and that my success there was no evidence of real success, but I had to awake through the means of reading and a visit to New York, and the effort to support myself. I tried hard the last two years to make the Ottawa Art School a success, hut at the end of May, 1898, I decided to leave for many reasons, chiefly because I could do nothing there to avoid the same result on other lives as I had experienced. I knew where the mistakes were and knew the remedies.

In October we (the three teachers) opened our School with no aid of ally kind. Our students were, with three exceptions, quite unused to drawing except by themselves ''for fun"

—those three exceptions had had a few months lessons from me in the old school. Some had hardly ever touched pencil or brush even. The result of our teaching was that in Toronto our school work was given more room than any other, and when we told some art teachers present that it was the work of first year pupils, they—well I think they don't really believe even yet that we didn't do most of the work ourselves (as teachers sometimes do). The fact is that there was hardly a line of teachers' work in the whole collection, arid none in those they were most surprised by. I hope this is lint too much writing about seemingly personal matters. It is necessary for you to know of this work before I answer your other questions.

To return to your letter.

Here is this school—successful in every way beyond what I expected, started to avoid the dishonesty of teaching under false



pretences. We have tried to find out if our students can expect to get work in Canada—all summer we have written and visited different manufacturers. The reply is, "Designing should not be undertaken except by those who positively can't keep themselves away from it because they love it so much—and then they must expect to go the ' States to earn their living." That was the kindest and most interested answer we received. What shall we do? I cannot educate clever Canadians to go over to tie United States, nor can I lead them to think it worth while to study industrial art for Canada in the face of the replies received.

I have made time to do two ingrain carpet designs for the purpose of showing them to you, so that I may know whether they are technically correct, and if there would be any chance of doing such work in our school. . At least this one opening I know, of should be tried before I give up the central idea of our school. The classes for mechanics are all right, and for amusement and financially, the school could get along with those perhaps—bit that does not satisfy us, and always those who really work are

those who wish to support themselves. I shall send the ingrains for criticism, and as you ask can we ' meet the case by showing really desirable things riot only to enable you to show original good designs, but bring credit to ourselves, our school, and Canada?" all I can answer is—I wish we honestly could. To do it myself I would treed to give up the school, and I have nothing to support me while I would be trying to get to the point. To teach beginners might be cruel arid unjust, for the answer might have to be, as it has been from so many manufacturers, after they had worked hard--" Our designs must come from Paris, Vienna, Dresden or London.'' Is this true? Does a manufacturer need to use only Paris designs, etc  simply for the name, or could a Canadian designer ten years hence expect to sell equally good designs, even if he were "only a Canadian ?"

I send last year's prospectus t this year's is not yet ready. Wood-carving classes were added after the school started, and this year we hope to add others of somewhat similar industrial nature. You are the first to whom we could state this point about the school work, and it will he very helpful perhaps if your interest in the schools of Canada is sufficient to make you think it worth while giving our difficulty further consideration from your practical standpoint. For any hints or information, we shall he very grateful, as our aim is to arrive at something of real value in the conducting of an Art School, or else to give up trying if that be impossible, and in do something which is of real value. The material is here, bright, earnest boys and girls ; the machinery is here, the school room and books and Nature. We are ready to set all in motion to bring out a good result—hut is there a market for the product? That is our position.

Respect frilly yours,



MARION LIVING



<article title="Correspondence." author="">

TORONTO, August, 1899.



DEAR Miss Living,-- Your letter of yesterday to hand, with prospectus. The designs, I have no doubt, will arrive later.

Will you permit rite to say '' you are after lily own hart'' in your opinion of the Canadian Art Schools (?) and I fancy have much the same opinion as I have of the methods, so far shown, as to the proposed "Technical Schools."

Now, I wish to get to the core of the trouble about selling designs in Canada. Taken for granted that the schools were riot capable, then is it possible to turn Oat capable designers ? This kind of art training has been going on for years as manufacturers have been aware. As it was in past years with many Canadian manufacturers, so it is with designs. ' Anything that will do, is good enough " no longer will suit the Canadian market. As Canadian manufactures are advanced to rank with the best, so is the demand for them increased, and so it will be in designs. At Grand Rapids, furniture designers are mostly Canadians, whose designs are detailed and made technically correct by other draughtsmen. This is made possible by the factories there being large and wealthy. The Canadian manufacturers could not buy tire design because they could not afford to keep draughtsmen to do detail work.

Let a designer produce something of merit, and the world is his market. Such names as Cram, Whistler, Rattray and Morris do not require to look For a market, but when they do bring Out something, it can he used, as it is correct in detail. Take the well known designer of Kidderminster, Mayer. It is not difficult for him to sell his designs, and even if they were sometimes short in drawing, still they are " Mayer's " and so command a price in any part of the world where designs are used.



You know also that there is always a certain vein in which the general taste of the time runs, and almost anything with any show of merit in the popular tiling of the day, will be acceptable. A few years ago there was a mad craze for "Japanese," then to

"Louis XIV "—now the tendency is to '' Old English."



Now should a pupil worry omit a design in, say a piece of furniture of either of the former styles to-day, it is very likely they would not Ire accepted by a dealer, event though they ate, both in art arid technique, correct.

Furthermore, designers must think out what line they are best able to work in, and make that line their principal rule. The present century is one of condensed individual effort, so we find in every hue of life, specialists. There are, for example, dyers wino confine their abilities to dyeing nothing but black cotton yarn For hosiery, but that would not mean that they are not general dyers. The public are looking for the nearest thing to perfection they can get, and sloppy work is not only refused, but is bad for' both the workman and the consumer.

To continue the theme, let us take it for granted (though I

