<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED '10 FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



Wood Cornices for

Interiors.

PLASTER cornices for interior work are expensive, and are often out of the question when a new house of the

ordinary kind is being erected, owing to the limited purse of the owner. This is particularly true of farm houses and houses erected in our villages and small towns. While no sort of a cornice is more appropriate for a parlor than one formed of plaster by the expert plasterer, yet, as before stated, its heavy cost precludes the ordinary house-owner from indulging in such a luxury. A cornice made of wood, properly fitted in place and proportioned correctly, when nicely painted or stained, is, in many cases, just as appropriate and effective as one formed of plaster, and is less costly and within the range of the ordinary carpenter. Besides, a wood cornice can be put in any room and at any time after the room s finished without disturbing furniture or other things in the room. Fig. 1 shows a simple































FIG. 1.



design for a cornice that may be constructed at very little cost. The cove may be made from 1 inch plank with the hollow wrought as shown, and the top and bottom lines worked off to suit wall, ceiling and mouldings. The return bead and the 0 G moulding can be obtained from any wood-working factory for a cent or two per foot running measure, and in some factories large coves for crown or bed mouldings are kept in stock which might be made available for the cornice. If not, the moulding can easily be worked out by hand. When desirable, several other members may be added to the cornice, such as dentils, drops, rosettes and running mouldings. Indeed, there is no limit to the enrichments of a wood cornice, and when properly finished in harmony with finish of room, it becomes "a thing of beauty and a joy forever." Wood cornices for interior work are becoming quite popular in many places because of their adaptability to surrounding conditions. In putting up a cornice of this kind when the room has been

plastered, some care must be taken by the carpenter in nailing the work to the walls and ceiling. If the building is of brick the outside walls will be strapped or furred, the straps being nailed to the wail in spaces of 16 inches from centre, and it is on these straps the wall nailing must be done. The inside walls will be of studding, placed 16 inches from centre to centre, and on these studs the nailing must be done. After finding one stud or one strap the finding of all the others on that side of the room is an easy matter, as 16 inches measured either way will locate the next strap or stud. The same rule applies to the ceiling on two sides, but on the other two sides it is very likely only the lath can be found to carry the cornice, and in such case thin long screws should be employed to attach the mouldings to the ceiling. There should be no mitreing of any internal angles, these should all be coped, then shrinkage will not expose joints or show bad workmanship. External angles around chimney breasts or other projections must necessarily be mitred, and the work must be done well as these projecting mitres are always in exposed positions. In splicing the members of a cornice never lap the joints, always make them butt; the results are better. Use the finest wire nails for the purpose. It is always best to start on the wall to put up the stuff, and a correct starting point should be obtained, and then a line struck which should be the guide throughout. Care should be taken in every case not to break the wall.



THE following estimate rules are employed by some builders in western Canada on a basis of $2.00 per day

wage. The estimates are for labor only and by the square

	Per Square.

For putting in drop siding	50 cents

	lap siding	62

	sheathing	20

	         if papered		  30

	surface boards		  26

 roof-boards — plain			  25

 hip roofs			  45

	very steep roofs		  50

	shingles	95	cents to $1.00

	pine floor, 1 x 6	  25	to 50 cents

 I X 4		   28	to 60

 I X 3		         60	to 95 

	outside wall ceiling		  78

 soffit ceiling               

	wainscotting	  $1.90 to $2.15

dressing off pine floor... 50 to 65 cents In laying the tin work in valleys, a man will put down

from one to one and a quarter squares per day. A good man will carry up and lay on a roof from 1,600 to 2,400 shingles per day. Two men will put on 2,000 feet of felt paper per day. Two men will lay 500 to 6oo feet of

Estimating Items.

