<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author=""> 

CANADIAN ARCHITECT		229



the assistant inspectors may enter any building, and the owner or occupant must remove so much of any floor or other portion thereof as may be required to make necessary measurements and examination.

When the correct estimate of the weight that the floors in any such building will safely sustain, has been ascertained as herein provided, the inspector shall approve the same, and thereupon the owner or occupant of said building, or any portion thereof, shall post a copy of such approved estimate in a conspicuous place on each storey of the building to which it relates.

Before any building hereafter erected is occupied and used, in whole or in part, for any of the purposes aforesaid, and before any building erected prior to the passage of this by-law, but not at such time occupied for any of the aforesaid purposes, the weight that each floor will safely sustain upon each superficial foot thereof, shall be ascertained and posted as hereinbefore required.

No floor joists shall be supported wholly upon wooden partitions, but every joist, except trimmers, shall rest at one end for at least four inches on a wall, or on a girder or beam of suitable size. Trimmers over 4 feet in length, when used in floors calculated to carry 150 lbs. or over per superficial foot, shall be suspended in stirrup irons. When the supporting wall is hollow with a 4" inner lining, the ends of joists must rest not less than 4" on the solid or outer portion of the wall.

All ends of wood in floor and roof joists and beams shall be cut to a level of 3" on their depth.

CUTTING TIMBERS FOR PASSAGE OF PIPES.



SECTION 94.—Cutting of joists or other timbers for thc passage of pipes, or other purposes, shall not be done so as to reduce the strength of said timber below that required by the provisions of this by-law.

Each floor of second class buildings shall have its beams or joists so tied to the external walls, by wrought iron straps, of not less than ½

in.	wide by 3/8 of an inch thick, placed at not over ten feet apart, and so arranged as to thoroughly tie the walls to the floors.

Where joists or beams do not extend in one piece from wall to wall across, or the depth of a building, they are to he spiked together where the ends lap on each other, or they are to be joined with iron straps not less than the size mentioned in the preceding paragraph, so as to form continuous ties, across or lengthwise of thc building, at intervals of not more than ten feet apart.



FLOOR TIMBERS OR STUDDING NEAR FLUES.



SECTION 95—No floor or roof timber shall be placed closer to any smoke flue than nine inches.

No studding or furring shall be placed within one inch from the out. side face of brickwork surrounding any smoke flue.



COVERING AND CONSTRUCTION OF ROOFS.



SECTION 96. —The roof of every building hereafter erected shall be covered with incombustible materials such as tin, iron, slate, copper, gravel, composition, or like substantial roofing material, approved by the inspector.

All new or renewed roofs having a pitch of 30 degrees or over shall be so constructed as to bear safely in addition to the weight of materials a load of 30 lbs. per superficial foot on the surface of said roof, also to resist a horizontal wind pressure of 30 lbs. per foot, in addition to the load above mentioned.

All flat roofs, and roofs having a less pitch than 30 degrees, shall be constructed to bear safely a load of not less than sixty lbs. per superficial foot, in addition to the weight of materials.

Every flat roof shall have a scuttle or bulkhead for access thereto, and the same shall be covered with incombustible materials. In warehouses and factories there shall be a strong iron fixed ladder or stair for access to thc scuttle or bulkhead.

SECTION 97.—No saw dust or mill shavings shall be used as a deafening for any floor or roof, except in ice houses and refrigerators.



CORNICES, GUTTERS AND CONDUCTORS.



SECTION 98.—Exterior cornices shall he made of incombustible materials, and in all cases the stone or brick walls behind the cornice shall be carried up solid to the under side of the roof boarding the said cornice, if made of metal, shall be firmly secured to the walls by iron anchors independent of any wood work.

Where the cornice projects above the roof, the wall shall be carried up to the top of the cornice a minimum thickness of eight inches, and to be covered with incombustible materials.

All existing exterior wooden cornices, which are unsafe or rotten, shall be taken down, or if they are damaged by fire to the extent of one third they shall be taken down, and if replaced they shall be constructed of incombustible materials as above described.

When a wall is finished with a cornice of stone, brick or other heavy materials, the greater weight of material in such cornice shall be on the

inside of the outside face of thc wall, and shall he strongly anchored with metal anchors to the wall.

Any building built on or within three feet of the street line, must shed the water towards the center or rent of the building, or a steep mansard roof may be used, provided the slope is not more than the thickness of the wall and the projection of cornice combined, and must not have any gutters or conductors.



STANDS FOR OBSERVATION.



SECTION 99.- No staging or stand for observation purposes, shall be constructed or occupied upon the roof of any building.

The roof of any building shall not be used as a garden, music stand, or place of public assembly, without the consent of thc inspector, and any stand, platform or other structure erected upon a roof shall be made under his instructions.

INSPECTION OF STANDS FOR OBSERVATIONS.



All stands for observation for the public use, either of a temporary or permanent nature, before erection, must have the plans for same submitted to the inspector for his approval and a permit for same must be obtained. Before being used, said stands must be examined by the inspector, and if found satisfactory, he is to issue a certificate to that effect.

All arches, or similar constructions, erected on any public street or square, must be inspected by the building inspector before being used, and his certificate obtained.



IRON AND FIREPROOF SHUTTERS.



SECTION 100.—Every building which is more than three storeys high above thc curb level, occupied for manufacturing or warehousing, shall have doors, blinds or shutters made of iron hung to iron hanging frames, or to iron eyes built into the wall, on every window or other opening above the first storey thereof, excepting on openings fronting on a street twenty feet or over in width, or where no other buildings are within twenty feet.

The fastenings are to he of such character as will allow the shutters to be opened from the outside by Firemen. The above requirement shall apply to any opening in any building, which opening is above and within fifteen feet of the roof of another building, or within twenty feet of another opening in an opposite wall, or in a wall the outside face of which diverges at an angle of less than one hundred and twenty-five degrees from the outside face of the wall in which the opening is.

All occupants of the building shall close the said shutters, doors, and blinds at thc close of the business of each day.



PROJECTING WINDOWS AND GALLERIES.



SECTION 101.—No bay window or similar structure shall be placed upon any building so as to project over any street, lane or square without the consent of the inspector, but in no case shall such window or structure project more than two feet beyond the street line, and be at least twelve feet above the level of the pavement, nor shall the area of the win(low or structure projecting over the street line he more than fifteen superficial feet, nor shall there be more than one such projection for each twenty feet of street frontage.

Any balcony or gallery projecting over the line of a square or street, shall be made of or covered with incombustible materials, and shall not project beyond the line of square or street more than three feet, and be at a height above the pavement of not less than twelve feet, and so constructed as to prevent water dropping on the sidewalk.

A balcony or gallery projecting over a common lane, and attached to a building which is under forty-five feet in height from the level of the lane to the top of the wall, may be made of wood, provided that the said balcony or gallery is made open, and does not project more than three feet over the lane, if the lane is sixteen feet or over in width, nor more than two feet if the lane is under sixteen feet in width, nor shall such balcony or gallery be less than twelve feet above the level of the lane.

If a building next a common lane to which an overhanging balcony or gallery is attached is forty-five feet or over in height, from the level of the lane to tile top of the wall, then thc said balcony or gallery shall he constructed or covered with incombustible material.

The provisions contained in thc preceding section are not to bc construed as conferring any legal right to any owner whose properly abuts on a lane to make windows, balconies or galleries to project over the line of the lane, to the prejudice, or against the rights or privileges of other owners in thc use of said lane.

Galleries constructed f wood may be attached to the front, rear or side walls of a building of the second or third class, except where the said walls abut on the line of a street, square or lane, provided

1st. —That the said gallery is not enclosed except with a balustrade or open trellis work

2nd.—That no gallery shall be of greater continuous length than 35 feet

3rd. —That the end or ends of the gallery shall be kept at least two

