<doctype type="text">

<article title=" VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author="">

	166	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

We present herewith portraits of the executive officers of the new Builders' Exchange at Vancouver, B. C. Some particulars of the organization of this Exchange

In the event of the death of a member in good standing, his share of the invested funds of the Exchange shall be paid to his legal representatives.



FEES AND DUES.—" Section 1. Applicants for membership shall deposit the sum of $12.00 with the Exchange, as an application fee, which shall be returned if the application is refused, and taken as the first payment of dues if the application is accepted. If the applicant is elected, he shall be notified to that effect and that he is required to pay into the Exchange funds the sum of $300.00 as a membership fee within thirty days, when a membership certificate shall he issued to him.



Section 2. The membership fee shall be invested by the Exchange as an accumulative reserve fund, to be drawn upon only in case of the withdrawal, the assignment for the benefit of his creditors, or on the death of a member.



Section 3. Each member shall pay as dues twenty-four dollars per year, payable semi-annually in advance, on the first days of November and May. Any member three months in arrears for dues shall be so notified by the Secretary. If the dues of such member be not paid within thirty days from the receipt of such notice, his name shall be reported to the Board of Directors, who shall investigate and institute proper proceedings to collect the amount in arrears."



It will be seen that the terms of membership are a guarantee to some extent of the business probity of the members, and this must influence architects and build-

MR. E. COOK,



President Vancouver Builders' Exchange.





were supplied in a letter from the secretary published in our July number.

The constitution shows the Exchange to he founded on a somewhat different basis, as regards terms of membership, from organizations of like character in Eastern Canada. For the information of those of our readers who are interested in the builders' exchange movement, we reprint from the constitution of the Vancouver Exchange the sections relating to Membership, Fees and Dues, as follows

MEMBERS.—" Section 2. Should any member of this Exchange make an assignment or in any way fail in business to the manifest injury of his creditors, this Exchange shall pay to his creditors pro rata a sum equal to 90 per cent. of his share of the invested funds of the Exchange. He shall be suspended and shall forfeit all privileges of the Exchange until such time as he shall have recovered so as to re-enter the Exchange as provided by the Con-

MR. A. E. CARTER,



Secretary Vancouver Builders' Exchange.





stitution and By-law, in which case he may be reinstated to all the privileges of the Exchange.



Section 3. Any member in good standing may withdraw from the Exchange upon giving thirty days' notice, which notice shall be posted in the Exchange rooms. He shall be entitled to receive from the Exchange a sum equal to 9011464f his share of the invested Exchange funds.

MR. H. A. BELL,



Treasurer Vancouver Builders' Exchange.





ing owners to give preference to the contractors who are members of the Exchange, as against contractors whose responsibility and reliability is not thus assured.

The following are the rules of the Exchange

1. These rooms shall be exclusively for the use of members of the Builders' Exchange, and shall be at all times under control of the Board of Directors, who may upon application therefor, grant to trade organizations (two-thirds of whose members are members of the Exchange) the use of such rooms as in their judgment may seem proper for the holding of committee or other meetings.



2. Visitors shall not be admitted, except on the following condition, viz: They will inform the Secretary who they wish to see, and if the member so notified desires to invite the visitors upon the floor he may do so, with the understanding that he will be responsible for their proper conduct while upon the floor, and that they will promptly retire after they have transacted their business with said member.



3. Any member of the Exchange in good standing may introduce "non-residents" as visitors to whom the Secretary is authorized to issue cards of admission to the Exchange rooms, good for one week, provided, however, that said visitor shall first register his name in the visitors' book, and shall not be allowed to exhibit any sample of goods, wares or merchandise of any kind, or transact any business whatever in the Exchange.



4. The Exchange rooms shall be kept open during the usual business hours, viz from 8 a. m. until 6 p. in., holidays excepted.



5. The Exchange rooms shall not be used by any members as

