<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Correspondence." author="">	

100	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



HONOR TO A CANAI)IAN ARTIST.



The news has reached Canada that a place has been granted in thc Paris Salon to a painting by Miss Mary Pomeroy, of Crompton, Que., who is at present studying art in the French capital.

THE MONASTERIES AND ABBEYS OF OLD ENGLAND.



Prof. Capper, of the architectural department of McGill University, lectured on the above subject before the members of the Women's Art Association at Ottawa recently. The lecture was illustrated by limelight views and was highly appreciated.



AN ACT TO DETERMINE THE LENGTH OF A WORKING DAY FOR



WORKMEN AND LABOURERS.



A bill with the above title has been introduced into the Dominion parliament by Major Beattie. It provides : 1. That eight hours shall be the length of the working day for all workmen and labourers employed, either permanently or temporarily, by any person or by any contractor or sub-contractor under him. 2. That every such person, contractor or sub-contractor who has under him or who employs workmen or labourers, and who wilfully violates the provisions of this Act, is guilty of an indictable offence, and liable to a penalty not exceeding $1,000, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both penalty and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court."



REQUIREMENTS OF NATIVE ART.



In behalf of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts the government has been memoralized to make provision for an adequate representation of Canadian art at the Paris Exposition and to grant such assistance as will enable the Royal Society to make an annual exhibit of native art in the leading cities of Canada. The government are also requested to amend the existing law in a manner to suppress art lotteries in the province of Quebec. The



petition on this subject sets forth that the act under which art unions are conducted has been seriously perverted, and that the



plan which was originally intended as a means of encouraging art, has become a mere cloak for gambling and financial gain, and that as at present conducted such lotteries are a detriment to the cause of art.

INTELLECTUAL FREE TRADE.



The majority of your readers, like myself, will probably sympathize with the views expressed by Principal Peterson of McGill University at a recent graduates' dinner in Ottawa, when he pleaded for intellectual free trade between the provinces of Canada. "At present," he said, "each province surrounds many professions with such limitations that a man trained in one province cannot practice in another, except after going to much trouble and inconvenience in passing examinations or in putting in a probationary term." Whatever barriers we may consider advisable to raise against other countries—and we can scarcely be charged with having been too strict in this respect—there should certainly be the greatest possible uniformity of practice and liberty accorded to members of the professions residing in any part of Canada.

PERSONAL.



J.	Rawson Gardiner, architect, has removed his office to tile Temple building. He worked conjointly with tile late Alex. 6. Fowler (who was one of the oldest and most respected architects in Montreal) for the past five years, and will now carry on the practice in his own name.

CORRECTION.



OTTAWA, April 26th, 1899.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—In your March issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER is an illustration of the interior fit-up of the library of

parliament at Ottawa. You credit the authorship of design

therefor to Messrs. Fuller & :Jones, Stent & Laver and Thos.

Fuller.

I am quite satisfied that were these gentlemen now living they would be the last to covet credit for another person's work, and as no one else has thought it necessary to correct your mistake, I will do so.

The architects named by you designed tile structural part of the library, exclusive of all interior fit-up of the book shelving, etc., and which latter work forms the subject of your illustration.

During tile tenure of office of the former chief architect-—Mr. Thos. S. Scott—I was acting as assistant to the chief architect, and at his request I designed and superintended the construction of the interior fit-up of the library, and On leaving the service I received from Mr. Scott a letter dated 11th June, 1877, accrediting the authorship to me. I may add that the clerks' desks immediately surrounding the Queen's statue were designed by Mr.

J.	W. H. Watts, then in tile service.

So, while Mr. Scott officially was responsible for the work, actually he had nothing to do with it beyond authorizing and approving of what was done. So whatever the public estimate of merit, or the reverse, which attaches to tile interior fit-up of the library of parliament at Ottawa, it belongs to me, and I shall esteem it a favor it you make this correction ill your next issue.

Yours truly,

FRED. J. ALEXANDER.







LEGAL.



A compromise has been reached in the action brought against the city of Toronto and A. M. Brown, contractor, by Pilkington Bros., glass manufacturers, of St. Helens, England. Mr. Brown, who received the contract for painting and glazing tile new municipal buildings, gave an order to the Pilkingtons for 15,000 feet of glass, which the specifications provided should be of the very best quality of extra fine British polished plate glass, one quarter of an inch thick. After a large quantity of tile glass had been delivered the architect rejected it on the ground that it did not fulfil the terms of the specifications as to quality. Then followed a suit by the manufacturers for 84,72!. After a prolonged legal fight a compromise was reached under which it said the claimants will receive $1,400, or 20 cents per foot for the glass in dispute, tile glass to be retained by the contractor.

SHERWOOD V. BALCH. This action was brought by sub-contractors against tile contractors for the construction of tile New York and Ottawa railway line. Tile plaintiffs' contract was for excavation, and contained a provision that tile work should be done " in conformity to the plans and directions, and to tile satisfaction and acceptance of the chief engineer." It was also provided that ill case of disputes and differences tile matter should be referred to the engineer, "who shall consider and decide the same, and his decision shall be filial between the parties." The plaintiffs were paid tile amount of a final estimate of tile engineer, but contended that by custom they were entitled for work measured in embankment, instead of excavation, 10 a price 10 per cent. ill advance of tile price paid by the engineer. It was held in tile High Court of Justice for Ontario that although the engineer had publicly and privately expressed himself to the effect that no such usage existed yet as he swore he would, nevertheless, give the plaintiffs contention fair consideration should the matter conic before him as arbitrator, action must be stayed until arbitration By the 19th section of tile Arbitration Act, 1889, a method is given contractors, if they feel aggrieved, to obtain the opinion of the court upon tile true construction of the contract.







In the American Monthly Review of Reviews, which publishes a frontispiece portrait of Rear-Admiral Kautz, the Samoan difficulty is reviewed by tile editor in the department of "The Progress of the World." 



Dr. Thomas Oliver, of England, who has been investigating the cause of the "compressed air disease" which frequently affects workers in caissons, has come to tile due to the increased solution in the blood of the gases met with in compressed air, and the liberation of these gases after the

escapes from t he compressed atmosphere.

