<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" BUILDING MATERIALS OF TEXADA ISLAND, B. C." author="Raper, Alfred">



	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	209



BUILDING MATERIALS OF TEXADA ISLAND, B. C.

In an article recently contributed to Mines and Minerals,"

Mr. Alfred Raper describes the character of the deposits of stone, marble, slate and lime on the above named island as follows:



Texada Island is situated on the Gulf of Georgia, in about 500 north latitude, about 120 miles from Victoria, 50 miles from Nanaimo, about 75 miles from Vancouver, and 18 miles from the coke ovens of Union, The island has a population of about 400, a post office, and money order office ; three wharves, and the government of British Columbia has, during the past year, completed a trunk road across the island from the west coast to the east coast. The island is about 33 miles in length, bearing southeast and north-west, and about five to seven miles wide. The waters of the Gulf are generally of great depth along the rocky shores of the island which is on the direct route to the great gold fields of Northern British Columbia and Alaska.



The general formations of the island are granites, porphvrites, and limestones. The granites are chiefly found on the east coast and from the finer textures of many of the outcrops may be classed as syenitic, though we occasionally find the biotile granites intruding through the limestones. The east coast, next to the main land at its southern extremity consists chiefly of porphyries along the coast line, but a short distance back from the shore is an extensive body of limestone near to the foothills of Mount Shepard, our highest mountain, which is about 3,000 feet high. One portion of this limestone deposit is epidotic in character each red blotch in the rock has a white center giving it a "bird'seye" maple appearance. Between this epidote marble and the blue-gray limestones, a narrow belt of shist occurs. Northerly, along the coast an outcrop of biotite granite appears, while the interior hills are porphyries and limes, amongst which deposits of magnetic iron ore occur. Going northerly towards Marshall Point is one continuous body of limestone, with a few minor intrusions of porphyries and it is in this particular part of the island that most progress has been made in mining.



Passing along the northern end of the island the Texada lime works are seen, where the celebrated "snow-flake lime' is made from the dark blue granite limestone which is so extensively distributed over this part of the island.



Passing westerly from the lime works at a short distance the limes give place to the dioritic porphyries varying from a finegrained porphyrite to what is classed here by our miners as a "snow-flake porphyry. This is found usually a short distance back from the beach, assuming a remarkable block cleavage, with peculiar " stars of feldspar" over its surface. It is an orthoclase feldspathic rock, or felsite porphyry. It is in this rock that some of our richest specimens of free gold have been found also some good deposits of copper and gold are being worked, with a very encouraging outlook. Over this lie the heavy deposits of lime before mentioned. About one and a half miles from the beach are found beds of the blue gray limestone lying between the porphyries. These limestone strata generally dip into the porphyries at a slight angle here and it is amongst those heavy lime deposits that the richest copper deposits, so far opened, are located.

Deposits of slate are said to exist in the center of the island. A remarkable thing is that no claim has yet been abandoned upon which a reasonable attempt has been made to prospect.



The major portion of the island s yet a "terra incognita " to prospectors. In the valleys of the center of the island some deposits of clam shells are found embedded in fine sands and gravels in a remarkable state of preservation. The writer collected sixteen varieties of the limes varying in color from white to black, one specimen of which, when polished, resembles hailstones. The greater portion of the limes are susceptible of very high polish. The Sturt Bay Company has during the past few weeks had a force of men building wharves and preparing the ground for excavating the marbles for sale, while the fine pieces and culls will be burnt in the new kilns into lime and sent to Vancouver and adjacent cities. In several places in conjunction with the limes a ferro-oxide occurs, assuming a spongy shape, the base of which is silica.

<article title=" RECONSTRUCTED GRANITE." author="">

RECONSTRUCTED GRANITE.

The Street Railway Journal describes a new fireproof material. It is made of granite chips, pulverized, moulded into form and fused together at a temperature of 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit. It can be heated red hot and thrown into cold water without being injured. It resists the action of acids and alkalies and is frost-proof, having been tested by liquefied air at a temperature of 350 degrees below zero, without injury. Its crushing strength is very high. Two moulded forms are shown One is the sectional insulator block used between the sections of the third rail system at Manhattan Beach the other is used on the Brooklyn elevated railway. At Niagara Falls a test showed that it required 56,600 volts to penetrate about one-half inch of this material.





The Stanstead Granite Quarries Company was recently incorporated at Toronto, with a capital of $130,000, to operate granite quarries at Stanstead and Mount Johnson, Que. The following persons compose the directorate W. R. Brock, president, Toronto; Hugh Elder, Stanstead Junction ; Duncan McIntosh, Toronto; John McIntosh, vice-president, Toronto; John W. Elder, Stanstead Junction ; D. Taylor McIntosh, managing director, Stanstead Junction.

Seaman, Kent and company Toronto Manufacturers of all kinds of window blinds, rolling partitions

Darling brothers Reliance works Montreal " Webster System" of Low Pressure Steam Heating.

The F.D. Cummer and Son company Cleveland Ohio for mechanically drying everything

