<doctype type="text">

<article title=" VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author="">

an office for payment of employees, nor will workmen be permitted to solicit employment at these rooms.

6. The following named persons will be cheerfully admitted to the floor upon making themselves known to the Secretary, viz

Architect and draughtsmen. 



(2.) Government and city officials.

(3.) Building inspectors.

(4.) Ret red master-builders, to whom complimentary invitations have been voted.

Persons admitted under this rule will not he permitted to make appointments to meet other than numbers of the Exchange in these rooms.

7. The Secretary will not he permitted to give receipt for any money, checks, drafts or negotiable papers (the law appearing to make the Exchange directly responsible for such receipts). Should parties desire to have such money, checks, etc., placed in the boxes of members, then the Secretary may do so, with the understanding that the Corporation shall not he held for any loss that may occur.

8. No advertising cards or wares of any kind shall he displayed in the Exchange rooms, except by permission of the President.



<article title=" PLUMBING SIMPLIFIED." author=" Gerhard, Win. Paul">

PLUMBING SIMPLIFIED.

IN a brochure bearing the above title, Mr. Win. Paul Gerhard, C.E., consulting sanitary engineer, of New York, says

I am to-day more than ever in favor of simplifying the plumbing work of buildings. Anything that helps to reduce the present complicated system of piping, while at the same time retaining the safety of the system, seems to me to be worthy of serious consideration.

When using the simple S-trap, I provide, as everybody else does, the "back air pipe" necessary to render this special form of trap safe against siphonage. But I have long ago come to the conclusion that branch pipe ventilation is carried much too far ; that instead of giving positive security, it creates new and sometimes serious dangers, and that it also entails an unnecessary and useless expenditure of money. I hold it is imperative that this matter be seriously considered by unprejudiced and unbiased experts and sanitarians.

Briefly stated, the objections to the trap vent law are as follows

(1)	The venting of traps leads to a greater, and sometimes dangerous, complication of the work.

(2)	It involves a useless outlay of money.

(3)	It increases, and often doubles, the number of pipe joints in a building ; it duplicates the pipe system, and therefore increases the danger of leakage at the joints.

(4)	Trap vents attached to the horns of porcelain fixtures, such as water closets, often lead, in case of settlement of the building, to the breakage of these horns, thus opening up a dangerous inlet for sewer air, the crack often remaining unnoticed for years.

(5)	The mouth of the vent pipe at the point where it attaches to the crown of the trap is liable to clog up with congealed greasy deposit, rendering the vent pipe useless without this fact becoming apparent to the occupant of the house.

(6)	The upper end of the back air pipe, where it extends separately to the roof, is liable, unless enlarged to at least 4 inches in diameter, to he closed up with snow or hoar frost in winter time in very cold climates even a 4-inch pipe may become sufficiently obstructed by hoar frost or icicles to impede seriously the free ventilation of the vent pipe.

(7)	Owing to the increased air current passing over the water seal of the trap, and induced by the vent pipe,

the destruction of the water seal by evaporation is much more rapid.

(8)	The trap venting system affords increased opportunities for bye-passes in the case of careless or ignorant workmen. In my examinations of the plumbing of houses, I have discovered bye-passes even where such work was done under board of health inspection.

(9)	In the case of long vent pipes, particularly where there are several sharp bends in the pipe, the friction of the air passing through the pipe is sometimes increased to such an extent that the vent pipe fails to protect the trap from siphonage.

But," say the advocates of trap vent pipes, " these pipes are not only put in to prevent siphonage ; they are intended equally to aerate the branch waste pipes and to produce a circulation of air in the entire system of branches." To this I reply that plumbing work can and should be always skillfully arranged and planned, so that the fixtures are located immediately adjoining well ventilated soil or waste pipe lines. If thus arranged, the short branches are so well flushed by the frequent discharge from the improved modern fixtures with large outlets-—each of which constitutes in itself a small flush tank, and only fixtures having these desirable features should be considered at all as hardly to require any other purification or aeration. Just the moment, however, the branch wastes become long, owing to the location of the fixtures, I always insist upon the proper ventilation of the branches by continuing the lateral wastes the full size into a vertical line, which is carried up to the roof the same as the soil pipe.

In conclusion, I hold that the authorities who make the plumbing laws should keep themselves thoroughly posted about the progress of the art, and should examine, without fear or favor, all devices calculated to preserve and maintain a sound water seal against any possible air disturbances in the soil pipe system.

I claim that the rules drafted should be such as to secure a system which is as simple and economical as possible consistent with security and efficiency. Security against back pressure, self-siphonage or loss by momentum, siphonage, evaporation and loss of seal by capillary attraction are the chief requirements, and these are unquestionably attained by the method described. If the process of simplification should tend to give us even greater security, so much more will be gained. Caeteris paribus, the simplest and least costly system must necessarily be adjudged the best.

The trap—vent law will, in my judgment, ultimately be repealed. Simpler and better methods will take its place. The first initiative step to be taken consists in so modifying the present law as to leave the option with the owners, architects or sanitary engineers of buildings to choose between the simpler, better and less expensive, advanced method, or the antiquated, costly, and in a good many respects unsafe method.



Paradis & Letourneau have registered as proprietors of a brick manufacturing business in Quebec.

At the annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, held in New York, one of the topics discussed was, " What is the practical experience as to the loss of heat from hot air flues, especially when located in outer walls ? " A written discussion from H. Elsert was to the effect that the loss was 15 per cent. greater when the flue was in an exposed northern wall than when in a southern wall, under the same conditions.

