<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ETHICS OF DESIGN AND COLOR IN DECORATIONS." author=" Silver, Arthur W. ">





the same idea in the simplest materials, take Walter Crane's nursery wall papers. The charming refinement and character of these designs is only equalled by the absolutely masterly skill with which practical limitations are turned to positive advantage.

Not all parts of the house are so obvious in their suggestiveness, yet the staircase may symbolize an upward direction. Its walls exhibit large and unbroken spaces, revealing, in its various flights, rooms which have distinctive and separate uses, so the imagination may take note of such suggestions in conjunction, and thereby produce a design of stability and breadth which shall include and embrace all the others, as well as striking a key-note to the whole. Staircases need not be too archaeological. Some people treat them pre-historically with weird marble papers, or Egyptian symbols, or possibly Medieval allegories. The staircase should not be the place with a past, but the ladder for the future.

For all these purposes the design is of the first importance. 

A good design really exercises an effect almost hypnotic. A designer must be a first cause for these effects. The suitability of an idea for a purpose is insistent. For instance, scullery utensils upon a grand piano decorated with gesso are out of place, and lead to unpleasantness but not more so than a finely conceived decoration, gorgeous and full of idea, carried out in mean materials for a back passage.

So far I have dealt chiefly with form ; we now approach color, a still more important subject. What methods of economic production most nearly comply with the requirements of high art (so-called)? By the requirements of high art I mean a decoration which will offer you an uninterrupted line combined with infinite possibilities of color. I think stencilling fulfills these demands. By no other means short of hand painting, whether in fresco or other material, can you give the worker so much scope to his fancy for varied color. To talk of color is practically impossible. Its nomenclature conveys nothing beyond a vague general notion. If I ask for a scheme in red, I may obtain something as hot as fire, or an effect as dry as sand would be to the mouth. Therefore, on this I must perforce be brief and yet I should like to say something which has a very definite bearing on this matter, for if the form of design is important, surely color has far more claims.

The most joyous of designs may be saddened by color, and yet a sombre motive may be treated with dignity in a scheme of bright red, which is supposed to be most exhiliarating. I say " supposed to be exhiliarating," for, after all, it is more the association of ideas than the raw color which affects you. If we examine the rooms we live in, and the scheme of decoration appropriate to each room, one of the questions which almost naturally arises is, " Why should a dining room be always dark red ?" Is it to match the underdone beef-steak which continental prejudice believes to be our favorite diet? But, on the other hand, why should a drawing room be colorless ? It it thus a foil to the conversation, which is often highly colored ? Nor need a breakfast room be too simple and virtuous. The early morning suggests innocence and candor, it is true, but it brings also letters and depressions. Gay colors seems to me as needful to begin the day as to end it. A sunrise is often as charmingly schemed as a melodramic sunset.

Ought we not at this time to consider very seriously

the relative positions of English artists as designers and colorists ? Latterly, the pure invention of pattern which the designers of this country have evolved has attracted European attention. I say this because I know it, and am proud of it ; for even in my own humble sphere the manufacturers of almost every European nationality have given me commission for goods, ultimately to be disposed of in the English market and their own. But this is not sufficient. I firmly believe we do " hold the field above all nations for originality and invention in design ; but as regards color, that is another matter. I would not venture to claim our supremacy in that respect. A merchant can commission the English designer for something " new " in form and idea, and be sure he gets it ; but when the stuff is made a designer must often own to his sorrow that his scheme of color has been greatly improved by the printer and manufacturer. Indeed, this is a matter sometimes left entirely to the buyer, the designer only supplying the outlines. This is not as it should be, and I have often wondered whether there are causes other than merely climatic reasons for this shortcoming. We have schools of design where invention of a kind is cultivated, but as for teaching pupils to emphasize the development of a finer sense of color, there seems to be none.

I am here following in the wake of my friend Alex. Millar, who, in a lecture on carpet designing given recently at the Society of Arts, called special attention to this deficiency in our national art of training. He made a suggestion that seemed to me to be of the greatest value. In fact, I cannot lay too much stress on the stupendous importance and influence which it might have if carried out thoroughly. It was that "color "—as distinct from form—should he taught as a separate subject—taught as thoroughly, and held of equal importance to form. Neither is complete without the other ; but we take the one very seriously, and leave the pupil to pick up the other anyhow. For a long time after 1851, when men were supposed to have changed all this, the designing capacity of this country continued at a low ebb. During this period anything good of its sort was invariably produced abroad.

Indeed, manufacturers would hardly deign to look at an English design. Now that our designers have attracted European attention, I feel more anxious than I can well express that the onward march to the maintenance of our national supremacy in industrial design should not be crippled and hampered for the lack of that charming companion, color. Form, beautiful as it may be, is but as dry bones, the mere skeleton of an idea. It must be clothed with life, and color is to form what breath is to the body.



TO ARCHITECTS AND DRAUGHTSMEN.

THE publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER have opened a register in which to record the names and addresses of architectural draughtsmen in want of positions, and of architects who may require assistance. Architects and draughtsmen are invited to make use of this department, which is placed at their disposal without charge, and which we trust may be found to be of service.



Boiling paraffin is now applied to floors, especially those. of hospitals, to make the wood impermeable, and unaffected by acids or alkalies. The treatment is considered effective from a hygienic point of view, and lasts for several years.

