<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Correspondence." author="">

	8	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

Builder) 



I DO not know whether

is a sign of good times or of had when there are so many contractors and representatives of trades connected with building seeking election to municipal honors. however that may he, out of forty aldermen returned at the recent elections, there are no less than twelve men who are contractors in building trades, now occupying aldermanic seats at the Council. It certainly ought to he a good thing for the city for a builder, if he is anything, ought to be a first rate man of business; he ought to he thoroughly cognizant of the city's

needs, and as an employer of labor he should have a good understanding of the condition of the working classes. Such men as Mr. William Hancock, Vice-President of the Hamilton Builders' Exchange, and Mr. W. J. Reid, Treasurer of the same institution, are "live" men evidently, and should be able to do much for the city.

Besides these two, there are now on the Council, Mr. W. M. Findlay, who has been an alderman before ; Messrs. G. H. Milne, J. Phillips,

H.	G. Wright, XV. Barrett, G. Hummell, J. II. Larkin, J. T. Ross,



T.	J. Stewart and P. Thompson.



It is evident from such a showing that the builders of Hamilton are a wide-awake set of men, and therefore we need not be surprised to find that the Hamilton Builders' Exchange, which was inaugurated only a few weeks ago, now numbers over seventy members. The association has secured rooms, and by the time the C. A. & B. is issued this month will have them furnished and in use.

A case of considerable importance came before Judge Snider at the recent assizes here. The suit arose as one result of the fire which destroyed the old Spectator building last May, that had since been purchased by the defendant, Procter. The plaintiff, Mills, was the contractor, carrying out extensive alterations to the interior. The contractor was paid by monthly progress certificates of the architects, Messrs. Stewart & Stewart. Up to the time of the fire the plaintiff had been paid $1,300. From the receipt of the last certificate up to the fire, work had been done by the plaintiff and materials supplied to the value of $1,000 more, but they were not entitled to a certificate according to the contract at the time. Plaintiff sued to recover this amount. Clause 8 of the printed contract relieved the owner from liability in the event of fire or other such cause during the progress of the work. The fact that the 9th clause, as to insurance by the owner, was struck out, made it clear that the parties to the contract intended that the contractor, as one of the parties, should insure the works in his own safety, hut this he had neglected to do. The judge found that the owner had not received anything for insurance in consequence of the fire. Held, that the premises having been destroyed by fire without fault on either side, the contact was determined and there was no cause for action. The suit was therefore dismissed. Many cases have been recorded of fire determining a contract, and the judgment in the case in hand corresponds with the precedents. Notice of appeal, however, has been given.

Despite the severity of the winter, sonic people continue building operations and willfully risk the inevitable serious results of laying brickwork during continued hard frost, but no buildings of any importance are being proceeded with, except, of course, those which completed their stone and brickwork before the winter set in.

R.	W. Gambier -BOUSFIELD.







The calendar for 1899 issued by the B. Greening Wire Co., of Hamilton, Ont., is one of the most attractive and useful that we have yet seen. The figures are especially large and bold.

A CAUTION TO ARCHITECTS AND BUILDERS.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND Builder:



Sir,—A strange, because unusual, and unusual because nothing of tire kind has been done, as yet, to bring about such an occurrence (which, had it been, would have happened somewhere, ere this) has just taken place here at the old Vendome restaurant premises, north side of St. Joseph street.

I hear, since the accident, that the same thing once happened in Montreal, though, in that case as in this, supposed to he due rather to some settlement or pressure on the glass from the superincumbent weight of overlying stories, or to sonic vibratory action of the air, than to the true cause of the phenomenon.

The accompanying sketch is almost self explanatory, and shows at a glance what has happened. The shaded portions of the plates A and D had just been painted a dark green and in fact the painter was still at D, when plate A cracked across from E to F, and so did plate D, from G to fi, soon after it was finished.

Of the side lights B and C, B only has been fissured, and in the same manner; plate C has not suffered, from not being exposed as the others were to the action of the sun.

Every one knows how the vein or thinner portion of a tumbler or drinking glass, on the contact of hot water breaks away from the thicker bottom, which takes longer to expand. The some thing, or rather an action analogous to this, has happened in the present case.

Unpainted, unobstructed glass, as is well known, allows free passage to the sun's rays, while the glass itself remains cold or unaffected ; but with the painted portion (the paint applied from the inside), provided this paint he of a dark shade and impermeable to the sun's rays, so to say, the rays are intercepted, and their heat becoming stored up in such portions of the plate, cause it to expand and tear itself away from the cold and unexpanded portion of the window.

The nature or position of the cracks or fissures render this a certainty.



































































Sketch to scale of about 6 feet to inch, showing plate glass shop windows old Hotel Vendome, St. Joseph street, Quebec—north side. Painted dark green where shaded and broken along lines E F and G H by expansion of painted portion by sun's rays.



For instance, the fissure in plate D starts from and terminates with the very points E and F where the shading or painting ends, and very nearly the same thing has happened to plate D, where one of the extremities of the fissure is about three or four inches below G, while the other end of it is about two inches above IL ; and the same result obtains or thereabout in the case of the side light B. A remarkable fact, also, is that each of the three fissures, instead of running nearly straight or horizontally across the plate, follows a curved line nearly concentric to the curved line of painting.

This does not, or at any rate is is no way so likely to occur, when the shading or obscuring of the glass is done with white paint, or some process by which no dark tints are used ; and I can here take occasion to say that Flammarion, in his last bulletin of the Astronomical Society of France, Paris, relates how—all other conditions being the same— having experimented for a season on the effect of colored glass on vegetation, he found that of half a dozen seeds of a kind, planted opposite as many different colors or shades of glass that opposite the clear or white glass attained during the trial to a height of some 6 feet, while all the others produced plants of a lesser and lesser stature, the height in the case of the green and blue glass dwindling down to not over one foot during the experimental season.

Every one knows, also, the attraction dark colors have for the sun's rays, and how substances thus colored become heated and transmit the heat they receive, as can bc seen when, during a thaw in the spring, while a piece of white cloth or flannel, for instance, hardly makes an impression on the snow it lies on, the black material, on the contrary, sinks deep beneath the surface.

Thc damage in the present case, or cost of replacing the full-sized plates of glass, may he some $200 or more, and the question arises who is to pay the piper?

Chas. Baillarge Architect, etc.

Quebec, Dec. 24, I898.

