<doctype type="text">

<article title=" WIND PRESSURE ON BUILDINGS." author="">



WIND PRESSURE ON BUILDINGS.

There has been more or less discussion of late, says the Engineering Magazine, as to the proper allowance to be made for the force of the wind in proportioning buildings and other structures, and although there have been numerous cases of overturning and wrecking from the force of the wind it has been strongly maintained that the usual allowance is more than sufficient. Probably no structures offer a better mark for the wind than do gas holders, and the great bulk of such structures, together with the impossibility of securing them firmly to foundations, renders the estimate of wind pressure a matter of especial importance to engineers engaged in connection with such work. A very full and valuable discussion of this subject was contributed by Mr. j. 0. T. Irminger at the recent meeting of the Institution of Gas Engineers, and his treatment was so full and broad as to be of interest to structural engineers in all lines of work.

After referring to the experimental investigations of Professors Langley, in America, and Kernot, in Australia, as well as of Herr Vogt, of Copenhagen, Mr. Iminger describes some very interesting experiments of his own, in which models of various forms were exposed to the draught produced by a chimney 100 feet high, careful measurements being made of the pressures and suctions on all sides. The results of these tests are tabulated in connection with the computed values, using the formulas of previous experimenters, and fairly consistent figures are obtained.

The influence of the sucking action of the wind is especially important, acting as does to modify very materially the direction of the resultant for which provision must be made in the construction, and the lifting effect upon roofs and gasholders should always be taken into account.

Referring to the statement of Sir J. Wolfe Barry concerning the excessive magnitude of the Board of Trade allowance of 56 pounds per square foot for wind pressure, in connection with the Tower bridge, Mr. lrminger shows that this suction effect has much to do with the diminishing of the direct pressure of the wind, and cites an instance of the measured pressure on a large gasholder in a storm as being only 4.9 pounds per square foot.

That such measurements should not lead engineers to err on the side of too small allowances for wind pressures, Mr. Irminger gives an abstract of the computations of Mr. J. Baier, upon the wind pressures which must have existed during the storm at St. Louis, U.S.A., in the summer of 1896. The damage done by that great storm is well known, and by computing the strength of some of the structures which were overthrown the actual force of the wind was determined. Mr. Irminger states that the velocity of the wind on that occasion was about double that known in Europe, and hence of four times the force, ranging from 40 to 60 pounds per square foot.

Such a hurricane simply rases all and everything in its path, but is fortunately not known in Europe and, if we assume the forces mentioned by Mr. Baler are correct, it cannot be wondered at that the forces estimated in Europe are considerably less violent."

Mr. Baier's conclusions agree with those deduced from Mr. Irminger's experiments, and show that the wind acts in a direction quite different from that

generally assumed and generally provided for in designing bridges, roofs and buildings. One may thus assume that the experiments on the small models have been verified by nature itself, and that calculations of the wind's force must be made on a different basis than hitherto, inasmuch as, besides the horizontal effects, the upward force must be taken into consideration, the power of which can equal half the wind's normal pressure."

The discussion of the paper bore out the idea that until now wind pressures have been studied with rather preconceived ideas. The construction of buildings has proceeded in accordance with these ideas, and except when great catastrophes have called the attention of engineers to the failure of structures, very little seems to have been done in the way of investigation to see whether the established ideas are correct or not.

The increasing size and altitude of framed structures is rendering the question of proper allowance for wind pressure a most important matter, and the experiments made by Mr. Irminger, as well as those of others cited by him, form valuable contributions to the subject. When such buildings are being designed it appears desirable that small models be made and tested in the simple manner described, and there is little doubt that the stability of the structure during wind storms would be materially increased if such information is obtained and used in the preliminary stages of the design.



<article title=" GREEK MASONRY." author="">

GREEK MASONRY.

THE ancient Greeks were as empirical in their rules upon the proportions of each stone they employed as upon the proportions of the whole design. Thus it may be observed, for example that the size of the stones in the Erechtheum and in the Parthenon differ in about the same ratio as the one differs from the other. For the actual proportion of the stone itself no direct rule can be given, nevertheless it is found that the geometrical ratio of 1. 2. 4. is by no means unfrequently employed, Symmetry also was considered as necessary in the position of their joints as in the composition of the plan, or the position of their triglyphs and mutules, and these may be observed as occupying the same place in nearly every similar construction. The Greek joint, whether it is executed in marble or in stone, is a thing really to marvel at. It is, indeed, scarcely visible. Its perfection arises from the amount of skill and labor bestowed upon it, and from the peculiar method of working the two surfaces. There are grounds for believing that there was a universal method adopted in all ages by that nation, nor was it confined to the Greeks alone, it having been handed down to and practiced by the Romans also, as can be observed in the Coliseum and Arch of Septimus Sevetus. It, however, at length became either lost or disused.



POINTS FOR ADVERTISERS.

THE reason a good deal of advertising doesn't pay is that it is only half done.

A manufacturer spends a lot of money advertising to the consumer, and makes no concerted effort on the dealer.

The two things must go together.



The dealer must be reached on both sides of the counter at once —by the consumer in front with his money and by the manufacturer at the back with information about the goods and



about the profits that can be wade by handling them.

The two things together make an irresistible argument.



Either one alone may do some good, but one is not complete without the other.

