<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">



idea was to get restrictive legislation, and that with that in view everybody then practising had been taken in ; in fact, at that time he believed there were not more than one or two men of any prominence who remained outside of the Association. Consequently things had been lively for a time. It had been found impossible, however, to deliver the goods according to contract, and for the last few years the enthusiasm had apparently been on the wane, and at the present time he was unable to observe any indications of any tremendous enthusiasm. It had occurred to him that if the Association could be re-organized on a different basis, with different ideals ; if it would get down to business and strike off the roll the delinquents, and settle down to a business-like course of procedure, it might be productive of much good. Of course, all the things proposed the benevolent fund, the scholarship and medals, and the rooms could not be had at the start, but would have to be carried out as opportunity offered. He thought the true province of such an Association was that recognized by the older societies, both in England and the. United States- not the securing of legislation from some government, but the encouragement of the profession by awarding scholarships and medals, and in other ways advancing its interests. There was no doubt that young men would work very hard for the honor of winning medals ; where they were awarded there was never any scarcity of competitors for them, although they carried nothing but honor. He thought the Association might devote more attention to the art side of the profession and its improvement, as that was something which appealed to the young men with more force than such topics as fireproof construction, which could he read up in books.

Mr. Bond, another of the non-members, deprecated the idea that he or his associates had come to criticize the course of the Association in any spirit of antagonism. He had always been under the impression that the primary idea of the Ontario Association of Architects was to secure legislation in their favor. He did not think that was right ; it seemed to him that the true province of such an association was to become more and more an educator of the public. He advocated the giving of popular lectures at some central part of the city as a means of enlightening the public as to the value of good architecture. The idea of legislation was good, but there was no use in trying to force it ; if it was a good thing it would come of itself. He did not think the writing and reading of papers made up from journals which all had the opportunity of reading for themselves had much educative value. Reference had been incidentally made to the fact that when Mr. Shortt lectured before the Toronto Chapter there was an attendance of sixty, whereas the average attendance was ten or twelve. He thought this showed the desirability of securing as lecturers men capable of presenting their ideas in an attractive form, even though they might be men outside of the profession. Referring to the qualifications of architects, he said it had been his misfortune to work with two men whose qualifications were attested by an institute of high standing, but who nevertheless had proven themselves conspicuously incompetent. He did not pretend to say that this fact condemned the institute in question, but it did show that the diplomas held by the men in question proved nothing.

Mr. Gregg said he was unable to understand the position of those represented by the gentlemen who had just spoken. Why did not these gentlemen come into the Association and help to do the things they thought so desirable? The very first sentence of the Act of Incorporation set out that the object of the Association was ''to ensure a standard of efficiency in the persons engaged in the profession of architecture, and for the furtherance and advancement of the art of architecture." Surely that was broad enough to cover all their aspirations. He saw no room for such discussion as was being carried on ; the thing to do was for all to join together and work to make the Association fulfil its avowed objects.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, thought it was a mistake

to say they had not devoted themselves to art, for that as well as construction had been dealt with. All of the papers he had himself contributed had been devoted to the artistic aspect of the profession of architecture, and many similar papers had been contributed by other members. lie thought Mr. Gregg was right, and that the gentlemen who wish to look upon architecture as an art would find themselves in place as members of the Association.

Mr. Bond objected that, under the rules which had so far governed, the young men, even if they came in, would have no influence. Of course, that was something which might be removed by the resolution just passed, making members of five years' standing eligible for the Council.

The Registrar pointed out that it was possible to exercise a great deal of influence without being a member of the Council. The reading and discussion. of papers arid the suggestion of desirable courses of action was not confined to members of the Council.

Mr. Baker thought the Association might congratulate itself on the presence at the meeting of Messrs. Wells and Bond, and the opportunity those gentlemen had given us, in the language of Burns, "to see ourselves as others see us." Messrs. Wells and Bond had to some extent criticized the Act under which the Association was incorporated. He thought there was nothing the matter with the Act at all, and it was a mistake to suppose they could not work efficiently under that Act. Perhaps, indeed, if they had gone ahead under it without seeking amendment they might even now have been in a more prosperous condition. He felt, as Mr. Burke had said, that they must either resign themselves to falling into decline and death by slow consumption, or adopt some radical changes and infuse new life into the organization. As to the question of funds, it seemed to have been assumed by most of those taking part in the discussion that his proposals necessitated the expenditure of large sums of money. Now, he would ask, what did they call for? In one case the Government was to be asked to provide funds for a medal. That would be without cost to the Association. Then, as to the benevolent fund, it would be observed that he had coupled with it an increased membership fee. A very small amount of money would be sufficient to found the benevolent fund, and it was only because of its great usefulness that he had suggested it. As to the establishment of a home of their own, he thought that was most desirable ; the Association had now been in existence some ten years or more, and he did not think they ought to continue year after year to be under an obligation for the use of the rooms they occupied without paying anything for the privilege. Then, as to the point made by Mr. Bond, that passing the examinations of this or any other Association was not necessarily a proof of a man's competency, he thought the inference sought to be drawn was hardly fair. It was well known that there are exceptions to every rule, and no doubt some men would pass the examinations who were not brilliant, but at least they would possess the knowledge they had acquired to pass, and the possession of the diploma was absolute proof to the public that they were to that extent qualified. He thought Mr. Bond might in fairness have said he knew numbers of other men who had gone through the same course who were in every way successful and competent architects. Most of the eminent men in all professions to-day were members and graduates of institutions similar to their own. There was always a number of men of the aesthetic class, who objected to having anything to do with the practical, business-like side of architecture. They were excellent men, their work was always delightful to look at and a joy for ever—men like Jackson and Norman Shaw-- and no doubt they advanced the standard of architecture. But, after al!, there was a practical side, and this Association was intended to protect the public ; it was in every sense pro bono publico, no matter what might be said of its selfishness, which might, in a sense, be true ; in a broad sense it was not true. Everything that had been done was for the good of the public, and would work out for

