<doctype type="text">

<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER STUDENTS' COMPETITION." author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	241



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

THE publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite from architectural students and draughtsmen in Canada, competitive drawings for a Suburban Bicycle Club House. The building to be erected on a lot 60'x 150' in size, to have a southern exposure, and to cost not more than $6,000 It should contain bowling alley, billiard room for six tables, gymnasium, card rooms, reading and other rooms, necessary for a bicycle club. Provision must also be made for social entertainments, such as kitchen, etc.

Competitors are required to submit drawings to 1/8 scale showing south and east elevations of building, or it lieu thereof, a perspective from 14 scale plan drawn at an angle of 30 degrees to the picture plane ; also plans to 1-16 scale of all floors, including basement, graphic scale to be indicated on each sheet. Competitors are also asked to state briefly the materials proposed to be employed in the construction of the building.

Drawings must be made with pen and PERFECTLY BLACK INK on white paper or cardboard. No BRUSH OR COLOR WORK WILL BE ALLOWED. Drawings should be so arranged as to admit of photographic reproduction in the illustration pages of the CANADIAN ARCHTTECT AND BUILDER. The size of each page is 7 x 10 inches. No set of drawings must occupy more than two pages.

Competitors must send in their drawings under motto, marked " Students Competition," and addressed to "The publishers of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto," prior to 5 o'clock p.m. on Monday, February 12th, 1900. Each set of drawings must be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing on the outside the author's motto and enclosing a card giving his full name and address.

The merits of the designs which may be submitted in this competition will be judged by a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects and of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, whose decision shall be final. For the benefit of competitors, the judges will be requested to give a detailed criticism of each plan.

Three prizes are offered, as follows To the winner of 1st position, $10 ; to the winner of 2nd position, $5.00, and to the winner of 3rd position, one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

The right is reserved to publish any or all of the drawings

NOTE—Competitors are required strictly to observe and comply with the above instructions and conditions.



<article title=" THE FUTURE OF THE 0. A. A." author=" AYLSWORTH, M.B.">

CORRESPONDENCE.

THE FUTURE OF THE 0. A. A.

TORONTO, Nov. 14th, 1899.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

I must beg humbly to apologize for what must appear discourteous delay in responding to your letter of the 2nd inst., which I know was prompted by zeal in the interests of the 0. A.A. but of which such delinquents as myself are unworthy.

Since the active members of our Association have failed to satisfy themselves, or others, after some years of honest effort, would it not seem wise to try and obtain an impartial view of ourselves from the outside, and to profit by any friendly hints that might be had for the asking?

Our aims and intentions have probably been creditable and clear to ourselves, if not so well understood by others ; but possibly our methods have been too amateurish. We may have much to learn from other associations, and perhaps something to gain by taking outsiders more into our confidence as to the unselfishness of our objects and our desire to do good rather than obtain and retain all the advantages.

It seems to me desirable First, to obtain full information regarding our sister association of Quebec, which though the younger, has apparently been made a success. This may perhaps be found in your own valuable files, or through the courtesy of the secretary at Montreal, or by sending- a member to Montreal to investigate and report.

2nd. A paper dealing with the growth and methods of legal, medical and kindred associations in Ontario.

3rd. A representation from the Students' League now in Operation here, stating why they find it necessary to work independently of the 0. A. A. or its local chapter, and what would induce them to amalgamate and work with it.

4th. A full and free expression from Prof. Galbraith and Mr. Wright, of the S.P.S.

5th. A circular letter, or personal interview, might get valuable opinions or criticism from well known architects who have withdrawn or kept out of the Association.

It is well to be able to see ourselves as others see us, and with such new views, obtained in time, the coming annual meeting might become the turning point in the career of the 0. A. A.

Possibly our former friend, the new Premier of Ontario, might be prevailed on to give us some pointers as to more successful methods for obtaining the legislation which has been one of our prominent objects heretofore.

Respectfully yours,

M.	B. AYLSWORTH.





<article title=" ARCHITECTS' FEES." author="Brown, J. Francis">

ARCHITECTS' FEES.

TORONTO, DEC. 12th, 1899.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



DEAR SIR,--In your October issue appears an editorial on "Architects" Fees," which would lead many to believe that. there is no standard of architects fees recognized by our courts, and infers that our judges are not acquainted with the regular rate of architectural charges, but base their judgment upon the testimony of alleged unprofessional men; further, that there are architects who are so unprincipled that they appear in court arid swear that they would do certain work for half and less than half of the regular fee, to the prejudice of their fellows. Your remarks seem to be founded upon a part of the proceedings of a recent and well known law suit to recover fees. My experience has been, and I believe it has been the experience of' every architect who has found it necessary to sue for a fair claim, that our courts have given judgment in full, based upon our regular rate of fees. I have always found our judges fair, and well acquainted with our practices and charges, but I have never met nor heard of the unprincipled architectural witnesses you mention, and for this reason I do not believe they exist. I am so fully convinced of this that I doubt your ability to substantiate the statements you made, therefore there is the possibility, and the probability, that the gentleman who penned the article in question may find himself in the unpleasant predicament of apologizing to the profession. There is little doubt that one of the architects referred to will resist the unfair insinuations and presumptuous comments made against him with the vigor that the case demands.

Yours in sincerity,

J.	FRANCIS BROWN.















<article title="Correspondence." author="">

Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



New York Life Building, Montreal,



MONTREAL, December 15th, 1899.



COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES.

The council have decided to establish a class for the purpose of giving instruction in steam and hot water fitting, including piping of houses, public buildings, and factories for hot water, high, low, and exhaust steam systems. The pupils will also be taught how to set and connect radiators, and make heating coils. The class was opened on the 18th inst., and will meet once a week.



ACCIDENTAL TEST OF TERRA COTTA FLOOR.



A terra cotta floor was recently built in Mr. Gatehouse's store on Dorchester st., in this city. The work was done by Mr. George Knott, Contractor, under the Supervision of Mr. C. B. Patterson architect. The floor had been in only a few days, and the centers only removed from underneath, when the workmen began to unload sand on this fresh built floor, and before the contractor was aware of it, there was sand piled up until it is said to have represented a load of over 900 lbs. to the square foot. In spite of this heavy load the floor showed no sign of weakness and showed that it could stand over a thousand pounds to the square foot without any perceptible deflection. This test was only accidental and goes far to confirm the many previous reports as to the wonderful resistance of porous terra cotta fire proofing.



<article title=" MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author="">

MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



There was a large attendance of the members of the above Exchange at the second annual meeting held on the 11th inst. The report of the directors presented by the honorary secretary-treasurer, Mr. George A. Sheppard, showed an increase of membership and a substantial surplus in the treasury. A cordial vote of thanks was tendered to the retiring board of directors and to the secretary-treasurer for the faithful discharge of their duties during the year. The following were elected as the new board of directors: Messrs. C. T. Williams, j. W. Hughes, C. W. Trenholme, N. T. Gagnon, H. R. Ives, John Wighton and T. Forde. At a subsequent meeting of the directors, Mr. C. T. Williams was elected president, Mr. J. W. Hughes, vice-president and honorary

Secretary- treasurer.



NOTES. 



M.	Benard, architect, of Paris, to whom was awarded the prize of $ 10,000 in the recent competition for designs for University of California, was a recent visitor to Montreal while en route to California. 'While here, M. Benard visited McGill and Laval Universities, and a number of the more important public buildings. Prior to leaving France, he was entertained at a banquet given in his honor in Paris by a number of French architects, and was presented by the Minister of Fine Arts with the Cross of the Legion of Honor.

