<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	29



I now come to the question, "Is not the public taste in Architecture retarded by a want of' respect amongst architects for each other, and for which they are responsible more or less? I mean an absence of professional etiquette—the esprit-de-corps of other professions.

Sometime ago I read in a professional journal of an incident which occurred in the States and was singularly like one in which I was personally interested. A brother architect was in the witness box, having been called by the plaintiff to testify in certain points regarding professional charges. On cross-examination the opposing counsel asked—" Is it not very common for architects to offer to submit plans on a venture, hoping that they may he accepted?' The question was objected to by the plaintiffs counsel, but the objection was not sustained by the judge, who remarked that the architectural profession was not like that of doctors or lawyers who never solicited work, but that it was well-known that architects were always glad to compete. The incident shows how little the architect's point of view is appreciated even by the educated portion of the community. But was it not to some extent true? The temptation to get work at any price is a constant one, and while the profession is open to any one, irrespective of ability, it is not strange that good and bad should be lumped together by the public in a single category.

It is true that there is a fundamental difference between the architectural profession and the others mentioned. A lawyer to practice must be a member of the Bar, the physician must have received his degree from the Medical University. The architect, however, is let loose upon the public with or without training. It is not to be expected then that there shall be respect in the public for a profession which does not discriminate amongst its own members, and which is content to let its professional name be used by untrained individuals. Law and medicine have taken measures to protect the public from inefficiency. Architecture has nor.

Another element in the want of appreciation of architecture as an art by the public is the established level charge for the services of all the authoritive schedule of charges sanctioned by the mass of the profession.

The most carefully educated and gifted man gets no more for his services than an ignorant bungler. In other professions, such as music, painting, sculpture, medicine and law, artistic ability is so remunerated that there is always an incentive and opportunity for still further increase, and the public demand for a high artistic standard is established in these professions. It is evident that the value of the work of a true artist is greater than that of the man of small ability. Moreover, the system takes little account of the nature of the design and the amount of brain work required to produce it; the carefully studied and elaborate detail of a first class residence is of no more value, judged by the existing standard, than the unadorned school house or barn.

A writer in one of the papers has summed up the question in these words—" By the present mode of payment the public first refuses to recognize the difference in the artistic capacity of individuals second, it refuses to recognize the artistic difference in widely varying services rendered by the same individual and, third, it refuses to pay the architect in a way that will enable him to give its work his best attention." But the strangest anomaly of all is, that the financial interests of the architect and his client are diametrically opposite. Take the case of a building of the normal value of say $50,000, the commission for which would be $2,500. An architect unskilled and giving little thought to his work would probably spend $60,000 in carrying out the work, for which he would be paid a commission of $3,000. Another architect by thought, labor and diligence, and making various studies and changes in his drawings is enabled to reduce the cost by $5,000. His faithfulness and care are rewarded, not by extra payment for extra study and labor he receives no payment at all for that, and the original commission is reduced by $250.00, 520603n the amount saved for his client. The better he serves his client the more his commission is reduced.

To recapitulate and conclude, I would say, that before we architects accuse the public of being indifferent we shall do well to look at home and see whether the work we turn out has any real claim to he interesting, and before we claim that they do not know good work from bad, it is our business to ask ourselves whether we have given them a fair chance of seeing what good work is. We shall educate them to be critics by giving them good and faithful work as a standard by which to judge the quality of the whole, and we can depend that every piece of really meritorious work will be an object lesson for the education of the popular taste and public appreciation.

DISCUSSION.



The reading of Mr. Siddall's paper was received with evident manifestations of appreciation, and elicited the following discussion

Mr. Wickson expressed his very cordial agreement with the sentiments contained in Mr. Siddall's paper. It must be remembered that they could not get any people or body of people to look after them, but in the homely language of an old saying, "every tub must stand on its own bottom," and the same might be said of the Association. However much it might be deplored that the public did not appreciate what is good and what is bad, he did not think anything was to be gained by rating or scolding them for it, but, rather, architects ought to make that which they themselves knew to be good, and endeavor to educate the public unconsciously into liking it. Apropos of Mr. Siddall's reference to conscientious work, he thought if architects would cultivate the habit of considering what their brother architects would think of their work rather than the view taken of it by the public, it would result in the production of more meritorious and truly artistic designs. He thought that architects would be respected more by those outside of their profession if they respected themselves and each other more. He deplored the conditions which resulted in two architects being found in a court of justice, one swearing to a state of facts diametrically opposed to that advanced by the other, and he thought there ought to be some arrangement possible that would obviate that scandal, and result in the evidence of experts agreeing at least to a reasonable degree. Referring to what had been remarked by Mr. Siddall, that under the present system of remuneration when a good man by his skill and care kept down the price of work being executed for a client it resulted in his receiving less for his services than the careless man obtained, he thought it was well to remember that the architect who earned a reputation for protecting the interests of his clients in that way would not fail to ultimately reap his reward in the shape of an enlarged clientele.

Mr. Baker thought that to discover the secret of really good architecture one had to revert to the earlier days of the art and see how matters stood then. He was led to understand from what he had read that in those times the architects were the most learned and cultivated men in the land, numbering among them many bishops and other high clerical dignitaries thoroughly in touch with their "public" ; and, as Mr. Siddall had said, these men erected their buildings not from drawings which were sent out of their hands, but they practically lived on the buildings and watched their creation step by step, and in that way every little detail was fittingly carried out. Mr. Dick had yesterday put the whole thing in a nut-shell, when he said that the architects of to-day in Canada, in addition to supervising their work, had to be not only their own superintendents, but in many cases foremen of the different trades. So long as that condition existed it would be difficult to achieve the high standard of work which had been reached by English architects, who always appointed a clerk of works, who had only one building at a time to superintend. Then to-day the question of cost was one of the first considerations, something which did not enter so much into the calculations of the architects in the earlier times, when no contracts were let, and the work was paid for as it proceeded. In that connection, he thought the English method of having

