<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA." author="">



	146	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



charts, blackboards. The library should consist of the latest scientific journals on house plumbing, drainage and ventilation, and there should be kept on file at all times trade literature for ready reference. To educate the people to realize the necessity of a plumbing law all literature should be issued by the association and distributed by its members to their customers and friends.

3.	The chief object of the association should be to place the supply trade and the retail trade on a basis of mutual interest. Their interests are identical, and there should be hearty cooperation. And in my mind there seems no good reason why this cannot be accomplished if right methods prevail.

To this end we must enlarge our membership and improve the commercial credit of our members through open, honorable and cooperative business methods. When we build an association attractive enough to secure 95 per cent, of the purchasing power and reduce the risk of selling materials in our own ranks, we will command absolute trade protection without question, and, what is more desirable, respect. To overcome public suspicion and prejudice, we must by these methods improve the character of plumbing work. There is no surer way to win the respect and confidence of the people than to reduce the death rate of cities and the expense of sickness, which is the result of, I might say, criminal sanitary neglect. An association of plumbers built upon the above broad lines would become speedily a powerful factor in the country's best progress. Following out such a purpose, our annual gathering would become the occasion for scientific discussions and debates of great importance. Here, for instance, we have met in the city of Ottawa, which has, no doubt, been looking forward for months to this convention of master plumbers, believing that the deliberations of this convention will bring to them valuable information, aid and encouragement. What a disappointment it would be should we, as an association, organized to serve the purposes enumerated, fail

Gentlemen, we make a sad mistake when we, as an association of master plumbers, refuse to interest ourselves in the great sanitary problems of the day. We must be spirited and elevate ourselves. I believe the greatest honor that can be bestowed upon a master plumber is to be a delegate to this convention. I believe the plumbing industry is of more importance to the population than all the doctors, for the simple reason that the doctors try to kill the germ after it has been bred, while the plumber abolishes the pest hole that starts the life and gives it a chance to exist. For that reason I think that all master plumbers should protect their interests in every detail.

In conclusion, I trust that you will pardon me for the many suggestions I have made instead of a complete resume of the work accomplished by us during my term of office. In my opinion it is better that the work we have accomplished should he given in detail by the different vice-presidents and members, particularly when it is already pretty well known by all present.



The recommendations in the president's address were referred to the Committee on Resolutions for consideration.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.



The Executive Committee presented the following report, which was also referred to the Committee on

Resolutions:

Your committee have pleasure in submitting their annual report to the fourth annual convention, for the year ending June 30, 1899. Two meetings of the executive have been held as a whole during the year, the first taking place on the steamer returning from Quebec, July 1, 1898, and the second being held in the city of Ottawa on June 30 of this year. At the meeting on July 1, 1898, the first business of importance was the appointment of a sub executive committee, which resulted as follows William Smith, London E. R. Russell, London; W. H. Heard, London, The question of issuing a monthly Bulletin and employing a paid secretary was also discussed, but definite action in relation to the same was left over for a future meeting. Subsequently, these matters, with several others, were taken up by the sub-executive, and dealt with as was deemed best in the interests of the association.

The publishing of The Bulletin was entered into by the sub. committee, a separate report of which will be presented by the editor.

Our president has been indefatigable in his efforts to organize branch associations in other towns and cities, the result of which he has already told you in his report. At the same time, we regret that much more work must still be done in this direction, and we feel more and more assured that this cannot be thoroughly accomplished without a permanently-employed organizing agent, and, as in our report of last year, we again urge the great necessity of specially considering this question at the present convention. We have pleasure in reporting that several differences which arose between some of our branch associations and the supply men were carefully gone into by the sub-executive in conference with the officers and members of the Dominion Supply Association, in the presence of the complainants, last April, and were adjusted to the satisfaction of all parties concerned.

List in Accord.—The official Bulletin has contained the full list of manufacturers and dealers who are in accord, and whenever changes were reported to National headquarters they were made and announced in the issue following the notice. During the past year we have taken from the list 11 names, for various reasons.

Official Bulletin. ---The editor's report will give full information as to the success of The Bulletin, which was launched on its trial trip in November last.

Re Secretary.- -You will remember that, at the Quebec convention, the question of a permanent secretary was discussed, but no definite appointment having been made, Mr. Mansell was asked, and, after great pressure, consented to act again as secretary, but only pro tern., and until such time as the office could be filled permanently. At the first opportunity, your committee

looked around for a suitable man to relieve Mr. Mansell. It had been intimated that Mr. W. H. Heard, of London, was willing to act, and he was accordingly chosen, but declined. Mr. E. R. Russell, of London, was also suggested, but he declined. Before reaching this stage of affairs several weeks had elapsed, and Mr. Mansell continued as secretary pro tern., and up to the present time he has done so, while Mr. Beel has performed the duties of the office.

SECRETARY'S REPORT.



The secretary, Mr. W. Mansell, submitted his report for the year, which was as follows:

In making this report I would first of all say that I did not anticipate twelve months ago to again have to make a Secretary's report, as I was only elected to the office pro tem., and fully expected at the time that a secretary would be chosen soon after the Quebec convention. But the year has rolled by without such a change being consummated—two names, however, having been brought by the president before the sub-executive successively, and elected, and each of them ultimately declining to act, for good reasons presumably.

Under these circumstances, though I have nominally held the office, I have not found the same responsibility resting upon me as I otherwise would, and, as I forewarned the convention last year, the clerical part of the work has been done by someone else, viz., Mr. Beel, as it was utterly impossible for me to attend to the duties.

Re Bulletin—This is a new departure in our work; it has been successfully floated, but, like any other new venture, requires all the support and care possible, and I regret that the members of the association have not made as much use of the Bulletin as they might have done. Members, and particularly secretaries of local associations, have in the Bulletin a splendid medium for keeping headquarters better informed from time to time as to the working and progress of the association in their particular vicinity, and I am sure the editor would be only too pleased to hear from any member upon matters of interest to all concerned.



Upon motion of Mr. Meredith, seconded by Mr. Wright, a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to the secretary for the attention given to the affairs of the association during the year.



REPORT OF APPRENTICE COMMITTEE.



The following report was then submitted by the Apprentice Committee, it being likewise referred to the Committee on Resolutions

Your committee, having during the past year given the apprentice question earnest consideration, respectfully report that in their opinion apprentices, in the old acceptance of the term, no longer exist in connection with our trade, and that our trade is in this respect no exception from other trades and mechanical callings. As a rule boys are no longer indentured to masters for a term of years, and masters no longer feel any serious obligation in the matter of imparting a knowledge of their calling to the boys who are constantly passing through their shops, staying a longer or shorter period as may suit the convenience of either. The boy remains in the shop if it suits his convenience, and the master keeps him for a similar reason. True it is that in many shops boys remain to become men, but there is no regularity or any recognized rule or law in the trade governing the matter.

The results are deplorable. A class of men are growing up without thorough training in the theory and practice of one of the most important businesses, dealing, as it does, with the most valuable asset of any community (its health). Modern methods have brought about this state of affairs, and without any remedy as yet having been evolved. Years ago the different kinds of goods and fixtures required were made in the plumbers shop. Stocks were piled up during the slack season to be used when the rush came on. To-day the factory, the prison and the asylum do the work, and both man and boy are idle when outside work ceases to be pressing. The master plumbers and other interested in the welfare of the community and in the trade have endeavored to overcome the difficulty through the agency and with the assistance of the trade school. In the Dominion, as far as your committee is aware, there is only one plumbing school. That is in Montreal, and it is in connection with the Council of Arts and Manufactures carried on under the auspices of the Government of the Province of Quebec. This school was begun some years ago, through the efforts of the Montreal Plumbers' Association. Although it has done good work, it is yet far from being efficient, and we regret to say that there is a lack of interest in the matter. Your committee fails to see why the mechanic should not be as anxious to control the class of men who are to follow the trades as are the learned professions. The clergy, the lawyers, the doctors, the engineers, the architects, the druggists, etc., have all definitely defined rules as to the class of men (their studies and their qualifications) who are to enter and practice their professions. Why in this mechanical age the mechanic should be content to follow up a go-as-you-please policy and fail to follow up and take the precaution our forefathers found necessary is more than your committee can understand. An earnest agitation for the founding of mechanical colleges could not fail to be beneficial. It is certainly as necessary from the public health point of view that some care and attention should be given to the education and training of the plumbers as well as the doctor.

Your committee would suggest that, with a view to insuring young men putting in a certain amount of time regularly in the practice of the trade before claiming to be journeymen, that a printed form of discharge be issued by our association, stating

