<doctype type="text">



to four feet below the grade line, the bottom of the trench should be tamped down with a heavy tamping block of some kind, in order to give a solid bed to the footings. A good tamping block may be readily made out of a piece of timber eight or nine inches in diameter and twelve or fourteen inches in length. Have the lower end cut square and smooth, bore a two inch hole in the centre of the other end into which insert a hardwood handle, leaving it about two feet long from the block. A cross-handle may be attached to this, at such height as may be suited to the person who is to use it. It will then be somewhat like a paver's rammer. If this rammer is used all over the bottom of the trench it will so harden the bottom that very little settlement will take place. The first layers of footings down, the use of spawls is, to some small extent permissible, but judgment should be exercised in their employment. If the wall is to be built on a solid sandy bottom, tamping will be unnecessary, as a foundation of sand is as good as can be desired, providing it is not disturbed by the removal of the earth or sand around it. The foregoing refers chiefly to common rubble work as generally employed in the construction of foundations for country buildings.



In many cellars where the ground is

The Cellar Wall.

supposed to be dry and well drained,

the inside of the wall often proves damp and sweaty. Generally this is caused by the earth on the outside of





































Fig. 4.----DRy CELLAR W ALL.





the wall containing moisture and transmitting it to the stone forming the walls of the cellar. This fault may be prevented if proper care is taken when the wall is being built. The cellar should be excavated six or eight inches lower all around than the size of the foundation wall ; then, after the footings are in place, the wall should be "drawn in to the dimensions required, and, as it is being builded, the space between the outside of the wall and the bank should be filled in with broken stones, coarse gravel or broken bricks, and this filling continued until the grade line is reached, as shown in Fig. 4. This plan of making a foundation where there is to he a cellar, will, to a very great extent, insure dry cellar walls ; but, should the earth be of a moist nature, it might be as well to lay a course of weeping tiles around the bottom of the footings as shown in the cut at A. These tiles need be no other than ordinary field tiles, laid butt and butt together. This precaution will insure a dry cellar on high land.

Fitments For Pantry.

The loose stones will allow all the wet to drain from bank down to the footings before it can reach the stonework, and it it cannot drain away from that point it will be caught and carried off by the weeping tiles. The extra expense of building a cellar wall in this manner, over the usual method, would be a small matter compared with the advantages and comfort derived by having a dry healthy cellar.



Every house has, or ought to have a pantry in it, situated near the kitchen, and for economy, labor-saving and

sanitary reasons, this pantry should receive much more attention than it usually gets from either the designer or the builder—and we might also add, the owner. A pantry should be well lighted, should have some means of thorough ventilation, and should be fitted up inside with ample shelving, drawers, spice nests, bins, and baking boards. '[here should be a nest of small drawers for spices, and the drawers should be lined with tin, and for some special ones, drop covers should be provided. There should be a case of drawers, made especially for coffee, tea, sugar, rice and other groceries that are in every day use. There should be wide shelves and narrow ones, some specially designed for canned goods. No paint whatever should be employed inside the pantry; a clean pine finish being the very best that can be done, that is to say, fit up the pantry altogether in white pine, and leave it untouched by oil or paint. If the door and window trimmings must be finished in something, apply a coat or two of good shellac varnish on the bare wood. Shellac leaves no taint or disagreeable smell after it. All shelves and drawers should be so arranged that they can be taken down or out of their places, scrubbed or cleaned, and exposed to the sun for awhile. This will not require much ingenuity, as the shelves may be left loose on their bearings. Where possible, the shelves should rest on iron brackets that have been either bronzed or japanned. The nailing of cleats against the wall to carry the end of the shelves, should be avoided wherever possible, as the cleats often have ledges for dust and dirt to rest upon. Pantries should not be wainscoted, nor should the base be very deep, for wainscoting and base offer opportunities for mice to burrow in. Where it can he afforded, the walls should be plastered with a mortar containing a large percentage of Portland cement. Rats or mice cannot cut through a mortar of this kind in like manner as through ordinary lime mortar. The plastering should in all cases run down to the floor, and the floor itself



























FIG. 5.—A Tilting BIN.





should be formed of concrete and cement. There should be one or two tilting bins in the pantry for holding flour or oatmeal. As a rule these "tipping

