<doctype type="text">

(THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH they MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



In the old Tuscan town stands Giotto's Tower,

The lily of Florence blossoming in stone,— A vision, a delight, and a desire.

The builder's perfect and centennial flower,

That in the night of ages bloomed a/one,

But wanting still the glory of the spire."

—Longfellow.



<article title=" BUILDERS' EXCHANGE, WHY?" author=" HODGSON,Fred T.">

BUILDERS' EXCHANGE, WHY?

By FRED. T. HODGSON.



WHY? Because it offers to builders and contractors so many advantages and opportunities, that must be apparent to everyone who has given the subject any thought, that it seems odd that every town of any importance has not got one within its corporate limits.

"What are their advantages?" it may be asked. Well, I will endeavor to point out a few, though I confess myself unable to present anything like a fair showing of the advantages and benefits that must assuredly result from a gathering of men engaged in one pursuit, and when an exchange of ideas and views on matters and things pertaining to that pursuit takes place.

Men making up the members of a builders' exchange must necessarily be men engaged in the construction, erection and decoration of buildings ; bricklayers, carpenters, masons, plasterers, etc., and these again are in daily contact with other trades and occupations connected with building. The carpenter, for instance, branches off his trade and sublets portions of it to framers, roofers, stair-builders, factory men, painters, glaziers and others.

The bricklayer and mason may, and does often sublet portions of his work, such as excavating, cut stone work, brickwork, tiling, and often the plastering. Often, also, the mason supplies and places iron or steel girders, beams or bressurners, which brings him in touch with another class of tradesmen, thus extending the ramifications of the building trades. Then comes the plumber, who contracts for the water plant and sometimes for gas or electric light installation, for heating, bath service, and other lesser matters. The painter, who may be a sub-contractor, besides the ordinary work belonging to his calling, may also be decorator, paperer, and finisher, while the plasterer may engage master-stucco workers to his aid, all of whom may be employers of labor and directors of work, and are therefore, in my opinion, eligible for membership in a builders' exchange.

The men at the heads of the trades I have named are to some extent dependent on one another. Contractors on any one building must, in the nature of things, meet each other often in order to give and to receive directions regarding the work in hand. The bricklayer will have his walls ready for the joists on a certain day, and the carpenter must be made known of that fact,

and the bricklayer must have assurance that the joists will be laid in place on that day. The carpenter arranges accordingly, and the ironmonger is informed, and his columns, stirrups and other work is made ready for that day ; and everything is arranged to go ahead in harmony and without costly interruptions.

Now how can these men be brought together, and their views and directions exchanged, by any better method than by aid of an Exchange? Here, during the noon hour of every working day, builders and those engaged in building transactions will make it a point to

	or,	may be the conse

congregate, maybe, meetings 

quence of prior arrangements. At any rate, should one member fail to see another at any given time, he simply pens a brief request for an appointment, naming the hour, and leaves it with the secretary or janitor, or drops it in a letter box provided for the purpose. Previous to accepting, or even figuring on a contract, it is important that the main contractor should meet and confer with all his sub-contractors, in order that he may have his final estimate and tender on the figures obtained, and to insure a fair standard of accuracy, an Exchange should be well supplied with catalogues and price lists of every article entering into the construction of a building, and these catalogues and price lists should be so classified and listed, that a member of any particular trade may be able to place his hand on the particular object he wants without delay. Further, if there is any doubt as to the reading of the plans, or a thorough understanding of the specifications, the contractor and sub-contractors may put their heads together and untangle the difficulty, and thereby make time and prevent trouble in the future.

Besides the saving of time, there is much that is educational in the congregating of members for the purpose of discussing building matters. It is impossible for a body of intelligent men to mingle with others equally intelligent, day after day, without profiting and forming acquaintances that may he lasting and valuable. Exchange of thought, of opinions on new machines, new methods and processes for labor saving, and discussions on economical management, the value of new materials and appliances, are matters that may fairly be considered within the province of a Builders' Exchange, and which must result in benefit to its members. The social feature, too, is an advantage not to be despised, for it enables the members to meet each other on the same plane without that reserve that must obtain when rival contractors never have an opportunity of becoming personally acquainted with each other. It is human nature to imagine a business rival as a sort of a ''terrible fellow," and one that will take all sorts of mean advantages to obtain a contract that we have an

