<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE UNDERFEED FURNACE." author="">



THE UNDERFEED FURNACE.

THE accompanying illustrations show the method of construction and operation of an underfeed furnace for use in heating public and domestic buildings. This device is the invention of Prof. Colton, of Hiram, Ohio, to whom patents were granted in 1893. The furnace is manufactured in Canada by the General Engineering Company, Canada Life Building, Toronto. In the







































UNDERFEED FURNACE—SECTION SHOWING METHOD OF INTRODUCING FUEL.







practical application of the underfeed, many questions suggested themselves. Would the fire burn into the coal from the top? Could the coal be introduced from below without interfering with the grate and ash pit? Could the means of introducing the fuel be so simple as not to greatly increase the cost of construction ? The underfeed system can be applied to hot air, combination, hot water, or steam heating furnaces. It is claimed that, after much labor and many costly experiments, those questions have all been answered in the affirmative, and the device has been perfected whereby the coal is pushed into the fire pot under the burning coal without interfering with the grates or ash pit, or involving extra labor. It is claimed that with this system all gases liberated from the fresh fuel, on passing through the fire above, are ignited and consumed, thereby rendering it an impossibility for same to permeate the air, regardless of the position of the dampers.

In applying the underfeed to existing hot water furnaces, all that is necessary is to raise the fire pot section, together with the sections above, high enough so that the ash pit section may be removed. If there is enough spring " in the pipes this can be done in a very short time.

The purpose of this method of firing is to bring the hottest part of the fire uppermost next to the heating surfaces where it is required, and to utilize in a useful way all the heat in the coal—also to prevent the admittance of cold air to the furnace during firing or at any other time.



In the matter of cleaning stone and brickwork, a writer in one of the English journals suggests using a scrubbing brush and a solution of water mixed with 8 ounces of spirits of salts to gallon. He states that this will bring out the work as bright as new.

<article title=" IRON CONSTRUCTION." author="Copeland, William">

IRON CONSTRUCTION.

THE following remarks were expressed in the course of a discussion at the Franklin Institute, Washington, on the structural design of buildings, by Mr. William Copeland Furber:

On the question of rust protection I may be taking advanced ground when I say I believe that entirely too little attention has been paid to this matter by designers,

yet the liability of corrosion is so great, through exposure and improper covering and the lack of preparation of the metal to receive and hold the covering, that I think the use of the sand-blast or some equally efficient means to remove the mill scale and permit the direct application of the protective covering to the actual surface of the metal is not only justifiable but imperative. When the skeleton is once enclosed, examination is difficult and repair practically impossible, and as the life of the building is coincident with the life of the framework, and the value of the investment is determined primarily by the integrity of the finished structure, a shortsighted and temporarily apparent economy should not be allowed to curtail a proper expenditure on the skeleton, which, if intelligently made, will assure the building a practically indefinite existente.

As to the best means of providing against rust, the information already at our disposal seems to me sufficient to indicate a safe course to pursue. Ledebur, in an " Essay on Oxidation of Iron and its Admixtures, Rusting, and the Influence of Liquids upon Iron," points out that three factors are required to produce rust—that is, the hydrated oxide, viz., water, pure oxygen and an acid. Portland cement, by furnishing a base for the absorption of any acid likely to be found, will eliminate one of these factors and will thereby prevent











































THE UNDERFEED HOT WATER HEATER.





rust. So that, with the other valuable qualities it possesses, it forms a protective covering of great value. But while this is true if the cement is in direct contact with the metal, we know that as the shapes come from the shops they are covered with mill scale, and that any covering applied to them adheres to the scale, and that a mechanical separation of the scale is easily possible.

Should water penetrate the cement or other covering,

