<doctype type="text">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

PUBLIC LIBRARX, WESTMOUNT, QUE. ROBT. FINDLAY,



ARCHITECT.



DESIGN FOR AN ANGLICAN CHURCH. ----R. M. FRIPP,



F.R.I.B.A., ARCHITECT.



BUSINESS AND RESIDENCE FRONT, YONGE STREET, TORONTO.



- BURKE & HORWOOD, ARCHITECTS.



LEAVES FROM A SKETCH-BOOK. BY STEPHEN A. HEWARD.



Abbey Farm, near Yeovil, Somerset, as the name indicates, has not always been a farm house, but like many other similar buildings, fell into disuse as a religious house at the time of the suppression of the monasteries—happier than the fate of many, however, it still exists, or partly so.

Its religious life must have been a short one, for the period of its architecture is late Gothic. The sketches and details of two of its doorways are pleasing specimen s.

THE DRIARD HOTEL, VICTORIA, B.C.—JOHN TEAGUE,



ARCHITECT. 



This building, which is one of the most conspicuous and imposing in Victoria, stands at the Corner of View and Broad streets. It is six storeys in height, and has accommodation for upwards of three hundred guests. It was erected from the designs of Mr. John 'League, a local architect, by Messrs. Elford & Smith, contractors, of Victoria, at a cost of about $250,000. A special feature of the building is the plumbing, which is said to have cost about $30,000. From the main entrance on View street, a broad staircase, with rich carvings in dark oak, affords communication with the upper floors. There is also a commodious elevator, with entrance from the main hall, and a winding stairway constructed of open ironwork leading from the dining hall on ground floor to the cupolas at the top of the building. The building contains 225 bedrooms, every alternate room being furnished with bath and lavatory—---each bathroom and lavatory having means of ventilation apart from the bedrooms. The woodwork throughout is polished oak and cedar, and the windows are all fitted with plate

glass.	___ ____________

	 BY THE WAY.

TILE Ontario Historical Society is raising a fund for the erection of a monument at Niagara, to the memory of Laura Secord, the Canadian heroine, who, after the battle of Stony Creek, escaped from Indian captors and walked twenty miles, ten of which were through the enemy's lines, to warn Lieut. Fitzgibbon of an intended midnight attack by the Americans.

x x x

IN preparation for the international exhibition the Eiffel Tower is being repainted. The time required for giving one coat of paint to the structure is about three months, employing constantly on the work fifty painters. For each coat over fifty tons of paint are used. The second coat will not be laid until the beginning of next year.

x x x

THE commendable proposal has been made that opportunity should be given for the public spirited citizens of Toronto to contribute works of art to the new municipal buildings. Mr. Win. Davies is the first to take advantage of this opportunity by presenting a fine water color drawing, by Wadham, an ex-President of the Australian Society of Artists. Mr. Alex. Manning, ex Mayor of the city, who is known to be the possessor of a valuable picture collection, has intimated his intention to become a contributor.

A CORRESPONDENT writes to the Toronto Globe in in criticism of Mr. 6. A. Reid's mural paintings in the municipal buildings. He says the pioneer backwoodsman should have been depicted as wearing knee breeches and buckled shoes, which was the style of dress in vogue at the period of the first settlement of this country. The writer points out that the fashion of wearing trousers was not introduced until between 1830 and 1840. In reply to this, another authority states that the style of dress should properly conform to the early history of the city of which the building is the type. The author of the paintings has taken his departure for a season of rest in the Adirondacks, leaving the critics to settle the dispute as best they may.

x x x

A correspondent of the Toronto Globe describes church building methods and architecture in Dawson City, as follows ''Dr. Grant, who is from Toronto, Canada, * * * * turned his attention to building the First Presbyterian Church, and never did I know of any person who could work as hard and so long as that same doctor ; and as there was no night at that season, the sun shining 22 hours, it seemed as though he worked all the time ; sawing logs, packing moss, etc., until the church was finished. It was built wholly of logs, with a thatched root of the moss which grows everywhere in that country. The interior was of the same logs with the bark peeled off, making it light and airy. It had windows containing glass, which is a great luxury in the far north. The seats were benches, smooth and comfortable. A nice planed floor, a table for the altar and a large stove. It was lighted by coal oil lamps, which were almost impossible to obtain.

x x x



MESSRS. Fraser & Chalmers, of Chicago, who are extensive manufacturers of iron pipe, are credited with saying that '' Foreigners have sent many orders here for machinery, steel rails, water pipe, ship plates, pig iron and other things, because they could not get them in Europe. Down in Australia it was proposed to establish some extensive waterworks, which would require 70,000 tons of iron pipe. That is an enormous order. The colonial authorities took it to England, but found they could not get bidders for more than 6,ooo tons, and, as a consequence, the remainder of 64,000 tons was bought in this country." The question to which this statement gives rise in my mind is, why did not Canadian manufactories, of which there are several of large capacity, get a chance to tender for the supply of this large quantity of pipe for Australia ? Presuming that the British manufacturers know something about our facilities in this line, it would seem to have been their duty to have directed this order to Canada when they found it impossible to fill it themselves.

x x x

THERE are some interesting peculiarities about the architecture of the island of Manilla, the scene at present of guerilla warfare between the United States troops and the native soldiery. One of the most dsitinctive features of the houses on this island are the windows. The better class of houses have window frames which slide in grooves, so as to be opened or closed as desired, and in these are set the couchas, which soften the bright tropical sun rays. As a further protection against light and heat, blinds are used which run in the grooves with the windows. Oyster shells take the place of window glass. The shell is nearly round, about 4 inches in diameter, compressed, and so thin that it is nearly transparent. In appearance the interior of the shell resembles isinglass, with opalescent tints, the exterior being slightly rough. The animal is so exceedingly flat that when the valves are closed they apparently touch. This is probably the same species of mollusk which is known in China as the Chinese window oyster and which is used for windows, lanterns and similar purposes. These ingenious people also powder the shell, which they use for silver

in their water colors

