<doctype type="text">

<article title=" COLOR." author=" CORLETTE, H.C.">

don, where, in spite of their smooth surface, they would in time become toned down so as to be at least  inoffensive.

We all know well that the Egyptians used color on everything to which they could apply it, whether on the exteriors or interiors of their buildings But they were favored, like the other southern artists, by conditions of climate which allowed this freedom within certain limits.

They used color to cloth and express form, and to emphasize those features they thought called for such a treatment. And the methods they had introduced were those also which the Greeks developed at a later period. They colored the designs in relief or those which were cut back from the surface as incised work, leaving much of the native grey or red of the actual building material to play its part as a ground for the whole of the more brilliant decorations provided by the details.

We may, then, use color either structurally or by application to a material not possessing sufficient color of its own to satisfy our need.

Structural color seems the best method of providing what we require externally. For it is better able to resist a climatic opposition to its existence than applied methods, except those by which sound and durable colored materials are required as the medium of expression. We have, however, nothing to fear when we take tip the question of internal decoration. For in this case we may adopt any method and any media we choose .And it is here we find the best opportunities for exercising our faculties or providing the necessary field for those who possess capacities which can satisfy our aspirations. The grounds or surfaces upon which

may begin our operations call for consideration under two heads. First, the material and texture of the ground and its own inherent qualities and capacities for producing, sustaining and showing color and then the color and method of treating the ground upon which any work is to be done. I am not prepared to discuss these points in detail. But it will not be presuming too far, perhaps, to merely recall to your minds some materials which ordinarily are the ground upon which we may ask colorists to provide us with design. The staple material in Egypt apparently was granite, but they also used brick, as did also the Assyrians and Babylonians, with diversely colored glazed surfaces.

Burnt clay, from the days of Sennacherib to the days in which we live, has always been found an excellent foundation for color, whether plain, or dealt with as were those tiles and bricks which were covered each with its piece of design, or formed a portion of one treatment, covering some large expanse of wall or floor. The ordinary red brick of the building was used with little or no preparation as the ground upon which to work in the case of a large painting in Albi Cathedral, in the south of France, near Toulouse. This work, executed during the first ten years of the 15th century, was done directly upon the brick surface of the great circular tower piers within the nave. It has stood all these centuries without decay, and the lines of the brick jointing, which are clearly visible, are a decided help to the texture and general effect of the whole scheme. Plaster, whether prepared for fresco methods or for tempera or oil, has also been proved a most valuable material. The Greeks had used it in some of the temples in their Sicilian colonies, in the form of what we call a fine stucco. It was upon this material

as well as upon marble that they applied so carefully the brilliant colors they used. A thin coat of plaster over brick or stone was a favorite ground in the middle and later ages for both tempera and oil, as at St. Anastasia, Verone, Albi, and Chichester Cathedrals, and in some churches n Liege, to mention only some examples that I have studied. During the same period much color was applied directly upon stone with but a coat of paint as a foundation. Of this there are many instances in churches in various parts of England. Wood in every form has been painted at all times.

The other and second standpoint from which a ground is to be considered is that of the color it shall take as a foundation upon which decorative designs in color may be worked out. In deciding upon this we have an important point to consider, for it necessarily will affect the scale and tones of all other colors that may he associated with it. With the gold ground, so much favored by the Byzantine Mosiacists, we are familiar, but at Ravenna and in Sicily they had used a blue ground with the same medium. The Egyptians, the Greeks and the Mediaevals had used white for the same purpose very largely. At Albi there is one of the finest decorated vaults I have seen, with a beautiful deep sky-blue ground upon which a great deal of white has been used in the conventional patterns which cover so much of it. The figure work is separated from conflict with the blue by being, as it were, panelled and painted upon a gold ground. The vault of the sanctuary at St. Alban's Abbey is a very faint blue grey with the patterns upon it treated in red and green and the larger emblems in gold. This last is also an instance of the value of heraldic color in a scheme of' decoration. The vault itself showing us that we need not hesitate to work immediately upon the wooden planking which forms the filling between the ribs, even though the boards should open and show a line of junction. At the same time it may be remarked that the painters of this roof—or else some who tried to improve it—were hypocrites enough to try and mask the true material of which it is made by painting ''stone" joints in white upon the ground. A practice which should always be censured without hesitation.

Those parts of the work which are at some distance from the eye of a spectator require to be very differently dealt with from those that are nearer to him. And in a situation such as this idea supposes the best results can be obtained by a good use of simple line and broad incomplex treatment. Firm, strong outline drawing is most valuable under these conditions, for it reduces the risk of confusion in design by requiring that each part shall be clearly brought out and simply expressed by methods that call for conventional, rather than any approach to realistic methods. The same principles that effect drawing in such cases also apply to design and color. And in regard to color it is essential that this also should he simple, conventional and flat ; that is, without modelling or shading. It need not he necessarily a dead color, without any variation of hue or tone, but it must be broad and quiet in feeling. And this result is best attained by limiting ourselves to the use of only a very restricted pallette, say with two, three or four colors. Of figure work I do not speak so much now as of simple decorative pattern designs. But to figure work the same principles for guidance may be applied, unless it is close to the floor in which case there are other methods that may be legitimately

