<doctype type="text">

	220	THE	ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER.



Framing and Shingling an Eyebrow

Window.

use 6 per cent. best roasted iron oxide ; for buff, use 10 per cent best ochre; for blue, use 6 per cent ultramarine; for white, use marble dust or white silica sand. Other tints may be obtained by compounding these ingredients in such proportions as may suit the taste or requirements. Floors may be made to assume the appearance of tiled floors by a judicious rendering of colored cement, though extra care must be taken in putting down the cement in order to keep each color or tint within its own boundary. It is well to put thin laths between the joints which may be removed when the cement is slightly set.



As the "eyebrow dormer" has become part and parcel of Canadian practice in building, a few hints regarding its

construction and finishing may not be out of place. The eyebrow window, owing to its gracefulness, has, in many cases superseded the old-fashioned dormer, where effect and not use is sought. For the purpose of describing the curves and constructive details of an eyebrow window, proceed as follows Draw a line A B, Fig. 1, which represents the top of the main roof

























FIG. 1.—ELEVATION OF EYEBROW.





boarding. At right angles to A B, draw a centre line,

D E. Measure each way from the centre C, a distance

of 4 feet 11½ inches as figured, from C to B, making

C E 21 ½ inches. Now on D as centre describe the

arc F E G. At right angles to A C B draw the lines

A H and B I, each equal to 4 feet 9 inches, connect

I D and H D. Now with I and H as centres describe

the arcs G B and F A ; also describe the remaining

curves from the centres I, H and D as shown. Space

the ribs from the centre C as at K M 0 Q and numbered

2, 3, 4, 5. The sash may be obtained by using the

same centres. In Fig. 2 a vertical section of the win-

angle of 45 deg. The vertical height of the window frame as taken from C E, Fig. i, is shown by the letters C E. To find the position and heights of ribs 2, 3, 4 and 5, make C R, C P, C N and C L each equal to Q R, 0 P, M N, and K L, Fig. 1. Along the upper edge of the rafter from T to V set off 6 feet 7½ inches. From 5, the top of the roof board, draw a line, S U, at right angles to the edge of rafter. Upon this line with a radius of feet 1½ inches describe the curve of the roof S E. The thickness of the boarding as shaded will be the next and only other curve to be described from the last mentioned centre, touching the top edge of the ratter at V and the top of the window frame at

J. As the radius for describing the flat curves is considerable and awkward to manage, all of them from first to last may be produced with a little care and judgment by bending a flexible strip of even thickness from point to point as measured. All the upper edges of the ribs numbered 2, 3, 4 and and lettered to correspond at the front face of the window frame J L N P R must be curved as shown from the points lettered at the face of the window to the top of the rafter at V. All the ribs cutting against the inner face of the window frame and the centre rib, as well as the two on the right and left of it, have to be made to a depth, as at L X and N W, Fig. 1. It will be seen from Fig. 1 that the top edge of each of the ribs, except the centre one, requires to be beveled in line with the curved edge of the window frame. It is also evident from the direction of the curves R S, P 4, &c., Fig. 2, that the top edge of the window frame itself must be beveled, being square only at its top squared edge at A and B. On a roof of much less pitch than the one shown it may be desirable to lessen the height of the window or greatly extend the distance T V, Fig.

2. Perhaps both points may be deemed necessary in cases of very low pitch. Fig. 3, shows several examples of eyebrow windows in situ, the top one





























FIG. 2.—SECTION OF EYEBROW.





dow is shown in which the curves of the ribs are presented and the junction of the window with the roof. The pitch of the roof in this case is one-half or at an

FIG 3.—EXAMPLES OF EYEBROWS.





having but slight elevation, while the second more nearly approaches in outline Fig. 1. The third example is built on a steep roof, and shows up quite well. It will be noticed that in all these examples the shingles

