<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL TERMS." author="">



IT is not necessary to go out of Canada Interior

Finish,	to procure handsome woods for interior finishings. For dark woods we have

walnut, cherry and black birch, and for medium woods we have several of the oaks—white, red and black— which, when quarter sawn, equal, when properly finished, any oaks in the world for fineness and variety of grain and color. Then we have the despised butternut, the three or four kinds of ash, the elms, whitewood, basswood and white pine. Cherry, grown on low loamy land, is the peer of mahogany and is passed off for that wood as often as it passes for cherry. It has a fine silky grain and, if properly sawn, is veined as richly as mahogany, and will take a finish equally as well. Unlike mahogany, however, it is apt to warp and twist out of shape if not held in position. It is an excellent wood as a veneer on good pine cores. It may be easily darkened by staining the filler with some spirit stain before applying. Black birch is almost as tine a wood as cherry, and takes a finish nearly as well. As a rule it is easier worked than cherry, does not cost as much, will last as long, and makes a very handsome finish. Birch may be stained almost as dark as rosewood by using a spirit stain before filling and then staining the filling. It can be polished until it is as glossy as a polished mirror. White oak, quarter-sawn and wellseasoned, makes on the whole the most durable, and the most effective finish for rooms that are often used, or for halls or public rooms; and it has the quality of improving with age, something that cannot truthfully be said of many other woods. It is always better left in its natural color, which at first may be a little harsh, but it soon tones down to a soft, pleasing tone that is soothing to the artistic eye. Any of our oaks may be employed for trimmings, panel work, stairs, turned work, veneers, floorings or fitments of any kind. They are strong, durable and safe and not very difficult to work. Ash makes excellent chamber finish; it is bright, cheery, fantastic in grain, strong, and is not apt to get distorted or out of shape. It also makes excellent fittings for kitchens, pantries and similar work. Black ash has a grain similar to chestnut and takes stain readily. Furniture made of this wood and stained to imitate antique oak is often passed off as the latter to unsuspecting purchasers. It is a good wood to stand wear, and is especially suited to farm dwellings. Another Canadian wood that is seldom used in interior finishing is our beech. This wood, when properly filled and polished, has a very pleasing appearance, as it possesses a satiny glow and warmth that is quite charming. As a material for floors, beech ranks in the same class as maple. It is nearly as hard, is some darker and wears just as well. In the lighter woods nothing excels our white maple. This equals the much-extolled satin-wood, both as regards the fine grain and susceptibility of finish ; and our birds-eye or mottled maple equals any light wood in the world in beauty, and it can be polished as smoothly as ebony. Butternut, basswood, elm and white cedar make good material for ordinary work. Butternut, when properly fitted and finished, makes a good showing and serves well in library or parlor, though not as well suited for such work as oak. White pine is the king of soft woods; it is at home anywhere, and, if finished in its natural state, shellacked or varnished properly, shows up a soft golden glow that is unsurpassed by any other wood. Some of the woods of British Columbia are well-adapted for interior finishings, while the coarser kinds make excellent framing timber,

Good Mortar.

scantlings, joists, rafters, etc., etc. There is plenty of timber to satisfy all Canadian requirements, within our own boundaries, and it is foolish and wasteful to import foreign woods for interior finishings.



THE late Col. Waring made a number of experiments and tests in making and using mortars for brickwork and for

plastering, and the result of his experiments was that he found that ordinary coal ashes—sifted of course— when mixed with lime made a mortar superior in point of lightness and strength to mortar composed of lime and sand. In cities, where ashes are plentiful and sand scarce, the substitution of the former for the latter would reduce the cost by about one-third, and a superior article would result. Mortar composed of ashes and lime is especially adapted for the brickwork in bakers' ovens and for setting boilers, and for the brickwork in factory chimneys or any place where intense heat is likely to attack the work Mortar composed of nine parts of fine anthracite ash intimately mixed with one part of fresh lime and properly moistened with water will, when one month old, give an average strength of 65 pounds to the square inch, as compared with 15 pounds per square inch in the case of mortar composed of lime and sand. The crushing strength is seven times greater than ordinary mortar, being in some cases as high as 1,000 pounds when extra care was taken in preparing the mass. It offers a much greater resistance to fire, and does not break and crumble away when suddenly cooled by water, as does mortar made in the old way. The best results are obtained when the ashes are finely sifted and the lime and ashes are well mixed and worked together.



To effectively deafen a floor is rather a difficult undertaking, for in a long experience not a single method among

dozens has proved as satisfactory as desired, and the most expensive methods have generally been the least effective. At Fig. 1 a very expensive method is shown;















there is a matched floor between the joists, over which a coat of mortar about an inch thick is spread and continued up the sides of the joists for a couple of inches or so. On this is laid coal ashes to a depth of three or four inches. A rough floor is laid on top of the joists and well nailed. Then on the top of this rough floor is laid a course of thick felt, on which the finishing floor is laid. Another method, shown at Fig. 2, is less cumbersome and more likely to be effective. This is floored

between the joists the same as the former example, then a layer of felt is laid over the joists, and passing over the top and all around the joists, so that no wood from the upper floors shall touch the joists at any point. On

	joists is then laid a rou	or —thic ne

Floor Deafening.

