<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" TESTS OF ARMORED AND IRON DOORS." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	169



TESTS OF ARMORED AND IRON DOORS.

The first of a series of tests of the fire resisting qualities of doors was made recently under the direction of the London Fire Prevention Committee. An iron door and a wood door covered with tin plates were the subjects of the first test. The doors were obtained in the open market, the armored door, being fixed by its maker, was hung to fit closely against the face of the brick wall, and had a 3 inch overlap both at the sides and at the top, as measured at the centre. The iron door was hung in a rebated frame. Both doors opened inward toward the fire. The door openings were approximately 3 ft. 9 in. by 7 ft. in. The object of the test was to record the effect of a fierce fire of one hour, gradually increasing to a temperature of 2000 Fahr., followed suddenly by the application for five minutes of a stream of water.

The result is summarized as follows

ARMOURED DOOR.— -All the woodwork between the tinned steel plates was wholly reduced to charcoal, and had fallen to pieces within the steel casing.

The tin was melted off the door.

Some of the plates were forced out of position and the welted edges opened.

The steel plate casing was considerably bulged on the fire side, and also on the outside, so that the distance taken at the center between the inner and outer casing was 9½ in.

IRON DOOR. The iron-framed and panelled door had buckled and warped, as had also the rebated frame in which it was hung.

The door had fallen over at the top corner on the lock side to the extent of 4 1/8 in.

The rebated frame had bulged to the extent of 2 7/8 in. from the vertical straight line.

No further observations were made.

<article title=" CEMENT DETERIORATION." author="">

CEMENT DETERIORATION.

Attention has recently been drawn to peculiar cases of comparatively rapid cement deterioration under obscure conditions. Thus, Stutzer and Hartleb report a case of a reservoir which, within three years, became covered with a soft brownish mud, while the concrete underneath proved permeable. On analysis it was found that silica, iron and alumina seemed to have increased in proportion, whilst the percentage of lime had decreased. Evidently some lime had been dissolved, so that the percentage of the other constituents was apparently augmented. In some cases this would be ascribed to the action of carbonic acid. Exhalations of this gas are common in the Rhenish district, where some of these deteriorations have also occurred. In other instances, any action of carbonic dioxide looked improbable ; and, 110 other cause being traced, the suggestion of some bacteriological activity did not appear altogether absurd. In one of these cases ammonium sulphate was added to the water. It was gradually transformed into nitrite, all ammonia disappeared, and nitrite of calcium

a readily soluble compound was formed. A microbe was also discovered.

<article title=" RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN ART GLASS." author="">

RECENT IMPROVEMENTS IN ART GLASS.

Electrolytically glazed art glass is now upon the market at practically the cost of the leaded work. Samples of this specialty of the Luxfer Prism Co., Limited, Toronto, are to be viewed in the new steamer Toronto, just built by the Bertram Engine Works Co. The copper lines are slender and tough, and no disfiguring saddle bars divide the panels into sections. A rigidity before attained only by copper bat or some other expensive mode is at the same time a prominent characteristic. Messrs Bond & Smith, architects, supplied the design, which is Moorish n treatment and refreshingly attractive.

In addition to securing its due share of the general run of decorative glass, thc Luxfer Prism Co. has already established an enviable reputation for supplying, at reasonable cost, panels to resist strains due to sudden concussions, as in book cases, door and transom lights, etc. The future of electro glazing is promising.





The master carpenters of Toronto have recently formed themselves into an association in affiliation with the Toronto Builders' Exchange Mr. John Hanrahan is the president of this new Association, and Mi. George Henry is the vice-president. An Executive Committee was appointed comprising these gentlemen and five other members of the association.



A charter of incorporation has been granted to the Expanded Metal Company of Canada, Limited, with headquarters in Toronto and a capital stock of $100,000. The purpose of the company is to sell and deal in expanded metal, and carry on a general fireproof construction business in Canada. The names of the following persons appear in the charter Charles Waldo Adams, manager Edwards Railway Electric Headlight Company, Chicago William Wilson Ramsey, president Expanded Metal Fireproofing Company, Chicago: Chapman Jay Root, bottle glass manufacturer, Chicago; James Henry Barnard, lawyer, Chicago; Ebenezer Forsyth Blackie Johnston, barrister-at-law, Toronto; Charles Samuel Spencer, building constructor, Rossin House, Toronto.

Darling Brothers Reliance Works Montreal "Webster System" of low pressure heating.

The F.D. Cummer and Son Company Cleveland Ohio For Mechanically drying everything

