ONTARIO

<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

AMALGAMATION OF RADIATOR MANUFACTURERS

IN THE UNITED STATES.

A NEW corporation, called the American Radiator Co., was chartered tinder THE laws of New Jersey, February 11, with an authorized capital of $5,000,000 common and $,5,000,000 preferred stock. The new organization has bought the plants and business of the American Radiator Co., Chicago; Standard Radiator Mfg. Co., Buffalo; Titusville Iron Works, Titusville, Pa., and the St. Louis Radiator Mfg. Co., St. Louis. The company also controls the output of the Kalamazoo Radiator Co., Kalamazoo, Mich., and of the M. Steele Co., Springfield, O.—altogether an output amounting to 75 or So per cent., probably, of the entire product of the country.



THE COST OF HEATING AND VENTILATINC.

AN excellent illustration of the fact that it costs much more to heat the fresh air that must be supplied for good ventilation than merely to maintain the temperature of a room or building is afforded by the heating and ventilating plant of the new buildings of Columbia University. These buildings are supplied with enough direct steam radiators to overcome the loss of heat through walls, windows, etc., and the entering fresh air for ventilation is blown over stalks of heating pipes, so that it enters the rooms at a temperature of about 70 degs.

The buildings have a total cubic contents of about 9,700,000 cubic feet, the heating surface in the direct steam radiators is about 56,000 square feet, and the ventilating system is designed to furnish about 50,000,000 cubic feet of air per hour. When the outside air is at zero, the steam consumption of the plant is estimated as follows, in horse power:—Condensed in direct heating radiator, 560 horse power; condensed in heating stacks in connection with blowers, 2,205 horse power; power required for electric motors operating blowing and exhaust fans, 635 horse power.

In other words, the heating and distribution of the fresh air for ventilation takes about six times as much coal as is required to simply maintain the inside temperature of the buildings. In a lecture describing this plant, delivered before the Engineering Society of Columbia University, Mr. G. A. Suter, under whose direction the plant was constructed, gives the following useful figures from the experience with this plant :—One horse power of steam supplies 100 square feet direct radiating surface. One horse power-hour of steam supply heats 20,000 cubic feet of air from zero to 70 degs. Fahr. One horse power on the shaft of an electric motor driving a blower will move 75,000 cubic feet of air per hour into and out of the rooms. The very large amount of power required for moving the air will be, we presume, a surprise to many engineers but it is to be remembered that as all the exhaust steam is utilized for heating and the power applied to the air, for the most part, also appears as heat, the fan system of heating and ventilating is really not so expensive in operation as might at first sight appear.



Recent advices from British Columbia are to the effect that the C. P. R. Cement Works have not been purchased by the British Columbia Portland Cement Company as was reported to be the case, but have been leased for a period of five years. The new Company will largely increase the capacity of the works, and endeavor to establish an export trade with Japan, China and Australia. 

CANADIAN PORTLAND CEMENT.

There is a movement on the part of Canadian manufacturers of Portland Cement to extend very much the present manufacturing facilities to enable them to supply to a much greater extent than heretofore the requirements of this market. At a recent meeting of the shareholder of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Company, which by the way is the oldest Canadian concern in this line of manufacture, it was decided to increase the capital stock of the Company from $100,000 to $200,000. A new company, to be known as the Georgian Bay Portland Cement Company has also been organized at Owen Sound recently. This company propose to erect works on the PoIson property. Kilns will be erected capable of turning out 125 barrels of cement per day, with other machinery having three times this capacity. The directors of this new Company are, M. Kennedy,

A.	G. Mckay, H. B. Harrison, S. Lloyd and J. W. Maitland. Mr. Kennedy is president, Mr. Harrison vice-president and Mr. Maitland, secretary-treasurer. The Beaver Cement Company, the management of which is in the hands of a Montreal and British Syndicate, have recently acquired the cement deposit works at Maribank, Ont., and propose to largely increase the output of the works. The works of the Rathbun Company at Napanee Mills have undergone constant enlargement and improvement, and are turning out not only Portland cement of the usual character, but also silica sand cement, a material into which sand euters more largely than in the case of Portland cement as ordinarily manufacturred, and which is claimed to he superior for certain class of work.



A fine half-tone plate, about 11 x 5" in size of the new Terminal Station at Boston, from a negative by Soderholtz, is being sent out to architects by Mr. Samuel Cabot of Boston. Interesting statistics in regard to the building (which is the largest railway station in the world) are given, and attention is called to the fact that 62,000 sqr. ft. of Cabot's Insulating Quilts were used to insulate the heating and ventilating ducts, under specifications of Prof. Bomer, Woodbridge, the expert, who has used the Quilt many times before in his work, notably Rutland Hospital, at Rutland, Mass., the High School at Newton, Mass., the Insane Hospital at Medfield, Mass., etc. The Quilt is made with or without the Asbestos covering and it is a wonderfully efficient and cheap insulator and deadener and it is claimed for the Asbestos Quilt that it is the only article which combines the qualities of heat insulation, sound deadening and fireproofing.



ILLUSTRATED ADVERTISEMENTS.



















CENTER FLOWER IN STAFF FOR RESIDENCE, ST. GEORGE STREET.

By Win. J. Hynes, Toronto. F. H. Herbert, Architect.



An Advertisement in this journal never fails to bring RESULTS





THE HAMILTON AND TORONTO SEWER PIPE

STEAM PRESSED

Vitrified salt glazed  sewer pipe.	



CO.

Limited

WATER PIPE OULVERT PIPE

	FLUE LININGS	CHIMNEY TOPS

	SMOKE PREVENTIVES	INVERTS, &c.



Write Head Office for Discounts:



HAMILTON,

