<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL ART." author="">

	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	175



CORRESPONDENCE.

TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL ART.

To the Editor of the	Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—As a manufacturer I am pleased to observe the attention given in your columns to the above subject. The various resolutions recently adopted by some of our important bodies, having been published and different criticisms advanced, perhaps a few

more comments may bc of use in helping to establish in our midst institutions which will prove of material value in furthering the interests of our manufacturing industries, opening up new fields for the talent of our youth, and bringing greater reputation to Our country.

For years we have had our universities to turn Out clergymen, doctors, lawyers, etc., colleges of music, model farms to educate the husbandman and schools for mining and engineering. At last we have awakened to the fact that we can he something more than an agricultural country, and it is to the enterprise and foresight of our manufacturers, whose interests have been tile shuttlecock of governments, that a new feature in our commercial standing is to he given to the world.



We are now to have schools for the advancement of our manufacturing industries, and the value of these schools will depend on the understanding of what is required. So far they are spoken

of as " Technical Schools.		Looking into tile term, it seems



to wrongly designate the schools, or it is intended to establish the wrong kind of schools. "Technology" being the "science of arts," does not necessarily bring into use "applied art." What therefore is it, which is required ? Certainly something more than a school only for the purpose of teaching plain construction of an article. Modern education and taste demand something ornamented. This is evidenced every day of our lives. To have ornament so applied as to he in keeping with the article, then, would he an important feature of the teaching in such a school. Ornament is the application of beautiful forms or colours to enrich an object. Inappropriate enrichment is not ornament.



A School of Industrial Art and Applied Design would appear to he what is wanted Why ? Because the manufactured commerce of Canada has grown to such an important position in he progress of the Dominion that it is necessary we should be able to supply from our own people the export artisans and decorators needed in all branches of industry.

	Instruction in the proper	putting together of t lie necessary



parts of an article and the tasteful finishing of it, has for some years past occupied the attention of governments in all countries. The commerce of the country is the ward of the government, and should not have it's interests relegated to legislatures or municipalities. The government, then, should have the supreme charge over all that interests so important a part of the national welfare. The buildings and lands should he owned by the government, and the supervision of the schools be in it's charge— the legislatures and municipalities taking the responsibility of equipment and teachers.



These schools should he supplied wit It such plant as to educate cat the students in the bringing of raw material to a finished article, and should encompass every branch of manufacturing industry.

So far reference is made to what is supposed to he the object of the proposed mis-named schools. But have we at present schools properly equipped for this purpose? We have art schools, understood by many and defended by others as all that are needed, but requiring only further monetary support. Manufacturers are also being blunted because they have not contributed to the support and purchased the product of the existing schools, and evidence is offered that prize—winning pupils have been obliged to leave the country and seek positions in other climes.

Many of the present schools are devoting some attention to industrial design, but in many cases the result is not a practical working design, though as a specimen of close attention, graceful drawing and artistic coloring it [nay have taken the prize in the competition at the annual showing of all the schools' works.

Industrial drawing is one thing, decorative painting and designing is another, but applied design transcends them all. To produce a wall paper design of proper commercial value requires a knowledge of execution, including the cutting of patterns and stencils and a knowledge of blending. Interior decoration requires the production of schemes in different mediums, including treatment of walls, floors, ceilings and windows, hangings and furniture. Designs for carpets, rugs, curtains, upholstery goods, oil cloths, etc., requires a knowledge of the processes of manufacture.

Designers in textiles require knowledge of the various fibres and

animal products used, a knowledge of spinning them, and processes of dyeing and weaving. For wood carving and wood working, a knowledge of woods and their grains is necessary and so on, throughout the whole category of materials used in the construction of an article.

The demand by manufacturers for certificated pupils from competent schools would very soon prove a raison detre for the schools, and, instead of the present want of recognition, the schools would he in need of extension.

In connection with such schools should lie a museum of art, which is as necessary to their complete success as teachers.

Many other branches which should be included in tile course of instruction might have been referred to here, such as modelling, architecture, chasing, etching and engraving on metals, damascening and filigree, enamelling, stone carving, embroidery, casting, leather work, fresco, lithography, etc., machine construction, steam engines, applied mechanics, etc.

"MANUFACTURER."



<article title=" THE NEW YORK FIRE-PROOFING SCANDALS." author=" GAGNON, N.T.">

THE NEW YORK FIRE-PROOFING SCANDALS.



MONTREAL 8th September, t 899.



To the Editor of the Canadian Architect and BUILDER:



Sir, --The Roebling Construction Company in a letter published in your issue of August, take exception to my remarks anent

the New York Fire-proofing Scandal (vide June number of the Canadian Architect AND BUILDER) but evading every statement made therein seek by publishing two newspaper items of questionable taste and doubtful authenticity, to lead the general public (for whom they arc so solicitous) astray. What bearing these can have on the New York Fire-proofing Scandal and the  actions of the Building Commissioners, etc., I leave your readers to judge.

Nor are they content with this, but undertake to inform tile general public I ant a manufacturer of terra cotta (hard tile). Surely the advertisement of the company I represent is explicit enough " Manufacturer of Porous Terra Cotta," a material entirely different, and in its fire-proof qualities superior to either terra cotta (hard tile), or concrete.

The following extracts (not unknown, I think, to the Roebling Co.) and taken from correspondence and reports will give the general public a clear conception of the straight forward and disinterested interest of this firm on their behalf.

" Henry Maurer & Son deeming the fire-proof period, 5, to 6 hours of Mr. Constable's fourteen tests inadequate to determine the resistance to intense heat of fire-proofing material, threw down a challenge to all for a joint test of 24 hours continuous





The John A. Roeblittg Sons Company, in a letter to Mr. Constable purported to accept their challenge, but instead of a fire-test of 24 hours, continuous duration, proposed one of hours only. This proposition was declined, and settled the whole matter as far as H. Maurer & Son were concerned."

But, the John A. Roebling Company, under conditions imposed by themselves, and presumably the most favorable for their method, and with material procured at considerable trouble and expense, with additional tile from othe manufacturers, proceeded to erect (themselves) an end construction arch of feet span in a structure adjoining a concrete arch superintended and

constructed	by them.



Mr. Julius Franke, architect, of New York, in his report of this test, says : " When I made my first inspection the hollow tile arch had been built, and as no concrete had then been put on top of the same, I noticed that the key of the arch was not in the centre that tiles of different patterns, not made to he built in the same arch were used, and that some of the cement mortar which I took off the top was very poor, the same crumbling between my fingers." It did not require deep penetration to discern the result which followed. He continues: "After the fire test I examined the arch again and found that the middle third, including skew backs, had fallen, and that the two-thirds remaining had joints open at the bottom, but that most of the mortar with which the bottom of the tiles had been plastered had remained on the tiles. The concrete filling on top of the arch was very poor, not being strong enough to resist any strains. I came to the conclusion that the arch failed because it was improperly built."

A study of the results of independent tests, vide Denver tests



1893; S. Constable's N. Y. tests, 1896: the report of S. Albert

Reed to the New York Tariff Association, etc., will convincingly

show that the test of which the Roehling letter treats was simply

a farce.

I am yours truly, 

N.	T. GAGNON.



 [As no benefit seems likely to accrue to our readers from a continuance of this correspondence, it must now close.—EDITOR

C.	A. &. B.]

