<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MARTELLO TOWERS IN ENGLAND." author="">



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT



MARTELLO TOWERS IN ENGLAND.

Whatever may have been the defensive value of martello towers a century ago, it has entirely evaporated now, and it is not surprising to find that one or two of them at Bawsdsey Haven, on the Suffolk coast are being demolished. There are a good many of them on the coasts of Essex, Suffolk, Kent and Sussex. These massive round towers, some forty feet high, were regarded as, and very likely were, splendid defenses at the time they were erected, but they have long been used only for coastguard purposes. Their name is derived from the Italian coast towers which were erected as a protection against pirates. Warning that a suspicious craft was in sight was given by striking a bell with a martello, or hammer. It was the powerful defence made in 1794 by Le Tellier at the tower of Martella, with only thirty—eight men, against a simultaneous sea and land attack, led by Lord Hood and Major General Dundas, which brought them into favor in this country. It was thought that they would he a splendid defence against "Boney." The London Chronicle.



<article title=" WORKMEN'S DWELLINGS IN GERMANY." author="">

WORKMEN'S DWELLINGS IN GERMANY.

The United States consul at Chemnitz writes that there is a movement on foot to furnish working men with better dwelling-places in Germany. At present they are crowded into buildings which often look like barracks. The proposed houses will be built upon plots of ground about 36½ feet wide by 102 feet deep, thereby allowing for a front yard for flowers, and a back yard for a vegetable garden and shed, the latter for the keeping of poultry or some domestic animal. The houses will contain five rooms. A parlor and kitchen will be on the first floor, the parlor containing a porcelain stove and heating pipes, and the kitchen a wash boiler and stove. The three bedrooms on the second floor will easily hold five or six persons, and can be made to accommodate ten. In the largest an iron stove will he placed. A pump will provide water where the city waterworks do not extend to the house. The cost of such a house and plot of ground when a number are built at a time will be between 1701. and 1901. It will let for about 91. a year—that is for the same price the working-man has to pay for two rooms in the barrack-like tenements of the large cities.



<article title=" HINTS ON DECORATION AND FURNISHING." author=" Brown, Edward Hurst">

HINTS ON DECORATION AND

FURNISHING.

The private office of a well-known architect, writes Edward Hurst Brown, in the Painters' Magazine, has been hung with curious old pieces of German tapestry, with quaint figures of burghers in high top boots and rosy-cheeked maidens in red dresses, walking amidst stiffy trimmed trees and gardens of formal flowers and foliage, with perhaps here and there the towers of a castle seen in the distance. The ceiling is supported by heavy oak beams, stained a dull black, between which the panels are covered with natural tinted burlap with stenciled figures in dull reddish brown. The deep carved cornice has heavy modillions from which the beams apparently spring. On the floor of polished oak parquetry, in small square blocks, is thrown a handsome Turking rug, while in the center of the room is a

large square table of black oak, convenient to display a toll of drawings to a client. Cases in one corner of the room contain photographs and books of architectural detail, while here and there are displayed bits of terra cotta, or plaster models of carving used on buildings designed by the architect himself. The inevitable rolltop desk is of black oak, and has been made to harmonize with the furniture and decorations, and while the chairs are comfortable, they have been made to imitate the quaint old German carved chairs that are so artistic. A drawing table in one corner is a convenient working place when sketches are to be made, while on an easel stands a fine perspective drawing of one of the noteworthy buildings which the architect has designed. The broad window is filled with plain white glass, set in lead lines, with ornamental medallions introducing the various tools of the different building crafts. A broad cut stone fireplace on one side of the room is surmounted by a carved hood of black oak, ornamented with armorial bearings in true heraldic colors.



<article title=" NOTES ON STAINING." author="">

NOTES ON STAINING.

First-class staining can be done only with the best of materials. Water stains are objectionable in that they raise the grain of the wood, and yet their exceeding transparency, and the quality they possess of drying without showing laps, clouds, streaks, etc., enable the workman to obtain better results as a rule than oil and turpentine stains afford. Alcohol stains, in this respect, are ranked with water stains.

The successful stainer bears first in mind the fact that not only is color effect sought, but the figure and characteristics of the wood are to be imitated or enriched.

The really artistic example of staining is that which shows a tone of color due to a combination of the color of the wood and the stain employed.

A good rule to remember when staining is this The woody appearance is to be sought for ; the painty look to be avoided.

Nearly all woods have a transparent quality or power of reflection, changing as the changing light strikes them. The aim of the stainer should be to have the wood retain this reflecting property, this changing look as one changes his position or the daylight shifts.

Only the best dressed and smoothest lumber, clear and clean, knot and sap free, and running barren of soft places or "dead wood," invites the best order of staining.

Concerning the art of staining, an expert advises:

Strive to hide the fact that you are imitating, and after you have secured the desired effect, be careful to keep your color uniform and free from clouds, laps and finger marks."



French artists are now busy in considering the conditions of the competition for the design of the diploma which is to be issued in connection with the International Exhibition of 1900. Thc designs in the first competition are to be sent in before June 15, and those in the second before September 21. The jury will consist of twenty-one members, of whom eight will he selected by the competitors. It is anticipated that five of the competitors will take part in the second contest. The design selected will be rewarded with a prize of 10,000 francs, and the four artists who

are not successful will each have 1,000 francs. The design for the last International Exhibition in Paris was the work of the late M. Galland, and M. Paul Baudry designed its predecessor.

