<doctype type="text">

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

196	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Quebec for the years 1890 to 1899 in Duplicate for the use of the Section of Quebec and for Montreal.

The Council has had the satisfaction of arranging that the books of the library shall be catalogued under a general scheme, now in course of development, by which the libraries of this Association and of the Art Association of Montreal, as also the Art and Architectural portions of' the McGill University and of Westmount, shall all be grouped together. This comprehensive scheme cannot fail to be of advantage to all students it will avoid unnecessary duplication of books and consequently husband the resources of the smaller libraries.

The Association was invited to take part in the French Universal Exhibition of 1900, and the Council on two occasions consulted the members of the Association by circular upon the subject. No encouragement whatever was received by way of answer, and the Council reluctantly decided to abandon the project, while feeling convinced that to have been adequately represented on so important an occasion would have been of great advantage to the profession.

The rooms of the Association are removed to a more suitable and agreeable locality, and the rooms have been suitably furnished with a view to their being more generally available to and by all the members of the Association. No formal opening has yet taken place, the rooms having been ready only somewhat late in the season. The formal inauguration may be suggested as a matter for the new Council to take up on its appointment.

Your attention is called to the suitability of the new rooms for special meetings, such as arbitration's, especially when these are of a private character or require considerable accommodation for large numbers. Members who approve of this suggestion and avail themselves of it can contribute a share to the prosperity and usefulness of the Association beyond the mere revenue accruing, which is necessarily small ; such use of the headquarters of the Association, it is felt, will tend to promote "esprit de corps' within the profession.

The Constitution is now printed and will at once be distributed to members. Considerable labor and time have been bestowed upon it.

We have had to record with regret during the past year the death of Mr. A. G. Fowler, who was among the founders of the Association.

The Association has 139 active members, of whom six were registered since last general meeting.

There was no general meeting this year; there were 7 special meetings and 10 regular meetings of Council, at which the attendance was as follows:—

	AIf. Raza,		President,	Montreal.	16

	Prof. S. H. Capper,		1st Vice-President,		10

	G E. Tanguay,		2nd	Quebec.	o

	J os. Venne,		Secretary,	Montreal.	16

	W. E. Doran,		Treasurer,		11

	J.	F. Peachy,	Counsellor,	Quebec.	o

	E. Maxwell,			Montreal,	13

	G. A. Mouette,

	M. Perrault,				9

	J.	S. Archibald,			.4

	A.	T. Taylor,	4

	Jos. VENNE,	A. RAZA,

	Secretary.	L'resident.



REPORT OF QUEBEC SECTION.



The undersigned, officers of the Quebec Station, "P. Q. A.A .,' hereby have the honor to submit to the Council the annual report of said Section for the year 1898-1899.

The Quebec Architects have held monthly meetings, where were discussed local matters interesting the profession in general, and more particularly the Quebec members. On the 2nd of February, our members assembled to consider a measure brought before the Provincial Legislature, as an amendment to our Charter, and report the case to the Council. Thanks to the combined efforts of all, we succeeded in preventing the passing of that amendment, as previously expressed, which was an attempt to lessen the privileges of the Architects, and more especially those who had acquired the title by undergoing the required examinations.

The Quebec Section has taken due notice of the accident that occurred to the Nicolet Cathedral and Montreal Civic hospital, and took advantage of those disasters to suggest that the Council representing to the Government the necessity of appointing as Inspectors of Public Buildings, only Architects, members of the Association, and duly qualified for such important functions, and to oblige the proprietors of such Public Buildings to have plans made by Architects (as the law requires.) For that purpose, we have suggested that the Council supply the Archbishops and Bishops of our Province, as well as the Archbishops of Ottawa, with an official list of the members of the "P. Q. A. A.'

Our Section has also drawn the attention of the Council to the fact that, amongst others, two persons were practising as Architects in Quebec, and were advertising as such in local papers, without being members of Association,—asking the Council to take proceedings against those gentlemen,—which has not yet been done, for reasons given by the Council.

M. Tanguay, our President, has, in behalf of the Council. asked the Government for two series of the Revised Statutes of the Province, one for Montreal, and one for Quebec; he has been answered favorably, and these series were sent recently.

The above respectfully submitted.

	Jos. P. OUELLET,	G. EMILE TANGUAV,

	Sec. Q. 5.	2nd Vice-President.



QUEBEC, August 12th, 1899.



On motion the reports were unanimously adopted.

Messrs. J. E. Larochelle and J. H. Lebon having been appointed scrutineers, the election of officers was proceeded with, the result being as follows

President—Prof. S. H. Capper, Montreal.

1st Vice-President—G. E. Tanguay, Quebec.

2nd Vice-President—Jos. Venne, Montreal.

Secretary—G. A. Monette, Montreal.

Treasurer—W. E. Doran, Montreal.

Councillors—A. Raza, Montreal J. S. Archibald, Montreal; E. Maxwell, Montreal H. Staveley, Quebec Alcide Chausse, Montreal; A. H. Lapierre, Montreal.

Auditors A. R. Decary, Montreal R. P. Lemay, Quebec.

At 2 p.m. the meeting adjourned for luncheon.

The afternoon session opened with the newly elected president in the chair. It was largely devoted to consideration of means of securing compliance with the requirements of the Quebec Architects' Act, and a proposal that the Association should publish an album illustrating the old colonial architecture of the province.

in the evening some of the members dined together at the Frontenac Hotel.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER.



The new President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects is a graduate of the University of Edinburgh. In 1887 he was admitted by examination a student of the School of the Beaux Arts, Paris. From 1887 to 1891 he practiced architecture in his native city of Edinburgh. In 1891 he was admitted an associate









































PROF. S. H. CAPPER.





member of the Royal Institute of British Architects, and shortly after became a university extension lecturer in connection with the University of Edinburgh. In 1896 he was appointed examiner in the Faculty of Arts for the department of archaeology and art history of this university, In the same year he accepted the position of Professor of Architecture in McGill University, which position he still retains.





ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

Preparations are being made for the convention on January i6th. Members are invited to send in drawings or photographs of their year's work for a stereopticon exhibition, such as has been made in former years. If those who have photographic negatives of their work will send them, this will much reduce the labor and expense of preparing lantern slides. The registrar will receive, care for and return all contributions for this purpose.

There has recently been added to the library a practical treatise on plumbers' work entitled Modern Plumbing, Steam and Hot Water Heating," by Jas. J. Lawler. An omission from the catalogue distributed this summer is, Heating and Ventilation," by

