<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">



never heard of any similar institution in which the highest membership fee was only five dollars, and, though he did not desire to criticize, he was inclined to think a mistake had been made when the fees were reduced, and that that action was in some degree responsible for the falling off of the Association, because it might he argued that where the fee was so low the benefits must be small, and it could not be worth while to become a member. The benevolent fund of the Royal Institute of British Architects had been growing and increasing, and in the few cases where its benefits had been applied had been found an exceedingly good thing. Of course it was known to all that subscribers to a benevolent fund were entitled to its benefits without being under obligation to anyone for them. The third item, the application to the government for funds to establish an " Ontario Gold Medal," he thought would furnish an incentive to architects which would have the effect of improving their work in every direction. The medal would be sought for by the architects of the province just as the Royal gold medal of England was regarded as the highest honor to be attained by any old country architect. Of course, Canadians were eligible as competitors for that medal, but it was not likely under present conditions that it would be obtained by a Canadian. The course he suggested would be in the public interest, as it would result in a generally improved class of architecture, and it was therefore something which ought to meet the approval of the government. The fourth item in his motion was the providing of a medal out of the funds of the Association, and a scholarship by public subscription or otherwise, to be competed for by the students of the Association. lie thought that hitherto the Association had not held out sufficient inducement to its students ; in fact, he almost felt like saying they had been neglected. Certainly very little had been done for them, and the remark was frequently made by students, "I would like to register, but why should 1, there is nothing in the Association for me!" It seemed to him that the attraction of students to the Association was one of the most desirable things, for if they could get the students, success was assured. He thought architects not connected with the Association must feel on many occasions that something was wanting in their make up as an architect, and that something was membership in the Association. He believed that in the course of time, perhaps before they secured any amend-merit to the act of incorporation, men would be proud to call themselves registered architects. Other institutions had prospered all along the line without restrictive legislation, but in all those cases it would be found that attractions of some kind had been provided to induce and maintain the membership. He thought the medal and travelling scholarship he suggested would prove a very strong inducement to students, and have the effect of reinforcing the ranks of the Association. He thought a policy such as he suggested was quite practicable, and would have the effect of building up and strengthening the organization, and placing it in a better position to assume the new responsibilities which would undoubtedly fall upon it when, in the future, the desired amendment was secured.

Mr. Helliwell suggested the advisability of discussing the various clauses of Mr. Baker's motion seriatim.

The President pointed out that the matter could only be dealt with as a notice of motion, and therefore it might not be well at this stage to spend time in discussing it clause by clause.

Mr. Pearson said that before Mr. Baker spoke the idea seemed to be to cut expenses down ; Mr. Baker's proposition seemed to be to put them up. Mr. Baker certainly had a very rosy view of the future, which it was to be hoped was well grounded, but, speaking for himself, he thought the programme outlined was almost too much for the Association to undertake.

Mr. Burke was of the opinion that it would he necessary to have a very much larger income than that possessed at present if the Association was to embark in all the projects outlined by Mr. Baker. Even to continue its existence it was necessary either that the mem

bership fee should be increased or the membership list augmented ; there were only the two courses open, as far as he could see.

Mr. Wickson said it did not necessarily follow that all of the suggestions embodied in Mr. Baker's motion should be adopted. He thought that the idea of according- some recognition to the man who had done the best work during the year, if confined to registered architects, would be a very strong incentive to good work by members of the Association. Some of the other suggestions, although good, might not be practicable just now, such, for instance, as establishing a headquarters of their own, which would be open to the objection that it was available to the Toronto members only, and therefore would not be likely to meet with support from outside members. But the mere fact that Mr. Baker's suggestions might not be accepted in their entirety was no reason for not considering such of them as seemed valuable.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, thought there could be no possible objection to the appointment of a committee to consider Mr. Baker's suggestions, and, indeed, any other ideas on similar lines that might occur to them in the course of their discussion. He had had an opportunity of seeing Mr. Baker's proposals before they were brought before the meeting, and at first sight he had been favorably impressed by them, but on careful consideration, and speaking as one who had an intimate knowledge of the financial affairs of the Association, he felt alarmed at the largeness of the idea of establishing a scholarship and a benevolent fund. The matter of the medals, he thought, was quite within their resources. If Mr. Burke's suggestion was adopted, and the offices all made honorary, it might also be possible to have a room as suggested by Mr. Baker. The question was one on which much might be said on both sides, and as there were some gentlemen in the room, not members of the Association, but who had some ideas regarding what the course of the Association ought to be, this might be an opportune time to hear their views.

Mr. Wells, one of thc gentlemen referred to by Mr. Langton, said that the matter now before the meeting opened up a very wide field for discussion. He remembered in reading the report of last year's convention that one member had expressed himself to the effect that he was getting tired of paying fees merely to afford students an opportunity of being examined, entirely for their own benefit, and for that reason contemplated dropping out of the Association. He thought that Mr. Baker's point was very well taken. lie did not suppose that even the most ardent member would claim for the Association that it had hitherto been a howling success, nor did the attendance on the present occasion evidence that such was the fact. He thought Mr. Baker had hit the nail on the head when he said that without the students the Association could not look forward to a very prolonged or useful existence. Of course the older members might carry it on for a time, but without an accession from the ranks of the younger architects it could hardly be expected to prolong its existence more than fifty years at most. So far they had not succeeded in getting the amendment to the charter which they sought, and, as far as he could judge, there did not seem to be any immediate prospect of their doing so. They might possibly secure it in thc course of fifteen or twenty years, but even if they did he questioned whether it would be a good thing for them. In the meantime, how was the Association going to get along without the young men. The President appeared to regard the history of the organization with entire satisfaction, to think that it had done nothing which it ought not to have done, and had left undone nothing it ought to have done. This, however, was not apparent to some of the younger men in the profession. It therefore seemed to him that Mr. Baker's proposition that something should be done to encourage the younger men to join was a good one. He was aware that the question of ways and means presented difficulties, but they were not insuperable. He thought that the great trouble was that at the outset the whole

