<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTER." author="">

	138	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND\	BUILDER.



the deeply coffered ceiling of the banking hall is crowded, wants breadth, and is not well executed in detail It may safely be predicted that many a day will pass ere Molsons Bank yields pride of place among Vancouver's business premises.

There are at least two new buildings which rival Molsons Bank, but in size only, for they cannot be regarded as rivals from an architectural standpoint. The Fairfield block is a plain, four storeyed erection without any peculiar claims to our attention, being simply a series of bands of brick alternating with courses of stone—rock-faced, of course. The lintels over the stairs are supported by plain, rectangular, cast-iron posts the thin looking stairs in the nature of label molds over the arched openings of the third floor do not work in happily the galvanized iron cornices have a " stock pattern sheet" appearance, and are quite out of keeping with the somewhat rude character of the structure. The worst features are the entrances, which are extremely elementary in conception.

A number of new buildings have been erected and some others are in course of erection. Few are of interest, some being merely sheets of glass framed in white brick and galvanized iron, rather resembling two-dollar looking glasses, and doubtless are as serviceable as they are ugly. However, in more than one instance the architect has boldly enclosed the upper storeys with a slightly stilted semi-circular arch sweeping from outer pier to Outer pier, and, by a careful treatment of the diminishing fenest ration, has shown that utility and unmitigated ugliness can be divorced. There appears to be an insensate rage for glass, not only in the store fronts, where its presence is, of course, absolutely essential, but in upper storeys used not as show rooms but as offices, where the excessive quantity of glass is quite uncalled for, being a positive nuisance to the tenants in the summer and a strain on the heating system during the winter. From the artistic point of view, what can be said in favor of a material which, the better its quality, the more nearly it resembles a void?

Strange to say, we noticed, besides the Bank of Montreal, the old Hotel Vancouver and the C.P.R. buildings, but one other business building with a roof! Everywhere is a dreary wilderness of decks. Why hide a roof, which of all features is capable of such varied treatment ? Certainly the style of building most in vogue is not one that would lend itself readily to visible roofing, but in this mild, moist climate it does seem strange that the deck should be preferred. The necessity of keeping down the cost is doubtless the reason in some cases, but there seems to be a feeling prevalent that a building with a framed roof in evidence has not a business-like appearance, which is ridiculous enough. None the less, time western mind objects to a skyline broken by aught but jogs and steps, for the same fathomless reason that causes western engineers to build roads and streets in rigidly straight lines at right angles to each other. Even the roads which lead out of the city and through the woods are driven straight ahead, regardless of natural contours, resulting in highways not only wearisomely monotonous but distressingly steep, entailing engineering difficulties which might have been frequently avoided and always lessened by sweeping around the bases of the hills. Do western engineers wish us to believe that "there is no use," let alone beauty, in a curved line? But this is a bad digression.

If it were difficult to convey the impression received by a visitor of Vancouver's street architecture, it is still less easy to sum up the result of a necessarily somewhat cursory review of the domestic building. One first notices that the lots are small—so small in some parts of the city as to be suitable only for the erection of houses iii pairs or in terraces. Some few houses stand in 132 X 132 feet, though in far too many instances two—and even three—houses are crowded into one lot. It will at once be understood, then, that we need not look for "places" in Vancouver with the lawns, shrubberies, good trees and shady walks, lodges, stable buildings and so forth that are comprised in what are commonly designated "grounds—for of these there are none. Years hence, when the bush-covered surrounding country has been conquered and cultivated, this serious lack of space will be over-conic. At present no man can set his house back one hundred yards from the road unless he goes into the woods, for the city limits are ambitious in extent to the last degree, and embrace an area great enough to accommodate a round half million of people. The development of the town site is consequently not concentrated, and embryonic roads and sidewalks stretch away out into the black stumps in an aimless sort of way.

The type of dwelling most favored in the west end is a two-storied weather-boarded structure, with eaves projecting as much as three, and even four, feet from the wall line. The shingled

roofs are usually gabled. The design is based upon the American Colonial, with the exaggerations of the style intensified, and its many elegancies and possibilities in refinement and the picturesque pretty completely lost. Cheap expediency is writ very large in some, and vulgar ostentation in others. It must not he concluded, however, that much of a different character is not to be found, only that it requires searching for among the multitude of commonplaces. The meagre size of the building lots positively bars any building in the broad, spreading manner characteristic of so much fine modern work, a manner which conveys an impression of ease, comfort and elbow room quite beyond the ken of lots which run from five to fifteen to the acre, and frequently subdivided at that ! Such sites as these are, indeed, more suited to downright street architecture than to the semi-rustic timber houses which are crowded into them. It is no uncommon tiling to see a house, which, having scarcely passage room around it, has none the less a piazza 8 or to feet wide within a few feet of the sidewalk. No thorough consideration of such important points as prospect or aspect is possible, neither, indeed, does it appear that any consideration at all is afforded to them in tile vast majority of cases. Time extreme newness of everything, too, is against both the houses and their surroundings, which sadly need the ever beautifying touch of the hand of Time. One cannot enthuse over brand new stone walls, shiney painted weather boards and precisely tuck-pointed bricks, unless one is a real estate agent or builders supplies merchant. Fortunately, trees will grow and hide, or at least decently veil, much that is bizzare, or flat and uninteresting. Stone amid brick will mellow, ivy creep and roses cluster, in time—all in good time. For the present the lover of the picturesque will find little enough for sketch book amid camera among the houses with tarred roofs and French grey weather hoards. This same practice of tarring shingles with coal tar is nothing short of barbarous. Surely such violent contrasts are not desirable-----the gloomy nature of the climate perhaps inclines one rather to bright than sombre hues—but black, French grey and white is coming it strong. With such flue tones of red, golden brown, silver grey, moss green and ivory, to which shingles arid weather boards quite naturally lend themselves, it does seem a thousand pities to disfigure them with coal tar and such paint. If tar is really with some a sine qua non, why not use Stockholm, which affords deep, rich, soft, brown tones, and is a better preservative than the nasty black stuff.

The great projection often given to the eaves is no doubt dictated by the climate, and affords a useful shelter to the upper windows from the drenching and long continued rains, but the treatment of this novel feature is seldom a happy one—horizontally sheeted soffits supported on skinny looking and altogether inadequate consoles being the rule. Those interiors we have been given an opportunity of seeing are for the most part disappointing. Houses with such expensive features as broad piazzas, heavy turned columns, much begabled roofs, circular bays surmounted by towers, etc., are frequently, nay, generally, finished internally with a meagreness quite out of keeping with all this outside show. The contrast sets one thinking of—well, all sorts of things—and it is distinctly amusing to hear that the owner could riot afford to pay for more ornament, such as a beam ceiling, sonic cedar wainscot, tiles on his porch floors, and had to forego a little parquetry, all wall papers, a coat of paint or plaster even, on account of cost—amid this with his house stuck as full of circular bays, plate glass, balconies, gables, turnings amid so forth as could be crowded on!

It must be borne in mind that this is the west, amid that there has not been sufficient time to evolve a standard in matters of taste. There are no old established interests, no cultivated leisure class. The to wit does not possess a museum, much less a gallery of arts, not even a fine arts society. Every man is fully occupied in making a way for himself, and until he decided to buy a rot amid build a house, probably never gave two thoughts to building. His idea of what constitutes the calling of an architect is a beautifully mixed one, amid consequently, in his utter ignorance, turns to what he is pleased to call a practical man, with the hapless results that defy criticism. That bogey, the practical man, is ever the most hopeless, unpractical—knows nothing of planning his designing is not less ridiculous than his planning or more feeble than his drawing; his vaunted practical knowledge is invariably confined to the One trade he followed before he started speculative jerry building operations on his own account.

A stranger visiting Vancouver a few years hence will be able to form a fairer estimate of her architectural values than it us possible to form at present; all is too recent, too absolutely new amid hard to be yet judged. Houses which look terribly out of place now, may, as the development of their surroundings proceeds, prove to have been less unhappily conceived, and with increase of years will conic a greater appearance of permanence, that which is now so distinctly wanting. But a few years ago the site of the city was an unbroken forest. The first great change came with the falling amid sweeping away of the timber, which converted time woods into a melancholy sea of blackened stumps The second transformation is now taking place, and it is only possible yet to get glimpses of what is being brought about. In the meantime everyone who clears a hot or two, plants a few trees amid creates a garden, however tiny, is doing a good work, for he is helping to obliterate the scars of wounds inflicted on the face of Nature.

