<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BUILDING STONES AND STONE-CUTTING." author="Marshall, Alexander">

	238	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



BUILDING STONES AND STONE-CUTTING.*

By ALEXANDER MARSHALL.



To the mason and stone-cutter a full and accurate knowledge of the materials he uses is most essential to enable him to estimate the advantages to be gained from their proper application for building purposes, so as to fill the conditions of economy, combined with utility and skilful workmanship. He should make himself acquainted with their positive and relative strength, the changes that take place from exposure to the atmosphere, moisture, heat and cold. Regard must also be had to the time and labor required in cutting them for building purposes. On the nature of the materials used in construction, the strength and durability of buildings wholly depend, and all the science we have ought to be applied to make the best selection from the materials within our reach. The most important properties of stone, as applied to building, is strength to resist compression, tension or other strains, its ability to withstand shocks and oppose friction, its unchangeable character when exposed to heat or cold—to the atmosphere or to the application of acids.

In making choice of building stone, when its qualities are unknown, it would be well to make a few simple tests to ascertain its qualities and defects. Sandstones that contain the greater proportion of silex in their composition, with a binding or cementing matter of a silicious nature, when compact and of fine grain, are the most durable, are very hard and most difficult to work, consequently very expensive where fine work is wanted, and not often used for mouldings or ornamental work. Sandstones whose component parts are silex and alumina, vary in strength and hardness, as the proportion of silex is greater or less. Alumina or pure clay is very adhesive, is incombustible, insoluble in water, but soluble in acids. It has a great attraction for metallic oxides, and thereby gives the shades of greys, reds and browns common to clays and sandstones.

When iron is to a great extent present in the cementing matter, and the stone coarse grained, disintegration soon takes place, more especially in large manufacturing cities, where it is more liable to the action of deleterious vapors and gases. The cementing matter being clay, with more or less iron incorporated, when exposed to the atmosphere the iron becomes oxidized, and is washed out by rain, leaving the surface of the stone porous and liable to absorb moisture in large quantities. When the surface of the stone is charged with water and becomes frozen, expansion takes place, the particles are forced apart, moulder away and fall off. Sandstones composed of silex, mica and alumina are generally of a more laminated nature, and being formed by the action of water, the mica in scales of greater of less size, is deposited on their flat sides. This kind of stone is much more easily split going with the bed or laminations, than at right angles to it. Great care should always be taken to have the stone placed in the wail on its natural bed. There are some sandstones so formed that it is very difficult to know the natural bed, even with the use of a lens ; still, the mason or stone-cutter of experience can tell the difference when cutting the stone—it is harder and more difficult to break off across the grain than with it.

Stone, when laid on its natural bed, will resist decay from chemical and mechanical influences better, there being a smaller surface of' cementing matter exposed ; it will stand compression better, the layers being horizontal. There are some cases

which it is not practicable to have the stones placed on their natural bed, such as in the use of' columns, pilasters, mullions and baluisters. Then great care should be taken to have the stone Of the closest texture and as free from lamination as can be obtained.

Stones that are fine and regular in grain, close and dense in texture, of deep rich color, of the greatest specific gravity, are the strongest, if' comparatively free from drys or cracks, clay or sand holes, metal ores, such as iron or sulphur spots. When these defects are present to any great degree the stone should be rejected, as they are liable to rapid decomposition. The iron, being often found from the size of small shot to one inch or more in diameter, becomes oxidized and runs over the surface, carrying decay in its progress and spoiling the appearance of the work. All quarries have various grades of rock, from coarse to finer, and often a considerable difference in color. When selecting stone for an expensive ornamental building, it is well to see the quarry the stone is to be got from. There are generally portions of the rock that have been exposed to the weather for many years, and the layer of rock that has withstood the exposure with least signs of decay should be the layer chosen. The hardest stone is not always the best to stand exposure to dryness and moisture, heat



Paper read before the Toronto Chapter Ontario Association of Architects.

and cold. The composition of the rock is of the greatest import ance.

In a climate such as we have here the materials used for residences and house building generally should be of a kind that are poor or imperfect conductors of heat, so that the house may be cool in summer and warm in winter. At the present time dwelling houses are not built to stand for hundreds of years—there has been a revolution in that class of building. Heating, lighting and hygiene have, and are being, vastly improved, calling for the removal of old structures and the raising up of new ones. Stones that are of dry and porous nature are mostly imperfect conductors, easy to work, consequently not so costly as those of a hard and flinty nature that are better conductors of heat.



Common limestone as a building material is not much used where good sandstone can be obtained at reasonable cost. It is durable in construction, but difficult to cut. The expense of cutting mouldings or dressing it to a smooth surface causes it to be very little used in the exposed parts of buildings. Owing to its ability to resist compression, it is well adapted for footings and lower parts of walls, where great weights and strains are to be borne.

The oolite limestone is very much used in building. Some kinds are very easily cut, and take on beautiful smooth finish, either off the chisel or rubbed. They have generally the property of becoming harder on the surface with exposure to the atmosphere. They are mostly of a light buff to cream color, which changes somewhat after being placed in the wall. Good examples of oolite are Portland, Bath, Caen, and Bedford, Indiana. Great care ought to be taken in selection, and a knowledge of their peculiar properties is necessary in making a choice, even from the same quarries; some coarse grain stones absorb little water, while others of finer grain suck in moisture readily, and are more liable to the action of frost, and soon decay.



Oolite limestone is much used in England. Portland stone from Portland Island, has been most extensively used, and is hard and durable when carefully selected. Bath stone, from Gloucestershire, is soft and easily worked, getting harder on the surface when exposed, and can be obtained in great abundance. It is light, bears compression well, and of cream color. The Bible training school on College street has the trimmings of this stone. Caen stone, from Normandy, France, has much the same properties as Bath, about the same color, is finer in grain, lighter in weight, and will bear a greater strain than Bath stone, but is more costly, and the best qualities can only be obtained in small blocks. The stone work in the main stair, Osgoode Hall, is Caen stone. Bedford, Indiana, stone can be had in immense quantities, and in great variety as to quality, some hard and some dense, and can resist great compression and cross strains. Some of it is coarse in grain with the laminations easily seen ; other kinds are close with uniform fine grain ; the laminations can only be seen on very close inspection. With oolite as with sandstone, it is most important that the stone should be laid in the wall on its natural bed. The grain in oolite stone is globular in form, packed together like fish roe. The cementing material is of' the same composition as the base, but is softer and more liable to the action of moisture, heat and cold.



Granite must take the first place in building materials, owing to its great strength, hardness and durability. Its ability to resist atmospheric influence puts it in the first rank. Its durability is proved by the remains of buildings erected thousands of years ago. Granite is to be had in abundance in nearly every country, and in blocks of any dimension that means can be provided to move. It is found in various shades of color and great variety of texture and composition. It is capable of taking on a high and permanent polish. A great amount of labor is required to cut and bring it to a high finish, and it is only used in

building for special purposes. For monumental work it is unequalled, and for steps, bridge piers and dock work it is the best material known. In comparing the qualities of granites, the best is that in which the grains or particles are fine, uniform in size and equally distributed throughout the whole mass. If quartz is the principal component, and the grains large, the stone

is hard and brittle, and consequently takes more time and labor to bring it to smooth surface and polish. When feldspar or

mica predominate, the stone is softer and easier to dress, but more liable to decay, especially if iron, its ores, and sulphur be present in great quantities.

The art of masonry may be divided into two parts - the rough

dressing, and setting of shoddy and rubble stone is what is known as stone masonry. Bricks being of a definite size and regular in

