<doctype type="text">

	104	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAEIN(; IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY A+ ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

Bakers' Ovens.

In the building of bakers' ovens, a number of things must be taken into consideration. First, the size of the

oven must be determined, then, whether coals or wood is to be used as fuel, and the situation must be decided upon. These things having been considered, it would be well to make a thorough examination of an oven that has given satisfaction, and with these matters settled, the work may be commenced. Let us suppose the oven is to be heated with coals, and the size of the base determined, this base should be carried up to the height of the furnace door, and the ash pit left according to the width of the door and the length of the furnace bars, allowing for the door being set 4 ½ inches from the brickwork. The frame and the door, should be about one foot square like the furnace door of a steam boiler, set in brick, and the bars should be about twenty inches long, and level with the bottom of the oven and of the door. The flues should be made sixteen inches square for the fire to shoot into the oven from the shoulder, where the furnace is straight across to the opposite angle of the oven, and the fire catching the crown in its course it will spread all round. A register should be fixed in the flue, and a "copper" five or six inches above the furnace, not so as to get too hot, for it is usually warm water only that is used in a bake shop. A register should be fixed within a little of where the flue enters the oven, and rise slanting

































FIG. 1.—BAKE OVEN.

the copper, more economic results may be obtained as less fuel will be required to heat the oven. The side walls from which the crown of the oven springs, ought not to be less than 2½ bricks in thickness, and the crown spring, should be about nine inches above the

































FIG. 2.—SECTIONAL View.





floor of the oven. The angles should all intersect and all be laid with as close joints as possible. In first-class ovens the lining is all of fire-clay bricks, laid in fire-clay mortar. If the top is domed, instead of arched, as is sometimes the case, sand should be spread over the top so that when the work gets dry the sand will fill up any cracks that may result from shrinkage when drying. Fig. 1 shows a perspective view of a very good class of ovens. This is about five feet wide in front and six feet back. It may be made larger or smaller to suit conditions, but this proportion should always be maintained. Fig. 2 shows the longitudinal section and Fig. 3 the



which being stopped when the oven is hot enough, leads to the chimney flue. The general rise of the crown above the flue is from 17 to 20 inches, the form of which is often made of sand which is removed after the brickwork has set. Sometimes an oven is constructed without a copper, and this is, perhaps the better plan, for it is certain the brick and copper will not expand uniformly under heat, though by the use of

FIG. 3.—PLAN OF OVEN.





plan of the brickwork, showing the iron rods that pass through the oven to hold it firmly together. The manner of laying and binding the bricks is shown in the plan, and the construction is so plainly presented in the illustration that further explanations are unnecessary.

