<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE 0. A. A.—A SYMPOSIUM." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT BUILDER.	215



poses after a year of deliberation. It should make suggestions more valuable than those of an individual member.

In the meantime I give sonic brief answers to your questions:

1.	All members should attend the next Convention and seek to make it a success.



2.	Make concessions, as to examination qualifications, in certain cases, and aim at a new enrollment of the architects of Ontario on January 1st, 1901, the beginning of the 20th century.

3.	Students in all cases should be bound to study for and at tend the annual exam mat ions.

4.	More frequent meetings of the Association in Toronto and formation by the Association of chapters in other Cities.

5.	Public illustrated lectures, advertised arid reported in the daily papers.

Wm. R. GREGG.



OTTAWA, Nov. 10th, 1899.



GENTLEMEN,,—Your favor of 2nd inst. re suggestions for improvement to the O.A.A. received.

Not being a member of the Association I do not care to criticize its affairs.

I might say the reason I am not a member is because I have never been asked to become one, arid for architects outside Toronto I see little benefit in being a member, to compensate for the trouble of intruding myself on the society.

Yours very faithfully,



E.	L. Horwood.





TORONTO, November 11th, 1899.



Dear Sirs,--In reply to your favor of November 2nd asking an expression of my views on the subject of improving the condition of the Ontario Association, I give you tire following ill answer to all your questions

i.	The Association must realize its actual position and accept it.

2.	It should be run on straight business lines arid thus cause its members to give it active support.

3.	Meetings should be monthly, and standing committees on various branches should exist and report at these meetings.

4.	Meetings should he held in the Associations own rooms, and these should he made attractive and he always open.

5.	Inducements should he held out to the students to offer themselves for examination.

6.	The Act should be so amended as to protect the public from traps erected by incompetent individuals calling themselves architects.

7.	A broad-minded spirit of sociability should pervade the meetings, so that pleasure as well as gain might result.

8.	In addition to a reduced annual fee, benefits should lie pro vided for members outside the city of Toronto who would not he able to attend all the meetings

9.	New members and young members should he encouraged by all to take an active part in the Association's work.



10. Papers to he read at meetings should be arranged for at least a year before they are read.

11. Some distinction should be arranged for the member whose work is of the highest merit each year throughout the province.

12.	Regular exhibitions of work should be held, and an annual excursion might be arranged.

13.	Everything possible should lie done to encourage the public to learn the difference between good, had, and indifferent work.

14.	The back dues of members who have dropped out might be struck out and these architects reinstated.

15.	The whole profession in Ontario should realize that several institutions cannot succeed, and that only by united effort can success be obtained, and a spirit of concession on all sides should make it apparent that tire Ontario Association of Architects, working under Act of Parliament, and on a strong financial basis, with constitution amended to suit all as nearly as possible, should be the proper medium through which our efforts to advance good architecture in Ontario should be made.

Yours truly,

F.	S. BAKER.





LONDON, ONT., November 13th, 1899.



DEAR SIRS,—Your letter of November 2nd., with five hard questions, was received. The following is an unsatisfactory attempt to answer some of them

1.	The Association might do some good to the profession at large by establishing some means of regular communication amongst architects, regarding the actual problems which each member of the profession meets with from time to time. A consulting committee might undertake giving advice to any member

who might have a difficult problem on hand, and all members could be urged to present their difficult problems, either before or after solution, for the enlightenment of others.

2. A satisfactory answer to the first question would make this question unnecessary.

3. Simple competitions, open only to students of the Association, with slight rewards and useful criticisms, should help all students in architecture who have arty ambition.

4.	Some changes ill the policy of the Association seem unnecessary, but I cannot think of any to suggest.

5.	Well written articles, describing the structural and artistic advantages brought about by the proper education of students, and published in all Canadian newspapers,, will do more good than all the conventions we have yet held.

Yours truly,

FRED. Henry.



Hamilton, November 3rd, 1899.

Gentlemen, -- In reply to your circular letter of November 2nd will say in answer to your first question

r.	A unanimous move to license architects.

2.	By holding annual architectural exhibitions and giving prizes.

3.	Same as above.

5.	Same as first.

Promote a more friendly feeling amongst architects by holding frequent gatherings where papers of interest can be read arid discussed.

Sincerely,



W.	W. LACHANCE.



School of Practical Science,

TORONTO, November 10th, 1899.



DEAR SIRS,—In reply to your favor of the 2nd, I beg to say that I cannot see my way clear to answer the questions you put through the press.

If it is the desire of the Ontario Association of Architects to make any changes I shall be pleased to assist them in arty way possible, and can assure you that the School is interested in the success of the Association.

I am, yours sincerely,

C.	H. C. Wright.



We hope to receive additional suggestions for publication in our December number.



MANUAL TRAINING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS.

The important announcement is made that Sir William C. McDonald, of Montreal, who has become widely known as the giver of several large benefactions to McGill University, has offered to equip and maintain for three years an institution in every province of the Dominion for the purpose of giving manual training to boys between the ages of nine and fourteen, attending public schools. It is tire purpose to bring from Great Britain or tine United States experienced teachers to conduct the work, and also to send several teachers from Canada to take a course of training in Great Britain and Sweden, who, on their return, should be equipped with information and enthusiasm to enable them to advance education of this character in the Dominion.



THE PROVINCE	OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



ON the evening of Oct. 31st the new rooms of the above Association on St. Catherine street, Montreal, were formally opened. The ceremony took the form of a reception by the President and Council to members and invited guests, among whom were represented kindred art and scientific societies. An address of welcome was given by tire President of the Association, Professor Capper. Later on in tire evening were exhibited lantern slides illustrating the Cathedral of Notre Dame at Paris, and particularly the sculpture on the exterior of the building. Illustrations were likewise shown of the Parthenon, and of the sculpture adorning the building. A musical programme was also rendered.

The Council of the Association have decided to hold, in January next, in the Association rooms, an exhibition of architectural drawings and photographs, designed to exhibit the progress and development of the profession. The purpose is to have art exhibition of this character annually in the future.



ONTARIO	ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS. TORONTO CHAPTER.



THE EXECUTIVE Committee of tire Chapter have elected as its officers for the ensuing year Mr. E. Burke, chairman, and Mr.

J.	Wilson Gray, secretary-treasurer.

Two meetings of the Chapter have already been held, the first on October 9th and the second on Monday evening last.

Following out suggestions offered at the annual meeting in the spring, the executive arc arranging to have the meetings this season of a more social character than formerly, and to tins end they have been held at rite Temple Cafe, in one of tire handsome private dining rooms of that popular restaurant, Two very enjoyable evenings have been spent. After dining together a number of interesting professional topics have been discussed, and at the last meeting several of the members who had recently returned from visiting some of the large American cities gave an account of their trips. Tine introduction of the social element into the monthly meetings of the Chapter promises to be an attractive feature, line last meeting particularly showing this in the greatly increased attendance.

