<doctype type="text">	

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



LEAD PIPES.—1¼-inch, 1½ pounds per lineal foot; 1½-inch, 2 pounds; 2-inch, 2½ pounds; 2½-inch, 4½ pounds; 3-inch, 5½ pounds; 4-inch, 7 pounds.

FOR WASTE SINK PIPES.—2 inch, 10 pounds per lineal yard; 3 inch, 15 pounds per lineal yard.

Lead waste pipes, bonds or cesspools, shall be equal to not less than 6 lbs. per square foot of sheet lead.

The fittings used in connection with such pipes shall correspond with them in weight and quality.

SECTION 144.—Plumbing work shall not be used unless the same has first been tested in the presence of the inspector, or his representative, with the water test, or if that is net practicable, with the peppermint, smoke or other reliable test, and if said test is satisfactory, he shall issue a certificate to that effect.

The Water Department, for the purpose of such test, shall temporarily turn on the water, and shall only permanently turn on the water when the certificate of the inspector is produced.

When defective pipes are discovered, they shall be removed and replaced by sound pipes; defective joints shall be made tight, and every part of the work in which defects are found shall be made to conform to the present rules.

SECTION 145. -- Joints in iron drain, soil and waste pipes, shall be filled with oakum and lead, and hand caulked, so as to make them gas tight, and they shall not be painted, varnished, tarred or puttied over until after inspection, unless the inspector or his representative does not signify his approval or disapproval of the work within 36 hours after the department shall have been notified that the work is ready for inspection ; the said joints may also be screw joints ; should the work prove to be satisfactorily executed in the judgment of the inspector or his representative, he shall grant a certificate to that effect to the person concerned.

SECTION 146.—All connections of lead with iron pipes, shall be made with a brass or copper sleeve or ferrule of the same size as lead pipes, put in the hub of branch of the iron pipe and caulked with lead and the lead pipe shall be attached to the ferrule by a wiped joint.

All connections of lead pipes shall be by wiped joints.

SECTION 147.-NO tile pipe shall be connected with the soil or waste pipe, unless the same be provided with a flange to admit of a proper connection being made.

SECTION 148.—Every water-closet, urinal, sink, basin, wash tray, bath, and every tub shall be separately and effectively trapped. This rule shall apply to a set of tubs, but only one trap shall be required for the set.

Traps shall be placed as near the fixtures as practicable, and in no case shall they be distant more than two feet from the fixtures.

There shall be only one trap under the water-closet and that immediately beneath the same.

SECTION 149.—The connection between iron and tile pipes shall be made with best cement, or by any other means approved by the inspector.

SECTION 150.—All waste pipe fixtures other than water-closets shall be provided at the inlet of such fixtures, with strong metallic strainers to exclude from such waste pipes all substances likely to obstruct them.

SECTION 151.—In no case shall the waste pipe from a bath, tub or other fixture be connected with a water closet trap.

SECTION 152.—Overflow pipes from fixtures shall in every case be connected with the inlet side of the trap, and above the water.

Drip or overflow pipes from the safety pan under water closets and other fixtures, or refrigerators, or from tanks, other than those of water closets, shall be made to run into some place open to sight; and in no case shall any such pipe be connected directly with the drain, waste or soil pipe.

SECTION 153.—Each water-closet apartment shall be ventilated by means of a shaft or air duct extending 3 feet over the roof, and not less than 6 inches in diameter.

SECTION 154.—Every water-closet shall have a cistern supply, and in no case be supplied directly from the city reservoir supply pipes.

SECTION 155.—In houses containing one, or more than one family, there shall be a water closet for each family, and a separate cistern for each closet; in other buildings, however, a group of closets may be supplied from one tank, but not water-closets on different floors; and at least one water-closet to every 15 inmates.

In buildings where operatives of both sexes are employed, proper separate accommodation shall be furnished for men and women.

SECTION 156.—The overflow pipes from water-closet cisterns shall discharge into an open sink, or the basin of the water-closet or where its discharge will attract attention, and indicate whether waste of water is occurring, but not into the soil or waste pipe, or into the drain direct.

SECTION 157.—Valves must be so fitted and adjusted as to prevent wasting of water.

SECTION 1 58.—No privy vault or cesspool for sewage shall be permitted in any part of the city.

SECTION 159.—No steam exhaust blow off pipe shall connect with a sewer directly, or any house drain, soil pipe, or waste pipe; such pipe must first discharge into a tank or condenser.

SECTION 160.—Cellars shall not be connected with the house drain, unless absolutely necessary, and by special permission of the department, and according to plans approved of by the department.

SECTION 161.—A sub soil drain shall be provided when absolutely necessary, and shall be constructed and trapped to the satisfaction of the department.

SECTION 162.—No trap shall be permitted between the house drain and the public sewer, unless such trap shall have a hand hole for cleaning purposes, and a fresh inlet air pipe, the whole as may be decided upon by the department.

SECTION 163.—Drains in yards shall, in all cases, be trapped below frost, that is to say, four feet at least under ground.

SECTION 164.—In the case of a new house being built, or one already existing being repaired, wherever there is a public sewer in the street, a water closet shall be put in, to the exclusion of privy pits.

SECTION 165. - The inspection of drains within the line of street shall be under the exclusive control of the department.

SECTION 166.—Gas companies are obliged to place a stop:cock to every main pipe.

SECTION 167.—Any person contravening any of the provisions of this by-law, from sections 131 to 168 inclusive, shall be liable to a fine, and in default of immediate payment of said fine, and costs, to an imprisonment ; the amount of said fine, and the term of said imprisonment to be determined by the Recorder's Court, at its discretion; but the said fine shall not exceed forty dollars and the term of imprisonment shall not exceed two calendar months; the said imprisonment, however, to cease at any time before the expiration of the period fixed upon by the Recorder's Court, on payment of said fine and costs; and where the infraction is continuous, such infraction during each day shall constitute a separate offence.



RULES GOVERNING THE INSTALLATION OF ELECTRIC APPARATUS, ETC., FOR ELECTRIC LIGHT, POWER AND HEAT.



SECTION 168.—All the electrical apparatus, wires, etc., for the generation or supply service in any central station or isolated plant, and all wires, lamps, motors, etc., used for light, power or heat in any public or private building, shall be installed according to and in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Canadian Association of Fire Underwriters, and in order to secure conformity to said rules and regulations, all such installations shall be subject to inspection and issuance of a certificate to that effect from the electrical inspection department of the city of Montreal. In order that proper inspection may be made, due notice shall be given the building inspection office of any intention to install any such electrical wires or apparatus for the purposes herein mentioned, in order to allow of inspection of the installation as the work progresses, and before any portion of the work is covered or concealed, and no installation shall be considered complete and in conformity with said rules and regulations until a certificate shall issue from the inspection department to that effect. In all cases, the inspection department shall have power to decide and determine whether such work has been done in a safe and proper manner, and the issuance of a certificate therefor shall be in evidence thereof.

All materials, switches, wire or any other auxiliary apparatus or device pertaining to said installations shall be subject to the inspection department before being used for such purpose.

All wires of any description, either for telegraph, telephone, electric light, heat or power, on, or entering any building, public or private, shall be subject to the supervision of the inspection department, and with power on the part of said department to compel the placing of those wires in a proper and safe manner.

All theatres and all public halls for scenic display shall be subject to inspection at least once a year.

In case of any installation, already in operation, either of generating plant, motors, wires, or other electric apparatus located in any building or premises, becoming defective to such an extent as to threaten immediate danger to life or property, the inspection department, having notice thereof, shall have immediate power to suspend the operation of such pending the necessary repairs.

The said inspector shall, at proper hours, have the right to enter any building or premises where electric power or light is being used, to inspect all electrical wires or apparatus, in order to ascertain if the proper regulations have been complied with, and no person shall refuse to allow such inspection.

No alterations or change shall be made in the plan of wiring any building without notifying the building inspector and securing a permit therefor, and subjecting the plan of wiring to inspection as herein provided.

PENALTY.



SECTION 169.—Any person violating or contravening any of the provisions of this by-law, for which a penalty is not hereinbefore provided, or disobeying the orders of the said inspector, or refusing or neglecting to comply with such orders, or opposing or obstructing the same in any way whatever, or preventing the said inspector or assistant inspector from entering into any house, or on any premises, or assaulting him or then in the execution of the duties and powers imposed upon him and them, in and by the present by-law, shall for each offence be liable to a fine, and in default of immediate payment of the said fine and costs, to an imprisonment, the amount said fine and the term of said imprisonment to be fixed by the Recorder's Court at its discretion, and any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this by-law shall be liable to the penalty mentioned in this section for each and every day that such violation or contravention shall last, which shall be held to be a distinct and separate offence for each and every day as aforesaid, provided that such fine shall not exceed forty dollars, and the imprisonment shall not be for a longer period than two calendar months, for each and every offence as aforesaid; the said imprisonment, however, to cease at any time before the expiration of the term fixed by the said Recorder's Court, upon payment of the said fine and costs.

REPEAL.



SECTION 170.—Any by-law or part of by-law contrary to, or inconsistent with any of the provisions of this by-law, is hereby repealed, except in cases wherein the city council has adopted, or may hereafter adopt resolutions regulating the buildings in certain streets.

