<doctype type="text">

<article title=" SLATE IN CANADA." author="">

	128	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



at $544 ; pencils, $447, and all other manufactures of slate, $6952. In comparison with previous years, the imports from the United States show wide fluctuations, more particularly in roofing slate. In 1894 the total imports were 3067 squares of roofing slate, valued at $12,568; in 1895 they dropped to 1470 squares, valued

$5276, but in 1896 the imports rose to 2891 squares, valued at $9948. On the other hand, the imports of school slates have grown from 140,139 pieces, valued at $4307, in 1894, to 302,744 pieces, valued at $10,334, in 1898.

The small imports from Germany in 1898 included no roofing slate, but a small quantity of school slates. Little or no roofing slate has been imported from Great Britain for a number of years past.

The imports from China in 1898 were 30 squares of roofing- slate, valued at $102 noticeable only as coming from an unusual source.

The roofing slate imported went mostly to Ontario and Quebec ; the school slates to the same provinces the mantels to Nova Scotia, Manitoba and New Brunswick ; pencils to Ontario and Quebec, and other manufactures of slate principally to the same provinces.





































Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

New York Life Building, Montreal.

JUNE 15, 1889.



OTTAWA CONTRACTORS' ASSOCIATION.



An understanding is reported to have been reached between the members of the Ottawa contractors' association and the architects of that city, under which the latter consent to invite tenders only from members of the local guild of contractors.

BUILDING REGULATIONS.



The city Surveyor is directing the attention of contractors to section 20 of By-law 48, which provides: No person shall, without having first obtained a written permission from the City Surveyor, dig, remove or carry away (or cause the same to be done), any sod, stone, earth, sand or gravel from any street, alley or public ground in this city, under the penalty hereinafter provided.

THE RENAISSANCE CLUB.



The water color class have their meeting every Saturday night. These meetings will be continued until the 24th inst., when they will cease until the end of September. About a dozen of the members recently took a trip to Lachine and further up the Lake, taking sketches on the way. Although the meetings and lectures will end in two weeks, the members will find the club rooms open as usual.

COUNCIL OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES.



The announcement of results of the examinations and the distribution of prizes in connection with the classes of the above association, took place on Thursday last at the Monument National but lack of space prevents more than brief mention in this number.

The officers elected for the ensuing year are:— President, Thos. Gauthier; Vice President, Cyrille Duquette, Quebec Secretary,

S. Sylvestre, Quebec ; Assistant Secretary, Mr. L. P. Berube.

The winners of the first prizes in the several departments are as



follows Mechmical Work, Geo. Hartley Stair Building, A.



Charpentier; Lithography, A. Jackson; Freehand Drawing, T.

Grimsdale	Architecture, Wm. Dowling	Modelling, Jules



Leprohon Mechanical Drawing, Clement Johnson ; Decorative



Painting, A. Bourgeois; Plumbing, Geo. Delaney.



THE NEW GRAND TRUNK OFFICE BUILDING.



Through the influence of the Labor organizations, a clause was inserted in the agreement between the city and the Grand Trunk Railway Company, which provides that in the construction of the Company's new office building, for which the city granted a free site, only local labor shall be employed. It is unfortunate for Canadian manufacturers, that the agreement contains no similar clause relating to materials, and if the architect follows his usual practice, the most of these materials will be purchased abroad. The question of where the stone shall come from is understood to be now under consideration. There is an abundance of excellent stone in the province of Nova Scotia, which we hope will find employment. 

In this connection, the City Attorney has been asked by the council to give his opinion on a fine point of law. The Grand Trunk Railway Company have recently purchased a stone cutting machine which is to be employed to do the work on their new building, which the council expected would be done by local stone-cutters, and which, it is said, will deprive local workmen of wages to the amount of $20,000. The City Attorney has been asked to give his opinion as to whether the use of this stonecutting machine will violate the clause in the company's agreement with the city which provides that the work on the building shall be done by workmen residing within the city.



EXHBITS FOR THE PARIS EXPOSITION.



Mr Chas. Baillarge, architect and engineer of Quebec, exPresident of the Province of Quebec association of architects, proposes to exhibit at the Paris Exposition of 1900, plans, models and descriptions of some of his more important inventions. These will include a method of escape for inmates of public buildings in case of fire (as illustrated and described in previous numbers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER); a practical and economical system of founding bridge or other piers in rivers a hundred or more feet in depth as in the St. Lawrence opposite Quebec in 160 feet of water; Design for the London Eiffel tower as proposed in 1889, placed 5th on the list of 68 exhibits, contributed by the foremost engineers and architects of the world an electro chromatic revolving fountain; the Victoria Jubilee Tower, as proposed in 1897 Photo-gravure of the St. Foy Monument, erected in 1860 to the memory of the brave soldiers under generals De Levis and Murray who fought the last battle between the French and the English on the occasion of the capitulation of Quebec on to cession to the English by Louis the 15th and La Pompadour. This monument erected after a design by Mr. Baillarge and surmounted by a statue in bronze of Bellona, the gift of prince Napoleon is itself of cast and wrought iron the shaft a fluted Grecian Doric column some feet in diameter, on a pedestal having its angles flanked by buttresses, each of which is surmounted by a mortar throwing 12 inch shells, a row or chaplet of which surrounds the base of shaft.

An exhibit of building materials will be made by the city of Quebec, and will include specimens of granite, marble, limestone and crushed quartz from Frs. Parents Laurentian Quarries at Beauport, Que.

NOTES.



The Quebec Government has granted a charter of incorporation to the Montreal Builders' Exchange.



Messrs. Jack & Robertson have recently been appointed Canadian sales agents for the Spague Elevator Company of New York.

Four stained glass windows, each 23 feet in height, are about to be placed in St Patrick's church. In the centre of each window is a figure of one of the Evangelists.



Incorporation has recently been granted to the Diamond Light & Heat Company of this city, with a capital of $200,000, to manufacture burners, radiators, stoves, grates, etc.



The action brought by Mr. 0. Martineau, builder of the church of the Immaculate Conception, this city, against the Jesuit Fathers to recover a balance of $7,464.67 claimed to be due him on his contract, has been dismissed by Mr. Justice Pagnuelo, on the ground that the plaintiff had not carried out his contract according to the specifications.

Mr. Stephen Jarvis, Nordheimer Building, has secured the right to manufacture in Canada an artificial stone, the invention of Mr. William Owen. The material is called Owen stone. The process is thus described Quartzose sand, dug in the vicinity of the works, is first dried by being heated; it is then thoroughly mixed dry with hydraulic lime in the proportion of about 12 per cent. of the former.

This	mixture, still in a dry condition, is packed into very strong

moulds of any desired		shape, the filled moulds being subsequently

built up in a steel frame or box. The latter is conveyed by tramway to an immense steam cylinder, inside of which it is placed, the cylinder now being closed and the door strongly bolted up. Water near the boiling point is then admitted until the cylinder is is full, and an indicated pressure of from 6o lb. 70 lb. maintained. The water is kept in a highly heated condition by steam coils running along the length of the cylinder inside, and this is a very essential part of the process. It. is claimed for this material that it is fireproof, unaffected by frost, has great crushing strength and can be cheaply manufactured. Mr. Jarvis is endeavoring to organize a Company to manufacture.

