<doctype type="text">

<article title=" FIREPROOFING MATERIALS." author=" THE ROEBLING CONSTRUCTION Co.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



CORRESPONDENCE.



FIREPROOFING MATERIALS.

NEW YORK, July 18th, 1899.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER:



Sir Your issue of June, 1899. contained a communication from N. T. Gagnon, in which he attempted to discredit the Roebling system of fire-proofing, which has just been adopted in two buildings in the city of Montreal. We note from the advertisement on page 2 that Mr. Gagnon is a manufacturer of the terra cotta or hollow tile fire-proofing. The fact that he is a direct competitor of the system on which he writes would not, of course, influence (?) him in his statements, hut the general public would probably be better satisfied with an account of the-tests given by disinterested parties.

For this reason we beg leave to enclose the following extracts from the New York " Herald " and New York

Sun" of November 20th.



"AFRAID OF THE FIERY TEST."



(N.Y. Sun,")



It occurred to the manufacturer of an alleged fireproof material some months ago that it would he a good stroke or business and perhaps the means of clowning one or two rivals, to arrange a competitive test of the output of his factory Having hit upon this plan of getting a little free advertising. the manufacturer roped in a prominent city official whose business it is to know about all kinds of building material and proposed to hits, that he be the judge of the test when it came off. The city official agreed, and forthwith the challenge of the manufacturer was placed in his hands. It was addressed to all manufacturers of fireproof material and stated that the challenger was prepared to stack his product up against any other fellow's product, and show by a competitive test that it was the only real thing in the fireproof line that was being turned out. The challenge was ignored by the more substantial firms in that line, but finally there jumped into the ring one who had recently gone into the business and who was sure that his product could knock the spots out of the stuff turned out by the challenger.



Pretty soon the city official got a notice from the accepter of the challenge, telling him to fix a date for the test. The official fixed yesterday morning as a time, and an open lot uptown not many blocks from the East river as the place. The rivals agreed on certain conditions, it is said, and then the newspapers were invited to send representatives to witness the thing, and maybe to write a little something about it. The newspapers are always invited on these occasions. There wouldn't he any profit in having the test unless the winner could in the words of Insect O'Connor " Git his name in the pape."

But somebody got panic-stricken on Thursday nigh and it wasn't the fellow who had accepted the challenge. The excitement was the result of a rumor which reached the ears of the challenger to the effect that the city official had changed the conditions of the test at the last moment. The challenger rushed to the city official, also to the enemy and to various others concerned in the test. He charged undue influence and various other heinous offences against fair play, but was informed that the test would lie made in the way regarded as best for bringing our the qualities of the two materials. Then he wanted to withdraw from the competition, and failing in that demanded that the whole thing he stopped. Again he met with a refusal, so he rushed down to the office of a friend, who is a State Senator, also a lawyer, and laid the matter before him.

"We must stop the test," he said. " We will certainly get it in the neck if the thing goes on as I'm informed it will."

"Nothing easier" said the State Senator. " Come with me."

So the manufacturer and the State Senator hied themselves to the court house where they waylaid a Supreme Court Justice and secured at, injunction, which was served on the city official at his house, with the result that the test didn't take place.

Toe injunction will come up for argument in a few days. Meanwhile tile rivals are saying things about each other and the product of their factories. It is not at their own request that the names of the manufacturers are left out of Ibis story.



"INJUNCTION DID NOT RESTRAIN." 



(N.	Y. "Herald.")



The injunction granted, as told in yesterday's Herald to Henry Manrer & Son, tile manufacturers, to restrain Superintendent of Buildings Constable from making a proposed test of the merits of tile and cement arches in fireproof buildings by burning a building constructed

of both materials in a vacant lot at Sixty-eighth street and avenue A, failed of its purpose.

Superintendent Constable accepted the service of the injunction, then transferred the lease of the lot to H. W. Hodge, a civil engineer, o No. 27 Pine street, and Mr. Hines of Hines & Lefarge, architects. Mr. Hines immediately applied the torch In the experimental building and the test was carried out.

After the episode of the injunction and transfer of the lease Mr. Hines set fire to the mass of inflammables, with which the structure was filled. The fire started with a roar. The heat became intense and registered 2, 100 to 2,200 degrees, 200 more than is required to bake tiling. After five hours of this heat the tile roof fell in. Then Superintendent Constable sent for engine company No. 39 and extinguished the fire. The concrete roof withstood the sudden cooling off.

The building will he constructed for tests with other materials.

We think further comment upon the matter on our part is entirely unnecessary.

Very truly yours,

THE ROEBLING CONSTRUCTION Co.



<article title=" PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE ARCHITECT." author=" Middleton, G.A.T.">

PHOTOGRAPHY FOR THE ARCHITECT.

A great deal is heard of photography in its application to medicine and surgery, of the assistance which it renders to the astronomer and the microscopist; by many others than specialists it is employed to obtain records of old buildings, curious towns and picturesque bits of landscape. Yet comparatively few professional land surveyors and still fewer professional architects are alive In the help which it is capable of affording to then in their ordinary workaday business. That it is of such value the few who have employed it have proved without doubt, going as far as to say that for the surveyor, at least, a knowledge of photography is as essential as an acquaintance with the theodolite        There was a prominent instance of the value of photographs as supplementary to the land survey a few months ago, says G. A. T. Middleton, when architects were invited to submit plans in competition for a new university at San Francisco. The site was

an	Rocky Mountains,

extraordinary one, at the foot of the	and rose tin less than 700 feet in a trifle over a mile and of this a plan was, as usual, supplied to intending competitors. On application, however, they were also provided with a scale model of the land and a series of photographs. These would undoubtedly have been more useful had they been panoramic, or even had the directions iii which they were taken been more niece clearly indicated than was the ease, but even as it was they gave a very good idea of the topography, and especially of the way in which the character of the land altered at its different altitudes, and of the views obtainable.

At first sight it is, perhaps, not quite so obvious how photography can he of value to the architect as to the surveyor. Yet it is so in even a greater number of ways. In crowded cities particularly it is of the utmost importance before commencing building work to ascertain and record what is existing on the site and what is surrounding it before beginning operations, having regard to possible legal complications, actions from neighboring owners for infringements of rights of light amid other easements, and many other eventualities amid in such cases the evidence afforded by photographs from well selected points of view and taken with suitable lenses, in conjunction with proper plans and models, is most important. By themselves, however, the value of

photographs as evidence is liable to heavy discount in court, as many judges, and juries also, have become skeptical of the truthfulness of the impressions conveyed by them, owing to the occasional unscrupulous use of specially wide or narrow angled lenses, for purposes which are sufficiently obvious.

Of equal importance are photographs of shoring and underpinning work, and of all work which is to he covered over amid about which disputes of some sort or another are by no means infrequent, owing, in time majority of cases, to the absence of evidence such as a photograph would supply amid almost invariably when had work is condemned and ordered to he reinstated should the camera be used for the purpose of after reference if necessary. When work is being carried out at any such distance from the architect's office as to render personal constant supervision impossible, the clerk of the works by supplying constant photographs, can keep him in touch with what is going on and by their means a client can often he informed as to the progress of the building for which line is paying in a manner most satisfactory' to all parties.



Pulverized lime amid ammonia will remove marks and stains from marble.

