<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA." author="">





tive, Mr. Wright explained that in selecting the executive committee last year the idea was to have members who were near each other, in order to curtail the travelling expenses.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RESOLUTIONS.



Mr. Harris presented the following report of the Committee on Resolutions

Your Committee on Resolutions beg leave to report as follows:

i.	The executive committee, in our opinion, has done its best during the past year to bring business to a good result, and we would urge the members to continue their good assistance to them.

2.	Regarding the president's report, we recommend the members to follow as much as possible the very wise advice given in that very elaborate and intelligent document, for which we recommend a hearty vote of thanks.

3.	In regard to the report of the vice-president, we recommend, as suggested in his report that a committee of three be appointed, two from Montreal and one from Toronto, with full power to meet with a committee of manufacturers and jobbers to treat on any subject that may be of interest to both associations.

4.	In connection with the secretary's report, we beg to concur in the hearty vote of thanks to him, and recommend the adoption of his report.

5.	In regard to the report of the committee on apprenticeship, we beg to state that we fully agree with all its contents, and would recommend its adoption at this convention.

6.	Re. Bulletin report, we beg to confirm the motion which was passed at the executive meeting this morning, which left it in the hands of the executive for further consideration.

7.	We recommend the adoption of the report of the vice-president for the province of Ontario.

8.	By the report of George H. Perrin, for the Provinces of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, we are pleased to see that they have succeeded in getting the jobbers to sell to members of their association only we would recommend that all places which are in a similar position use their best endeavors to obtain the same. We recommend its adoption.

9.	Regarding the secretary's report of the city of Ottawa association, we beg to confirm its adoption.

10.	Re. the correspondence from the Starr Iron Co. to the Ottawa association in regard to the manufacturers forbidding its members to attend our convention, we strongly condemn their action, as their reasons for taking this action refer to the conduct of a few members, and it is unjust to treat this association as a body as they have done, particularly as a majority of the members of this National Association are quite ignorant of the facts in regard thereto.

J.	W. HARRIS.

JOHN HIGMAN.

J.	H. WLSON.



It was decided to take up the report seriatim, and, on motion of Messrs. Wright and Montpetit, the President's address and the report of Executive Committee were adopted.

The clause referring to the report of Vice-President Harris created a lengthy discussion. Mr. Harris explained that the object f the proposed committee was that they should be ready at all times to confer with representatives from the Dominion Association. Mr. Mansell could not see any difference between the committee proposed to be appointed and the sub-committee new existing for the purpose. The feeling seemed to be that the appointment of this special committee was unnecessary, and after this clause had been struck out, this portion of the report was adopted.

The Secretary's report was adopted without discussion.

The consideration of the report of the Apprentice Committee resulted in a discussion as to the competency of workmen. Mr. Harris stated that sometimes men asked for employment, claiming to have served ten years, when perhaps they had served only a few months, and it was only after they had destroyed material that their incompetency was discovered. Mr. Watson suggested that an apprenticeship agreement should be drawn up by the National Association. The report was adopted, as also were the reports in regard to the Bulletin and by the Vice-President for Ontario.

Some discussion arose as to the action of the Plumbers' Supply Association in resolving not to attend the convention of Master Plumbers, it being considered by some to he an insult to the members of the Association.

Mr. Meredith moved that clause 2 of article 3 of the Constitution be amended by inserting the following words "Each said delegate to be known and designated vice-president of the province he represents." This makes the clause read as follows " Its officers shall consist of a president, vice-president, financial and recording secretary, treasurer and executive committee. The executive shall consist of the president, vice-president, financial and recording secretary, treasurer, retiring president, and a delegate from each province represented in the Association, who shall

be elected at the annual meeting, each said delegate to be known and designated vice-president of the province he represents. The president shall [e chairman of the Executive Committee." The motion was carried.

The President outlined a scheme of reorganization with which he was in favor. He recommended that the plumbers in the different provinces of the Dominion should organize as separate associations, each provincial association having its convention, and at this convention electing a member to represent it in the Dominion Association. He pointed out that with the Executive Committee residing, say, in Toronto, 11 was difficult to adjust grievances in the Maritime provinces and in Manitoba and British Columbia. If the members were in favor of the proposition, he asked that a committee be appointed, preferably to consist of one member from each local association.

Mr. Ogilvie could not see any advantage in such a step, while Messrs. Mansell and Harris spoke in favor of the scheme. The latter pointed out that a thing which worked well in one province might not work well in another. He moved the appointment of a committee, consisting of Messrs. Smith, Mar sell, Ogilvie and the mover, to consider the matter and report to the convention on the following morning. This was seconded and carried, after which the convention adjourned to meet at 8.30 am. on Saturday morning.



SECOND DAY.

Upon re-assembling on Saturday, the president appointed the following Nominaring Committee Mr. Wilson, Toronto Mr. Watson, Montreal ; Mr. Knox, Ottawa.

It was announced that representatives from some of the supply houses were, according to agreement, wailing in the ante room. The sergeant-at-arms then admitted the following gentlemen Mr. J. Carlind, of the Ideal Manufacturing C ., Detroit; Mr. 1'. M. Stewart, of McAvity & Co., St. John, N B.; Mr. McDougall, of James Smart Manufacturing Co., Brockville; Mr. Arthur Betton, of the James Morrison Brass Manufacturing C)., Toronto; Mr. Forbes, of W. Stairs, Son & Morrow, Halifax, and Mr. A. Saunders, of the Goderich Organ Co. Each of the above gentlemen made a few brief remarks, referring to the necessity of good feeling existing between the supply men and the plumbers, after which a vote of thanks was tendered to the gentlemen.

ELECTION OF OFFICERS.



The Nominating Committee presented their report, nominating for president Messrs. W. Smith and J. W. Harris. Mr. Smith voluntarily retiring, Mr. Harris was declared elected as president of the association. For vicepresident, Mr. Wilson nominated Mr. W. Mansell, which nomination was approved by the convention. Mr P. C. Ogilvie, of Montreal, was nominated for secretary and elected without opposition, while Mr. W. H. Meredith, of Toronto, was re-elected treasurer.

The Nominating Committee submitted the following names as provincial representatives on the Executive Ontario, H. A. Knox, Ottawa; Manitoba, J. H. Wilson, Toronto; Quebec, John Watson, Montreal; British Columbia, Joseph Wright, Toronto. Mr. Powers, of Halifax, asked if the Maritime provinces should not be represented, whereupon Mr. Frank Powers was chosen to represent New Brunswick. On motion of Mr. Harris, seconded by Mr. Knox, the provincial representatives on the Executive Committee were declared elected vice-presidents for their respective provinces.

The treasurer, Mr. Meredith, presented his annual report, which showed receipts of $1,499.64 and expenditure of $1,329.20, leaving a balance of $170.44. lie pointed out that the sum of $96.75 on account of the Bulletin was still due, also that $8 had been received from Winnipeg Association, making the total surplus $275 19. The report was adopted.

The special committee appointed on the previous day to report on the President's provincial association scheme, submitted their report, recommending that a committee be appointed to consider the formation of provincial associations, the said committee to report to the Executive Committee. The report was concurred in, and Messrs. W. Smith, J. W. Chambers, and E. R. Russell named as a committee to act in this connection.

Messrs. J. Wright, W. Mansell and W. H. Meredith were appointed a committee to report at the next convention upon

