CITY HALL, HAMILTON, ONT.—JAMES BALFOUR, ARCHITECT.

<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDING BY-LAWS." author="">



TORONTO BUILDING BY-LAWS.

THERE is urgent necessity for a thorough revision of the local building regulations of Toronto. Architects find it impossible to obtain from the Building Department printed copies of these regulations. When information is required as to what may or may not be done under the by-laws, it becomes necessary to make a personal visit to the City hall. This condition of things is uncalled for, involving as it does waste of valuable time by the architect which, especially in a busy season like the present, he can ill afford to spare. The existing bylaws have been subjected within the past ten years to many amendments of a patchwork character, and in the absence of printed copies of the law as amended, it is impossible to know what its provisions are. This much

is known, however, that the present regulations are by no means up-to-date, and require to be thoroughly overhauled, and made applicable to modern requirements. No provision exists for the proper regulation and inspection of steel constructed buildings, and the only guarantee that the public have that such buildings are properly constructed is the confidence which they repose in the architect who plans and supervises the work. The building inspectors go about their work in a manner to show that they know little or nothing about this method of construction. They pay particular attention to the thickness of the walls, while passing by with a glance steel supports on which the safety of the structure chiefly depends. The lack of knowledge which obtains on the

part of aldermen and civic officials with regard to the use of iron in building construction is evidenced by the absurd regulation in the present law that all bressummers in buildings shall be of iron instead, as formerly, of wood. It is scarcely necessary to mention that the heavy wooden bressummers formerly used were much more capable of resisting fire than is unprotected iron. The Ontario Association of Architects took hold of this subject some four or five years ago, and submitted to the Council a well considered draft of a building by-law. The Council have, however, shown no appreciation of their work, and nothing has been done in the direction of adopting the suggestions made. With the present revival in building, action should be taken by the Council to bring the building regulations up to date. There should likewise be placed in charge of the Building Inspection Department an official possessed of sufficient scientific knowledge to be able to estimate the safety of

buildings under construction. At present there appears to be no person connected with the department competent to calculate stresses of materials with any degree of accuracy, and inspections are made by the rule of thumb method.

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The Ontario Association of Architects, established by the Legislature of Ontario as an examining body to further the proper education of architectural students, and by this means to advance the art of architecture, have found that some inducement greater than they can now offer is necessary to make students prepare and present themselves for examination.

The Association have therefore decided to offer a medal to the student attaining to the first place in the final examination, and to make an appeal for the foundation of a Travelling Studentship. Fifty well known citizens of Toronto have been asked to subscribe the sum of $100 each, so that a fund of $5,000 may be raised from which to derive an income for the purpose of this studentship, which would be known as the Toronto Architectural Travelling Studentship.

The charge of the fund is to be with the Council of the Association. The investment of the fund by the Council is to he made to the satisfaction of a two-thirds majority of the subscribers.

In the event of the medal not being awarded in any year, that year's income from the

Studentship Fund will be added to the principal.

It will be provided that this fund, or the income from it, shall not be used for any other purpose than that proposed, and, in the event of anything occurring to prevent the continuance of the studentship, the money will be returned to the donors or their heirs.

We are pleased to chronicle the inception of this important undertaking by the Association, and trust that it may be carried to a successful conclusion, in which event a decided impetus will have been given to the study of architecture in this province.



When the thermometer was 3 degrees below zero measurements of the Brooklyn bridge were taken of the trusses and other parts to find out how much the contraction had been. In comparing these figures with those taken last July, when the thermometer was 30 degrees above, it was found that the difference was fourteen feet and a half.

