<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TORONTO CITY HALL." author="">

occasion ; but their attempt to appear as marble is almost a merit beside the downright vulgarity of the woodwork- large grained oak or ash, slash cut, filled with dark filler and varnished to shine. The scale of design of the wood-work is no better than its material and finish. Whether the architect is responsible for this or the modern and much mistaken system of handing over wood finish to the wood fitter we do not know. Feeling for wood work in monumental style is not to he got out of any hands but those of a good designer.

The interior at present shows cold and white in hard finish plaster. The value of Mr. Reid's wall paintings inside the entrance becomes all the more apparent. If the other panels in the entrance hail were filled in the same way there would be at once just such an immeasurable improvement as there is in the streets when the leaves come out in the spring. It is to be hoped that a small annual appropriation will be made for the purpose of decorating by degrees at least the entrance hall and the council chamber.







































Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

New York Life Building, Montreal,



OCTOBER 13th, 1899

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The annual meeting of the above Association opened at 1 0

o'clock a.m. on September 23rd, in thc City Hall, Quebec, and terminated on the evening of the same day. The City Council Chamber was kindly placed at the disposal of the Association by the Mayor of Quebec, the Hon. S. N. Parent, whose courtesy was acknowledged on the part of the Association by a cordial vote of thanks.

The attendance was as follows :—A. Raza, president Prof. S. H. Capper, 1st vice-president, Montreal G. E. Tanguay, 2nd vice-president, Quebec ; Jos. Venne, secretary, Montreal I.. Z. Gauthier, E. Maxwell, G. A. Monette, A. H. Lapierre, Aleide Chausse, A. R. Decary, J. S. Archibald, Raoul Lacroix, Montreal ; Thomas Raymond, J. H. Leben, Chas. Baillarge, Chas. F. Gauvin, F. X. Berlinguet, H. Slaveley, J. E. Larochelle, J. P. F. Dussault, J. G. Bussiers, J. H. Peachy, A. H. Larochelle, R. P. Lernay, Quebec.

The meeting having been called to order by the President, the annual reports of the Council and of the Treasurer were presented, as follows



NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF COUNCIL.



In presenting to you the ninth annual report of their proceedings, the Council of the Association have to call attention to the several projects which they have had under consideration during the year, rather than to the achievement of any special object, as last year, when thc new charter was obtained from the provincial legislature. Thc work of the Council, however, it is hoped, will have tended to the prosperity and progress of the profession, and o the benefit, therefore, of the public generally, whose interests

are necessarily identified with sound practice in architecture, both public and private.

As now organized the Association must aim at raising the standard of professional practice, not alone from thc merely utilitarian stand point, but also from the aesthetic the history of architecture in the past demonstrates conclusively that thc architect most worthy of the title joins artistic conception of the highest order to practical utility in his work ; buildings artistically faulty are architecturally bad ; for examples of this truth we have not (unfortunately) to go outside the limits of our province of Quebec.

During the past year an amendment to our new charter has been accepted. As originally proposed in die legislature, this would have compelled the Association to admit to full membership, without examination, all who had studied for three consecutive years (instead of four) in an architect's office. This the Council might have opposed outright, but it was thought better to propose an amendment allowing all students who were actually engaged in thc study of architecture, on registering their names, the privilege of coming up for qualifying examination at the expiry of four years of apprenticeship (thus avoiding the preliminary examination). The amendment was passed and seven students have taken advantage of it.



At thc January examination held in Quebec three candidates succeeded ; at the examinations of July in Montreal one candidate

passed the preliminary examination and one failed, while two candidates who took the final examinations failed partially.

In future the Council would urge that very special attention should be bestowed upon maintaining thc high standard of these examinations ; it must be borne in mind that they form he basis of our organization and that only by them can we ensure the fulfillment to the public of the obligations imposed upon us as a corporation by our charter.

The Council has devoted earnest attention to the question of instituting proceedings at law against those illegally practising as architects within the province. The Council is in receipt of \ and newspaper extracts pointing to such irregular practice, either on the part of citizens of other countries or of others who have neglected to conform to the different acts of the legislature relating to our Association, or who have not paid their dues to the Association, or who have not qualified by passing the requisite examinations.



In the opinion of our legal adviser we are not at the present moment in possession of legal proofs so convincing as to justify legal proceedings being taken. The Council accepts the opinion of its legal adviser that for a test case it is important to select one in which lie evidence is abundantly clear and convincing unless further powers are directly conferred upon the Council for this purpose at the annual meeting of the Association, the Council is of opinion that a suitable occasion must be awaited before instituting such legal proceedings.

Meanwhile, however, important preparatory work has been done ; circulars have been addressed to those suspected of irregular practice a copy of lie charter (as amended) placing on record the actual legal position of the profession in the province, together with the official list of members of the Association, has been distributed to the public.

Representations have also been made to the Minister of Public Works concerning public employees who assume the title of architect without having conformed to the requirements of the law.

The Council have again made a special effort to induce the government to recognize officially the modified tariff of professional charges as now in force within the Association. The government submitted to the Council an amended tariff, which the Council deemed unacceptable In consequence the Council was received by the Ministers in Council, who, after discussion, appeared to be in principle favorable to our demand no definite decision has, however, as yet been given us, though we are hopeful that we shall he accorded what we deem a measure of simple justice, not only to us, but even to those who have occasion to utilize our professional duties.

The Council has appointed a Special Committee with a view to increasing the Library of the Association so as to render it of real service to the members. To the generous gift of one hundred dollars, as announced by the Secretary at last annual meeting, the Council added an equal amount to form a nucleus for the library fund. The money has been spent on the purchase of standard books. The Council, after a careful consideration of the financial position of the Association for the present year, has voted one thousand dollars to be expended upon the library.

In connection with the library, the Council has to acknowledge a government grant of copies of the statues of the Province of

