<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TERRA COTTA." author=" HYNES,M.J.">

	38	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



I fear that those in this country who try to make bricks and Terra Cotta, or Terra Cotta and bricks, will not meet with that success the venture merits, for to use the expression of the canny Scotchman, "Ye canna whustle and mawsticate oaat meal." No doubt a vulgarism, but decidely expressive.

In scarcely two countries will the difficulties met with be the same, though each has sufficient of its own. A man accustomed to follow a certain line of action in one country and with success, will often fail in another the conditions seem to be peculiar to the country they exist in. Sometime ago a Staffordshire man, who met with success in England, conceived the idea that the possibilities of making money in Canada in the Terra Cotta line were exceptionally good, and a test of certain clays obtained in Canada seemed to warrant the investment, so he made it, and—failed. Then he tried imported workmen, and failed, then imported clay, and failed again. Imported coal he thought would fill the bill, but again failure attended him so he concluded that to make a success of the undertaking he would have to import British atmosphere.

However, it has been practically demonstrated that Canadian clay is all right, and experiments conducted in Canada have proven that Canadian clay if properly handled and the conditions taken fully into account is as good as can be procured elsewhere, and that material of artistic excellence and good quality can be made here as well as in any other country. This is the result of a vast expenditure of time, money and patience, but the results justify the expenditure.

The dark ages that locked up trade and family secrets (and in Europe trade secrets became often family secrets, and a business would be carried on from generation to generation, from father to son) have now become a thing of the past. Science has reached out, analyzed and brought forth work not only equal to the old, but in many respects far superior,—again let me refer you to the Rookwood Pottery, which is a model of beauty and originality, and demands the praise of the civilized world.

There is, however, possibly an exception in the handcraft of the decendants of the Mexican Indian, where the secrets have been preserved for hundreds of years. These workmen can to-clay hand you a water jug, designed with hieroglyphics that may be designated as barbarous, having a beautiful glaze upon the exterior, of a most peculiar nature, which will permit of evaporation and leave the water in the jug cool and refreshing. A fine point like this has not been achieved by the modern worker Another exception can be made in the Japanese ware which leaves so much to admire, to study, to imitate and to learn.

You may think, gentlemen, that I am getting away from the subject—that it is not Terra Cotta—yet tinder the head of Majolica ware, which embraces all baked clay that has received a color and a glaze, and not porcelain or china, all of this is very much Terra Cotta.

Nature has in this country been particularly generous in its gifts of the various substances that go to make up the component parts of Terra Cotta. There is a wild rush for the gold of British Columbia and the Klondike, and those who don't rush, are speculating in stocks, but the time will come, and that ere long, when attention will be turned to the gold which we have at our very doors, and which can be obtained by the utilization of the raw products which at present are spurned and considered as worthless. A well-informed person who has practical knowledge of such matters, told me recently that within two hundred miles of Toronto large deposits of koalin are to be found, that in the same section there are large deposits of spar, and stone equal to the best Cornish can be had, while as to the clay the supply is unlimited.

At the revival, Terra Cotta was made of fire clay—the modern product is made of about four parts of clay to one of "grog" (fire clay), and like Colonel Seller eye water, is often one ingredient short.

Clay good for Terra Cotta is not taken from the surface, which usually contains much foreign matter, and owing to these foreign matters melts at a very low temperature. A pure good clay should be mined like other precious metals, and I am convinced that a judicial mixing of different clays has produced the best results, for all that is desirable is seldom found in one bank a clay should not shrink much in drying.

Ruskin has compared the perfection of form to the swan, and the perfection of color to the humming bird. Terra Cotta takes the form you impress upon the clay, and architects who visit the works to inspect the models made from their details, are prone to say, that the work never looks so well as in the natural soft, wet clay, and for this reason the manufacturers have been striving to make the finished material have as far as possible the appearance of the soft, wet clay, and the clay model the appearance the material will have in the finished state.

Upon the architect depends the finished material. If his conception be good, and the artist follows that conception to the satisfaction of the architect, then the finished material becomes a work of art but if the conception be bad, and the architect will not permit the artist to improve upon it, (and the very fact that the artist is a clay worker should have some little weight), the finished material is anything but a work of art, and the manufacturer, seldom the architect, is scoffed at, and the unjust impression goes abroad that he cannot produce good work.

But the architect is often placed at much disadvantage, for the model he is asked to accept may be of a reddish clay upon a white plaster background, and the finished material to be of a cream buff color; really it would seem that for the time the architect should be color blind, and simply look for perfection of form, but not of color."

In the matter of color much may be said. One man will require a shade of buff, the next a peculiar shade of mahogany, another a shade of grey with a "light sky blue feeling," and each is disappointed if he does not just the particular shade he

thinks he desires, but which if produced and erected in a building, might cause him to "take a trip abroad" until kindly time and the weather had softened the tones and shaded the surface of the structure. 

What Mr. Waterhouse, the eminent architect has said on Terra Cotta, I am thoroughly in accord with—that is, that it should be made in small pieces—that large lintels, large columns of enormous proportions are successfully manufactured, but it is with a great deal of care, a great deal of time and a great deal of expense, while the virtue of the material is in relatively small pieces.

Waterhouse contends that the slightest settlement of a building will cause the large lintels, sil's and transoms to crack while if made and constructed in small pieces the mere settlement would be the opening of the mortar joints.

I have always found the tendency on the part of architects here to make their work in Terra Cotta conform as much as possible to stone construction. I have successfully made pieces containing 13 and 14 cubic feet, but I contend that such construction was an error.

The late Mr. Joseph Joiner, of Indianapolis, puts the maximum at 7 cubic feet, but I feel that there is beyond this a limit to which its use may be extended.

I will hand to your Registrar a specification such as I consider tenders should be based on also a list of information which manufacturers require in order to tender in a practical way on Terra Cotta work.

I leave this matter with your Registrar. It may possibly be that some of you will find occasion to refer to it in future, as I have found that specifications for Terra Cotta work have not been as thorough as those used for carpenter and plumber's work.

You have now Terra Cotta in all colors at your disposal all American Companies advertise Terra Cotta in all colors glazed and semi-glazed, while an English firm came out with an advertisement some years ago, "A new building after every shower."

Glazed Terra Cotta, so far, has not met with much success, but I feel that it could judiciously be introduced in particular places.

Sir Henry Dolton said that a new Terra Cotta job never looks well. It had to be seasoned with soot.

We have some few samples of different Terra Cotta in Toronto There is some Italian, some English, some American and some Canadian. The Oak Hall building affords a good illustration of how architecture may be embellished with sculpture, but the Italian Terra Cotta was not sufficiently burnt for this climate. The winter has caused some of the figures to drop an arm or a limb, which are now glued on with cement.

The obelisk laid in the sand of Egypt for centuries, but it started to desintegrate as soon as erected in Central Park, New. York. This shows the necessity of well burnt Terra Cotta for this climate. All the Canadian Terra Cotta is standing as fresh as the day it was put tip.

We are constantly brought into opposition with stone. I might ask you to examine some of the buildings erected in that perishable material. The baulstrades that surround Osgoode Hall have entirely disappeared, while many of our finest buildings are showing the marks of desintegration. In a well burnt piece of Terra Cotta you have something that is indestructible, being proo against fire and time.

DISCUSSION.



Mr. Burke There was a time in my experience when the mention of terra cotta made me feel like using strong language, and vowing that I would never have anything to do with it. My advice to architects is not to use it unless they can get the contract placed with a very large firm, and to take plenty of time. If they expect to get the terra cotta in about two or three weeks after they have placed the full sized drawings with the manufacturer they will be disappointed. I suppose the President in mentioning my name in connection with the discussion of this subject had reference to my experience with terra cotta in the erection of the Simpson building. In regard to size, I came to the same conclusion as Mr. Hynes: I do not think you can get a thoroughly straight piece of work more than two or three feet in length; to get it in greater lengths than that seems to be practical impossibility, and when building with terra cotta, below the first storey, it is a question whether it is safe to put it in even in that size. With regard to lap-joints, I suppose that Mr. Hynes means that he would make a rebate at the edge of each piece of terra cotta, a mullion and insert this slip which would have the rivet on itself, and cover that joint. At the Simpson building, where there were so many cornices, I gave it up with regard to weathered joints in the terra cotta I simply made the weatherings of cast iron, thin sheets of cast iron with the lips cast on the iron. These weatherings are carried on iron brackets bedded in the terra cotta, and lipped over the edge of the mouldings so that no wet whatever can get into the terra cotta beneath. That seems to me the simplest way in our climate, where almost any material of a clayey nature is in danger of disintegration by frost. I was very much interested when reading the account of

