<doctype type="text">

<article title=" AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

	240	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



traditions. To this end the junior members of the chapters, recruited from draughtsmen and graduates of the schools, should be made to feel that they are wards of the institute and essential parts of its organization, and to anticipate their advancement in due time to the successive grades of associate membership and full fellowship as assurances of honorable professional positions before the world. It seems to me that the institute, under its present improved organization, would, by some such process as I have suggested, he brought into closer and more effective sympathy with the young men just entering the profession, and through such sympathy would receive at least as many benefits and advantages as it would confer.

I commend these propositions to your careful consideration, and would further propose that the Board of Directors he requested to examine into the work and methods of the most successful of the junior architectural societies or leagues with the object of formulating from their experience a scheme of exercises and duties to be recommended in a circular to the chapters, so that they may learn how to give greater interest and a more abundant life to their proceedings, and become more active and efficient agents in the practical work which this institute is organized to perform. Thus may be established a propaganda in the interests of a warmer comradeship, a purer practice, and a nobler art.

In considering what has been actually accomplished by our efforts during the past year, it is with especial pleasure that I refer to the fact that, under the operations of the Tarsney Act, public buildings at Norfolk, Va., Caniden, N.J., and Ellis Island, New York city, are now erecting front the designs arid tinder the care of private architects that the stew custom house in New York and the Judiciary building in Washington have, after fair competition, been assigned to architects capable of expressing the genius of the nation in monumental architecture ; and that the Baltimore custom house and the National building at Cleveland, 0., will probably soon he the subjects of competitive design. The work on buildings for the Naval Academy at Annapolis and on the Government building at Chicago is in the hands of private architects. Its probable that other public monuments, especially in the west, will he open to the profession as soon as the sites shall have been vested in the United States. The office of the Supervising Architect at Washington is thus gratefully relieved from a labor which no individual genius, however strong, and no official organization, however skilful, can he sufficient adequately to perform. But while the efforts of the institute have thus far succeeded in opening to fair and honorable competition the designing and building of the national monuments, and have made an encouraging beginning in rendering them more worthy to represent our higher civilization in terms of art, it must not he forgotten that these opportunities have been opened to us only through the intelligent sympathy of tire present honorable secretary of treasury, operating under the provisions of the Tarsocy Act ; and that, without the accident of this intelligent and exceptional sympathy on tire part of that official, the public buildings of our country would still he manufactured by the architectural machine in the treasury department, with its subdivided professional responsibilities, its baleful political affiliations, and its deliberate and extravagant methods of administration. Our attempt to formulate and obtain the enactment of a law sufficient to secure for us a truly national architecture fit to represent our highest standards in art, should not for a moment he relaxed, and our legislative committee on Government architecture should he continued, maintained, and encouraged to use every honorable means to bring about this result at the earliest possible day.

I am glad to bear witness to the fact that, in the conduct of competitions in general, the dignity and the highest interests of our profession have, during the past year, received more adequate and respectful consideration than heretofore. But it must he admitted that in many parts of our country, especially in those more remote from the great centres of activity and intelligence, the loose professional habits of many practitioners of our art still encourage the publication of "Invitation to Architects," while competitions in which the contestants are arbitrarily deprived of every proper safe-guard, and are asked to submit themselves to conditions insulting to their self-respect and devised to secure their service at the smallest possible cost, meet with ready and humiliating acceptance. Near every such locality the institute should maintain a missionary chapter to teach the primary principles of honorable practice, for the benefit not of the architects alone, but of the public.

Among the competitions of the year which have been managed in a manner creditable to the projectors, the contestants, and the judges, by far the most conspicuous and memorable is that for the laying out of the buildings and grounds of the University of California, under the 'Phoebe Hearst Architectural Plan." Though the highest award in the international competition fell to a French architect, the brilliant part borne especially by some of the younger American contestants is a cause for congratulation. I should like to see this Institute, by formal resolution, recognize our indebtedness not only in the munificent and public-spirited woman through whom this important architectural event was made possible, but to the managing committee for furnishing an example so conspicuous of a fairly-conducted competition on a great scale, and for

the courage and intelligence with which they have conceived a scheme of architecture which in extent and importance has not been exceeded, if it has been equalled, in modern times.

Another cause for congratulation resides in the cordial and effective alliance between painting, sculpture and architecture as exhibited in several works of monumental importance which have reached completion during the past year. It is only by such harmonious and fruitful co-operation that the highest civilization of our times may at length begin to receive competent expression in art. Tue public is beginning to understand that the highest and noblest expressions of art, not only in permanent monuments, but in public pageants of merely temporary significance, are possible only through such a concert of effort, and architecture is glad to restore to her sisters of the brush and chisel the field of high endeavor in which the old masters found their greatest opportunities. We especially recognize and admire the splendid service rendered by the sculptors in the decoration of the triumphal arch erected in New York in honor of the Navy aunt the victor of Manilla.

I have looked forward, gentlemen of the Institute, with especial solicitude and interest to this, your thirty-third convention, as it is the first in which, under our finally amended laws, the experiment of authorized delegations from the Chapters is to he tried ; the first in which the remodelling of the Constitution and By-laws has not presented itself as the paramount and absorbing topic of report and discussion ; and practically the first in which the Institute has givers to it the privilege and opportunity of considering at peace and without fear of interruption subjects related to tire highest interests of the profession.

If, after those many years of experiment, we have at length reached an era of tranquil and prosperous development, let us realize that the best use we can make of this peace is to comprehend and to assume all the grave responsibilities which belong to the undisputed position of the Institute as the national representative and protector of a great profession and a greater art.

You may he sure that tire civilized world will receive with peculiar interest all that we have to give forth in the elucidations of the strange and unprecedented conditions under which a rich and prosperous nation, unembarrassed by patriotic traditions of art, is developing style; that it will eagerly hear all that we may have to say on the practical applications of science to architecture, on the progress of invention in respect to building, on the discovery of new materials and new methods arid their effect upon our art, and on the incidents of our unimaginable progress in tile future. We alone are in position to influence the expression of the immense energies of our nation in architecture. Let us endeavor adequately to fulfil these duties.

I hope I may he permitted to close tire address with a brief personal statement. When at the last convention you saw fit to make me president of the institute, I received the unexpected honor as an expression of consideration and respect for one whose connection with the Institute began at its first conception, forty-seven years ago. Recalling the brilliant services of my old friends and predecessors in this office, I undertook its responsibilities with doubt and severe misgivings. But as the culmination of a professional year is now, iii the course of nature, drawing toward its close, and as a more precious testimonial of the good will and kindly feeling of my professional fellows, the honor was very grateful to me, and I now resign it with a deep appreciation of your generous confidence. If, possibly, it may he the purpose of my friends to propose my name for an election to a second term, as permitted by the by-laws and as customary in your practice, I must, with gratitude, decline the compliment, as I have in contemplation a long visit of study and observation in Europe.

I sincerely trust that in choosing ray successor, you may be wisely guided and that he will receive the office with the consciousness that its responsibilities have increased, and are increasing with time, arid that a merely perfunctory administration of it will delay the development of the great future of the Institute.



<article title=" TORONTO CHAPTER OF THE 0. A. A." author="">

TORONTO CHAPTER OF THE 0. A. A.

The regular monthly meeting of the Toronto Chapter of the 0. A. A. was field on Monday evening, 11th inst., in McConkey's dining parlors. Dinner was served to an appreciative company at 6..3o, after which a paper was read by Mr. Alexander Marshall, on " Stone Work arid Stone Cutting. Tire paper, which is printed in this issue, was very instructive and the discussions thereon proved very beneficial to those present. Tine representatives of tire Chapter to the Technical School Board were instructed to prepare a report of the year's work and submit the same 10 a special meeting oft he Chapter to be called this month. A special interest in the Technical School work is being manifested at present owing to the proposed changes by tire city council.





Art interesting new catalogue has been issued by the Expanded Metal and Fireproofing Co., Limited, of Toronto. By means of carefully prepared letter-press and sectional cuts drawn to large scale, the qualities and uses of expanded metal in architectural and engineering work are clearly explained. The material is made from No. 24 to in gauge steel and ¼ inch plate, rind iii various meshes ranging from 3/8 inch, suitable for lathing, to 3 or 4 inches, as adapted for flooring and heavy railway work. Reference is made to tire results of scientific tests of materials conducted in England, Germany, etc., as a proof of its strength and value for fireproofing purposes. Other advantages claimed for it are that it is light and sanitary and occupies but little space.

