

Builders Exchanges and Labor Troubles

the face. 16. When concrete is to be deposited on any concrete face which has become dry, such surface should be well wetted previous to the application of the new material. 17. Cement concrete should be deposited as soon as made. The concrete, should, after mixing, be rapidly wheeled to the site, gently tipped into position, and then evenly and gently rammed, but not so as to make the surface wet, as the cement exudes from it. 18. In recent experiments the strongest concrete proved to be made with slag; broken fire-brick came next, and then pumice ; while coke-breeze was the weakest. After heating the above to a red heat and quenching them with water, it was found that slag had lost two-thirds of its strength, broken fire-brick nearly as much, and pumice about the same, but coke-breeze less than one half; and that the latter was then stronger than the other three materials. 19. Cement concrete should be used at once, but lime concrete may be left a short time before being used, to ensure the slaking of the lime. 20. Fat lime is no good for concrete stone, or hydraulic lime, or Portland cement should be used. The aggregate should be tree from clay, loam, etc. The sand should be sharp. Thames ballast is as good as it requires no sand added." The forgoing introduction contains some capital pointers, and some facts not generally known. We may have occasion to quote again from " Specification " in future issues.





IT is gratifying to learn that through the efforts of several Builders' Exchanges, a number of strikes and labor

disturbances have been prevented, and in other cases, by the combined efforts of labor leaders and exchanges, serious differences have been adjusted, and the workmen who had been on strike, returned to work satisfied with the mutual arrangements. These achievements by the Exchanges, are only small beginnings of what may be accomplished for the good of all concerned

if their influence covered a larger area, and a stronger bond of unity, obtained among the Exchanges. If it were possible that dissatisfied workmen, through the agency of their leaders, could appeal to the heads of some national organization of employers ; and there discuss their grievances, and become acquainted with the conditions controlling the particular class of labor disturbed, there would be a less number of strikes, and much more harmony between employer and employed, than now exists. Speaking for the workmen employed in the construction of buildings from the man who does the excavating, to the man who lays out and constructs the stairs and hand-railing, no more intelligent, or more reasonable class of workmen can be found in any other trade ; and an impartial discussion of their troubles, when properly submitted to the heads of some sort of a National Exchange, would engender kindly feelings all round, and be a powerful factor in the prevention of strikes or other labor troubles. It is manifestly in the interest of building contractors, that they establish Exchanges in every town and city, having five thousand or more inhabitants. It is not necessary that expensive rooms for the purpose, should be rented ; in fact, in the smaller towns, it may not be necessary to rent rooms at all, as the board might meet in the offices of its members as occasion might require. A small sum paid to a secretary, and a few dollars for stationery, might compose

the whole expenditure for a very long time, and the amount required, could easily be raised by a membership fee, and a small yearly due. Meetings might be held monthly or bi-monthly, or they might only be held at the call of the chairman, or as occasion demanded. The benefits derived by an organization, such as a Builders' Exchange, even in a small town, can scarcely be measured ; and if the builders and contractors will only pause for a moment and think over the subject, they cannot fail to see how their own interests, the interests of their workmen, and greater than all—the public interests, can he bettered ; they will seriously think that it is about time to organize a Builders' Exchange in their town.



MR. JOHN HIGMAN.

MR. John Higman, president of the Ottawa Association of Master Plumbers of Canada, and retiring vice-president for Ontario, is an Englishman by birth. Born in Cornwall in 1842, he came to Canada when thirty years of age, taking up his residence in Ottawa, where he has remained almost continuously ever since. He is









<doctype type="text">





























MR. JOHN HIGMAN.





a leading business man in the plumbing and steam fitting line, is a fine stalwart fellow, standing six feet and turning the scale at two hundred and seventy pounds. He directs his business with careful intelligence, while his integrity of character makes him one of the most respected residents of the city. His recognition at the hands of the master plumbers is well deserved.



A permanent liquidator has been appointed to wind up the affairs of the Canadian Granite Co., of Ottawa.



POLISH FOR BEECH WOOD.-—The wood of the red beech is known to acquire, by the use of ordinary shellac polish, a dirty yellow color, and by the use of white polish, prepared from bleached shellac, an unsightly gray-white color. Therefore, where light colors are desired only filtered shellac polish should be employed, and in order to impart some fire to the naturally dull color of the beech wood the admixture of a solution of dragon's blood in alcohol for a red shade, or turmeric in alcohol for a yellow may be used. A compound of the red and yellow liquids gives a nice orange shade. A few trials will soon show how much coloring matter may be added to the polish.

