<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Correspondence." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	7



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



AN INTERESTING LEGAL DECISION.



A CASE of Considerable interest to architects, owners and contractors, was decided by Mr. Justice Curran in the Superior Court in this city on the 28th ult. The plaintiff, Collins, a contracting carpenter brought an action against one Lapierre for $330. He alleged that on the 5th of August, 1897, he made a Contract with defendant to do all the carpenter work on a block of houses in Laprairie street in this city, under plans and specifications. The contract price was $2,020. He claimed that he faithfully performed all the work as specified. Defendant, he alleged, paid him $1,765 on account, leaving a balance of $225. In addition the plaintiff claimed $75 for extra work done for defendant independent of the Contract, making $330, for which he asked judgment. Defendant pleaded that it was true he entered into the contract alleged, but he denied that plaintiff did the work according to the plans and specifications. On the contrary, he alleged that after plaintiff pretended to have finished his work, he was obliged to protest him notarially, and that he put him in default to do a number of things mentioned in the contract which had been omitted, and to change others which had been done in a totally different manner from that specified. He set forth that under the contract he was to pay 85 per cent, upon the Contract price during the progress of the work, and was to be privileged to retain 15 per cent. until the expiration of thirty days after the full completion of the work. As regards the claim of $75, lie repudiated it and stated that the only extras were for a sum of $18. He claimed that he had paid far in excess of 85 per cent, of the contract price, and a great deal more than sufficient to cover these $18. Defendant's pretension was that under the terms of the Contract, the present action was premature. The proof established that plaintiff had not completed his work at the date of the institution of his action. He had informed defendant that he would do nothing more, and pretended to have done more than he was obliged to do; that certain changes made by him and deviations from the plans arid specifications were really beneficial to the defendant and improvements upon the plans and specifications. As the case stood, it was clear that following the contract, as the court must, the action of the plaintiff was premature. He should have fulfilled the contract and adhered to the specifications; he should have completed the works, and he should have waited for 30 days after such completion before instituting his action. The claim for $18 for extra work, which was the only sum proved, had been more than extinguished by the excess over 85 per cent, paid by the defendant upon the contract. It was clear that plaintiff had a claim for a balance upon the contract price, but he instituted his action too soon. Defendant in his protest notified plaintiff that in default of his executing the works as called for, he would execute the same at his cost. Since plaintiff declined to do the work, he should have given defendant time to do what remained to be done, so that he might be in a position to make plaintiff a tender of what was actually due. The action was premature, and for that reason it was dismissed with costs sauf recours.



THE NEW CITY CHARTER.



Several clauses affecting the building trades are embodied in the new City Charter, which was recently approved by the City Council, and now only requires the sanction of the Provincial Legislature. Among these are the following "52 (a)—To

regulate the architecture, dimensions and symmetry of buildings in certain streets to compel the proprietors to submit the plans thereof and to previously obtain a certificate, in writing, from the Building Inspector, and to prevent the construction and order the demolition of any building erected contrary to the By-laws.'

In cases of expropriations the indemnity paid to tenants of any land or building shall not exceed the remainder of the current year, and of four years' rent of their premises; no paving of any street, lane or highways shall be laid, unless asked for by two-thirds of the proprietors, in number and value, whose property fronts thereon, and the cost of such paving shall be paid for one-half by the city, and the other half by the proprietors."



OBITUARY.



Mr. David Perrault, one of the oldest and most prominent contractors in the city, died recently at the advanced age of 83 years. He was connected with the erection of the Montreal College and St. James Cathedral.

Mr. Frederick Hortan, one of the most progressive plumbers of this city, passed out of life recently at the comparatively early age of 42 years. He was one of the most active promoters of the first plumbing association in 1887, and occupied the position of 1st Vice-President. He also advocated and was instrumental in having formed classes for the education of the apprentices to the plumbing trade held in the Council of Arts building, 96 St. Gabriel street. He was appointed instructor of these classes by the Government of Quebec, jointly with the Master Plumbers Association, and held the position for three years, when the demands of his business compelled him to resign. Mr. Hortan carried out plumb-













































THE LATE FREDERICK HORTAN.





ing contracts in connection with many of the large churches, warehouses and handsome residences of the city. His death was due to an attack of typhoid fever.

NOTES.



Nearly five hundred car loads of scrap iron comprising the tubes of the old Victoria Bridge, were recently forwarded to the purchasers, the Ontario Foundry Co. of Hamilton.

A committee has been appointed by the Province of Quebec Association of Architects to guard the interests of the Association in connection with the amendments to the city charter which will shortly come before the Legislature at Quebec for approval.

In a recent address to the students of the Crystal Palace School of Practical Engineering in London, Sir Charles Rivers-Wilson, President of the Grand Trunk Railway Co., referred in complimentary terms to the status attained by Canadian engineers, as evidenced by the reconstruction of the Victoria Bridge, and the high standard of electric traction.

PERSONAL.



Mr. David R. Brown continues the business of the late firm of Brown, McVicar & Heriot, architects, with offices in the Canada Life Building.

Messrs. D. H. McVicar and J. C. A. Heriot, architects, have formed a partnership under the name of McVicar & Heriot. Their offices are in the Canada Life Building.

Mr. Walter H. Cottingham, who for several years past has been engaged in the manufacture of paints in conjunction with the Sherwin Williams Co. of Cleveland, Ohio, has recently been appointed general manager of the Company. This will necessitate his early removal to Cleveland. It is understood that the Montreal works will in future be under the direction of Mr. Chas. Ballantyne.

