<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



pointed out that at first, when everybody was in the Association, there was no incentive to use the title, whereas now that a number had dropped out there was something distinctive about it. lie thought the adoption of the use of the title, in conjunction with some of the projects suggested by Mr. Baker, would advance the interests of the society.

Mr. Burke then moved the following resolution, That it he an instruction to the Council to take into consideration the advisability of the assumption by members of the Association of the title, Registered Architect," and that if upon inquiry it is found to be a popular suggestion, the Council issue a notice to members in good standing to assume the title."

Mr. Wickson seconded the motion.

The President said that while Mr. Burke's motion was a good one, yet there was at present a motion before them, which must be dealt with before taking up that of Mr. Burke.

Mr. Baker explained that the reason he had moved for a committee instead of referring the matters to the Council was that the Council had always enough work on hand, and a committee would be better able to deal with the proposals made.

Mr. Dick thought it was desirable that every member present should express his views on the subject matter of the discussion he had to confess his consciousness that his own ideas needed crystallizing- before he gave utterance to them. He regretted very much the fact that another appointment rendered it impossible for him to be present in time to hear the Presidents address, but he had been very much interested in the discussion which was in progress when he entered the room. He thought Mr. Baker's suggestion that a committee outside of the Council should be appointed to consider the proposals made was a good one; the committee to confer with the Council and act in concert with it. From the remarks he had heard, he gathered that there was a general feeling that it was time to cease, for thc present at least., the efforts to obtain amended legislation, and that the energies of the Association should now be devoted to bringing itself more prominently before the public, with a view to spreading a wider knowledge of its aims and desires, and, perhaps, to some extent at least, becoming an educator of the public taste. The people who furnished the money for the erection of buildings in many instances have very little artistic taste, and were chiefly actuated by a desire to obtain for their money a building that would yield the largest possible return for their investment. Now, something more than that was required of the public it was desirable that they should have an intelligent interest in architecture, and should be able to criticize the designs submitted to them, and, in the case of competitions, he able to select with some degree of certainty the best of a number of designs submitted. Of course, it was well known that at present, in many instances, by no means the best designs were chosen. Even intelligent arid educated persons take so little notice of architectural objects that they will often mistake for a view of some building with which they are perfectly familiar a drawing or photograph of some other building which has not the slightest resemblance to the one they have in mind. That showed how little interest they took in architecture. It was surprising how many people did not know enough of architecture to enable them even to distinguish between Gothic and Classic. Now, something- had been said of popular public lectures. There were some difficulties about that. Architects, as a rule, were not facile Writers or speakers. This was an attainment which an architect actively engaged in the practice of his profession had little opportunity of acquiring. It was his opinion that in the preparation of papers to be read too little attention had been given to the aesthetic side of the question, and too much condensation of books indulged in. It should bc borne in mind that the preparation of a really valuable paper was a task not to be lightly entered upon, but one that involved a great deal of work and study. It was no use sitting down hurriedly and throwing together a few stray thoughts; a paper prepared in that way could not he expected to benefit anybody. It was true that some men had an inborn genius for throwing forth flowery effusions, but it would generally be found that such productions lacked the solidity and accuracy which were necessary to make them of value. The little interest evinced in the proceedings of the Association did not afford much encouragement to anyone to take the time and trouble necessary to prepare a really good paper, but he had no doubt that if the effort were made, gentlemen could be found in this city both willing and able to prepare and deliver lectures on architecture, which large audiences would be glad to come to hear. He had been much gratified at the large attendance at Rev. Mr. Shortt's lecture under the auspices of the Toronto Chapter, and thought it would be a good thing to arrange for a course of such lectures, because no doubt those who were present on that occasion would he glad to have another opportunity of listening to a lecturer who, in addition to knowing his subject, was skilled in the art of public speaking. A great deal had been said about the meager number of good designs submitted in competitions, and the large number of inferior designs executed. It had to be remembered, however, that the conditions prevailing in this country were somewhat different to those existing in England, for instance. It was well known to all that an architect in this country had a great deal more to do than an English architect he had to be not only the architect, but clerk of the works, and, in many cases, practically foreman of the trades. When a mans time was taken up in superintending the work and looking after all sorts of petty details he had too little time left in which to study his designs. Vie might burn more of the midnight oil, but that was something to which as a man grows older he is less inclined, and which he becomes physically less capable of doing with justice to himself. Speaking with regard to the future of the Association, it might he that the present scale of fees was too low, but he did not think it would

be politic under existing circumstances to raise it. As to the retrenchment in expenditure, thc expenses at present were not very heavy, and there was still a surplus on hand, and he thought things might very well be allowed to run along- another year or two on the present basis. He felt sure that all would agree that no man could better fill the position of Registrar and Librarian than Mr. Langton, and that the salary was no adequate remuneration for the time and trouble which the office entailed. Then as to the use of the title "Registered Architect. The general consensus of opinion at the time the act was passed was that they would be stultifying themselves by using the title, and, as had been pointed out by Mr. Wickson, at that time it carried with it no distinction whatever, because as every Tom, Dick and Harry through the country was taken in, there was no distinction in using that title. But if the names of all those who had not paid their fees were dropped, it would reduce the number very much, and he did not feel at all sure that Mr. Burke's suggestion was not a good one at all events the Council might consider the advisability of now adopting it. He thought a great deal would depend on the number who would agree to make use of the title, whether it would be wise or not to adopt it, and it would be well to ascertain what number of members of good standing were prepared to fall in with the suggestion.

The President then put Mr. Baker's motion for the appointment of a committee, which was carried.

The President then put Mr. Burkes motion, with regard to the assumption of the title of''' Registered Architect,'' which was carried

The Convention then adjourned until 10.30 o'clock on Wednesday morning, the 18th inst.



SECOND DAY.

The second day, Wednesday, was occupied for the most part by the papers " The Advancement of Public Taste in Architecture," by Mr. J. W. Siddall '' Plastering, Plain amid Ornamental," by Mr. W. J. Hynes, and " Terra Cotta," by Mr. M. J. Hynes. These papers, which were discussed at some length, will appear in subsequent issues of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. A luncheon was also discussed at some length, and with apparent interest. It was discovered by a scientific gentleman present that 45 per cent. of architects, 66 per cent of the staff of the School of Practical Science, and 100 per cent. of reporters for the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER are smokers. After the papers were read, Mr. Harkness, of the School of Practical Science, gave an exhibition by steroptican of some of the slides belonging- to the Architectural Department of the School. Business was then resumed.

Mr. Gregg said there was a matter lie desired to bring before the Association. As they were no doubt aware, the Quebec Association had got further in the matter of legislation than we in Ontario, having obtained an act forbidding die use of the title "Architect " in their province except by members of thc Quebec Association. It might happen if there was a competition in Montreal, open to architects in Ontario, or in the case of any member of the Ontario Association removing to Montreal, that complications might arise, and he would therefore ask that the Council be instructed to communicate with the Quebec Association, asking that members of the Ontario Association in good standing- should be recognized as architects and members of the profession in the province of Quebec.

Mr. Belcher seconded the motion, which was carried.

On motion by Mr. D. B. Dick, seconded by Mr. J. E. Belcher, moved the following resolution, which was carried '' Resolved

that the members of this Association		have heard with deep regret

of the death of Mr. Thomas Fuller, the late chief architect of the Department of Public Works for the Dominion, who was a member of this Association, and for some time a member of' the Council. They mourn his loss as that of a man whose genial disposition and personal worth endeared him to all who came in contact with him, and who in the course of a long and honorable career did much to raise the standard of architectural design and practice, both in Canada and the United States." Ordered that this resolution be engrossed in the minutes and a copy sent to his family.

On motion by Mr. Baker, seconded by	, it was resolved that the following be a recommendation to the Council

"That the Lieutenant-Governor be made an honorary member of the Association.

"That the City Council be urged to expedite the printing and issuing of that portion of the city by—laws which relates to building and kindred matters.

"That a register be provided so that those attending meetings may register their names on entering, and a correct record of those attending he kept in that way.

" That clause of the by-laws passed by the Association be altered to read: 1. The Association shall meet each year, on thc first Tuesday after the 10th of each month, except June, July, August and September, the meeting in January to be the annual meeting, at such time and place as shall be determined by the Council and designated in the notice calling- the meeting."

	The six members of the committee	appointed under Mr. Baker's

motion on the previous day were then named by the President. They are Messrs. E. Burke (convener), H. B. Gordon, W. A. Langton, J. A. Pearson, j. W. Siddall, and Eden Smith.

The election of' members of Council then took place, resulting in the election of Messrs. F. S. Baker and Grant Helliwell, of Toronto, and Mr. Fred. Henry, of London.

The auditors, Messrs. H. Langley and W. R. Gregg, were thanked and asked to act again.

Votes of thanks were also passed to the Hon. Minister of Education for granting the use of the room of meeting, to Professor Galbraith, the principal of the School, and Messrs. C.IH.C. Wright and A. H. Harkncss, of the Architectural Department of the School. The meeting then closed.

