<doctype type="text">





























[THIS DEPARMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL A POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

There is no question connected with Hints on Estimating. contracting for the erection of buildings, that appeals with such force to

the mind of the contractor, as that of estimating for on the correctness of the estimate, depends the measure of success. The contractor who can figure close, on the labor and the material required to complete any given work, has, not only a decided advantage over his competitors who figure in a hap-hazard way, but he also possesses the knowledge of knowing he holds the correct figures ; and can pursue his work to completion, with a confidence born of such knowledge, and which is an important factor in faciliating the work and insuring a fair profit, where the careless or incorrect estimator would always be working under doubts, which would tend to considerably lessen the profits. There are some methods of estimating known to architects, builders and contractors for obtaining an approximate estimate of buildings by cubing the quantities ; but such methods are of very little service to beginners, or to the man who desires a thorough and correct estimate, for, to arrive at an approximate cost of any given work, by cubing requires an intimate knowledge of the different classes of buildings and their values, and a readiness in making a proper allowance for costly materials and enrichments, qualities that few men possess in an eminent degree. Even for an off-hand " probable cost," the method of cubing is not to be recommended. It is always safer to take time and trouble in fully preparing an estimate, detailing in brief both work and material and by putting on paper each detail in some sort of order, then omission, will most likely be noted and adjusted before it is too late. It must always be borne in mind that it is not the mere walls, rough wood-work, plastering and roofing that make the great bulk of the cost of a building, unless one of a very plain description. It is the decorative part and interior finish and numerous small, but expensive items, that fill up the bill. One of the first things the estimator should do is to make a thorough study of the building, the elevations, plans, details, and location, and where plans and specifications are to be returned, it will be well to make a rough sketch, or sketches of them first, and to dot down in a small book the doubtful or not clearly understood portions of the latter, as these will be found serviceable when completing the estimate. All quantities should be carefully computed and written down under some system, and the prices current for material and labor in each particular added - the prices being for the finished work ; for instance, the price of a door should mean the cost of a door with its frame, casings. mouldings, locks, hinges, fixing, hanging and painting. By adopting a method of this kind, the estimator will know that each item is complete, and it will be almost impossible to err

in the final result. When all the items are written up, and everything is known to be entered, the totals should he made up and at least 10 per cent. added to cover profits and contingencies. In many cases, as much as 20 per cent is added to cover the last items mentioned, and this, is sometimes found not to be enough, particularly in buildings where hand labor is largely employed in carvings and decoration, as skilled labor of these kinds is an uncertain factor. On the rough sketches of plans made by the estimator, it will prove quite a help if the quantities of plastering, flooring, wainscoting, cornice, windows, doors, blinds, and other matters, are figured out in each room on the sketch as the estimating progresses ; then, on a separate sheet of paper, when the estimate is complete, the items as shown in the plan may be put down and the totals summed up. This will be found an excellent way for new beginners.



Flues, into which two stove-pipes enter,

How to Make a

Chimney Draw,	frequently enter into fits of perverseness and refuse to draw, and in consequence

there is much discomfort in the house. Sometimes this disagreeable state of affairs is caused because the draft through one of the openings is so much stronger than the draft from the other, that the smoke is prevented from working its way into the flue. This condition may often be remedied by adopting the scheme shown in Fig. 1. Let A be the lowest pipe in the flue, then if the fire is first lighted below, the

current of air passing the upper pipe B, would ascend so rapidly, that it would cut off the draft entirely. To remedy this, run into the flue above, a stove-pipe cut the same as shown at B, with the long end facing the hole below. This will prevent the current of air or smoke from spoiling the draft, and will not close up the flue enough to interfere with the draft of A. The shape of the pipe at B can be determined by the size of the flue ; if it is narrow or small, the pipe B can be trimmed to suit. If there should be any back-draft at A a slight projection of the pipe

at its top will do a great deal towards preventing smoke from entering the house. Where a fire-place is attached, the problem of good draft becomes more difficult, but, in many cases the back-draft is caused by having the throat too small, too large, or else built at the wrong angle. Where the fire-place opening is very

FIG. 1—How TO MAKE A CHIMNEY DRAW.

