<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TRADITION AND MATERIAL IN ARCHITECTURE." author="Gibbon, Alexander M.">

	120	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



same way generally keep the traditional section, but are cut out of larger stone than was the earlier practice; they have no joint, that is, at the extrados. We find Gothic at Mont St. Michael, and Classic at Aberdeen, both of granite, but it does not appear that in either case the material had anything to do with the choice of the style.

Wrought-iron in the form of tie-rods influenced the Gothic of Italy. Arches were desired springing from single columns at porches and elsewhere, but the thrust was met not by counteracting flying buttress or inertia of wall, but by tension of metal. This was a novel use of a material till then in construction neglected, but now legitimately, if not quite happily, turned to account, and one might have expected the new mode to have spread and become more general than it did ; but after all it takes its place only as a useful aid alike for arches and roots. gothic architecture was not revolutionized ; the old methods have not been displaced ; for one arch to be seen, even to-day, whose thrust is met by tension, a dozen are found sustained by either counter arch or buttress. The eye is apparently better pleased to have it so ; old world practice is in its favour, hence the mode endures.

Cast-iron columns and rolled beams in our own day are developments that have undoubtedly influenced architecture. To believe some, indeed, one would think we are now quite emancipated from all past canons of art ; but we note that, although most happily we have it in our power nowadays to do much that was hitherto impracticable, still, after all, a substantial proportion of the world's work is done in the old way. No disparagement to the new methods for architects, whose conservative sympathies incline to stone construction, often best appreciate the existence of metal so used, and it is they, and not engineers, who should give all due regard to the novel material, arid who regret to see it masked behind masonry -as, for example, at the Tower Bridge.

Lead is a material that as a covering might have influenced the Gothic roof, and so necessarily the gable— the characteristic Gothic feature, says Ruskin in a way that it did not. If in Norman times lead was in small plates, in Gothic times, just when roofs were steepest, it was used in strips and rolls. On a pitch of forty-five o sixty degrees slates and tiles hang well, but the "crawl " of lead is excessive ; the material calls for a rake anywhere under thirty degrees ; called, I may say in vain, for over a couple of centuries, until in the Perpendicular period this sensible pitch of roof was given ; in this, as in some other things, the style showing a truthfulness to utilitarian principles and logical construction not met with in the perfected Gothic of France, so unweariedly eulogised for this very quality. Of course, I am not arguing that the pitch of the roof ought to be lowered to suit cast-lead architecture overrides such fitness. I only cite as a historical fact that it was not, although the practical logic of the material pointed that way ; traditional motive was superior to the material in influence, and Gothic as gloriously inconsistent as ever Classic was.

Timber, I think, we might have expected to have ininfluenced our Scottish buildings more than it has. Of suitable woods we have abundance, and the climate is not inimical. Statistics of the comparative rainfall in Lancashire and our west coast prove this ; yet in Lancashire there are noble half-timber manor houses ; with us none at all. Why is it that north of the Tweed we

have not a single timber church porch, and a timber spire is rare, though these may have existed ? Simply, we must believe, 1 think, that the timber work did not appeal to the Scottish taste, though material in abundance was to be had, in spite of what Dr. Johnson was pleased to believe to the contrary. Zinc and sheet-iron have been employed in America for cornices, a a development on European practice (chiefly French) confined hitherto to large and elaborate hip rolls on roofs, mansard especially. This direct imitation of stone features is alarming, but perhaps only at first. A little reflection will reassure us it is no new thing in the course of architectural development for an old form to be copied in a new material. We have seen wood copied in stone stone imitated in sheet iron is not more strange. As in the former case, it will be an affair of time, if ever, before detail is designed appropriate to the new material ; hut even with its nature and capabilities recognized there will remain a reminiscence of that other material from which it was derived. It is in the noting of such like derivations that much of the interest of archaeology consists.

Largely because of the use of a metal frame-work in buildings, terra cotta has come into vogue. It is, of course, nothing more than brickwork of a superior kind, which, instead of being moulded into plain solid blocks, takes the form of pottery ; solidity, if required, being given by concrete filled in when building. One obvious possibility about this material is that, coming from a mould, elaborate ornament can he repeated easily and inexpensively. We must, then, in judging it, use another standard than that applicable to carved stonework. Vermiculation and diaper laboriously cut by the mason often offend by vaunting labour of execution

over design ; but as turned out from a mould our criticism must alter, and we may welcome abundance of ornament that need not disturb the contour of features, and may give a texture of surface of almost as much value as colour itself. This, of course, should be our treatment of the material ; but whether it gets it or whether it will be treated just as stone, time alone can show. It has been noted that in the modelling of terra-cotta, as raised ornament is applied by the fingers to a surface rather than left by cutting from it, as with stone, so the treatment should express itself in the case, say, of a panel, by the ornament projecting. This is, perhaps, carrying the principle to an extreme of nicety, 1 for the material being plastic, the modeller can at will

dig out or apply but I think it very just that in stone cutting this truth in working should be more recognized, for it is always regettable, as misapplied labour, to see small portions of raised work left at the expense of sinking a large surface.

Besides the inherent quality of materials that should condition their employment, there are others imposed by process of manufacture. such as size in bricks, or commercial usage, as the stock sizes of timber and stone, carrying with it variation in prices that cannot be disregarded. These intrinsic conditions may, to a slight extent, modify architecture, though, if motive is assertive enough, these will be overridden ; but I can see no particular merit in disregarding such subordinate influences. In one of Dublin's cathedrals are to be seen, 1 believe, Purbeck shafts that, just as shipped across channel in stock lengths, are built, with bands at intervals, decided not by an architect's designs, but by quarrymen's practice. It is a trivial matter, but I do not think architecture in the grand sense suffers

