<doctype type="text">

	72	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN Architect AND Builder.



THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY.



The official opening on April 7th of the 20th Exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy by Lord and Lady Minto at the Art Galleries, Montreal, was a decided success.

The President, Mr. Robert Harris, in his opening address gave a sketch of the history of the institution, pointing out the struggle upwards it has had since the day of its inauguration by the Marquis of Lorne and H. R. H. Princess Louise, twenty years ago.

Lord Minto in his reply congratulated the academy on the success of the exhibition and then urged the necessity of national character in art. "Let Canadian art" he said, "be typical of Canadian scenery, Canadian life, Canadian thought and character." This idea should also be borne in mind by architects and let them make their branch of art typical of Canada and suited to its climate, with its necessities and restrictions.

In glancing over thc exhibition as a whole one may say that the standard usually seen at these galleries is well kept up, though perhaps not eclipsing one or two of its predecessors. The president shows two portrait canvasses, one a group of Mrs. Porteous and her young children, the other a single portrait of the late Robert Hamilton of Quebec. Both will bear comparison with Mr. Harris' former works and seem to be very popular. Mr. Brymner only shows one canvas, which no doubt the public regret. The scene depicted is a quiet pastoral landscape with a decided tendency toward the modern French school. Mr. Homer Watson has three strong landscapes in his usual style. His "Crossing the Ford " would be improved somewhat by a different treatment of sky. Mr. Maurice Cullen shows a view on St. Catharine street, Montreal, with the tower of St. James Methodist church (of which so much has been heard of late) in the distance—the scene is by moonlight, and shows this artist at his best. Thc water-color room shows a very good collection of drawings of which we might mention the work of Mr. O'Brien and Mr. Manly, while from an architectural standpoint, the drawings of most interest will undoubtedly he those of Mr. Martin. One should specially note his " Roman Arches at Verona' and his view of Dieppe Cathedral.

The architectural drawings are few in number and it is a surprise to see so many firms not represented, several well known names being absent. This may be accounted for somewhat by the fact that these drawings are generally relegated to the stairway or some obscure corner, but still this can hardly account for the seeming lack of interest on the part of' exhibitors.

To take the drawings in detail in the order in which they hang on the walls, we first come on ascending the staircase to two water-colour drawings by Saxe & Archibald, (a young firm of Montreal architects,) one on each side of thc doorway. These drawings are strong and full of life, though there is a slight tendency to too much of what might bc called the "scenic." Let the drawings be strong, but not at the expense of a quiet and dignified character. The coloring of the front of the Apartment House is too strong while the projecting columned portico does not stand out sufficiently. Next to these is a pen and ink rendering of an office building, also by one of the younger members of the profession, Mr. Gardiner. The rendering is good, while the design is of a quiet but effective character. Above it hangs a drawing by Mr. Dick, of Toronto, an exterior

view of the Toronto University Gymnasium. This drawing is somewhat flat, and can hardly he called a good example of pen and ink rendering. Next come two drawings in monochrome, one thc new Chemistry and Mining Building at McGill University, the other a recently constructed branch for thc Molson's Bank at Vancouver. Better work than either of these drawings has been shown by their author, Mr. A. T. Taylor, of the firm of Messrs. Taylor & Gordon, and in the case of the McGill building, at any rate, hardly does justice to the structure.

Messrs. Hutchison & Wood are represented by a good water color drawing of the front of the proposed " La Presse" building at Montreal, The tone of color is very good, but no trace could be found of the draughtsman's name.

Mr. C. H. Capper, the Professor of Architecture at McGill, shows a pen and ink drawing of an extension to University Hall at Edinburgh. This drawing shows a very good example of the English school of pen and ink work. Mr. Gustav. Hahn is represented by three decorative panels, while Mr. Chaloner shows a pencil cartoon sketch of a panel for one of the Richelieu & Ontario boats, representing- a tribal chief giving orders to his Indian followers.

By the above notes it will be seen that the exhibition is not strong in architectural works, and exhibitors should bear in mind that if they want thc general public to take an interest in their work they must make their drawings interesting to the public. This probably can be achieved by exhibiting colored perspective sketches of exteriors and interiors of rooms, while details of decorative work are generally interesting. The general public, as a class, enjoy what they can see as a whole, and the effect the building, whether exterior or interior, would have in reality. This, as a rule, can he obtained by color easier and more effectively than by pen and ink rendering. Far he it from the writer, however, to persuade architects to drop pen and ink rendering, as this class of work is fully appreciated by the profession if not by the public, and it is also better for reproduction. The question which naturally comes up is whether an exhibitor sends his drawings for the general public or for those who really understand and can appreciate good architectural draughtsmanship and work which will not appeal to the public. It is hoped in future exhibitions that there will he a stronger and better collection of architectural work, and that we may see work of a decorative character, or what might be called the Arts and Crafts Class, shown by drawings. This class of work has been almost entirely neglected.



COLLAPSE OF THE NICOLET CATHEDRAL.



This cathedral, situated at Nicolet, Que., about fifty miles from Montreal, was just about completed and the workmen were putting on the finishing touches when one of them noticed that the columns and piers were giving way. They immediately proceeded to brace them up with chains and planks, but before their work was completed one of the piers gave way, letting down the central portion of the structure, followed later by other sections, and according to reports the dome and rear I)art will also have to come down as some of the columns are broken. Thc damage is said to amount to $4c, 000.

The columns are said to be constructed of concrete, with an iron core, and the piers were of brick laid in cement mortar. It has been reported that the brick piers were not large enough, and that they were put up during frosty weather, which caused thc cement mortar to freeze. Lately there was a fire built to thaw out the basement and it is explained that the heat striking the piers on one side caused that side of them to settle and throw the columns out of plumb, with the result that, not being of regulation metal, they either broke or slipped off the base. But more definite information will be obtained when the experts appointed to look into die matter have made their report.

Thc following gentlemen have been appointed as experts and visited the place on Thursday: Messrs. S. Lesage of the firm of Perrault & Lesage, and C. Dufort of Rodden & Dufort, on behalf of the Bishop, and Mr. Jos. Haynes, C.E., on behalf of the architect, Mr. St. Jean. The contractors, Messrs. Paquet & Godbout, have refused to accept the manner of proceeding, as being irregular, and were not represented at the examination of the ruins. It is more than likely that the question will find its way to the court and there he thoroughly ventilated, which will probably be the most satisfactory conclusion to all concerned.

It is understood that the Bishop consulted Mr. S. Beaudin, Q.C., on the subject, and the  learned counsel informed his Lordship that the architect and contractors were jointly and severally

