<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

	224	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



point of the roof, and no more than 2 storeys, shall be in wood, with a mansard roof.



3rd.—That the walls of said building shall be cased with brickwork not less than four inches thick, or with stone not less than 6 inches thick, laid in Portland cement, and in each case properly secured to the wood work.



SECTION 33.—Any wooden building which may hereafter be erected contrary to the provisions of this by-law, shall he deemed a nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the inspector to give NOTICE to the owner or builder of said building, to abate such nuisance, and in the event of the owner or builder failing to do so within 24 hours, the inspector may cause such building to he demolished, and the expenses incurred in doing so may be collected from the said owner or builder, before the court having jurisdiction in the matter.



SECTION 34.—No terrace or row of brick cased wooden buildings shall be erected, unless the same is divided by cross WALLS of brick work at intervals of not more than 30 feet the said cross walls shall rest upon continuous stone foundations, and shall be not less than eight inches thick, where the building is only one or two storeys in height. If the building is three storeys in height, the cross walls shall he twelve inches thick in the first storey, and eight inches thick for the balance of the height the said cross walls shall extend one foot above the roof as provided for in section 65, of this by-law. They shall also extend to the outside face of the front and rear wood walls and he tied to or connected with the four inches brick casing.



SECTION A wooden building erected in compliance with section 32 of this by-law, shall be encased with brick as soon as practicahle after erection. Should the owner or builder fail to do so within ten days after being notified by the inspector to build such casing, the said building shall be deemed a nuisance, and shall he subject to the provisions of section 33 of this by-law.



SHEOS CONSTRUCTED OF WOOD.



Sheds not exceeding twelve feet in height at the peak or highest part thereof, may be constructed of wood, in rear of third-class buildings provided the roof of such sheds be covered with incombustible materials, and provided also that the term Sheds" he so construed as to mean a structure with a roof sloping one way with one of its sides entirely and constantly open, and such open side to he at least eight feet from any other structure.



TEMPORARY SUPPORTS.



SECTION 36.—Temporary supports placed tinder any structure, wall, girder, or column, during the erection, alteration or repairing, of any building, or portion thereof, shall he amply sufficient to bear the load, and equal in strength to the permanent support, or supports of said construction.

The walls of any building in course of erection shall be strongly braced from the beams of each storey until the bearing parts of the construction are completed.



SCAFFOLDS.



SECTION 37.—any scaffold erected for the use of workmen engaged upon the erection, repair, or alteration of any building or structure, shall he so made and constructed as to safely bear the loads imposed upon it, and to afford ample protection to life and limb.

QUALITY OF MATERIALS.

SECTION 38.—All materials of whatsoever kind shall be of good quality, and sufficient in every respect for the purposes for which they are to be used, and to conform to the best legal trade, and manufacturers' standard, and to he subject to the approval of the



inspector.

BRICKS—The bricks used in all buildings shall be good, hard, well burnt bricks.

BRICKWORK—Walls and piers of all buildings shall he properly bonded with row of headers, at least every fifth course of brickwork or equivalent thereto, and solidly put together with close joints filled with mortar. They shall he built to a line and he carried up plumb and straight. The walls of each storey shall he built up the full thickness to the top of joists above. All brick laid in non-freezing weather shall be well wet, immediately before being laid. Walls and piers or parts of walls and piers, if frozen, shall not he built upon.

SAND.—The sand used for mortar shall be clean, sharp sand, and shall he equal to the standard samples kept in the office of the inspector.



MORTARS.—Cement mortars shall he made of sand and cement in the proportion of not more than three parts of sand to one part of cement approved by the inspector, and used immediately after being mixed. Lime mortar shall he made of not more than four parts of sand to one of lime, for stone work, and three parts of

sand to one of lime, for brick work, and shall not be used before being thoroughly slaked. All cement to be of a brand approved by the inspector.



CONCRETE.—Concrete for foundations, etc., shall be made of one part of cement, two parts of sand, and five parts of small clean broken stone, all carefully mixed, or one half of the five parts may be clean gravel, and the other half small broken stone.



TIMBER.—AII timbers and wooden joists and beams used in any building shall be of good sound material, free from rot, large and loose knots, shakes, or any imperfection, whereby the strength may be impaired, and be of such size and dimensions as the purpose for which the building is intended may require, and according to the rules given in the works of the best recognized authorities.

FOUNDATIONS FOR BUILDINGS.



SECTION 39—Every building hereafter erected, except those of a temporary character, as herein provided for, shall have foundations of stone or hard weather proof brick, approved by the inspector, the bottoms of which shall he laid a depth of not less than four feet six inches below the surface of the ground at all points, and shall he laid upon solid ground or level surface of solid rock, or upon piles, or concrete, or other solid structure.

If brick as above mentioned is used, it must he laid in Portland cement.

SECTION 40.—In case the nature of the earth requires it, foundations are to he made by driving piles where piles are used, they are to he of sound timber not less than five inches in diameter at the small end, and are to be driven to a firm and solid bearing. There shall be not less than two rows of piles below any external or party wall, and they shall not be spaced at a greater distance apart than three feet from centre to centre, in the direction of the length of the wall.

A single row of piling may be placed below an internal wall, provided that it is not over twenty feet in height, and that such piling is approved of by the inspector.

The heads of piles are in all cases to be cut off two inches below the level of the bottom of the footing, and are to be encased in cement concrete, of not less than nine inches in thickness, this concrete to extend not less than eight inches beyond the outer face of piles on each side.

In no case shall an excavation for a basement or cellar he made on either side of a wall supported on piles, so as to expose the piles such excavation shall terminate at least six inches above the bottom of the footing resting on the piles or of the concrete in which they are imbedded.

SECTION 41.—Where the nature of the earth requires a wider sub-structure than can he obtained with stone, the sub-structure may, in the case of buildings of the third class, or of buildings of the second class, which do not exceed two stories in height, he made of hemlock, or tamarac timbers, bedded on the earth, the size and disposition of these timbers to be subject to the approval of the inspector.

SECTION 42.—If steel or iron beams are used for the substructure of any building, they must he thoroughly imbedded in cement concrete, the concrete, to he entirely free from cavities, and to thoroughly envelope the beams the exposed surfaces of such concrete foundations to be coated with cement mortar not less titan one inch thick.



The cement used for all concrete in foundations must be of a standard approved of by the inspector, and shall have a tensile strength of 350 lbs. per square inch, after being immersed seven days in water. When the inspector shall have reason to doubt the quality of the cement, and that it is not equal to the standard fixed, he shall have the right to order the contractor to have the same tested by a proper and responsible party, at the contractor's expense, and to submit the signed certificate of the test to him.

Substructures made with steel or iron beams and concrete, must he so adjusted that the fibre strain upon the metal, if of Iron, shall not exceed 12,000 lbs., and if of steel, if 1,000 lbs. per square inch.



SECTION 43—Where the nature of the earth admits of it, substructures may he made wholly of concrete. Such concrete foundations to be made with standard cement, as prescribed in the preceding section, and shall not be less than twelve inches in thickness, and not less than 6 inches wider on each side than the bottom course of stone or brick footings resting upon it.

	FOOTING COURSES FOR FOUNDATION	WALLS.

	 SECTION 44.—Below all foundation walls,	piers, columns,

	posts and pillars resting upon earth, rock, piles,	 or concrete, a

	base or footing course of stone or brick shall	 be laid below

	foundation walls of buildings of third class	or the founda

