<doctype type="text">

<article title=" IRON CONSTRUCTION." author="Copeland, William">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER.	187



through cracks, and find its way between the scale and the actual surface of the metal, the scale being electronegative to the body of the metal, the elements of a battery exist, and the degree of corrosion is a matter of

gate or filler in small particles, so as to allow being rammed easily into a dense mass without voids, In the placing of long girders underground it is not an uncommon thing to see the earth fall in around the girders,

and to see the concrete filled in without the earth being removed. It is needless, perhaps, to say that whenever this occurs a fault is formed in the concrete, and rust must inevitably follow.

On the structural work above ground the danger of corrosion is not so great, but is sufficient, I think, to warrant the use of a concrete envelope around the columns and external girders, for the masonry covering is not always thick enough or tight enough to exclude moisture. If concrete is used the metal work should be temporarily protected by a coat of oil, which will be worn away by the time the building is ready for closing in.



THE UNDERFEED HOT WATER COMBINATION HEATER.





time. We also know that as concrete is frequently put in place the voids are not filled up, and spaces are left for the accumulation of water, which may be present, forming, with the scale already there, rust-producing factors.

It is not an uncommon thing, where iron footings are placed below the water level, to find that the water has dissolved and washed out all the cement which the concrete originally contained. I have seen more than one building standing with its feet wet, the cement having been washed out before the concrete set, leaving but the stone and sand remaining.

I believe, and have followed it out in my own practice, in placing all iron above the line of saturation if at all possible, and in the Harrison building, which has been referred to here to-night, and for which I was the designing engineer, the grillage

of I-beams in the footings is above the water level, the foundations below this being entirely of concrete; but when for any reason the grillage or underground metal work has to be placed below the water level, most exTHE UNDERFEED FOR STEAM HEATING.





traordinary care should be used to see that the metal work is free from scale and unpainted, that the trenches or pits are so lined that no part of the excavation comes in contact with the beams, that the concrete contains a large proportion of cement, with the aggre

<article title=" TESTING DOORS." author="">

TESTING DOORS.

A TEST of the comparative merits of an iron door and of a wooden door sheathed with tin-plate, in stopping the spread of fire

through an opening, was recently made by the British Fire Prevention Committee. Both doors were obtained on the open market, but whilst the iron door was hung in a rebated frame, the sheathed door, as fixed by its maker, was hung to fit closely to the face































THE UNDERFEED FOR EXISTING FURNACES.







of the wall, with a 3-inch overlap around the opening. The doors were exposed for one hour to a fierce fire, the temperature attained being 2,000 Fah., which was followed by the application for five minutes of a stream

of water. Both doors remained in position, but were buckled and warped. The first spurt of flame passed the sheathed door five minutes after experiment commenced, whilst with the iron door the flame was kept back four times as long.

<article title=" THE LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author="">

THE LONDON BUILDERS'

EXCHANGE.

ON August 17th a large number of the members and friends of the Cleveland Builders' Exchange visited London, and were entertained and shown the places of interest

in the city by the officers and members of the London Exchange. Luncheon was served at the Tecumseth House. The members of the London Exchange afterwards accompanied the visitors to Port Stanley, where they in turn were royally entertained by the Cleveland builders.

