<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	223



any erection for which a certificate has been issued, or which has had the approval of the inspector under this by-law, whether in the use thereof or otherwise, such as would annul the terms or conditions of such certificate or approval, such change must be notified at once to the inspector.



SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR PERMITS.



STREET LINES, USE OF STREETS, WATER, ETC.



SECTION 25.—The fees to be paid for permits for the erection or alteration of buildings shall be as follows:



For sheds not exceeding 256 square feet in area         For buildings one story in height and not exceeding 1,000

	square feet in area	$1.50



For buildings more than one story in height and larger in area than 1,000 square feet, the permit shall be at the rate of ten cents for every 1,000 cubic feet or fractional part thereof contained in said structure, the cubic contents being ascertained by measuring every part of the building from the basement floor to the top of roof and to include all bay windows or other projections.

The fees to be paid for the use of streets shall be in proportion to the frontage occupied, and shall be at the rate of two Cents per month per foot frontage of street so occupied.



The	fees to be paid for obtaining a street line or level shall be, for every such line or level                  



The fees to be paid for water used in the construction of a building shall be as follows:



For every 1,000 bricks used in said building	6 cents

For every cubic yard of masonry, concrete or terra cotta 2 cents

For every one hundred superficial yards of plastering.. 30 cents



GENERAL PROVISION.



SECTION 26.—Every wall, structure or building hereafter built or altered in the said city shall conform to the provisions of this by-law, except temporary or moveable buildings, elevators, coal chutes, as mentioned in this by-law. Plans for any building not provided for in this by-law must receive the sanction of the city council before commencing operations thereon.



MEANING OF TERMS.



SECTION 27.—In this by-law the following terms shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them



"FIRST CLASS BUILDINGS "—Mean buildings of fire-proof construction throughout.



"SECOND CLASS BUILDINGS "—Mean all buildings of which the external and party walls are of brick or stone, or other equally substantial and incombustible material.



"THIRD CLASS BUILDINGS "—Mean all buildings such as are described in section 32 of this by-law.



"ALTERATION "—Means any change or addition (except necessary repairs) to or upon any building, which affects any external party or partition wall, chimney, floor or stairway, or in any manner endangering life, or causing additional fire risk.



" APARTMENT OR TENEMENT HOUSE "—Means a building any portion of which is occupied, or intended to be occupied, as a dwelling by two or more families living independently of one another, and either doing their cooking in their own rooms or upon the premises.

"CELLAR "—Means the basement or lower storey which is wholly below the level of the Street or of which half or more of the height from the floor to the ceiling is below the level of the street adjoining.

"FOUNDATION "—Means that portion of a wall below the level of the street curb, and, where the wall is not on a street, that portion of it below the highest ground next to the wall. The foundation of a party wall may mean that portion below the level of the cellar floor.



"HEIGHT OF BUILDING "—Means the perpendicular distance of the highest point of the main roof above the highest street level of the principal front.



HEIGHT OF WALL "—Means the height from the mean grade of the sidewalk or adjoining ground to the highest point of the wall.



"INSPECTOR "—Means the Inspector of Buildings for the city of Montreal.



LODGING HOUSE "—Means a building in which persons are temporarily accommodated with steeping apartments, and includes hotels.

  "PARTY WALL" Means a	wall used or built in order to be used

as a separation between any two	 buildings.

    PARTITION	any internal wall built of stone or

brick or other incombustible	material.

 " EXTERNAL WALL Means	every outer wall or vertical en

closure of a building other	 than a party wall.

" "REPAIRS"—Means the reconstruction or removal of any existing part of a building, or of its fixtures or appurtenances, by which the strength or fire risk is not affected or modified, and not made, in the opinion of the inspector, for the purpose of converting the building in whole or in part to a new one.

"WOODEN BUILDING "—Means buildings made of wood, and applies to all buildings made of wood, the outside of which is veneered with brick or terra cotta.

"THICKNESS" Means the minimum thickness of any wall.

"THEATRE "—Means any building having a stage with fixed and moveable scenery, fire-proof curtain, and machinery to be used for dramatic, operatic, or other similar purposes.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS "—Means churches, chapels, seminaries, colleges, convents, schoolhouses, hospitals and asylums, hotels, theatres, halls for public meetings, government and municipal buildings, etc.

"OWNER" Means every person in possession of any land or building in the said city, or in receipt either of the whole or any part of the rents or profits thereof, or in the occupation of such land or building, other than as a tenant from year to year, or for any less term, or as a tenant at will.

"BUILDER "—Means the master builder or contractor employed to execute any work upon any building.

"COUNCIL '—Means the Council of the city of Montreal.

PERSON "—Shall include a company, or a body corporate.



BUILDING LIMITS.



SECTION 28.—The city council may, from time to time, by resolution, establish and extend limits within the city, and within these limits every building erected after the passing of this by-law shall be of the first or second class, with the following exceptions:



EXCEPTIONS (TEMPORARY SHEDS).



(a.) Temporary sheds made of wood for the use of workmen or storage of materials in connection with the erection of buildings of the first and second class.

SHEDS USED AS OUTBUILDINGS.



(b.) Sheds used as outbuildings for buildings of the first, second and third class, provided that the roof is covered with fire-proof material, that the sides or ends which are closed are cased with brick or other incombustible material, that the said shed is not over 300 feet in area and not more than 15 feet high to top of roof, and that it is supported on a stone foundation or on stone piers.



BUILDING FRONTAGE LINES AND HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.



SECTION 29.—The council may fix and from time to time determine streets on which a line shall be fixed, at such distance from the line of said street as may be determined on by said council, and beyond which line no building shall hereafter be erected. The council may also fix and determine streets in which it shall not be lawful, after such determination by said council, to erect any building unless the said building is three storeys or more in height, and that it is constructed of stone or other material approved of by the council, but no building, in any street in the city, shall exceed ten storeys in height above the sidewalk or street level, or be more than 130 feet from level of sidewalk to the roof.



EXTENSION, REPIAR, ERECTION AND CASING OF WOODEN



BUILDINGS.



SECTION 3O.—No wooden building erected previous to the passing of this by-law, shall be extended or built upon, unless such extention, or addition be made of fire proof material, nor unless the owner of said building shall have previously obtained a certificate from the inspector to the effect that the proposed extension or addition can be made with safety.

No wooden building already existing, and not cased with brick, shall be removed from one lot to another, nor from one portion of a lot to another portion of the same lot.

SECTION 31. -It shall be unlawful to repair any wooden building not cased with brick, erected previous to the passing of this by-law, when such building shall have been damaged by fire or by natural decay to the extent of forty per cent of its value ; the decision of the inspector shall be conclusive as to the amount of damage to said building, but the owner shall have the right to appeal from said decision in the manner prescribed in section 15 of this by-law.



SECTION 32.—Third-class buildings may be erected within the limits prescribed by the city council, provided

1st.—That the external walls of said buildings are made with three inches thick grooved and tongued sound plank, so braced and framed and joined together as to be solid and rigid.

2nd.—That the said building shall exceed thirty feet in height above the average level of the sidewalk to the highest

