<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

New York Life Building, Montreal.

AUGUST 12, 1899.

FIRE ESCAPES.



The chief of the fire department, in his annual report to the council refers to the negligence of owners of large public buildings in this city, in not equipping such structures with proper fire escapes, as required by thc fire by-laws. He expresses his intention to visit these buildings and compel by all possible means the responsible parties to conform with the law in this regard.

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The annual meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects will he held in Quebec in September. The exact date has not yet been chosen. I have heard the opinion expressed that it would he 10 the advantage of the Association that Mr. Raza should be elected to the presidency for a second term, and that the persons who may he elected thereafter should hold tile position for two years. The Association are now comfortably housed in their new up-town quarters on St. Catharine street, and contemplate making, at an early date, considerable additions to their library. At the recent students examinations, Mr. Gaulin, of Montreal, passed the preliminary examination. One other candidate for this examination and two candidates for the final examination failed.

A MODEL SUBURB.



The experiment is to be tried of establishing in the east end of the city a model suburb, to he known as Vianville. It will comprise the Viau estate, which has been divided into four thousand building lots. The managers of the estate are now laying out streets, putting in a drainage system, planting trees, etc. The property fronts on both sides of Notre Dame street, and extends down to the river. On the river side it is proposed to establish a park, wharves, boat houses, etc., for the use of persons purchasing land and erecting homes on the estate. The lots are being sold subject to the condition that houses erected thereon shall not he less than two stories in height and shall be constructed of stone. This is interpreted by some who have already become purchasers to mean that at least a port ion of each house must bc built of stone, and that brick and other substantial materials may he used in connection therewith. If the condition is to he more strictly interpreted, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to avoid monotony in the appearance of the buildings. It is to be regretted that restrictions as to the character of the buildings to he erected were not imposed in some of the older suburbs, where may now he seen rows of double tenement houses like to those erected half a century ago in the thickly populated districts of the city. It is understood that St. Catharine and Sherbrooke streets are to be extended through this property, which, under the terms of sale, is exclusively reserved for residence purposes.

NOTES. 



The Laprairie Brick Co., of this city, has been incorporated with a capital stock of $150,000.

The Dominion Bridge Co. have under construction at Lachine five steel scows too feet long, 26 feet wide and 8 feet deep, sheeted with 4 inch pine. These scows are to be used in the construction of the inter provincial bridge at Ottawa.



Indignation has been aroused by the action of the Road Committee of the City Council in granting to the proprietor of a public refreshment booth the privilege to erect a large kiosk in Victoria Square. The Committee have not even the poor excuse that a considerable sum would be paid into the city exchequer, as 00 charge is proposed to be made for the privilege. The City Surveyor has very properly refused to sanction the Committee's action, and the Council will no doubt also refuse its consent.

BY THE WAY.

AN architect in a neighboring city advertises his work in this peculiar manner " It is a delicate compliment to the cook when you call for a second plate of the same dish. This kind of compliment has been paid this office by clients, not the second time, but time and time again"

x xx

The famous promontory on the coast of Antrim, Ireland, known as the Giant's Causeway, is figuring in the Irish courts, and that, too, with a risk of its ultimate inclosure, if not from public gaze, at least from free investigation. It has now been decided in the Dublin Court of Appeals that the syndicate which leases the adjoining territory has also the sole rights over the curious ridge of basaltic columns in which Irish legend professes to see a remnant of the bridge built by the doughty giant, Fin MacCool, for his passage across to Scotland to his victory over a rival hero.

x x x



THE following appeared recently under the heading "A Boom Town in Marble " in the columns of the Portland Oregonian "I was assistant engineer on the Ontario and Quebec Railroad, a branch of the Canadian Pacific Railway," said an engineer in Tacoma, "and in running our preliminary lines one of them touched Bridgewater, Ontario, a deserted town, that was the personification of Oliver Goldsmith's 'Deserted Village.' Bridgewater was brought into existence by one of the strangest gold finds and crazes in the history of this continent. Nearly twenty-five years ago a farmer's wife was searching the woods surrounding their farm for a sow that had strayed, and, becoming thirsty, stopped to get a drink from a spring. Slipping, she fell against a small, loose rock, which rolled to her feet, and which proved to he a twenty pound nugget of almost pure gold. Bridgewater at that time was nearly forty miles from the nearest railroad, and the present site of the town was nothing but a wilderness, but the effect of that accidental find of the farmer's wife was such that inside of six months what bad been a burned-over barren wilderness was converted into a substantial city of nearly 5,000 people. In digging a shaft about a mile south of the town site, on the claim of Billia Flint, a life Senator of Canada, an immense quarry of the purest white marble ever found on this continent was discovered, and at the suggestion of the Senator, the town of Bridgewater was practically built of marble, for it has to-day the only hotel, church, school, court-house and private dwellings constructed entirely of white marble in the world, and a mile north of the town are an abandoned axe factory and grist mill, whose foundations are built of the same beautiful material. During the building of the town thousands of men prospected the entire country, and shafts and tunnels were driven—some of them nearly one hundred feet deep, but, strange as it may seem, there was never enough gold found to pay the cost of a single shaft or tunnel sank or run in the entire district. So excited did the farmers around Bridgewater become that some of them actually hired guards to keep men from going on their land to pick up gold. Pat Keheo, an old Irishman, who owned one hundred acres of rock-strewn barren land, was offered $125,000 for his holding, but held out for $150,000. To-day you could buy the property for probably $150. One rancher, whose farm adjoined

Aladdin's Cave,' the place where the original nugget was found, sold five acres to an English syndicate for $100,000, and it is an established fact that the syndicate spent as much more developing their claim, as everything was very costly, all material having to he hauled nearly fifty miles, over rough roads ; and they did not get a single ounce of free gold out of their purchase but they mined some quartz —about one hundred tons— shipped it to the States, and in return, got a bill from the smelting company for $360 smelting charges over and above the gold in the quartz. This was the first, and I believe, the last, shipment of quartz ever made, as the cost of hauling, shipping and smelting was $t 50 a ton more than the rock produced,"

