<doctype type="plate;text">

	64	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

























































































PUBLIC STATUES IN THE CITY OF



MONTREAL.





THE RENAISSANCE CLUB.

An organization with the above title has recently been formed by a number of young architects of Montreal for the promotion and study of architecture and the sister arts.

Those who are interested in such



matters have until the present, had no place where they could meet and discuss subjects of mutual interest. The Club membership is not restricted to architects, but includes many of the leading artists, and a number

of art students and persons interested in art and literary work. The membership is however limited to sixty-five, and is already upwards of fifty. The headquarters of the Club is at No. Phillips Square where rooms have been furnished and decorated, and are open to members at all hours,

The opening lecture of the Club on February 15th, was given by the Honorary President, Prof. Capper, head of the Archtectural Department of McGill University, on

Scotch Baronial Architecture." The lecture was illustrated with lantern slides. The audience numbered over 60. The lecture which was extremely interesting, was followed by a smoking concert and supper.

There is already in full swing a modelling class, under the direction of Mr. Hill, and as soon as the weather will permit,

sketch classes will be begun in water color and pen and ink.



The officers of the Club are as follows :—Honorary President, Prof. Capper; President, Mr. W. S. Maxwell Directors, Messrs.

W.	J. Spence, Chas. Saxe, R. Dawson, David Macfarlane, George Hyde. ____ _________________





Messr. Victor Roy and Theo. Doust, two well known architects of Montreal, are reported to have entered into partnership.

Mr. W. J. Budd of Burnham, New York, has been appointed manager of the Georgian Bay Portland Cement Company, recently organized at Owen Sound. Mr. Budd was formerly a resident in the vicinity of Owen Sound.

Mr. A. F. Dunlop publishes a denial of the rumour to the effect that it was his intention to remove from Montreal to British Columbia. The rumor apparently arose from the fact that it is Mr. Dunlop's intention at an early date to visit Vancouver.

Richard J. Hovenden, who was for many years a well known painter and dealer in painters' and artists' supplies in Toronto, is reported to have become heir to a large estate in Queen's County, Ireland. Mr. Hovenden, who now lives in Windsor, Ont., will shortly visit Ireland with reference to this matter.

