<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

tions of buildings of the second class which do not exceed thirty—five feet in height, the footings, shall be of stone not less than eight inches in thickness, and be at least twelve inches wider than the bottom width of the wall.

In buildings of the second class exceeding thirty—five feet in height, and in all buildings of the first class, the stone footings shall be in two or more courses, proportioned to the wall which they are to carry, each course to he not less than twelve incites in thickness, and project not less than six inches on each side of the bottom of the wall, or of the course immediately above it.

SECTION 45.—If stepped up footings of brick are used in place of stone steps, or off-sets, if laid in single courses, shall each not exceed one and one-half inches, or if laid in double courses, shall not exceed three inches.

All bricks used for substructures shall he of such quality as to resist the action of frost and damp, and in all eases mast be laid in Portland cement of a brand approved of by the city inspector who may require a test to he made as provided in section 42.

SECTION 46.—Below any column or post in the basement or cellar of a building, there shall be a base stone proportioned in size to the load carried by the column or post, and below the base stone, there shall he at least one footing projecting not less than twelve inches on each side of the base stone. Should the load require it, there shall be two or more footings proportioned to the weight to be borne and the nature of the soil in which they rest.

SECTION 47.—Below all brick or stone piers there shall be footings of stone or brick, the area of which shall be proportioned to the load which the pier has to support, but in no case shall such footing have a projection of less titan twelve inches on each side of said pier the footing, if of stone, to be in two or more courses, each course projecting not less than six incites on each side beyond the course immediately above it if the footings are in brick, they are to be stepped as described in section 45.

DAMP COURSE.



SECTION 48.-- If any house or building, to he occupied partially or wholly as a dwelling, is to he erected upon any site, or portion of a site, which is damp, swampy or which has been filled up or covered with any material impregnated or mixed with any foecal, animal, or vegetable matter, or which shall have been coveted with dust, or slop, or other refuse, the whole area of said house or building shall he covered with a layer of good concrete at least four inches thick, finished smooth on the surface with cement or other impervious material.

FOUNDATION WALLS.



SECTION 49.- Foundations for external, party or internal walls, built wholly of rubble masonry, shall he thoroughly bonded together by through stones or headers, extending not less than three-fourths of the full thickness of the wall, and all the stones of said wall shall be solidly bedded, and all joints flushed up solid with mortar or content, and the said wall shall he built straight and plumb on both sides.

SECTION 50. - Foundations walls, built of rubble masonry, for buildings of the second class to he used as Dwellings, or as shops on the ground storey with dwellings over, and where the superstructure is of brick not exceeding forty feet in height, shall not he less than twenty-four (24) inches in thickness, and this thickness shall be increased four inches for each fifteen (15) feet or fraction thereof added to the height of the building.

If the superstructure is of stone not exceeding forty feet in height, the thickness of the foundation wall shall not he less than twenty-six inches, and the thickness of said foundation shall increase four inches for each fifteen feet, or fraction thereof, added to the height.

SECTION 51.—Foundation walls built of rubble masonry for buildings of the second class, intended to he used as warehouses, factories, churches, school houses and public buildings and where the superstructure, whether in stone or brick, does not exceed forty (40) feet in height, shall not be less than twenty-seven inches in thickness, the thickness to he increased four (4) incites for each additional 12 feet or fraction thereof, added to the height.

SECTION 52.- Foundation walls, when of stone, for buildings of the first class, over severity-five (75) feet in height, shall he block stone laid in cement, the thickness and width of the same to he proportioned to the height of the building.

SECTION 53.—Foundation walls, when of stone, for buildings of the first class under seventy-five feet in height, or of the second class, where the superstructure is sixty (60) feet or over in height, shall he composed of large flat bedded stones, one-third of which shall extend the full thickness of the wall.

SRCTION 54.—Foundation walls, if made of brick, shall be at least four inches greater in thickness than the wall immediately above them, and shall he built with hard burned weather proof bricks laid in Portland cement, but in no case shall such foundation wall he less than twenty (20) inches thick.

SECTION 55.- In all cases, foundation walls whether of brick or stone, shall he thick enough to resist lateral pressure, and the inspector may order an increase in thickness, or the addition of' piers or buttresses to a foundation wall to resist such pressure.

SECTION 56.—In all cases where foundation walls are exposed to a flow of water, they shall he built with Portland cement, or if built with lime mortar, shall be plastered on the side exposed to water, with Portland cement or asphalt, in such manner as will render the wall impervious to water.



EXTERNAL AND PARTY WALLS.



SECTION 57.—The external walls of buildings, built either of rubble masonry or brickwork, and faced on the outside with coursers, ashler, or other cut stone, shall have coursers, ashler, or other cut stone thoroughly bonded or tied to the stone or brick backing, with bond stones or heavy metal cramps, extending to not less than three-fourths of the thickness of the wall from the face, and placed not more than three feet apart in any direction. 

SECTION 58. -- The minimum thickness of brick external and party walls above the foundation walls, for buildings of tile first and second class, shall he as follows

For all buildings used as business premises, warehouses, manufactories and public buildings: :







































For buildings where the first storey is used for business purposes and the upper storeys as dwellings

