<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTER." author="">

 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT		137



BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTER.

II.



THE ferry which plies daily between Victoria and Vancouver is named the Charmer, probably in a spirit of irony, and rounds Brockton Point at 8 a.m.. with commendable regularity, and announces her safe arrival with a double whistle of unusually melodious tones. It is not until the Point is passed that the City of Vancouver comes into view, and the scene changes so rapidly as to render the effect almost theatrical. For an hour or so before entering Burrard's Inlet the vessel heads so directly for Howe Sound as to convey to the uninitiated the impression that somewhere within the recesses of that fine fjord Vancouver will be found lying beneath the shelter of the Lions or one or another of the fine mountains that form the brotherly walls of the Sound but just as one is quite convinced that the Point Atkinson light house marks the entrance to the Narrows, the boat's head is swung round to the east and she steams rapidly along the shore, which is backed with wild looking broken hills covered with melancholy pine forests. Prospect Point to the south and Capilano Creek on the north, define the entry to the first Narrows, which for a mile or so resembles a wide and rapid river with many ugly looking swirls and eddies. The south shore suddenly falls away at Prockton Point and the Inlet spreads out to probably two and a half or even three miles. The ship's head is brought hard round at the Point, and there, straight ahead, lies the Terminal City of which we have all heard so much. The shore line is circular, one horn sweeping away east with a big bend towards the north, which helps to form the second Narrows four miles up, the other end wanders away to the west, meanders around Coal Harbor and the Basin, where it almost makes an island of Stanley Park, barely manages to ripple round Dead Mans Island and thence back to Brockton Point, round which we came in the delectable Charmer but a short while ago.

Moored to the wharves, which occupy the water front for a considerable distance, are several good sized liners, one of the Empresses, the Warrimoo from Sydney, a top heavy looking boat from San Francisco, a number of craft engaged in the now important northern trade, tugs, scows, a sealing schooner or two, and a big four masted barque loading lumber at Hastings mill— all give an air of life to the scene. Viewed from the water the town presents that untidy jumble of buildings that most towns do present from the back, but the imposing mass of the new C.P.R. station stands boldly out from the wilderness and impresses upon you at once its individuality and architectural importance. This building, marking as it does the terminus of the great railway system, which is the raison d'etre of Vancouver, is built on and against a cliff, the foot of which was but a few years ago washed by the clear cold water of this land locked inlet. The permanent way is probably 20 feet below the level of Cordova street at this point, the seaward front is consequently 20 feet higher from ground to sky line than the Cordova street elevation. The building consists of a well proportioned central block with wings right and left; this central or main block rises high above these latter, which are reduced to comparative insignificance by the towers marking the south east and south west angles of the main building which is finished with the steep high pitched dormer dotted roof of the Francois I style, which has been successfully adopted and adapted by the architect. The main entrance from the high level is arched with one broad segmental sweep which abutts upon the towers, but the want of light seriously detracts from the effect of the fine span and voussoirs; indeed, both the wings and the entrance would have gained enormously in character had their height been somewhat greater. The interior of the structure is so far from complete, no opinion can be formed regarding it.

The stranger entering Vancouver from the sea or by rail cannot but observe how narrow and steep is the ill kept approach to the higher level, but for the most part the chief streets have been paved with asphalt which is breaking up badly, or with wood blocks, which, here as elsewhere, are proving vastly superior to the asphalt. Once leave the main streets and the thoroughfares prove to be very indifferent and often very bad, but the wooden sidewalks are invariably in good order and it is pretty safe to prophecy that the roads will be much improved. So many new ways are being made and so great a mileage maintained, it is not expected that a high degree of excellence should prevail. Vancouver is essentially a city of contrasts; things have not had time to even up, and one finds it far from easy to justly criticise this half developed but lusty child of the west only now emerging from the callow stage of extreme youth, and must be regarded more from the standpoint of what it is becoming than from what

it is. The place is full of go and energy; shipping comes and goes in ever increasing tonnage; existing streets are rapidly filling up and new ones extending in every direction. Seven banks, most of them in premises of their own, are doing business here. Lumber and shingle mills, sash and door factories, iron works, sugar refinery, boat building yards and many other industries testify to the healthiness of the growth. The most important business streets, Hastings and Lower Granville, Cordova and Water streets, have vastly improved of late—the once great gaps between the blocks are closing up with fairly substantial buildings of from 2 to 4 stories in height.

It is not possible to approach the street architecture of Vancouver in more than a very general manner, giving impressions rather than detailed criticisms. Many buildings are worthy of far more than the slight reference here made to them some are doubtless overlooked; others are best left severely alone, being, it is hoped, the result of a temporary aberration in taste. A large proportion of the work is, of course, uncompromisingly utilitarian and commonplace. Nearly the whole of the street buildings erected prior to 1895 were designed to meet conditions which are soon to be of the past, but the banks of British Columbia, of British North America and of Montreal are conspicuous exceptions. The first is chiefly distinguished by the boldly arched series of openings on the ground floor and a well handled corner entrance and oriel window. The upper stories are in brick and do not show the vigorous handling of the lower one, but the detailing throughout is refined in a certain school of English Renaissance. The bank of British North America is a well considered massive building in a severer type of Italian, dignified but cold in effect, finely constructed throughout of a hard sand stone that lends itself well to the style. The bank of Montreal is a particularly picturesque composition in modern English Renaissance the lower floor only is utilized for the purposes of banking, the manager's residence occupying the rest of the building, the two-fold nature of which is admirably expressed in the treatment. The architest has evidently dwelt with loving care over his work, and as the peculiar attraction of this delightful style lies much in the unlimited scope it affords for the application of beautiful detail with great freedom in its handling, it naturally follows that the lover of such will here find plenty to linger over. The grouping of the tower, gable and chimney in the south-west is very clever.

The block of buildings serving as temporary quarters of the C. P.R. is said to be by Bruce Price, but it seems incredible that anything so downright commonplace is to be attributed to an architect of such wide experience. The entrances are mean in the extreme the scanty little cornices are overwhelmed by the mass of untutored rock they are supposed to relieve, and the most ardent admirer of the uncouth piling up of roughly quarried stone could scarcely enthuse over this example.

The Hotel Vancouver perplexes the wayfaring student of architecture, for it is hard to account for the contrast presented by the old and new blocks. The first, which fronts on Georgia street, is evidently wanting a western wing, and gives one the impression of being the skeleton, as it were, of some well balanced design stripped of all ornamentation and carried into execution by some wholly unsympathetic hand. The second or Granville street block is simply a big brick wall with rows of openings in it--is about as interesting as a respectable tea warehouse in Tooley street, for the passer by might reasonably conclude, but for the height of the storeys, that this triumph is a bonded store. A small entrance on the Granville street front is evidently by a different hand, and though quite out of feeling with either block, is in itself a pleasant feature. Internally, the entrance and the first stairs to the galleries surrounding the top-lighted hall are all good and effective. The great bare dining room sadly needs clothing with color, and a deep, well modelled frieze would greatly improve its proportions.

Next in point of size to the hotel, but in an altogether different class, is Molsons Bank. The facades are executed in the rather sad colored stone that comes from Calgary, but detracts nothing from the dignified proportions of this fine work, which is simple almost to austerity, standing alone in this city as an example of what can be effected without having recourse to the rock-faced affectation. The sparingly used ornamentation is a little flat, and valuable relief is afforded by the broad and deep copper cornice and the attached columns of the uppermost storey. The style adopted is perhaps best described as American-French Renaissance. The unfinished interior, with oak wainscot and linings (much more English in feeling than is perhaps consistent with the character of the exterior). gives promise of great things, though

