<doctype type="text">

<article title=" METAL WORK." author=" BROWN, T. SWAFFIELD">

	156	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



METAL WORK.*

By T. SWAFFIELD BROWN, Master of the Art-Crafts Guild, Sheffield.



METAL work includes a very wide range of material and purpose. To this latter belongs the distinction between ecclesiastical and domestic art. The only difference in the past was due to the requirements of its purpose. The material was the same the workers the same, and the prevailing style was the same ; but in past days men's religion was a part of their lives and influenced their work, and no doubt the work for the sanctuary, the visible symbol of their faith, was more lovingly elaborated than that for use in domestic life.

But I do not propose to go into historical retrospect more than by casual reference. It has been done in volumes by the historian and the archaeologist, and you probably know all or more about it than I could

means enabled them to do it; we want ours done as well as our means will allow us to do it. Our material means are as ample as theirs at least, but are chiefly devoted to copying what they did, with all its accidents and crudities, instead of being applied to the realization of the principles.

For it should be remembered, in connection with ancient work, that it was executed under conditions widely different from those under which we live. For long periods there was no settled feeling of security. The church and the home were—in different degrees—alike fortresses, fitted for the stress of warfare and the possibilities of defence rather than the enjoyment of such comfort, and even luxury, as have now become matters of course with us. And the character of their work reflected these conditions.























































































Nos. I, 4, 5, 8, 9, are examples of the "rust works "—No. 9 (a sketch of the tram traction poles now erected in Sheffield) being shown as an example of bad design, the thick tie-rod at the top pointing out the futility of the decorative spandrils; Nos. 2 and 3 are suggestions for the avoidance of rust ravages; No. 6 shows the effect of redundant foliage, and No. 7 that of properly treated (i.e. vertical arranged) foliage in silhouette; Nos. 10, 11, 12 illustrate the remarks as to variety, and Nos. 20 and 21 illustrate the remarks about the value of ties in design. No. 19 is a sketch of " dog" used in pairs to support wood, and therefore out of place in the modern ' art" grate for burning coals. No. 15 shows the effect of the first or forming stage of hammering a silver cup or vase body, No. i6 the next stage, and No. 17 the random markings of the hammer used as a decoration but not constructive. Nos. 13 and 14 are sketches showing how the peculiar curve of raised silver or copper lends itself to decoration as exemplified in the Louis XV or Rococo style, and the wretched travesty of it produced in England in the early Georgian period and copied now in tons of silver goods every year. No. i8 is a design intended to show the great malleability of silver and treatment it is susceptible of for display of brilliancy of surface when required.—T. S. A.



ell you. The work of the past is incalculably valuable in its teaching, but unfortunately much of it has been neglected and lost sight of, and only its outward and visible results have been made use of as patterns for reproduction. But these were the expression of the thoughts and impulses of their makers, and what we want is the expression of the thoughts and impulses of our makers. It was done as well as their



* Abstract of paper read before the Sheffield Society of Architects.

So that we should use our study of the past as a backsight to assist us forward, and only so, because otherwise, if we work back to it and merely copy it, we shall only produce anachronisms and incongruities. We shall stultify our skill, and record indisputably—and more or less accurately—to future generations, our utter sterility of imagination, if not our want of common sense.

I have made these remarks so that you shall not think that in what I have to say I am insensible to the beauties of old work I am not, but

