<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BUILDERS' EXCHANGE, WHY?" author=" HODGSON,Fred T.">

idea justly belongs to us. To meet him in a social way and under the auspices of an association where our interests are mutual, we find that after all he is not so bad a fellow as we thought him. By rubbing against each other in the Exchange, many of the sharp edges of business rivalry get worn off, and many misunderstandings and misapprehensions are explained and rectified and jealousies allayed, and the dignity of the trades upheld. Another valuable feature is the additional character and weight an association of this kind would give to the building trades in general, and its influence on the actions of political and municipal bodies. when matters relating to buildings were involved would be immense, and in the interest of the public at large. No public body would dare to ignore an earnest request or petition emanating from a well organized and well equipped Builders' Association, that had for its object the betterment of the public service in the erection and maintenance of public buildings, sewering, paving of streets, laying out and grading of parks and public walks, building of docks, assessments, and a host of other matters, where the forcibly expressed wishes of a united body of builders would prove timely and effective, In the prevention of frauds and rascality in the awarding of public contracts, a Builders' Exchange would become a potent factor, and thus prove of much service in perpetuating good municipal government, and at the same time giving to the public full value for its expenditures. A petition or a protest, emanating from an organization, such as indicated, for or against any project, carries with it the united expression of an intelligent body, and not the opinion of a single member, and must, therefore, demand an attention that could be denied the individual. If, after proper discussion, any law is found burdensome or unjust to the building interests and the public, or perhaps too lax in its application, or not sufficiently restrictive to compel a reasonable degree of safety in such work as the members are doing, how much more effective would be a protest or a petition from a substantial organization than one from a single person? There are many other matters in which a Builders' Exchange may be made a potent factor for public good.

An Exchange may also be made use of as an educational and entertaining centre for its members and others. There might be weekly or fortnightly lectures during the winter season, at which building and architectural matters might be discussed, and at which there might be a general exchange of opinions concerning the matter of the lecture at its close. In Toronto, Montreal, Hamilton, London, and many of our towns and cities may be found men fully qualified to lecture on architecture, on construction of buildings, on sanitary science, ventilation and other matters in connection with buildings, on laws regulating the construction of buildings, on the methods and systems of building in foreign countries, and many kindred subjects. Such lectures would be instructive and edifying to all persons engaged in the building trades, and might be so arranged, by charging a small fee for admission, as to add a little money to the treasury.

In connection with the Exchange, there should be a collection of books, not necessarily a library, but a a collection of good "up-to-date" works which show and explain the most modern and approved methods of construction, and which offer to the reader all the recent devices in time and labor saving apparatus. It

would be easy to name a number of these, but perhaps not wise to do so at this time. In addition to these books, there should be on the table of the Exchange copies of all the current architectural and building publications of this country, the United States and Great Britain, in connection with all government reports that have any bearing on the building trades. Directories of manufacturers of all things required in buildings should be in evidence and easy of access. Models of difficult work, samples of bricks, stone, slates, glass, hardware and the thousand and one things required by builders, should be present, with prices attached, so that any member may find out with the least effort all he requires to know about the material in point.

In the foregoing, I have endeavored to point out a

a few—only a few of the advantages that flow from

a Builders' Exchange, but I am free to confess that those

unmentioned are much greater than those I have

presented, the truth of which, I think, any one will

grasp, if he but think for a moment.

The question of inaugurating and maintaining an Exchange has not been touched, for obvious reasons neither have any rules for its guidance been offered, as any suggestions for this purpose would not be in keeping with the tenor of this paper, but it is possible they may be subjects for future discussion.



<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL TERMS." author="">

ARCHITECTURAL TERMS.

Sometime ago the Brickbuilder, contained the following explanation of the various phrases used by architects and not generally used by mechanics, which may prove beneficial to many. The front, or facade, made after the ancient models, or any portion of it may represent three parts occupying different heights ; the pedestal is the lower part, usually supporting a column, and its place supplied by a stylobate is either a platform, with steps, or a continuous pedestal supporting a row of columns. The lower part of a finish pedestal is called a plinth, the middle part of the die, the upper part of the cornice of the pedestal or surbace. The column is the middle part, situated upon the pedestal or stylobate. It is generally detached from the wall, but is sometimes buried in it for half its diameter, and is then said to be engaged. Pilasters are square or flat columns attached to walls; the lower part of the column, when detached is called the base ; the middle or longest part is the shaft, and the upper or ornamental part is the capital ; the swell of the column is called the entasis. The height of the columns is measured in diameters of the column itself, taken always at the base. The entablature is the horizontal continuous portion which rests upon the top of a row of columns ; the lower part of the entablature is called the architrave, the middle is the freize, while the upper or projecting part is the cornice. The pediment is the triangular face produced by the extremity of the roof ; the middle or flat portion enclosed by the cornice of the pediment is called the tympanum. Pedestal statues erected on the summit and extremities of the pediments are called acrosteria. An attic is an upper part of a building terminated at the top by a horizontal line, instead of a pediment.

The different moldings in architecture are described from their sections or from the profile which they represent when cut across. Of these the torus is convex, but its outline is only a quarter of a circle ; the scotia is a deep concave moulding the cavetto is also a concave and occupying but a quarter of a circle ; the cymatium is an undulating moulding, of which the upper part is concave and the lower convex ; the ogee or talon is an inverted cymatium ; the fillet is a small square or flat moulding. In architectural measure, a diameter means the width of a column at its base ; a module is half a diameter, and a minute is a sixtieth part of a diameter.

