<doctype type="text">



























(THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS HF THE BUILDER TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING I r AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

ASH BY ASKING POE PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANV TINE REQUIRE.]

Gravel Roofs.

There are gravel roofs and gravel

roofs, but good ones are few and far

between. There is no reason why a gravel roof should not be a good one, if only proper care and good materials are used in its construction ; at least it should be good for the money expended on it when compared with the cost of tin, galvanized or copper roofs. Of course a gravel roof is only suited for a low pitch or flat roof, as on a steep roof the gravel would eventually wash off and leave the paper or canvas exposed to the weather. Ordinary coal tar answers fairly well for a top coat before the gravel is spread on, if the roof is very flat. If the roof has a good pitch it is a good idea to mix eight or ten pounds of common resin with the pitch while it is boiling, stirring the mass well with a stick before it is taken out of the boiler. To prepare the roof before covering with tar after it is boarded tightly with matched stuff, the following rules should be observed In all cases the grain of the roofing hoards should run in the direction of the pitch

never across it and all joints should be driven close and tight. The boards should he planed on the top side, and should be free from shakes or knot-holes. Swab the whole roof over with a thick wash of Portland cement mixed with water to the consistency of thick paint. Let the root dry for a few hours, then lay on a coat of good roofing paper tarred paper preferred —having a lap of about one-third of the width of the paper. Over this give a thin coat of hot tar in which ground asbestos, mica or Portland cement has been mixed, in the proportion of one bucket full of cement to four of hot pitch. Let stand until dry and hard. Over this lay another coat of roofing paper, and on this lay a thickness of rough sacking, which must he tacked down here and there with broad-headed tinned nails, such as tinsmiths use in roofing. On this sacking lay a thick coat of the tar while hot, and then sprinkle coarse sand and fine gravel on the hot tar and leave to harden. The tar must contain the proportion of asbestos, mica or cement as described in the foregoing. When the tar or pitch hardens it holds the gravel in place, and the rough sacking over the paper strengthens the whole roof covering and binds the whole together, and to a very large extent prevents the roof from cracking or blistering, faults which are common to gravel roofs, and which cause a great deal of trouble and annoyance. A roof covered in the manlier described will make a good serviceable one, and one that will hold good for from seven to nine years, when it may he made good again by a generous coat of the prepared pitch and another layer of fine gravel. Metal roofers do not take kindly to roofs of this kind, hut there are instances when no other kind of roof is available, and to meet these inances the above method is offered.

About Concrete.

"SPECIFICATION," a semi-annual work published in London, England, and containing upwards of 525 pages, 9 X 12

inches, in discussing concretes, has the following general notes in the introduction to the subject, which are worthy of being repeated 1. Tile average compressive strength of concrete is about eight times its tensional strength. The proportion of compressional and tensional strength varies according to the quality and quantity of the aggregate. 2. The best fire-resisting material for general use in building construction is undoubtedly concrete, when properly made. It can be made completely water-proof and acid-proof, and may be moulded or carved to any design, and colored to any shade. 3. The use of iron in concrete is invaluable for many constructive purposes ; but for general work, unless as a temporary aid, or in exceptional cases, it is unnecessary. 4. Compression done by beating and ramming is a matter of considerable importance ; it increases the weight of concrete about 4 per cent., and the strength about 25 per cent. 5. Concrete should not be thrown in from a height, but spread in layers and rammed until the matrix is flush with the surface. The surface should be brought to a dead level. Norman cement is unfit for concrete in mass 1-10th of Portland cement in concrete is equivalent to 1-6th best ground lime. 6. Weight of concrete If the matrix is of Portland cement, 132 lbs. per cubic foot ; of lime, 125 lbs. per cubic foot. 7. Concrete laid in cold weather * stands better than that laid during hot ; mild, damp weather is, however, preferable to either extreme. 8. The quantity of water required is determined by the class and condition of the aggregate, the state of the atmosphere, and the purpose for which the concrete is required. 9. Common materials in the construction of concrete staircases should he debarred ; a judicious selection, with small additional cost, will produce the most incombustible constructive compound known.

10.	Sand is extensively used as aggregate in Portland cement for cast work, mouldings and wall plastering.

11.	A secret of success in producing solid and strong work, is the importance of topping the rough coat while it is green. 12. Complete incorporation of all materials, when guaging, is important ; a waste of materials and unsatisfactory results will ensue if care he not exercised.

13.	Concrete should be well pounded or rammed immediately after being placed in position. The compression renders it more durable and impervious, and increases its strength. 14. The ramming must not be too prolonged, or it will affect the strength of the concrete. 15. In hot weather it is a good plan to lightly sprinkle setting concrete with water from time to time, in order to allow even setting and prevent cracking on

*Providing there is no frost.

