<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER.	221



are continued over the tops of the eyebrows in their regular courses without a break. There are no valleys shown other than what the shingles themselves form. This is one of the taking features of this style of dormer. Any attempt to form a valley and thereby make a break in the roof, will have a tendency to destroy the gracefulness of the work. With a little care the shingling over this style of window can be done so as to give the roof a fine appearance. Fig. 4 shows a projecting eye-





















FIG 4. —PROJECTING EYEBROW.



brow window over which is carried the whole width and depth of main cornice. The same rules of construction apply to this style of window as described in the foregoing. _________________





<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

"THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF

 1899."

BELOW will be found a first instalment of the proposed

by-law bearing the above title now under consideration by the City Council, to regulate the construction, removal and inspection of buildings in the city of Montreal, and to prevent accidents by fire



DEPARTMENT OF THE INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.



SECTION 1.—There shall be in the city of Montreal, a department, to he called the Department for the Inspection of Buildings, which shall he charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this by-law, as hereby providing for the survey and inspection of buildings and the protection of the same against fire or accident.

The said department shall have its office in the City Hall, and shall he maintained at the expense of the city.



RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION.



SECTION 2.—The records of the department shall he open to city officials, and all parties whose property may be affected by the matters to which they relate.



STAFF OF DEPARTMENT.



SECTION 3.—The staff of said department shall consist of a chief, to be known as the inspector of buildings, and as many assistant inspectors as may be found to be necessary from time to time, and a clerk appointed by the city council.



SECTION 4.—In all future appointments the inspector of buildings shall be an architect or a practical man of experience in the construction of buildings. Assistant inspectors shall he men of experience, and experts in building construction, in its several branches, one of whom shall have a practical knowledge of electrical work as applied to the lighting of buildings.

SECTION 5.—Neither the inspector nor the assistant inspector be employed or engaged in any other business, or be interested in any work for buildings, or for furnishing of materials.

SECTION 6.—In case of the temporary absence or disability of the inspector, he may appoint one of the assistant inspectors as his deputy, who shall, during such absence or disability, exercise all the powers of the inspector.

SECTION 7.—The assistant inspectors, for any neglect of duty, may be suspended by the inspector, and the suspension and cause of same shall be at once reported to the Fire Committee who shall take action on same as they may deem fit.



DUTIES OF INSPECTOR.



SECTION 8.—It shall be the duty of the inspector, as chief of his department, to issue permits for the erection, enlarging or alteration of buildings, in accordance with the provisions of this by-law; keep a record of the same, with a description of the construction, sanitary appliances, heating apparatus, electric ap

paratus, elevators, and all matters relating to the construction or alteration of buildings in the city.

It shall be duty of the inspector, on receipt of an application for a permit, accompanied by the plans and specifications for the proposed building, or alteration, to carefully examine the same, and ascertain if' the supports, beams, and construction of the proposed building, are properly shown in said plans and described in said specifications, and that they are in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. If the inspector is satisfied that they conform to this by-law, he shall, within a period of eight days from the date of application, return said plans and specifications, and issue a permit as hereafter provided for. If they do not conform to this by-law, he shall refuse to issue such permit.



It shall also be the duty of the inspector, upon issuance of a permit, to transmit to the City Surveyor the requisite notices for lines, levels, drains, and for the use of streets or squares for building material; he shall also notify the Superintendent of the Water Works of the services required, and shall further transmit to the



City Treasurer's office, a statement of all fees and water rates to



be paid.



SECTION 9.—The inspector or his assistant shall examine al buildings in course of erection or alteration, as often as practicable, and in case of violation of the provisions of this by-law, and refusal to comply therewith, they are to report the name of the owner, architect, builder, or master mechanic concerned in the building where such violations have occurred, and all other matters relative thereto, to the clerk of the Recorders Court, that proceedings may be taken against the party or parties concerned, according to law, and it shall be the duty of the clerk in the Recorder's Court, on the request of the inspector, to prosecute all parties infringing this by-law.



RIGHTS OF INSPECTOR.



SECTION 10.—The inspector or his assistants shall have the right to enter any building in course of construction, alteration, or enlargement, or any building which has been reported to him as in a defective or dangerous condition, or which he has reason to believe is in a dangerous or defective condition, either in regard to its construction or sanitation. In case of an appeal from a decision of the inspector, any member of the board of appeal shall have the same right.

SECTION II .—The inspector or his assistants shall have the right to enter any building damaged by fire or through accident, and to examine the same with a view to ascertain the cause of the accident, and the condition in which the fire or accident has left the building, and make and keep an official record of the same.

They shall also have a right to examine buildings or premises, with a view to ensure the safe storage of combustibles, as hereafter prescribed in this by-law and to report on the same.

SECTION 12.—The inspector shall have full power to pass upon any question arising under the provisions of this by-law, relating to the manner of construction, or materials to be used in the erection, alteration, or repair of any building, or respecting the steps necessary to be taken to ensure the safety of any building that has been reported, or is known by the inspector to be in a dangerous or defective condition, either in regard to its construction or sanitation.

SECTION 13.—The inspector shall have authority, if he finds any building or part thereof, or any staging, or other structure connected with a building, or any other structure, in such a condition as to endanger life or limb, and whereby the immediate adoption of precautionary measures, or by the demolition of the dangerous portion of said building, staging, or structure, such danger may be averted, to cause such precautions to be taken, or demolition to be made, or to cause such work to be done as may be necessary to render such building or part thereof, or staging or structure safe, after having given notice, either in writing, or personally to the owner, lessee, occupant, or agent of said building and the inspector shall have the right to enter such building or premises, with such assistance as he may require, and have the said building or structure secured or taken down, and the public protected, at the expense of the owner, or other party interested, and the costs incurred by the inspector in the performance of such work, shall be paid for out of an appropriation to be voted by the city council to the fire department, at the beginning of each fiscal year, and any portion of' said appropriation expended by the inspector in the execution of such work, shall be accounted for by him from time to time as may be determined by the fire committee, to be recovered with costs from the owner or owners, or other party interested, in any court having jurisdiction in the matter. Should such work as herein before mentioned be urgent, and in the opinion

of the inspector require to be done without the delay necessary in

