<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS' BANQUET." author="">

86	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



MASTER PLUMBERS' BANQUET.

A JOLLY evening was spent at the banquet given at McConkey's restaurant by the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association, on the 7th inst. There were present about one hundred persons, including representatives of the Hamilton and London associations, and of the manufacturing and supply companies. Among those in attendance were noticed the following

J.	H. Wilson (president Toronto Association), XV. G.

Ritchie (secretary Toronto Association), John M. Taylor

(manager Dominion Radiator Co.), W. H. Meredith,

W. H. Meadows, Francis Blackburn, Geo. W. Verral,

W. Walker, S. McCord, Donald Q. McCulloch, David

Carlyle, Frank Maxwell, George Clapperton, Samuel S.

Clarke, E. A. Rogers, J. D. Ritchie, XV. B. Anderson,

Dundas C. World, A. H. Richardson, C. M. B. World,

Adam Taylor, Robert A. Morrison, A. S. Bates, R. T.

Robinson, E. H. Roulitt, T. Worthington, Samuel

Muirhead, D. J. Glynn, XV. B. Malcolm, J. Matthews,

W. J. Spence, XV. A. Fenn, James M. Sinclair, Harry

R. Flett, George H. Cooper, L. L. Anthes, Alex. Fiddes,

Charles E. Morrison (James Morrison Brass Mfg. Co.),

J. Edward Fisher, Bert Harvey, A. Taylor, John J.

Main, M. P. Huffman, Win. Mansell, S. Wright, James

Sherlock, C. H. Mortimer (CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER), L). 0. McKinnon (Hardware and Metal), A.































THE CHAIRMAN,

Mr. James H. Wilson, President Toronto Master Plumbers' Association.





McMichael, W. S. Jackson, A. W. Mann, J. R. Foster and S. Topping (the James Robertson Co.), Henry Hogarth (Fiddes & Hogarth), F. J. Taylor (the Gurney Foundry Co.), M. R. Wright, J. Wright, James Ellacott, L. B. Spafford, Fred. H. Pim,

H. W. Anthes (Toronto Foundry Co.), Joseph Wright, J. H. Patterson (Toronto Hardware Co.), Fred. Armstrong, A. S. Purdy, A. E. Burroughes, J. L. Pincombe, C. E. Pickard, John T. Aggett, James B. Fitzsimmons, Benjamin Kirk, P. Davy, Toronto ; W. J. Clark (president Hamilton Association), R. Rogers, James Stewart, Charles E. Marks, Geo. H. Taylor (Gurney Tilden Co.), Hamilton; William Smith (president Dominion Master Plumbers' Association), F. H. Leigh (secretary London Association), B. Noble (treasurer London Association), London ; Alex. Saunders, Goderich, Ont.

Mr. Jas. H. Wilson, President of the Association, occupied the chair.

Letters of regret were read by the Secretary from

Messrs. E. H. Russell, J. A. Johnson, C. F. Needham,

Joseph W. Chambers, J. Hazlett, Jas. Greenway, W.

H. Heard, London ; J. W. Hughes, Montreal ; J. McKinley, E. B. Butterworth, John Higman, John O'Neill,

Ottawa ; A. Chatfield, St. Catharines

The company first turned its attention to the following:



MENU:



Cream a la Princess



HORS D'OEUVRE

	Lettuce	Radishes

Spanish Olives

 FISH 

Filet de Sole, Plumbers Style	Pomme Parisienne



ENTREES 



Sweetbreads aux Champignons

Tenderloin of Beef a la Lead Pipe Cinch

VEGETABLES

	Pomme Chateau	Creamed Corn

Green Peas

Salade de Saison



DESSERT

	Surprise Ices	Assorted Fancy Cakes

	Wafers	       Fingers	Meringues

		French Decorated Pastry

	McLaren's Imperial Cheese	Black Coffee—Steam Heated





Following which came a brief list of toasts, interspersed with music vocal and instrumental. The health of Her Majesty and the Governor-General having been pledged, accompanied by the singing of the National Anthem and The Maple Leaf, the glasses were charged for a toast to "The Dominion Association," with which the chairman coupled the names of Mr. Smith, of London, President of the National Association, and Mr. W.

H. Meredith, of Toronto (both of whom were unanimously declared to be " Daisies ").

Mr. Smith launched out into reminiscences, saying that he could remember when there were only four plumbing shops in Toronto (a voice—" Where did you buy your iron pipe? "), while now there were said to be

97. Presuming this to be a correct estimate, there should be a larger representation of the trade present on this occasion. He invited every plumber, whether a member of the Association or not, to attend a meeting to be held at 2 p.m. on the following day, when he would be prepared to talk about the Dominion Association. At p.m. they would be pleased to meet the manufacturers to discuss matters of importance to all concerned.

Mr. Meredith assured his hearers that the National Association was in a good, strong condition from end to end of the Dominion, and working unitedly for the benefit of the trade and the Manufacturers' Association. He emphasized the invitation extended by Mr. Smith to attend the meeting to-morrow.

In response to the toast to "The Dominion Supply Association," Mr. A. Saunders, of Goderich, said he was once a plumber, and had to shape traps with a dresser and lay traps for customers. He referred to the plumbers as the representatives of a noble profession, and counselled them to set before them a high aim. He had lately been studying the history of the excellent plumbing work done in ancient Rome (a voice— "Any plumbing inspectors ? "), and in a sense regretted that in the present day there was no incentive to the workman to do such work. Modern machinery produced everything ready-made except contracts ; considerable individual effort was still required to make them. The present had been aptly described as a ''growing time

in Canada; there were dollars for the plumber, and he should see to it that they found their way to his pocket.

Mr. J. M. Taylor, manager of the Dominion Radiator Co., referred to the fact that 21 years had slipped away since as a lad he started in the plumbing supply business with Mr. James Morrison, who was the father of the business in Toronto. The Manufacturers' Association was so harmonious that they only required to meet once in fifteen months. Mr. Taylor concluded by rendering

