<doctype type="text">

Bricks.

The sizes of bricks vary so much that it is impossible to construct any rules concerning them, that may be said to

be correct for every locality in the Dominion, but this should not prevent a contractor from knowing exactly how many bricks it will require to perform a certain piece of brickwork situated in his own locality, if the bricks are manufactured in his neighborhood. The average size of a brick is 8¼ x x 2¼ inches, and 23 of them will make a cubic foot of brickwork, and ten years ago, The National Traders' and Builders' Association of the United States, adopted this size as a standard for common bricks, and 8 3/8 x 4 1/8 x 2 ¼ inches for face bricks ; but this standard has not yet been obtained. Seeing that bricks, before being burned may be all of one size and that after burning scarcely two bricks may be found in the pile of equal size, it would appear that a uniform size of bricks, is among the impossibilities, under the present method of manufacture. But suppose bricks were made all to one standard as regards size, it would not then be possible to make a mathematically correct estimate of amount of wall a given number of bricks would make in every case, as bricklayers in building walls, do not all make the same thickness of mortar joints indeed joints vary in thickness from one quarter to three-quarters of an inch, depending somewhat on the character of the work, and this part would destroy the accuracy of any rule defining the dimensions a given number of bricks would make. There is one way, however, a builder may to some extent, overcome the difficulties of the situation, and that is to take a "ten-foot pole ", and on one side lay-off bricks and mortar joints as they average in his neighborhood, taking stretchers on one side, headers on another side of the pole, and face-bricks in the wall on the third side, reserving the fourth side of the pole for a division of feet and inches. From this pole he may be enabled to determine the height and width of frames, thickness of sills, and number of bricks displaced by frames, as well as the number of bricks required to build a wall l0 x 10 feet surface, or any fraction thereof. The uses of a rod of this kind, in an office, may be amplified almost indefinitely.





To determine the proper size of furnaces Hot Air Heating. to use to efficiently heat a house with

hot air, the locality in which the house is built or being built must be considered. It is colder in the region of Hudson Bay, than south of Lake Ontario, and a furnace that would be ample for the latter would be unfit for the former. When a person does not possess the experience with a particular furnace to determine this very important point, the best way is to send a description and plan of the building to some well known manufacturer or dealer in that particular make of furnace, who, from greater experience will be able at once to determine the proper size, and thus save the expense of purchasing the next size larger. With regard to sizes of registers and pipes for different sized rooms, the following rules, which have been prepared for the purpose by an expert may be followed "In public halls or buildings where but a single register is required, take the hot air pipes from the top of the furnace and use register without valves. The sizes of pipes and registers requisite for the successful operation of any furnace is a matter requiring the best judgment, and should be determined by the

size, position, and distance from the furnace, of the spaces to be heated, and cannot be governed by any fixed rule. The figures given herewith, however, have generally proved to be near the correct thing, and are prepared for a building supposed to have ceilings 12 and 10 feet high, respectively Rooms on first floor, measuring 12 X 14, on plan, should have 8 inch pipe with 8 X 12 inch register ; rooms on first floor, 12 x

feet, 9 inch pipes, 9 x 1 2 inch registers ; rooms on first floor, 16 x 20 feet, 10 inch pipe and 10 X 14 inch register; rooms on second floor, 8 X 12 feet, should have 7 inch pipe, with 8 x 10 inch register; room on second floor, 10 x 16 feet, 8 inch pipe, 9X 12 inch register; room on second floor, 16 x 12 feet, 9 inch pipe, lox 14 inch register ; medium sized halls should have 10 inch pipe with 10 X 14 inch register ; large sized halls should have 2 inch pipe with 12 x 15 inch register. All pipes in the foregoing are circular in section. When oval or flat pipes are built in the walls of an ordinary two or three storey house, the basement and parlor floor should have independent pipes ; the second and third storeys can be warmed by a single line of pipes reduced in size over each register as follows: A house 18 or 20 x 45 or 50 feet plan, should have a separate pipe, 4 x i6 inches to basement; a house 18 or 20 x 45 or 50 feet, should have a separate pipe 4 x 16 inches to each parlor a house i8 or 20 x 45 or 50 feet, should have one line of pipe 4 x 18 inches to second storey, reduced to 4 X 14 inches for third storey ; a house 20 X 40 or 50 should have a line 4 x 17 inches to second storey, reduced to 4 x 10 inches for third store)'. The above sizes to be varied according to the size of the house and the general division of the interior space. When pipes open in the wall directly, they should be sized as follows A 4 x 24 inch pipe in the wall, should have a 12 inch pipe connected with the furnace; a 4 x 20 inch pipe in the wall should have a 10 inch pipe connected with the furnace; a 4x 18 inch pipe in the wall should have a 10 inch pipe connected with the furnace ; a 4 x 16 inch pipe in the wall should have a 9 inch pipe connected with the furnace; a 4 x 14 inch pipe in the wall should have an 8 inch pipe connected with the furnace; a 4X 12 inch pipe in the wall should have an 8 inch pipe connected with the furnace ; a 4 x 9 inch pipe in the





















FIG. 4. SHOWING POSITION OF HOT-AIR FURNACE.



wall should have a 7 inch pipe connected with the furnace; a 4 x 7 inch pipe in the wall should have a 6 inch pipe connected with the furnace." A furnace should be located in the most central position for all the rooms to be heated; for the quicker the heat flows into the rooms, the less friction and condensation occurs and the better the results obtained. The higher temperature of the air reaching the rooms through the furnace pipes is the only thing that causes circulation. The plan shown at Fig. 4 gives a fair idea of the best position for the furnace to stand. '[he registers in this case open in the floor, and all are pretty close to the furnace. This subject may be reverted to again.

