<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Correspondences." author=" Gambier-Bousfield, R.W.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	'59



HAMILTON

(Correspondences of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)



A CASE of considerable interest, especially 10 builders, that came before a local judge here recently and was carried to Osgoode Hall, has just been decided. A man named Consuis entered into an arrangement with one Teeter, a builder, for the demolition of an old barn and the building of a new one of larger size to replace

it.	The builder was to use the old material as far as possible and make up with new. As tile work proceeded the owner expressed dissatisfaction with the

new material supplied, and sought an injunction through tile courts to force the builder to substitute other material. All interim injunction was granted by the local judge. Falconbridge,

J.	held that the Courts of Equity will not interfere in the case of building contracts. At the present state of the works there was no evidence to show the contract was improperly carried out, and the court would not act as clerk of works . According to the terms of tile contract, apparently nothing need he paid to the contractor until all the work is completed up to date nothing has been paid. The owners only remedy is upon completion of the works, when, if not satisfied, he can sue for damages. The injunction was therefore dissolved,

At a recent meeting of the Hamilton Steel and Iron Company, the following directors were elected A. T. Wood, M.P.; C. E. Doolittle, A. E. Carpenter, C. S. Wilcox, John Milne, A. M. Wilcox and W. Southam. At a subsequent meeting of the directors, A. T. Wood, M.P., was elected president C. E. Doolittle, vice-president Robert Hobson, secretary, and C. S. Wilcox, managing director. It seems as if Hamilton will, before long, he a centre for tile output of iron and steel it possesses particular facilities for transportation of material, and several moneyed men interested in these materials are operating with that end in view. The remarks of Mr. Frank Baird, an iron producer of Buffalo, with regard to the advantages possessed I by Canada for tile production of iron and steel have appeared in the daily press all over the country, and it is certain that this city occupies a position which ought to secure for it a great trade. It has also attracted the attention of the electrical engineers, and a syndicate, in which Mr. John Patterson is the leading spirit, is rapidly securing control of the existing electric railways not only within the limits of the city, hut of the radial lines that run out into the country. Other electric routes are contemplated by this company, for which bills have been submitted to the Railway Committee oft he Dominion house. This same company has also secured the contract for the lighting of the city by electricity, all its power being generated at Decew Falls, about 37 miles away. People who have thought that Hamilton was dead, are beginning to think ''there is life in tile old dog yet," and that perhaps after all its destiny is not that it shall he absorbed by Toronto.

There is not much to comment upon this month in the way of building operations. As a rule the architects are not busy. The only noticeable thing from an architectural point of view is the completion of the tomb and vault that Senator Sanford had erected in the cemetery to the memory of his son, and which was just completed in time to receive his own coffin. It is a charming little classic temple, but it has been spoiled and knocked out of all proportion by the statue of "Hope," pointing heavenward, that has been placed on the apex of the main front. The statue is so large that the temple is dwarfed until it looks like an ornamental base for the figure,

instead of the statue being subordinated to the temple. The tomb occupies a conspicuous position on a mound near the larger road and was erected at a cost, I believe, of nearly a hundred thousand dollars, the material being white marble.

The monument to he erected on the battlefield of Stoney Creek, a few miles from Hamilton, is causing a lively discussion in the papers. A site was purchased for the purpose by the Women's Wentworth Historical Society and presented to the government, and now it is disputed that the battle was fought at or Dyer this particular spot. It is known as Gage's farm, and the evidence that part at least of the battle was fought there is almost conclusive. Even if it were not so, It is so near the ground that undoubtedly was part of the battlefield, and being the only elevated site at the place, it would not he inappropriate to erect the monument there.

R.	W. Gambier-Bousfield





<article title=" TREATMENT FOR A DRAWING-ROOM." author=" Morton, W. Scott">

TREATMENT FOR A DRAWING-ROOM.

The first concern in a drawing-room, writes Mr. W. Scott Morton, in the Art Journal, is the method of lighting, both artificial light and daylight. It is not always possible to avoid heavy shadows, but here a well-diffused daylight is desirable. It should come from the sunny side, with, if possible, subordinate windows where the outlook is good. The ornamentation of the room and all objects which are placed in any picturesque grouping, as well as the people in the room, look to best advantage when the light is strongest from one side. In artificial lighting, a mail, central light is found most successful for the apartment generally, but many things in the room, often lose the artistic value they possess in daylight by the alteration of the illuminating centre, which causes a different light and shadow relief. When a drawing room has ample window space, and it is considered desirable to retain all the daylight, the treatment of the decoration should he delicate, for fulness of color and strong detail are almost sure to run to coarseness, unless a very skilful hand controls. When the light is scanty, luminous tints and strong contrasts of form and color are desirable, as they help greatly to relieve the apartment of the blackness of the shadows, and make use of them to help the color effect. Where there is a recess or dark corner which is objectionable, there is often presented an opportunity for adding the best touch to the apartment by setting something of china, bronze, statuary, flowers or a screen, which will tell with much effect in the shaded setting surrounding shadow provided, of course, that such objects he so placed as to catch a favourable light. In light rooms a soft-colored wood like satin wood is certainly the best, but in lower-toned rooms dark woods like mahogany or rosewood, relieved with ormolu or gilding, are most fitting. When a cheerful room is desired nearly everyone thinks of white painted wood. It is clean and easily obtained, and raises no serious ground for criticism but in every case where white is used it should he tinted to allow of its easy assimilation with the strongest color, he it on the wall, seat covers, or floor. Of tile ordinary wall papers little need be stated here except that it will generally he found that those which are the most pleasing for homely rooms are not those which ordinarily at tract one in a decorators showroom. The mass of a wall color is always stronger than appears in a small pattern, and it is safe to choose a color which will he a pleasant offset to the complexions of the ladies who are to he "at home."



<article title=" IMPROVEMENT OF THE CAPITAL." author="">

IMPROVEMENT OF THE CAPITAL.

The Dominion Parliament at the session which, has just closed, adopted the following resolution " That it is expedient to provide that in consideration of the municipal corporation of the city of Ottawa providing adequate water supply and fire protection for the property of the Dominion government in the said city and ill the vicinity thereof, and exempting the Dominion government from any charge therefor, the Minister of Finance and ReceiverGeneral he authorized to pay out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada the sum of $60,000 per annum for a period not exceeding twenty years, for the purposes of improving and beautifying the city of Ottawa by the acquisition and maintenance and improvement of public parks and public squares, and the improvement of the streets and thoroughfares in the. .said city such sum to be paid to a Board of Commissioners, to he appointed under the authority of an act of the parliament of Canada to be passed for such purpose.

Tile action of parliament in this matter will we believe be universally approved . A feature of our national ambition should be to make tile capital of the Dominion in the highest possible degree attractive and interesting. A wise choice of commissioners is the next important step toward the accomplishment of this end.

