<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Remodelling Old Buildings." author="">



subjected to. If the house to be remodelled is of brick, due regard in the new lay-out must be had to position of windows and outside doors, as one of the worst features of renovation is the removal of windows or doors and bricking-up the openings caused thereby. Windows or doors may be enlarged without disfiguring the brickwork if done carefully, but even then, if there are stone lintels or gauged niches over them, the enlargement should only be made in their length. In wooden buildings the moving of windows or doors does not matter so much, but when it can be avoided it is always better to do so. Generally, the remodelling can be done in the sashes, unless, perhaps, it may be desirable to insert a triplet or a twin window where only a single window was before. In a frame building this will be easy enough, but in a brick building it will be necessary to take into consideration the effect the change will have on the wall above. Perhaps the most troublesome part of the whole work will be in dealing with the roof. If the whole is to be new there will not be much trouble, put if additions are to be put to it, or dormers or skylights put in it to light up the attic, the practical builder may find some difficulty in arranging them so as to accomplish the practical purpose and at the same time add to the appearance of the building. 'When a building is to be remodelled, no work should be commenced until everything has been considered and the scheme for the renovation has been completed in every particular. Of course, no hard and fast rules for this kind of work can be formulated, as each particular building to be remodelled will require a treatment peculiar to itself Architects generally agree that it taxes their skill and ingenuity much more to remodel a house and give satisfaction than it does to design and build a new house out of whole cloth, so to speak.





A well-built vault with a good safe of modern make may be considered fairly safe so far as ordinary fires are

concerned. Late occurrences go to show that the best constructed safes and vaults afford but little protection against the raids of scientific burglars. However, as a place to deposit valuables and to reasonably protect them against the ravages of fire, the modern vault with its usual accessories seems to be the best device yet invented. The construction of a thorough fireproof vault entails a considerable amount of care and expense, and experience has proven that the only material that can be relied on to resist the heat of a burning building is well burned brick laid on a solid foundation of honest concrete and stone, the latter to be below the ground line. All vault walls should be double, with an air space of from three to six inches between the walls, and the two walls should be bonded or tied together at close intervals with fire-clay, brick tiles or with copper strips one-fourth of an inch thick and from one to one and one-half inches wide. If neither of these can he obtained, iron strips may be substituted for binders, though iron is not the best material to use in a vault. The walls should not be less than nine inches thick, but it is much better to have the inner wall nine inches and the outer wall fourteen inches thick. The object of having the outer wall the thickest is because in case of fire, the thicker wall would resist the longest, and its greater strength would prevent its being broken through by falling debris, and before a fire could make its way through fourteen inches of solid brick, its force

Safety Vaults.

would be well spent and the inner wall would easily resist it. The outer wall should be laid up with Portland cement mortar not to make it more fireresisting, but to make the wall stronger so that falling timbers or walls would not destroy it in their descent. The face of the walls in the air spaces should be "parged" or rendered with mortar containing about 25 per cent. of Portland cement. This will add greatly to the fire-resisting quality of the walls. A plain semicircular arch should be thrown over the vault from each wall. This, of course, would make two arches, one nine inches thick covering the nine inch wall, and the outer one fourteen inches thick, springing from the face of the outside wall. These arches should be carefully constructed and laid up with cement mortar, and all the joints well filled in. The inside arch should be turned over a centre, and when completed the outer or top arch may be turned over a sand bed laid on the lower arch to the thickness of the air space. When the arch is completed, the sand may be removed, though this may not be essential. The tympanurn, or end of the arches, may be built up after the arches are turned, but they should not be connected with the arches in such a manner as to preclude any shrinkage of the arches, as that would cause some displacement that might prove dangerous. The whole of the brickwork in the vault should be left exposed for at least thirty days, and then a careful ''pointing", process should be gone over, stopping up every joint or crack. The inside of the vault—and the outside too, for that matter should be rendered on the brick walls, and the mortar used for the first coat should contain a fair proportion of Portland cement. A well built vault with semicircular arches should require no binding rods to support it, as it will be able to stand, without damage, any ordinary stress that it may be subjected to. However, as a matter of precaution, it may be as well to tie the walls together by iron rods, just below the spring of the arches. These rods may be from one to one and one-half inches in diameter, but in no case should they go through the outer walls. Four rods are usually sufficient for ordinary-sized vaults, two on each side, crossing at right angles to each other. They should be laid in the wall as the work progresses and should have large flat washers on their ends to hug the outside face of the wall. After the brickwork is up to the spring of the arch, the rods may be tightened up so that the washers hug the wall tight. Provision must be made for ventilating the vault, and this should be so devised that neither the inlet or outlet should be so exposed that fire could creep in if the building was in flames. When it can be done, the cold air should be drawn from the outside and from a point some distance from the vault. This could be managed by the use of metal pipes or drain tile, so laid as to carry the air from the outside of the building to the vault, where it might he admitted on a line with the lower courses of the brickwork, or through the concrete or other floor. The outlet should be well up in the vault, and if possible should lead to flue in one of the chimneys. If there is no chimney near at hand, and the building is in course of construction, a flue might be built in the wall purposely for the outlet. If this cannot be done, a system of piping, either through the floors or exposed, should be devised leading to the outside, so that a clear current of air may circulate in the vault at all times. It is not wise to have the inlet or the outlet for air inside the building in which the vault is situated.

