<doctype type="text">

<article title=" RHYTHM IN DESIGN; OR, THE ANALYSIS AND APPLICATION OF HARMONIC FORM." author=" BOND, F. Bligh ">

the ellipse when viewed in perspective. Here we have a really rythmic form, and the trained eye traces with interest, as well as with delight, the interaction of the two forces which produce it the vertical, which is retarded or lessened by insensible gradations as the crown of the curve is reached ; and the lateral, which is correspondingly accelerated or increased. Every part of a true ellipse is musical in form, Just as its counterfeit (of compound circular origin) is harsh and discordant.

It is a wholesome sign of the progress of refined sensibility amongst modern architects, that they are beginning more generally to appreciate the beauty of true elliptical forms, and to make use of them.

In the same category as the ellipse I will place the parabola, which is of kindred nature, though an open curve, and is one which may be used in its entirety in architectural work (as, e.g., in forming a ''line of suggestion" for the general skyline or contour of a group of buildings, or large building with numerous salient features) in entire accordance with the laws of stability and equilibrium.

The parabola is the product of various combinations of natural forces, but for our purposes may be regarded as the resultant of two simple vibratory motions the horizontal one having exactly twice the period of the vertical one. It is a curve which is most delightful to the eye, and thoroughly well fitted for application to architectural design, especially in roofs and skylines.*

From the parabola, it is an easy step to the more complex harmonic lines which are the resultants of two or more forces of other ratios than 2 one acting upon one another at right angles, and with various amplitude. In some of these now in my possession, executed by the mechanical means already suggested, or by the simple mathematical process of plotting the curves on squared paper, the effect is almost magically beautiful- -the most characteristic being those in which, upon the basic form of the ellipse, parabola, or lemniscate, there are grafted subtle variations produced by the presence of higher harmonics in a subordinate degree—precisely analogous to those strictly subordinated harmonies which in musical instruments yield such varying " timbre" with the same basal note, and which give to the different instruments diverse tones hard, soft, liquid, mellow, metallic or brazen, full, thin, rich, reedy, etc. All these have their counterparts, more or less recognisable, in the character of lines. It is a fact well known to science that each of these qualities in a musical instrument is the direct result of a particular selection of certain harmonics in certain degrees of strength, accompanying the fundamental note; and so far-reaching is the law that it controls even the formation of vowels and consonants, which have all been successfully imitated by the incorporation of their proper harmonics.

in the same way, by skilfully blending and applying the harmonic principle to lines, we can give them an expression of force or feebleness, richness, wiriness, rigidity, flexibility, grace, sternness, and what not; but to be able to do this with certainty and clearness of expression, we should have a conscious knowledge of the laws which we are calling into operation.

Having indicated that the character and artistic value of a line is the outcome of harmonic elements properly selected and applied, I now come to speak of what we call "conventional" design or ornament.

The chief source of that extreme sense of refinement conveyed by Oriental architecture is the general use of parabolic or cycloidal curves in preference to circular ones.

Conventional representations of any well-known class of forms is merely the arbitrary choice of those harmonic principles in a form which gives it its distinctive character, or ''timbre," or, if I may so term it, ''flavour." In all natural forms there are essential characteristics which are the result of the working of special harmonic principles, besides a great many variations of a more intricate kind which are the outcome of accident or circumstance. It is the business of the conventional designer to select the one, and to discard the other ; and this sorting or weeding-out of the essential from the non-essential preserves, as it were, the soul of the form, whilst rejecting its material part.

Conventional representation (like time, tune, and orchestration in music) is therefore an orderly classification which conveys to the aesthetic sense a clear, select, and definite impression easily understood at a glance. If then, as we have seen, our appreciation of the simpler harmonic forms as found in the vegetable world depends to a very large extent upon our conception of the growth, movement, and special vital characteristics of the different orders of plants, then, in a similar way, our appreciation of beauty in the higher forms of man and animals depends upon our knowledge of, and our ability to understand, the various powers and capacities of movement which the position and sizes of the muscles, or the proportions of limbs and trunk denote. But with animal and human types, architectural art has little or nothing to do in its structural portions, as it is an art expressive of fixity in position, whilst these forms are entirely expressive of, and characteristic of, locomotion. There are, therefore, very few instances in which the incorporation of the human form as an architectural feature can be regarded as even a qualified success. Those great sitting giants forming the facade of the rock temple of Abu Simbel in Egypt are, to my mind, about the most legitimate, or least unsuitable, instances of its application. From their stupendous size and massive breadth of treatment, as also from their resting posture, they have a certain appropriateness inspiring a sense of repose, stability and permanence, and thus seem to satisfy that sense in us which looks beyond the material or concrete expression, and, as I have endeavored to show, sees in the humblest line a symbol of those eternal vitalities which throb ceaselessly throughout the visible world, and whose music is intuitively felt by us, although we have not yet arrived at the full and conscious recognition of it in all its manifold presentments.



A remarkable project has been, according to the Plumbers' Review, London, undertaken by the West Australian government, namely, to lay some 328 miles of water pipe, made of steel spiral embedded in concrete. In the manufacture of this pipe the sheet steel, after being cut into strips of a width varying with the required diameter of the pipe, is rivited or welded into a continuous strip of the required length ; this strip is then fed automatically into the pipe-making machine, and during its passage through it the rivet holes are punched, and the laps of the edge of the strips are brought together under pressure and held during the process of riveting. The rivets are all set by compression. The edge is slightly recessed, throwing the lap on the outside. In this way the inside diameter of the pipe is maintained evenly throughout the entire length. To render the pipe water-tight on leaving the machine, special hydraulic cement is inserted between the laps before riveting.

