<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

	222	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



notifying the owner, or other parry interested, he shall have thc right to have the work done and to recover the cost of the same as hereinbefore provided.

SECTION 14. When the inspector is satisfied that any building or structure, or portion thereof, is being erected, constructed or altered, or has been erected, constructed or altered, in violation of, or not in compliance with, the provisions of this by—law, or in violation of the statement, plans and specifications submitted to and approved by the inspector, or of any permit issued by him, or that any order or direction made thereunder has riot been corn-plied with, he shall serve the owner or owners with a notice to remove such violation immediately after the serving of such notice.



In default of compliance with such notice to the satisfaction of the inspector, he may in his discretion institute an action or proceeding at law against the owner or owners before any court having jurisdiction therein, to restrain, correct or remove such violation, or to prevent the occupation or use of any building or structure erected, constructed or altered in violation of the provisions of this by—law, and said court shall, unless there has beer an appeal from the accusation or order of the inspector as herein provided, hear the parties it the case, and give judgment thereon, or shall issue art order enjoining and restraining all persons from doing work upon such building or structure, or for occupying or using such building or structure, until the hearing and determination of said action and final judgement thereon.

No officer of said department, acting in good faith and without malice, shell be liable for damages by reason of anything done in such action or proceeding.

RIGHT OF APPEAL FROM DECISION OF INSPECTOR.



SECTION 15. Should any question arise between the inspector arid the owner or Iris legal representatives, or should the said



party' object to arty order or decision of the inspector, they shall have the right, within three days after the giving of such order or decision, to appeal from the same.

Should the inspector refuse to issue a permit as required by this by—law, the applicant for such permit shall, within three days after such refusal, have the right to appeal front said decision.

Should the inspector incur any expense chargeable to an owner, or should he order any person to incur expense other than provided for iii section ii of this by-law, the said owner or person shall have the right, within three days after the issue of such order, to appeal from the same.

Any person appealing front any order or decision of the inspector as herein described shall, within the time above mentioned, give notice to the inspector iii writing that he does so appeal.



BOARD OF APPEAL.



SECTION 16.—The said Board of Appeal shall consist of an architect recommended by the council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, a competent civil engineer recommended by thc council of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, and a master builder. The appointment of said Board of Appeal to be made by the city council.

SECTION 17.—The first named person appointed to said board shall serve for three years, the second named shall serve for two years, and the third named shall serve for one year. After the expiration oft lie first term, each number of the board subsequently elected shall hold office for three years.

Each member of the board shall he paid by the city a fee of $5.00 for each case adjudicated on, and the city shall recover the amount of said fee from the appelant, in all cases where he is declared to be in fault.



SECTION 18—No member of said board shall sit or adjudicate in a case in which he is interested, and in ease of such disqualification, or in the absence of any member the oilier two members shall have the right to appoint a substitute, of the satire profession as the absent member.



SECTION 19. --If two or more members of the board are disqualified, or if they are absent, the inspector shall appoint one substitute, the appelant another, and the two so appointed shall appoint a third, and the said parties shall have the same powers as the members oh the hoard.

SECTION 20.—The said board shall not adjudicate on arty' question of law, hut on all matters referred to them respecting the construction or sanitation of buildings, or the application of this bylaw to the erection or alteration of any building, or to any order or decision to the inspector which has been objected to, and appealed from. as provided for by' section 15 of this by—law, the decision of the hoard, or of a majority' thereof, shall he final and binding on both parties.



PERMITS FOR ERECTION OR REPAIR OF BUILDINGS.



SECTION 21. 21.—No building shall after the passing of this by-law

he erected, or altered, and no work effecting the strength or fire risk of airy building, or part thereof, shall be done without a permit from the inspector nor except in conformity with the provisions of this by-law.

Permits for rise of street shall be obtained and paid for as provided in section 25 but in no case shall more that of the street be so occupied, amid such occupation shall only be for deposit of materials required for the building.



WIDTH OF STREET ALLOWED TO DEPOSIT MATERIALS.



In no ease shall the permit to deposit materials on the street exceed one-third of the street, between cant stone and curb stone. Where street car rails are laid on any street, such materials shall not he laid within eighteen inches of the nearest rail.



REGARDING FOOTPATHS.



In front of any building erected out the line of the street, the footpath shall he at all times clear of arty' obstruction. In cases where footpaths shall he required to he raised above its actual level, said foot paths shall he strongly' built so as to carry a minimum load of 150 lbs. to the square foot, arid proper steps and railings to give access to and from it. Said footpaths, whether on the street level or raised, shall be roofed to at least eight feet high clear front tire path, and the framing of said roof shall be made sufficiently strong so as to carry safely' a roof of at least (2) two inches thick, and to bear the weight of arty falling material front upper stories--- said roof to be water-tight.



SECTION 22. --Before the erection, repair, or material alteration of any building, the owner, architect, or builder thereof shall file with the inspector, a statement in writing on forms or blanks according to schedule "A," appended to this by-law, to Ire issued for the purpose by the inspector, amid said statement shall give the intended occupation of the building, its dimensions and manner of construction, and all information necessary for the inspector to determine whether the proposed building is suitable for its intended uses, amid its construction is according to the provisions of this by-law. The said statement shall he made under oath, and shall also mention:

I —If a street line or level is required.

2.—If a portion of a street or square is required to be temporarily' used by the builder in connection with the alteration or repair of a building, and the extent of the proposed occupation.

3. If a water service is requested, and size of same.



4.—If a drain is to be laid from street sewer to the line of lot on which said building is to bc erected, the level of said drain to be obtained from the department.



5. The quantities of mason, brick, and plaster work on which to base the charges for water. The said parry or parties shall submit for examination by the inspector, full plaits arid specifications for the building proposed to be erected, repaired or altered, and said plans and specifications shall be sufficient to enable the inspector to obtain full and complete information as to the character and extent of the work to be done. Should the plants and specifications so submitted conform to the provisions of this bylaw, the inspector shall issue a permit for such erection, alteration, or repair, and shall identify by a stamp or seal, with the date, for future reference, the same plans and specifications, and they shall, after such identification, be returned to the applicant, who must produce such plans and specifications, when required to do so, for the purpose of comparing there with the building as carried out. The plans arid specifications submitted to the inspector, as described in this section, shall show the proposed drainage and plumbing work, and description of the same, and said plans and specifications shah he submitted by rite building inspector to the health department for examinations by the engineer of that department, and lie shall obtain Iris approval and endorsation on the plans amid specifications for such drainage arid plumbing work.

SECTION 23.—No merit shall be granted for hue erection of any dwelling house or building where people congregate, unless drainage connection can be made directly' with a public sewer. If the matter mentioned in any application for a permit, or if tire plans and specifications accompanying it, indicate to the inspector, and the engineer of health department, that the work to be done ms not in conformity with the terms oft Iris by—law, inspector shall refuse to issue a permit, until such application, plans and specifications have been made to conform to the requirements of Ibis by-law.



SECTION 24.—After a permit has been issued upon an application, plans arid specifications approved by the inspector, no alterations shall be made in such plans or specifications as will reduce the strength of any portion of the building, or injuriously affect the sanitation of the same.

In case any change is made in any building or premises, or in

