<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MURAL DECORATION." author="">



MURAL DECORATION.

Mr. G. A. Reid, R.C.A., has been pretty constantly engaged for several months past on the mural decorations for the new Municipal Buildings at Toronto. A few days ago, these decorations were placed in position, and the effect is most satisfactory. The final touches are now being put to the work, and the public will have an opportunity of inspecting the same at an early date. In our May issue, we hope to be able to present to our readers illustrations and a further description of this important work.



<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The following circular has just been issued by the Registrar to the members

"As you are aware, at the last Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, held in January, 1899, a Special Committee was appointed to confer with the Council as to the best means to be taken to improve the condition and increase the prosperity of the Association.

The Committee in conference with the Council, is of the opinion that action should be taken to make Registration more attractive, and of more practical benefit to the members, to those who may register in future, and to our students. In a matter of so much importance it was thought well to have a letter sent to each member, setting forth the suggestions made by the Committee and Council and enclosing a stamped envelope for reply, so that the opinion of the whole Association may be obtained, and future action based on such opinion.

The suggestions are as follows

1.	To rent in a central situation a room, or rooms, suitable for meetings of the Association. The rooms to be kept open, for the use of members, from 10 a. m. to 6 p. m. on all week days and, on the occasion of meetings, in the evening also. The Library of the Association will be kept in these rooms, and they will be made as convenient as possible for the use of members not residing in Toronto, who may want to use them for business or other purposes when visiting Toronto.

2.	To make the office of the Registrar and Librarian an honorary one, and to appoint an Assistant, whose duty will be to take charge of the rooms, library, correspondence, etc., etc., under instruction from the Honorary Registrar.

3.	To hold a regular meeting of the Association one evening in each month, except during the summer, for the purpose of reading and discussing papers, etc., etc.

4.	To have the proceedings of the Association recorded and issued in pamphlet or book form each year; to the members free of cost, to all others at a price fixed by the cost of publication. This volume to contain all the papers read during the year with the discussions upon them, and full information, medals, scholarships, library, business matters, etc., etc.—all the proceedings of the Association, complete.

5.	That a certificate of membership, adapted to he displayed in the offices of members, be issued, and that all members be requested to adopt the words" Member of the Ontario Association of Architects" as their distinguishing title.

6.	To arrange for an annual course of popular public lectures on architectural subjects, with a view to advancing public taste in Architecture.

7.	To provide a suitable medal out of the funds of

the Association annually, to be competed for by students of the Association, and to found a travelling studentship, to go with the medal, by some means, possibly the following

To select twenty-five wealthy citizens of Toronto and to ask each to give the sum of $200.00, upon condition, that at least 20 of those asked consent. It is hoped in this way to acquire the use of a fund which, well invested, should produce at least $200.00 per annum this to be known as the "Toronto Travelling Studentship," and to be paid to the student who is presented with the Association medal, to enable him to travel in Europe for the purpose of studying architecture. By this means it is thought the students will be given an inducement to present themselves for examination and registration.

8. To provide a travelling card for the use of all students travelling abroad whereby they may identify themselves as registered students of the Ontario Association of Architects and obtain the privileges which are accorded to students of art in the art galleries of Europe.

9. To make the annual tee for members resident in Toronto $10.00, and for all others $5.00, except the fee for travelling members which would be $3.00.

The Treasurer's statement at the last Convention, "That financially we would, in the course of a few years, cease to exist unless radical changes were made," should convince every one of the importance of our taking immediate steps to prevent such a catastrophe.

You are requested to give the foregoing your serious attention, realizing the importance of the matter, and to express your approval or disapproval of each item by number, and if you can suggest anything further towards improving our condition, it will receive careful consideration.

The above proposals are not intended to supply the place of the necessary amendment to our Act, which we still hope for, but are matters desirable in any event.

N.B.—Please return an answer before May 1st next."



PUBLICATIONS.

"Sanitary Engineering of Buildings" by Win. Paul Gerhard, C. E., etc., Win. T. Comstock, publisher, 23 Warren street, New York.

The first part of this work, which is to be published in two volumes, has just been received. Part 1, inclusive of index, comprises 454 pages, with 103 illustrations and 6 plates. The twelve chapters treat of Defective Plumbing arid Sewer Gas, Traps and Systems of Trapping, Drainage and Sewerage of Buildings, Plumbing Fixtures, Sewage Removal and Disposal, Principles of Scientific House Drainage and Plumbing, Improved Method of House Drainage, Proper Arrangement of Water Closet and Bath Apartments, Sanitation in Factories and Workshops, Drainage of Tenement Houses, Testing House Drains and Plumbing Work, Simplified Plumbing Methods. The author is a well known sanitary and consulting engineer, and writer on sanitary subjects.



A shipment of radiators valued at $2,000 was recently made from Toronto to Norway, and another valued at $1,000 to Great Britain.

The death is announced in Toronto of Mrs. Alexander Stewart, mother of Mr. Win. Stewart, architect, Hamilton, The deceased lady came to Toronto in 1812, having been driven out of Buffalo by the British troops.

The Metal Shingle and Siding Company, Preston, Ont., have just completed the erection of a new building, in addition to their works, 112 x 50 feet, and have recently put in the necessary machinery for manufacturing a complete line of metal ceilings, interior decorations, etc., and also corrugated iron and standing seam, and other flat roofing.

