<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Correspondence." author="">

	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	27



(Correspondence of the CANA

DIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)



THE building operations for the year 1898 as reported in the January number of this paper are no doubt quite correct, and for the purpose of comparison with former years are useful, but they do not, nor are they intended to, show the correct expenditure on buildings during the year. For instance, some buildings completed last year had permits taken out in the year before, and as the report is made up from the list of permits issued, these do not appear. In the city of Hamilton the actual



amount spent last year probably would amount to half as much again as shown, and therefore 1898 stands as a prosperous year for Hamilton, and a long way ahead of previous years. The outlook for the present year is not exciting; there is nothing very much talked of, but the general idea seems to be that it will be a good year, though the buildings put up will not be of a very important character.

Out of the report of the convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, which the architects in Hamilton have read with more than usual interest this year because the Association has reached a critical condition, there is one good thing reported— good, as savoring of benefit to architects outside Toronto—that is the suggestion to have, at last, some down-town rooms as headquarters. If this is carried out, there will be a possibility of absent members being able to take an interest in the Association. There will be a place to which they can go when in Toronto, where they may chance to see some city members and gather news and information, and return the better for the visit. But it strikes us in Hamilton very forcibly that the Toronto Chapter and its management are a good deal more up-to-date than the Association proper and its board of directors, and that if the Chapter chose it might become an independent body, with very great advantage to the profession. It has been said that the Chapter is the Association. If it is, only let it act as such and have power to act, and shake off the clog which is hanging about its neck and get out of the groove that is the Associations' bane. It will set an example such as is needed, and other Chapters will be formed in other places, and in time a new association of the province will be matured, which from its very nature must be successful.

The Hamilton Builders' Exchange is meeting with extraordinary success and its membership is running up fast. Its rooms are central and open at all times. The architects of the city have been invited to become honorary members and their co-operation is requested to make the Exchange a success in every way. In many ways this honorary membership of the architects may be of assistance to the Exchange, and it will certainly be a convenience to architects as affording them an easy means of reaching contractors.

R.	W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD. 





PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

An amendment to the Quebec Architects' Act has just passed the legislature, permitting students who had commenced their course of studies in an architect's office previous to the passing of the charter of the P.Q.A.A., as amended by 61 Victoria, chap. 33, to register proof of such studentship with the secretary of the Association within three months from date, and as soon as the

period of studentship provided for by the original act, viz., four years, shall have been fulfilled, the said student shall be admitted on passing the examinations provided for admission to practice, the same as if they had duly passed the preliminary examinations before commencing studentship.

At a special meeting of the Council of the Association, held in the rooms of the Association Friday the 27th of January, it was proposed by Mr. E. Maxwell, seconded by Mr. J. S. Archibald, that "The members of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects learned with heartfelt grief of the death of their esteemed fellow-member, Mr. A. S. Fowler, and that a copy of the present resolution be sent to the family."



ILLUSTRATIONS.

EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR VIEWS OF HOUSE ON BEACON HILL, VICTORIA, B.C. S. MACLURE, ARCHITECT.



RESIDENCE OF MR. G. T. FULFORD, BROCKVILLE, ONT.



—A. W. FULLER, ARCHITECT.



C.	A. & B. COMPETITION FOR FOUR CHIMNEYS. —DESIGNS BY "CAZA" (MR. A. CHAPMAN, TORONTO), AWARDED FIRST POSITION ; AND BY "PERCIVAL"



(MR. ELMER H. RUSSELL, TORONTO),



AWARDED SECOND POSITION.





MONTREAL MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION.

The annual banquet of the above Association was held on the evening of the 13th inst., in the Balmoral Castle Hotel. the president, Mr. John Watson, presiding. The attendance of members and guests numbered about one hundred. Occupying places of honor at the table were ex-president Harris, representing the National Plumbers' Association; James Simpson,

president of the Montreal Builders' Exchange; Joseph Venne, secretary of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects;

J. M. Taylor, manager of the Dominion Radiator Company, Toronto; J. 0. Thorne, manager of the Metallic Roofing Company, Toronto; Messrs. J. A Lamarche, William Ramsay, J. W. Hughes, E. C. Mount, E. Watson, J. P. O'Leary, Kingsley, Blais, Egan, Powell, Davis, Beaupre, Gibeau, Poole, Giroux, W. Beau pre jr., Stewart, Lessard, Forest, Lamontagne, Warmole, Anill, Thibeault, Goodman, Dickson, Lawrence, Fournier, Gordon, Martin Tremblay, Dale, Saunders, McEntee, Hebert, Lesperance, Prudhomme, Lecours, Woodham, Pettigrew, Walsh and Murray. Letters of regret were read from the president of the National Association, Mr. Wm. Smith, Mayor Prefontaine, J. R. Wilson, representing Thomas Robertson & Company; Thomas J. Tout, representing the National Association of the United States; A. E. McMichael, of the James Robertson Company Edward Gurney, of the Gurney Foundry Company, and R. J. Lockhart.

After the usual loyal toasts, the president proposed the health of the National Association, which was responded to by Mr. J. W. Harris and M. E. Lesperance. Following the toast to the city of Montreal came speeches from Mr. Larnarche and Mr. Hughes commenting upon the absence of any representative of the Sanitary Committee of the city council, and the failure of the Council to enforce the provisions of the plumbing by-law. The toast

Our Guests brought suitable replies from Mr. H. McLaren, Mr. John M. Taylor, Joseph Venne, Mr. James Simpson and Mr. Anthes. Suitable reference, was made in connection with the toast to " Absent Friends ", to the removal by death of Messrs Charles Jacotal, William Briggs and Fred Horton. Messrs John M. Taylor, P. Carroll and Mr. Wynne responded in a happy manner to the toast to the "Ladies." Messrs Poole, Davis, Fournier and Giroux provided musical entertainment. The success of the. Banquet is largely due to the following Committee of Management J. XV. Harris, chairman E. C. Mount, secretary; P. C. Ogilvie, treasurer Thos. Moll, J. Sadler, E. Lesperance and J. N. Lariviere.



Mr. Alex. G. Fowler, architect, of Montreal, who died on Thursday, Jan. 26th, aged 75, was one of the first members of the P.Q.A.A., having joined the Association in 1890, and continued a member since. He came to this country during the building of the Victoria bridge, on which he worked as a superintendent until the bridge was opened. Since then he has practised as architect. Among the many buildings which have been erected under his superintendence may be mentioned The Bell Telephone Building, on St. Catharine street; warehouses for Messrs. Thomas Robertson & Co., on Craig street; for Messrs. Laing & Sons, on Parthenais street ; rolling mill and tack factory for Messrs. Peck, Benny & Co.; Zion church, Stanley street church, besides numerous houses and stores scattered over the city.

