<doctype type="text">

<article title=" REGULATIONS OF THE PARIS EXPOSITION." author="">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

REGULATIONS OF THE PARIS EXPOSITION.

THE Canadian Commission for the Paris Exposition of' 1900 have issued a booklet giving regulations, classification of exhibits, and general information for intending exhibitors. The accompanying plan, which is herewith reproduced, shows the arrangement of' the Exhibition grounds and buildings, and will no doubt be found of interest. The Exhibition will open on the 15th of April and close on the 5th of November. The Colonial building will be situated on the Trocadero grounds overlooking the Champs de Mars, not far from the Great Eiffel tower, and will cover 36,000 square feet, of which 27,100 feet has been allotted to Canada.

Forms of application for space must be returned to the Canadian Commission, Department of Agriculture, Ottawa, not later than June 1st, 1899. It is the desire of the Commission to secure the best possible exhibit of Canadian goods, and there will be no charge to exhibitors for space. Accepted exhibits from Quebec, Ontario and the west must be delivered at the ex

In group six is placed all exhibits relating to civil engineering, including the following Building materials, such as lime, cement, plaster, artificial stone, etc.; plant and method used in the production of these materials ; methods used for testing building materials; plant and method employed for earth work ; plant and methods used in making foundations, public streets, etc.; models, plans and drawings relating to public works, such as water supply, gas lighting, canal construction, bridges and viaducts, railways, etc.

In group twelve is placed exhibits of decoration and furniture of public buildings and dwelling houses, including the following Plans, designs and models of fixed decoration ; carpentry ; ornamental joinery ; fixed decoration in marble, stone, plaster, papier mache and cartonpierre; decorative sculpture; ironwork and lock-smiths' work ; decorative paintings on stone, wood, metal and canvas ; stone or marble mosaic pavements enamel mosaic for walls, vaults and domes; stained glass windows ; specimens of various kinds of glass

















































PLAN OF EXHIBITION GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS—PARIS EXPOSITION.



hibitor's expense at Montreal or Quebec not later than November 1st, 1899, and exhibits from the Maritime provinces at Halifax, N. S., not later than November 15th. These will be shipped to Paris by the Commission free of charge. Exhibitors are expected to dispose, in Paris, of their exhibits when these have a commercial value, as only valuable collections of objects of special character will be granted free return transportation. The exhibits are divided into eighteen groups, which are again subdivided into numerous classes.

Group two includes works of art, divided into four classes. Class 7 contains painting on canvas, panel, metal, enamel, china, earthenware, various glazes, by all direct processes, on oil, wax, tempera, etc.; water color paintings, pastels, cartoons for frescoes, tapestry and stained glass ; drawings of all kinds. In class 9 will be placed sculpture of figures and animals in altorelievo or in baso-relievo ; models in plaster, clay or wax; originals and copies in stone, marble, bronze, wood, ivory, metal, etc. Class 10 includes drawings, photographs and models of works already carried out (public and private buildings) ; designs of buildings restorations from ruins or from documents.

used for decorative windows; models of window frames ; wall papers and paper hangings ; apparatus and processes for heating and ventilation ; apparatus and processes employed for lighting, other than electric lights. Group sixteen includes plans and specimens of workmen's dwellings, such as single houses built by employers, workmen's flats, furnished lodgings for unmarried artisans, etc.

<article title=" ARTIFICIAL SANDSTONE." author="">

ARTIFICIAL SANDSTONE.

AN artificial sandstone made at Uccle-Calevoet, Belgium, is a silicate of lime obtained by imitating the supposed conditions of nature. A mixture of 8o per cent. of clean coarse sand and 20 per cent of hydraulic quicklime is placed in an iron mould, which is introduced into a boiler filled with hot water, and is kept for three days under a pressure of six atmospheres and a temperature of' about 329 degrees F. The resulting block is at first soft, but hardens quickly in air. The stone is absolutely homogeneous, absorbs little water, has four times the crushing strength of French freestone, and at the cost of ten cents per cubic foot is cheaper than the natural product.

