<doctype type="text">



Competition for school Plans.





























An English Opinion

of American

Architecture.

view, the number of competitors having been considerably smaller of late than at a former period. The students have now a favorable opportunity, by entering with enthusiasm into the present competition, to show that they are prepared to take advantage of any means of self-improvement which may be afforded them. Architects are requested to bring the competition to the notice of their students and urge them to take part. If a satisfactory result is attained, other competitions will follow. Request will be made of the judges to give in connection with their report a detailed criticism of the plans, in order that the authors may learn the weak as well as the strong features of their work.



THE Department of Education of Ontario has advertised for competitive plans for public school buildings rangng in size from a single room to four rooms. The highest premium is $150 and the lowest $8o. It is understood to be the intention of the department to appoint experts to decide upon the merits of the plans which may be submitted. It is to be regretted that the advertisement inviting the plans does not specify the manner in which the competition is to be decided.



IN the London Builder of October 7th is printed an article headed " Notes in New York," in which reference is made

to the modern architecture of New York. As might naturally be expected, special mention is made of the tall buildings which in recent years have sprung up so rapidly in the business thoroughfares of that city. With regard to these the writer says " It is all very well for passers-by to say that buildings of such size are monstrosities, but seeing that utility is the first object of every building, it has to be admitted that the people of New York have by their system of building policy obtained not only space, but actually buildings in comfort and convenience up to the highest standard." The belief is expressed that, whether agreeable to the taste of the people or not, the tall building—perhaps modified in form as compared with the New York examples—will become a necessity in the large cities of the old world. It is the opinion of this writer that the educated American sets a higher value on art than does the average Englishman, or indeed a citizen of any other country except France. " There can be no doubt," he says, "that it is beyond the Atlantic that we shall find the finest buildings of the future. Energy, wealth, and a desire to produce structures which shall be at once useful and beautiful—large spaces, so far as cities outside of New York are concerned—all these things make towards the creation of finer architectural works than can be erected in an older country. Architectural individuality in New York is moreover given a very large field, a scope which is noticeable especially in regard to private houses. This freedom, though it necessarily from time to time must result in eccentricity, yet affords opportunity for much larger artistic effect than can be obtained in the more formal and systematic streets of English and Continental towns. Sometimes, also, the contrast between the opposing styles of houses which are side by side, the conflict between different materials

—a red brick, for instance, side by side with yellow stone—does not tend to general harmony of effect. On the other hand, the obvious and often successful endeavor to create an individual house, pleasing to look

The Future of the 0. A. A.

upon—not one portion, as in England, of a monotonous street—is remarkable."



THERE are indications that the present discussion regarding the future of the Ontario Association of Architects is

likely to result in benefit to that Organization, and that from the suggestions which are being offered may be evolved a plan of future action designed to enhance the prosperity and usefulness of the society and permanently advantage the cause of architecture in this province. That some changes are necessary is clearly apparent. What is required, therefore, is to decide what can and should be attempted to enable the Association to achieve in the future, in a larger degree than in the past, prosperity and usefulness. This end will not be attained by criticism alone of the conduct of those who have in hand the management of its affairs. This is especially true of what may be termed " destructive criticism," such as has been indulged by some who have given expression to their views on the subject. It requires but little ability to find fault in a general way with everything and everybody. On the contrary, what may be termed "helpful criticism," which points out in a kindly spirit the causes of past failure, and suggests methods of achieving future success, should be heartily welcomed.



To those who have stood by the Association from its inception until the present, and have given much time and effort to promote its welfare, is due the highest praise. One of the greatest obstacles in the way of their success has been the unworkable and valueless character of the charter of incorporation placed in their hands by the Ontario legislature. The defects in this charter were stated in our last issue and on many previous occasions. Those entrusted with the management of the Association hoped that it might be possible to secure from the government through the legislature a single amendment which would render the Ontario Architects' Act of value to the public and the profession, viz., a restriction of the use of the title "Architect" to properly qualified persons. Influenced by this hope, they deemed it advisable to direct their efforts principally to an endeavor to secure the passing of this amendment. Could they have foreseen the failure of this endeavor, doubtless they would long ago have turned into different channels their thought and effort for the building up of the Association and the advancement of architecture.



In the light of present experience, it would appear that greater things might have been accomplished if the efforts put forth during the last ten years had been in the direction of formulating and putting in operation a system of education for the students, who, to a large extent, must decide what shall be the future status of architecture in this province. The Association's recent proposal to endeavor to provide a fund sufficient to establish a travelling studentship seems like starting at

the wrong end of the ladder. The students have not had the training which would qualify them to profit by such a studentship. The greatest requirement at present is means of educating the student ; the travelling studentship would naturally follow. This is the work to which we believe the Association should now turn its attention. It is impossible not to regret the

