<doctype type="text">

<article title=" LOW PRESSURE HOT WATER AS A HEATING MEDIUM." author="Pearson, Louis F.">

LOW PRESSURE HOT WATER AS A

HEATING MEDIUM.*

Louis F. PEARSON.



IN comparing low pressure hot water with other forms of heating apparatus, let us first consider what are the vital and most necessary qualifications of a heating installation. 

First—I think above all things it should be efficient, that is, capable of maintaining a natural and equitable temperature.

Second—It should be neat, and not occupy too much space.

Third—It should not give off any smell or products of combustion into the building to be warmed.

Fourth—-It should not be liable to reach a temperature that is likely to burn either children or the feebleminded who may happen to fall upon it, or be the cause of setting the building on fire.

Fifth It must be cheaply constructed if it is to command a large sale, which we all look for but do not always realize.

Sixth- --It must he fitted in such a manner that it can be attended to by the latter class of individuals mentioned in paragraph 4, as unfortunately the person chosen to attend to the heating apparatus, in both public and private buildings, seems generally to be selected because he is fit for no other purpose.

Seventh --It should, if possible, assist ventilation.

Eighth— It should be easily controlled.

Now, taking the first of these necessary qualifications, I think it will be generally conceded that a low pressure hot water apparatus, when properly fixed, gives a more natural, equitable temperature than any other form of heating medium, for I think that those who have had their offices heated with either steam or high. pressure would give them a very secondary position ; while under this head I consider any form of hot-air stove can scarcely be entered for competition.

Looking to the second qualification_ we do not find low pressure hot water takes such a good position, as undoubtedly both steam and high pressure water are neater in appearance and take up less space ; though since the introduction of radiators, where they are carefully fixed with the mains under the floor, the unsightliness of the low pressure apparatus has been greatly changed for the better, as undoubtedly the old-fashioned 4 in. pipe coils were both unsightly and occupied far too much space.

When we come to the third qualification, I think low pressure is still to the front, for though we know that if steam and high pressure pipes are kept perfectly clean the smell from them is very slight, yet how often are they kept clean P And there is no doubt that if the pipes are not kept free from dust, the hotter they become the worse they smell. I think the hot air stove is also the worst offender in this respect, for the difficulty of cleaning the flues thoroughly, and of keeping the stove itself from cracking, makes it extremely difficult to have this form of apparatus working any length of time without either an unpleasant smell or sulphur fumes being introduced into the building.

My fourth qualification is that the apparatus shall not hot enough to burn either the inmates or the building

Now, here again I must place the low pressure first, steam second, high pressure third, and stoves

and by far the worst ; for though they are gener

*Condensed from a paper read at a meeting of the Institution of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, held at Stourbridge, England, July 18, 1899.

ally placed in the basement out of the reach of children, there is no doubt in America, where they are largely used as a cheap form of heating, they cause more fires than anything else ; and though no doubt, as Mr. Ginrod has told us, high pressure apparatuses, when fixed by a competent firm, are innocent of this charge, yet there is no denying the fact that many fires have been caused by the high pressure system, and both these and steam pipes are not pleasant to fall against, and when protected by grids we get back to another form of the coil case with all its disadvantages.

Number six qualification is a very difficult one to arrive at, and I am sure there are many of our members who have often been annoyed by being sent for to an apparatus that was left working satisfactorily a few months previously, and told that "they could not get any heat." My opinion is that we can again put low pressure hot water first, as being the most difficult apparatus to put out of order ; for a steam boiler is certainly not so easily attended to, and though low pressure steam boilers have been immensely improved and simplified during the past few years, yet they are still far more complicated than hot water; and though high pressure is very simple in its working, still it requires periodically overhauling and refilling by a competent man, which in country places is both expensive and inconvenient.

Number seven qualification is another difficult prob1cm that a heating engineer is confronted with, viz., how to both heat and ventilate buildings successfully with one and the same apparatus. For this purpose low pressure steam has been very largely and successfully used for both indirect and direct-indirect radiators and coils, but personally I think that all forms of indirect heating have one very weak point, that is the difficulty of cleaning them.

Take, for instance, the American pin radiators ; they always appear to me more as if they had been constructed to catch fluff and dust than to be readily cleaned. Of course, the "Plenum" system, when fitted up with glazed brick flues and water screens for washing the air, may be very successful, if—and here is the difficulty these flues and screens can be kept perfectly clean. I think that ventilating radiators for small and medium-sized buildings form the cheapest and most efficient combined ventilating and heating apparatus, though, of course, unless very carefully fixed, these are liable to give trouble with dust and dirt blowing into the rooms through the radiators; and there is also the liability of them freezing in severe weather, when the inlet has been left open or the fire has been let out.

But this system has one great advantage, and that is, it can he readily cleaned, which, to my mind, covers a multitude of sins.

As to paragraph eight, I think there is no doubt that low pressure hot water is more easily regulated and controlled than any other form of apparatus. If steam radiators are fitted with two perfect valves, of course they cool quicker after they have been shut off than hot water (which is often a great advantage), but how often are valves perfect when they have been at work some years? We often hear American heating work very highly praised, and no doubt there are many fine installations in the States, but I can truthfully say that while I was there I scarcely ever found a steam radiator in the hotels that I could entirely shut off, and as the bedrooms are often over 8o degrees, I suffered great

