<doctype type="text">

consideration of the subject is that the greatest drag on the progress of the Association is the incompleteness of the Ontario Architects' Act. The Act in its present form imposes upon the Association the necessity of maintaining examinations for students without placing students under obligation to present themselves tot examination. It stipulates conditions which must be complied with by persons seeking to become members of the Association, but refuses to give to such persons the exclusive right to use the title " Architect." About the only advantage which the Act affords is that entitling registered architects who may he called on to give expert evidence in the courts to charge the same fee as a provincial land surveyor. This privilege, while perhaps of some value, is more than offset by the disadvantages which the act imposes. Some of the brightest young men in the profession are prevented by the terms of the Act from joining the Association and giving it the benefit of their ideas and efforts. The government has established and is maintaining at considerable expense a Department of Architecture in connection with the School of Practical Science Toronto—with what result? To give instruction to one or two students each year. If the government would amend the Ontario Architects' Act by restricting the use of the title " Architect " to properly qualified persons, and making it compulsory on students to pass the prescribed examinations, the attendance and results in this Department would shortly be more in keeping with the cost of equipment and maintenance.





In view of the hampering effect of the Act in its present form, should not thc Association without further delay make one more effort to induce the government to grant the required amendments, and failing to obtain them, abandon its charter and seek to establish itself on a new basis, which would permit of its affairs being conducted in the manner best calculated to increase the number and interest of its members and enhance its usefulness? The Association cannot become a permanent success unless means can be devised of bringing into sympathy with it the rising generation of architects. Whether the amendments to the Ontario Architects' Act are granted or not, the Association should endeavor to establish —by means of monthly lectures or in some other way means for the education of students, thereby exhibiting in a practical way its interest in their welfare. At present the students are asked to pass the examinations, but the educational means to that end are wanting.





THE new post office building at Chicago, Competitive Designs the laying of the corner stone of which

for Public Buildings.

was recently made the occasion of a brilliant ceremony, is the first government structure to be designed by an architect in private practice, under the recent enactment which provides that designs for the more important public buildings of this character may be procured by public competition. Mr. Henry Ives Cobb, the architect of this building, contrary to past custom, was given prominent recognition at the public ceremonies. In view of the part taken by the Premier of Canada in the Chicago ceremonial the present might be an opportune time for the Canadian architectural associations to urge upon the Dominion government the adoption of the American system of inviting

from the leading architects of the country competitive designs for important public buildings.





IT is proposed to organize in Great Conciliation Board. Britain a National Conciliation Board,

to adjust by conciliatory means all questions relating to the hours of labor, rates of wages and working rules, and by mediation prevent strikes and lock-outs and assist in the settlement of disputes that may arise in the building trades. In addition to representatives from the various national organizations of employers and workmen there are also to be district committees.





The awards have recently been made University of Cali- in the competition for designs for the

fornia Competition.

University of California, The first prize, amounting to $10,000, in addition to the customary architect's fees, has been awarded to M. Benard, of Paris, The other prizes have been assigned as follows:

Howell, Stokes & Hornbostol, New York, $4,000; Des Pardelles & Codman, Boston, $3,000; Howard & Cauldwell, New York, $2,000 ; arid Lord, Hewlett &  Hull, New York, $1,000.





Until a few days ago we entertained Toronto municipal the belief that the county of York had

Buildings.

agreed with the city of Toronto to pay interest on a sum not exceeding $400,000 as its proportion of the cost of the new municipal buildings. In this, however, we were mistaken. The fact is that the county authorities agreed to pay interest on about $80,000, 20 per cent, only of the above mentioned sum. On this small proportion of the cost of the building they want to be charged only 3½ per cent. Some of the must important departments of the city government, claim that the portion of the building which has been set apart for the use of the county, is fitted up in a much more elaborate and costly manner than the apartments which are occupied by the city. Complaint is already heard that the accommodation afforded by the latter is insufficient, and that no provision has been made for expansion. Under these circumstances no further concessions are likely to he made to the county, which has already secured the best of the bargain.

	Proposed	A FIRST instalment of the proposed new

Building By-Law building by-law for the city of Montreal for Montreal. is printed in the present number. The



remaining sections will appear in our December issue. This by-law was framed by a committee of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, and was subsequently revised and approved by the Montreal Builders' Exchange and kindred associations whose interests would he particularly affected by its provisions, and also by a special committee of the Montreal City Council. Its preparation engaged the most earnest attention of the committee of the P.Q.A.A. for a year. It may therefore he regarded as the mature result of the inquiry and deliberation of men best qualified by training and experience to judge of the requirements. As such it should have an interest for architects, builders, owners of real estate and municipalities. The by-law is now under consideration by the City Council, whose approval is all that is now required to make it operative.

