<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">	

12	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER



stimulate and encourage the best class of students, and architecture will be benefited by it to the extent of such encouragement

but so long as any one may call himself an architect without first proving that he has the qualifications necessary to safe and proper practice, lazy and stupid students will continue to shirk the examinations and the study necessary to pass them, and will foist themselves upon the public as architects, assuming thc title and under taking professional work with all the assurance of experience and competency. Failures must of course ensue, and the public, knowing the culprits only as '' architects," and having no way to distinguish between the competent and incompetent persons using the title, will naturally enough charge the crime to the whole profession, and so fail to give, even to the competent architect, that entire confidence so essential to the successful conduct of professional work.

And yet, because we ask the government to give the public the means of making this distinction, we arc accused of duplicity in stating our aim to be " t lie raising of the standard of architectural practice," and are told that our real object is the regulation and restriction of the profession." Yet could any mistake be more stupid ? Restrict the use of the title to competent practitioners only, and the necessity for regulation disappears.

But now in t he meantime can we not, as a voluntary paper— reading association—an R. I. B.A.—do something to further our aim and art itself?

One or two matters occur to me which might be dealt with.

The Municipal Council of Paris offered prizes to the architects and owners of the most attractive houses erected in that city during the past year, and the result is said to have been highly encouraging. Would it not be well within the scope of this Association to urge the authorities of Canadian cities to take similar action? Might we not ourselves offer prizes to cover the work of the whole province? The prizes need not he large, for the honor of pre-eminence ought alone to he a sufficient inducement. Such a movement, if properly carried out, might give no small impetus to architectural studies, and awaken a public interest which could hardly fail to have beneficial effects upon the development of architecture in this country.

Can we not also renew our efforts to secure the continuance, upon a large scale, of tests of Canadian building materials and inventions? The Society of Architects is winning laurels for itself in this direction.



Mr. G. Helliwell then read the report of the Toronto Chapter, as follows:



REPORT OF THE TORONTO CHAPTER OF THE ONTARIO

ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The Executive Committee of the Toronto Chapter beg to report to the Ontario Association of Architects in convention assembled

Gentlemen,--The Chapter has met regularly at the School of Practical Science on the second Monday of each month, exclusive of the summer interim.

In all seven meetings have been held. The average attendance, as taken from the minutes, has been about nineteen. The largest attendance was at the November meeting, when the Rev. C. H. Shortt, M.A., delivered a very instructive and interesting lecture on Gothic architecture in the time of King Henry.

The number of members on the roll now is twenty—seven. At each meeting of the Chapter a programme of interest has been

provided, usually in tile form of the reading of papers. The following is a list of the subjects treated " Some Points in Wood Construction, by Mr. H. B. Gordon '' Decoration," by Mr. S. G. Becken "Specifications and Tests for Structural Steel," by Mr.

J.	A. Duff; " Suggestions on House Planning," by Mr. Grant Helliwell; ''Steam Heating," by Mr. William Mansell; "Interior Decoration," by Mr. W. H. Elliott " Gothic Architecture in the Time of King Henry," by Rev. C. H. Shortt, M.A.; " Domestic Architecture in the Eastern States," written by Mr. A. N. Patterson, M.A., A. R. I.B.A., and read by Mr. Baker; "A Few Notes on Tall Building Construction," by Mr. J. Wilson Gray.

The Chapter at. the November meeting appointed as its representatives on the Technical School Board Messrs. XV.A. Langton and A. F'. Wickson.

At the annual meeting of the Chapter held in April last the following were elected to act on the Executive Committee, viz., Messrs. Burke, Gregg, 1-lelliwell and Jarvis, who, together with Messrs. Baker and Wickson, form the complete executive.

The committee met subsequently, and appointed its officers as follows Grant Helliwell, chairman ; F'. S. Baker, vice-chairman and also secretary-treasurer.

the above is respectfully submitted.

(Signed) GRANT HELLIWELL, Chairman.



Toronto, Jan. 17th, 1899.



Mr. Burke pointed out that while the average attendance at the meetings of the Toronto Chapter was 19, that hardly gave a fair idea of what the attendance was in reality. At the meeting at which Rev. Mr. Shortt lectured, there was an attendance of 6o, which had materially brought up the average. As a matter of fact, he thought that seven or eight. was more like the' average attendance at the ordinary meetings.



Mr. Baker said that was too low, he would place it at twelve.

Mr. Burke thought even that was a poor showing. The Toronto Chapter was intended to take the place of

another organization, which had given way to it, and with such a small attendance he did not think it was quite fulfilling its purpose.

Mr. Paull complained of the dilatoriness which prevailed in the matter of beginning meetings sharp on time, which he thought was unbusiness-like, and probably had the effect of deterring some from attending.

Mr. Gregg said that probably if they availed themselves of one resource which had not hitherto been tried, it would result in a better attendance at the Chapter meetings. That was for the members to remain at their offices until 6 or half past 6, and then meet at some place arranged, have tea or dinner together, arid afterwards to hold the meeting while all together. Until that had been tried he did not think it was right to say the Chapter had not fulfilled its purpose of taking the place of the Guild, the organization referred to by Mr. Burke.

Mr. Helliwell, referring to the remarks of Mr. Paull, said that the delay in calling the meetings to order was occasioned by the desire to give members an opportunity to look over the very interesting drawings and books which were laid out on the tables on the occasion of the meetings. For his part he had always found that time well spent, and he did not think it had the effect of keeping members away from the meetings.

Mr. Paull quite agreed that the time spent in the way referred to by Mr. Helliwell was profitably employed, but thought it would he better to have it definitely stated on the agenda that such time would be given for that purpose, making the hour for opening the meeting that much later, but beginning sharp at the time stated.

Mr. Baker wanted to know what was going to be done with the ghost of this Toronto Guild, which, it seemed, would not down. It was news to him that the Toronto Chapter had been formed out of the old Guild. The Guild, he had always understood, was a society not connected with the Association. The Chapter, on the other had, was the Association. He thought it would be a good thing to drop the word Chapter, and simply hold meetings of the Association once a month, and members ought to make a point of attending these meetings. He did not desire to further take tip the time of the meeting, although he would willingly spend an hour in defense of the Chapter meetings, because he had great faith in their possibilities for usefulness.

Mr. Langton said he had always an inward feeling of resentment against the idea that he or any other member should attend these meetings as a matter of duty. if the Chapter could make its meetings sufficiently interesting and profitable to induce members to leave their firesides and their books well and good, but he deprecated the idea that he or any other member should be called on to attend meetings when they felt that that was not making the most profitable use of their time.

Mr. Baker maintained that some of the papers read were of a high order, and quite interesting and instructive enough to warrant one's leaving his fireside.

On motion by Mr. Helliwell, seconded by Mr. Baker, the report of the Toronto Chapter was then received and adopted.

Mr. Siddall inquired if the present was the proper time for him to move his amendment to the by-laws of the Association.

The Registrar said the clause in the report of the special committee appointed to deal with questions connected with the Association read as follows "Your committee would recommend that the word "ten" in clause 2 of the by-laws passed by the Association at the annual meeting be struck out, and the word " five

he substituted, and that this recommendation stand as notice of motion to be discussed at the next convention."

The clause referred to was, " Any person being a British subject, who has for ten years been practising the profession of architecture and residing within the province, and is, at the time of his nomination, a member in good standing of this Association, shall he eligible for election as a member of the Council." It was proposed to read five years instead of ten years.

Mr. Siddall said it was no doubt within the recollec-

