<doctype type="text">

	96	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER.



HAMILTON

(Correspondence of the CANA

DIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)



The somewhat serious fire that occurred on the night of the 4th May here seems to substantiate my remarks in my last letter as to the risks this city runs

from the inflammable nature of many buildings within its limits.

The building destroyed that night was a wooden factory of considerable size, standing in the centre of a block, in a populous district, almost surrounded by timber and other frame buildings, and all that was needed to assist the spread of the fire to a very alarming extent

was the wind, which happily was absent. It required the efforts of the whole brigade to confine the fire to the factory building itself. It was just at this time last year that the old Spectator building in the heart of the city was burned down while it was undergoing remodelling.

It was reported in some local paper and from thence found its way into the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, that the architects of Hamilton were making a complaint that the heads of departments in municipal affairs were in the habit of carrying out small works that required the service of a builder, obtaining tenders them and so on, and not consulting members of the profession or permitting them 10 superintend the works or prepare necessary plans. So far as I can find out there is an error here, and a question asked in reference to the authority of the building inspector to advertise for tenders, by a private individual, was construed with the wonderful ingenuity of a daily paper reporter to be the registering of a kick" by the architects. I do not think the architects of Hamilton as a rule are quite so hungry that they would take the trouble to find out why the building inspector does not employ one or more of them to superintend the laying of a few thousands of bricks here and there. At any rate they would naturally resent such an insinuation.

There is a good deal of building going on this season, principally, however, of a commercial character, factories, warehouses and such things. Existing buildings are being enlarged and some new ones added. The Hamilton Stockyards Company will hare in a few months one of the best equipped stockyards in the country; with a $10,000 hotel of its own. Senator Sanford is making a large addition to his clothing factory, and altogether the building record for the year is far ahead of last year. There is, however, very little architecture, nothing in which the artistic portion of the architect can revel—bricks and mortar, columns and girders of the most utilitarian pattern being the only requisites. The extensive alterations that have been going on for several months at the new Royal Hotel tinder Mr. W, P. Wetton, as architect, are approaching completion, and it is only fair to say that he deserves great credit for his work. The whole building has been remodelled and a great deal of marble introduced in the main hall with plate glass panels. The details are all very good and carefully worked out. The new Royal is certainly, although smaller than some, the most beautiful hotel in its interior of any in the province. The proprietors have understood the value of having good work done and there is nothing cheap or tawdry in the result.

The plumbers of the city have formed themselves into an association under the presidency of A. Clark, and with George Stevenson as secretary. The membership includes all the master plumbers in the I)lace, and numbers thirteen. The principal object in view is to keep as much as possible to a uniform price

for work. Such associations would I think gain far more for themselves, if they existed as sections of the Builders' Exchange. As separate bodies they incur expenses without the advantages of the rooms of the Exchange and the general meetings, and as a rule it is to the advantage of each man to belong to the Exchange, so that two subscriptions are paid instead of one. As a part of the Exchange they can still have their own meetings, with their president and other officers duly elected, and be as separate as they like so far as their own trade is concerned, but there are many objects to be gained by affiliation with the Exchange, and they would do well to connect.

The space between The Gore, (a view of which appears on another page) and the Macdonald Monument, on King street east, is being transformed into a public flower garden. The change is one which will add much to the appearance of our most important thoroughfare.

R.	W. GAMBIER BOUSFIELD.







UTILIZING WASTE HEAT.

IN discussing the topic "Simple, Inexpensive Schemes for Warming and Ventilating Small Buildings, Dwellings, etc.," at the annual meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, Prof. R. C. Carpenter described the attachments made to a hot air furnace which was burning enough coal to heat the building in which it was placed without doing it. The attachments were made with a view of increasing the heating capacity of the furnace and reducing the fuel consumption.

The first attachment was a water heater placed in the fire and combustion chamber for heating water to be circulated through radiators placed in rooms that were not satisfactorily warmed. This addition enabled the furnace to heat the building, but did not reduce the waste of heat in the chimney or reduce the coal consumption sufficiently. The temperature of the gases at the point where they entered the chimney was very high and the draft very rapid. The velocity of a draft increases with the temperature very rapidly up to 250 degrees, but much slower as it reaches the maximum at 550 to 600 degrees.

In order to utilize the heat of the gases so that a smaller amount of the fuel would do the work a section of a recently introduced cast iron wall radiator was incased in a galvanized sheet iron box and connected with the return pipe from the radiators. This box was made to fit close, so that it would bring the hot gases into contact with the radiator. The smoke pipe from the furnace was connected with one end of the box and the hot gases allowed to pass over the surfaces of the radiator section and then dive under a partition at the opposite end before escaping to the chimney pipe.

This method of utilizing tile heat that had previously gone to waste was adopted in preference to creating an air heating chamber by jacketing the smoke pipe, owing to water absorbing heat much more freely than air. This attachment had a double effect; it heated the return water without. interfering with the circulation, and practically nullified the waste of heat in the chimney as far as was desirable by reducing the temperature of the escaping gases to 150 degrees. It also reduced the work to be done by the water heater in the fire chamber. The introduction of the water heater and radiators reduced the amount of air to be heated by the furnace, and utilized the heat of the gases in heating the water so as to enable less fuel to do the heating. A comparison of the amount of fuel previously consumed and the amount of heating done with the work now done and fuel now consumed shows a saving of about 50 per cent.





CHOIR SCREENS.

These originated from the stone balustrade or railings which separated the presbyterium from the other parts of the ancient basilica. They were afterwards retained to separate the space devoted to the clergy from that portion allotted to the congregation. Choir screens were frequently of the most elaborate design and were adorned with statues and traceried openings or panels. On the Continent, many magnificent examples are to be found. The screen of the minster at Basle, that at Havelburg Cathedral, Munster, Germany, and the Magdelene Church, Troyes, France, are splendid instances of choir screens. In England we may name Long Sutton, Kingsbury, Barnwell, Newark, Stanton Harcourt, and Chester Cathedral, in which churches the screen or rood-loft appears to have been used. The parclose screens at Fyfield (Berks), Ingham (Norfolk), Lavenham, Long Melford, Southwold, and Spalding, are good examples of wooden screens of the Perpendicular period.

