<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE SAND-BLAST IN ARCHITECTURAL WORK." author="">

First, the sand box should he made. This is marked A in Fig. 1. It can be made of sheet metal, rounded, and edges lapped where the seams come. A good size for ordinary work is 30 inches diameter of the lower part and about seventy-two inches entire depth. A wood case D is now built and the sand box held in this by means of the braces B. Next buy a T-joint G, and connect with the sand box with the pipe C. The sand will fall to the T-joint of its own weight, where it is met by the blast of air from the pipe F. The sand is carried with great force out through hose pipe H, where the workman directs the jet against whatever object is to he operated upon. The sectional view of the T-joint in Fig. 2 shows the idea. The air blast is obtained in















































































several ways. An air compressor can be purchased, but this is costly. Some have used common blowers with good effect. Steam may be used direct from the boilers on certain kinds of work.

Figs. 3 and 4 are given to show different methods employed for combining the air and the sand, instead of the system in Fig. 2. In Fig. 3 the pipe leading from the sand supply is rounded at A and the sand drops into the rounded portion, where it is met by the air discharge from pipe B. The air and sand combine and pass out through the discharge pipe with considerable velocity. Another pattern is in Fig. 4, in which the sand and the air are received at angles through pipe D, D, the latter joining in the lug C, where the contents of both pipes are combined and discharged through E into the hose pipe. The valve for

governing the force of the jet is F. Almost all of the parts mentioned can he purchased of dealers in steam, gas and water pipe fittings.

Crushed quartz is usually selected, as its cutting powers are useful. Trap rock is serviceable owing to the roughness of its grains. Florida rock is also used. Some river and beach sands are available, if not worn too smooth.

The types of sifters shown in Figs. to 8 can be

made and provided with sieves ranging from 8 to 140

wires to the square inch. Two forms of hanging

cradles are presented in Figs. and 6.

To make the former, first build the cradle A about three by five feet and ten inches deep, of hard wood, edges square, and bottom cut out at D for the sieve. Set screw pin hearings B, B to the ends and link these to the ring bolts overhead by means of the pieces C, C. The chute E may be wood or sheet metal. The cradle can be operated by hand power or by belt power. The latter calls for the placing of a wood pulley on a stud at F and driving the same by means of a belt. Connection with the wheel and the cradle is made with a wood piece as shown. The form of sifter in Fig. 6 uses the same kind of a cradle, but the overhead suspension is replaced by underneath supports C. The latter is 2 inches wood planking, provided with four small steel rolls in bracket hearings. The cradle bears upon two lipped pieces of wrought iron adjusted as at A, A. The lipped pieces are riveted to the base piece B, which is of cast iron. The lower side of the base piece bears on the rolls and the necessary vibration is given by means of the belt-and-pulley connection, as in Fig. 5Fig. 7 is a top view of a rotary sieve. The cradle is made cylindrical and wired as at E, and provided with a central sand chute D. A bracket is bolted to the side of the cradle at F, and the required sitting movement procured by means of the revolving wheel and connection at G. Fig. 8 is a side view showing the belting system at A for turning the wheel. This cradle can be placed on ball bearings, as shown at B, by using grooved tracks for the balls, or the cradle may bear on a single smooth ring. Zinc or sheet iron may he used for constructing the cradle.

Patterns of ferns, monograms, artistic ornamental patterns, and figures of all descriptions can be cut upon plate glass, stone and many of the metals by means of cutting out the pattern first in zinc, gelatine, hard sheet rubber or other thin material to protect that part of the surface which it is desired not to touch. The jet of sand is played upon the exposed surfaces and the desired design rapidly cut.

When cleaning corrosive matter from clogged drainage systems, care should be taken not to apply the discharge too long upon any exposed metal, otherwise the piping may he damaged. The accumulations of foreign substances on basement stonework may be removed with the sand blast and the stone made to appear like newly-cut. None of above apparatus is patented.—R. F. Fells in American Architect.





The Ontario Association of Architects have asked the Provincial Government to instruct the School of Practical Science to undertake a scientific test of Canadian timbers, with a view to ascertaining their structural strength and oilier features. The School of Science possesses the necessary machinery for testing timber, hut a government grant is necessary to meet the expense of cutting the wood, under proper supervision, selecting the proper varieties for comparison, and obtaining data as to the age of each tree and the condition of growth.

