<doctype type="text">

<article title=" CODE FOR COMPETITIONS." author="">

CODE FOR COMPETITIONS.

THE hard times through which the architectural profession has just passed, when even the best established architectural firms have had little work—and even, at times, no work- to do, have been a time of severe trial for the morale of the profession. There have been points in which it has not stood the test. In particular, the small irregular competition has claimed its victims among men who ought to have stood by the profession in the determination not to countenance the competition system except when reasonably used. The great question for architects is how to pursuade the public out of the idea that an architect's sketches cost him nothing, and that it is reasonable to ask an architect to do preliminary work for nothing, merely for the hope of getting work by it. This view may have been reasonable once, when the work of an architect was not what it now is ; but it is unreasonable now, and would not stand for a moment if architects were quite clear about it themselves, or were quite clear that they were all agreed about its unreasonableness. As long as the camp is weak or divided it must accept any terms that are offered to it.



What, then, constitutes reasonableness in a competition, and what unreasonableness? It is generally accepted by the profession that under some circumstances a competition is a good thing ; that it makes men who are in a position to get the work without competition exert themselves more when they are obliged to compete for it ; that it brings forward unknown men who would never otherwise have had a chance; that it is excellent practice for young architects, who can, by entering many competitions for practice, learn ultimately how to succeed and become winners. We are unable to point to evidence in support of any of these propositions. Sir Charles Barry, who founded the type for legislative buildings in Europe, and H. H. Richardson, who founded the type for municipal buildings in America, did so in competition ; but these were the great artists of their day ; it required no competition to decide upon their selection for such work, and nobody who has read their lives can imagine that' the fact of the design being made in competition would make any difference in the enthusiastic energy with which they attacked their work. On the other hand, Mr. Street's Law Courts, won in competition, were probably his worst work ; and Mr. Colcutt, the winner of the other great London competition of this generation, the Imperial Institute, has not risen at all to the occasion, but has missed the suggestion of imperial character in an extraordinary manner. Of the unknown men to whom competition has been an opportunity, the greatest example was perhaps Mr. Gribble, the designer of the Brompton Oratory. How his subsequent practice fared or is faring we do not know ; his name has not since appeared in any way to attract attention. But his design, which remains, attracts the feet of no pilgrims but the religious ; it is as dull as a faithful rendering of the Italian Renaissance can make it. This was the fault of the style, no doubt, more than of the man. The Italian style, which has come to be the style of the Church of Rome, is dull and, though graceful variants upon it are possible and have been done, they were not done in competition. A competition is not the place for originality which affects the question of taste. The expert arbitrator is but a man ; he has a taste of his own, and to expect him to father anything that is strongly marked by the character of the designer, or which in any way savors of a new departure, is to ask him to exhibit qualities incompatible with the very qualities which are the ground of his appointment as arbitrator ; that is to say, such marked personal qualities and attainments as are sure to be associated with a marked predeliction of taste and tendency in style, even if he has not, as is most likely, arrived at the settled time of life when a man's ideas are no longer free and unrestrained, but are safely housed under a school of thought. It has been notorious in England that the frequent appointment of Mr. Alfred Waterhouse as arbitrator produced a crop of competition designs which threatened to make the prevailing

style of important buildings an imitation of the hard, liney Gothic, which is his peculiar style. Even if the arbitrator has not himself practiced in a style so marked as to indicate a bias of taste, he will not readily take up with another mans taste, and will consider, wisely, that he is best exercising his trust by keeping to safe lines in his recommendation of design. Here, then, is the answer to the argument that competitions are good practice for young architects. They are good practice to enable him to win competitions, but, if he wins, the probability is that the native quality in his style will receive that same chastening which in another branch of art communicates the impersonality of the journalist to his style and distinguishes it from literature.

It is, however, generally agreed by architects that a competition is a good thing under some circumstances. What are these circumstance? It is conceivable that a work that promises to be greater than the known capacity of local designers may justify the institution of a competition that will require them to prove their powers on paper and will also, if they should turn out to he insufficient, give an opportunity to a competent designer from outside to come in and show his sufficiency. It may also happen, when a great public building is in project, that, though there is no doubt about the capability of the profession at home, there is no machinery for making a choice. There is really no logic in favor of competition in this case as far as architecture is concerned, for each designer who enters the competition would, if given the work and opportunity to study it in consultation with the promoters, probably do better work than any would do in competition ; but the case is a difficult one to manage in practice without a competition ; and, where the work is of sufficient importance to be the prize of a lifetime, or at any rate a great prize, it is perhaps best, though not strictly reasonable, that architects should join with the public in adopting this method of settling the matter. But the public see no reason why the system should stop there, and the proof of the contrary position lies with the profession. They must support no competitions that put the profession in the position of struggling with one another for work, which is an ordinary problem; not large, not new; which is therefore presumably within the power of all ; and to compete for which is therefore not to wrestle with the difficulties of a new problem but to struggle with each other for the possession of the work. This kind of struggle is not only undignified but is a most short-sighted policy. It ends in work for all with pay for one, and even he must do more for his pay than he would otherwise need to do. It means the indoctrination of the public with the idea that architects are always ready to do preliminary work for nothing and to try to oust each other.

The best way to settle the question of how far the competition system shall go is to have an absolute set of conditions of competition in which the principle shall be recognized that competitions are not a convenience for architects so much as for the promoters of the competitions, and that for this convenience they must be willing to pay in the shape of a direct fee to the competitors or premiums to the three or four ranked first, besides the cost of employing an expert arbitrator of high standing. This expense, which will be only a 'reasonable consideration for projects of such importance that they appropriately become the subjects of a competition, will choke off effectually all minor schemes of which the object is not so much to procure a better design as to sweat designers.

The Ontario Association of Architects has drawn up such conditions, and, in spite of want of recognition as yet by promoters of competitions and want of unanimity in rigid adherence to the conditions by members of the Association, there is do doubt that the formulation of the idea of a proper competition has been of great service, and conduced to stability of mind in the profession. The neglect of the conditions by members of the Association has been small arid, compared with the adherence to them, not important ; nor has the experience of those who accepted irregular conditions been such as to encourage them.

