<doctype type="text">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE OF MR. T. C. SORBY, ARCHITECT, VICTORIA,



B. C. T. C. SORBY, ARCHITECT.



SHOP FRONT, VANCOUVER, H. C. R. M. FRTPP, F. R. I. B.A.,



ARCHITECT.



RESIDENCE MR. JOHN HAMMOND, ARTIST, SACKVILLE, N. B.



—BURKE & HORWOOD, ARCHITECTS.



The lower Storey of the main house is built of an olive colored stone. The kitchen wing is frame on stone foundation.

The upper storey is frame covered with stained shingles. The exterior woodwork is painted an ivory white. The principal rooms on the ground floor are finished in hardwood.

The studio is a commodious room with a large brick fireplace, and wall space for painting large pictures.

Mr. Hammond has executed numerous commissions for the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, and is now at work a large view of Nelson, B. C.

The studio fireplace gains interest in that it was designed by Sir W.m. Van Home, who has for many years exhibited great interest in Mr. Hammond's work.

NEW METHODIST CHURCH, MOOSEJAW, ASSA. . —PERCY



BEESLEY, ARCHITECT.



The new Methodist church at Moosejaw comprises a church 71 x 35 feet and school-room 32 x 30 feet the church and school-room being connected by means of patent folding partitions, enabling each room to he used separately if required. The accompanying perspective view shows a building designed in the early English style of Gothic architecture, the materials used being red pressed brick and terra cotta, with Calgary Stone for base and dressings. The roofs and bell spire turret to be shingled. Heating is to be by means of an improved hot air system. Ventilation on a new principle with air flues and inlet ventilators and foul air extractors in connection with shafts carried through the roof.

The floor will be laid to a slight gradient.

Top portions of all windows in small leaded squares.

The roof will be framed in the strongest manner with an open collar beam and elliptical framing to principals, supported on stone corbels. The whole of the work is being designed and carried out under the superintendence of Mr. Percy Beesley, architect, of Moosejaw, whose plans were adopted by the trustees of the church a few weeks ago.

NOTE.- In connection with the publication in the

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for October of designs for pavillions for the Paris Exhibition, it should have been stated that the buildings were designed by Mr. C. Clowes, Arundrel street, Strand, London, W. C.

<article title=" ENGINEERS' CLUB." author="">

ENGINEERS' CLUB.

THE Engineers' Club of Toronto held its regular monthly meeting at the Rossin House on the evening of the 7th inst.

The following were present Messrs. Canniff, Chewett, Chipman, Clement, Duff, Galbraith, Hanning, Hertzberg, Jennings, Smith, Speight, Spry, Stewart, Temple, Tully and VanNostrand.

The topic of discussion for the evening was '' The necessity for a Topographic Survey of Canada." A congratulatory address to the Canadian Institute was adopted, the Institute having now been in existence fifty years.

The trunk sewer problem will he discussed at the next meeting.

<article title=" PROPOSED NEW BUILDING AND FIRE BY-LAWS FOR OTTAWA." author="">

PROPOSED NEW BUILDING AND FIRE

BY-LAWS FOR OTTAWA.

CONSIDERABLE interest has been aroused by the recommendations contained in a report of a special committee of the Ottawa Board of Trade for the amendment and improvement of the building and fire by-laws of that city. The report is as follows

"The committee appointed by your board to examine the existing fire and building by-laws of the city of Ottawa, after due deliberation beg to report that we find the said by-laws, on the whole, incomplete and also very confusing in arrangement and not at all adequate to the demands of a city the size of Ottawa. The Committee deem it advisable that the city council should have the by-laws revised by a committee of experts, and think that in such a revision the following recommendations should he given careful consideration

1. That 	the city should have a building inspector who should devote all his time In the work he should be an expert in all departments of building construction with him should be deposited plans of all parts of new buildings (or alterations, additions or repairs In old buildings) which are affected by the fire and building by-laws, and that he should be held responsible for all building inspection.

2. —That the provisions of the by-law respecting scaffolding should he made more clear.

3.—That the present fire limit A should be divided into two limits. The principal portion of this limit should comprise all the buildings and constructions on lots fronting on Wellington, Sparks and Queen streets between the canal and the west side of Kent street, and on both sides of Rideau street to Little Sussex street and on both sides of Sussex street to George- street. This area being composed of the greater portion of the business part of the city, should, in our opinion, he governed by more stringent by-laws than those governing the rest or residential portion of the present class A. These by-laws should insist that all new buildings, constructions or repairs, etc, should be built throughout of brick and stone, protected structural steel or other non-combustible material, and that the walls of such buildings shall he regulated in thickness according to height, as provided by the schedule to the Metropolitan Building Act of London, Eng.



All beams carrying brick or stone walls should have fireproof protection. Every building should have a party wall for each 3,267 superficial feet area ; and openings in such walls should be of regulated size and have fireproof doors on each side. Floors, ceilings and supports should he of non-combustible material ; beam fillings should be insisted upon joints should he filled in with mortar or other non-combustible material, and the spaces between joints blocked every few feet to atop drafts. Similar blockings should occur in the furrings when used. Stairs should be of non-combustible material. All supports, guides, framing arid other work around elevators should he of metal No outside cornice finish sills or other work should he of wood joints should have ends bevelled so that if burned the walls would not be wrenched by their falling. Sky-lights should he metal ; party walls should lie carried above the roofs all chimney flues should have 8 inch casting, and proper construction of fire places and hearths should he insisted upon. Shingle roofs should he prohibited all galleries or verandahs should he fireproof, and all cranes and hoisting jibs projecting from the face of any wall should he covered with non-combustible material.

4——Any present existing building which does not comply with the requirements of this first class limit should not he allowed to he altered, but should he allowed to be removed, under proper restrictions, to a limit whose provisions it complies with. Any such existing building in this limit being damaged by fire to the extent of 35 per cent, of its value should be demolished. As to the other areas in the city, similar provisions of a correspondingly less stringent character should he adopted."



The recommendations contained in the report were discussed at a largely attended meeting of the Board of Trade, but action thereon was deferred. Some of the members declared that the adoption of such regulations would kill building operations, while others, including several of the prominent architects of the city and Mr. Surtees, late city engineer, asserted that they were such as should prevail in every modern city. The recommendations appear to be in line with the legislation adopted in recent years by leading cities of America.



Spasmodic advertising was never known to build up a business ; continuous advertising has done it thousands of times.

