<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

tion of all present that this motion had been fairly discussed, not only in the convention last year, but in a committee appointed to consider the matter, which committee reported in the manner which had just been read. It might, however, be well to state, in case any had forgotten, that the object aimed at was to infuse new blood into the Council of thc Association. It had been felt that; the Council, being composed of old established architects, might be benefitted by having some of the younger members included in it. He held that opinion himself, and he thought there was a sufficient number of that view to compass the bringing about of that change.

Mr. Gregg had great pleasure in seconding the motion.

Mr. Wickson said that while the committee that reported upon the matter evidently felt very strongly regarding it, still it was desirable to proceed with caution. While the action suggested might be a good thing, it seemed to him that from ten years to five years was a long jump, and if a reduction was made he was personally strongly in favor of a term of more than five years. lie would therefore, unless it required a whole year's notice, move in amendment that it be made to read seven years.

Mr. Burke agreed with Mr. Wickson, that the drop from ten to five years was rather too great, but he would be very glad to support the motion if it were made seven years.

Mr. Baker said he had been looking over the constitutions of other associations, and the longest term he could find in any of them was seven years. In the New South Wales, Australia, association, and several others, the limit was five years. He thought it was immaterial whether it was made five or seven years, and he did not suppose Mr. Siddall cared for two years either. He thought a man who had spent five years in the profession, if a clever fellow, might, if elected to the Council, prove a very desirable acquisition to that body. If he was not a fitting person, there was little danger of his securing election.

Mr. Gregg did not think there was any danger to be apprehended ; even if a five years member who happened to he lacking in experience and judgment did find his way into the Council, he would find himself surrounded by men older than himself, by association with whom he would gain those qualities in which he might be lacking. It was not at all probable that the proposed change would have the result of bringing in a majority of the younger men and enabling them to carry everything their own way. He saw no danger in making the term five years.

Mr. Wickson admitted the force of Mr. Baker's argument, that the election was in the hands of the Association, who might be relied on to choose suitable persons even in the absence of any qualifying limitation. At the same time he thought it was often found desirable to retain a good rule on the books.

Mr. Dick said that while he was conservative in his tendencies he felt that in this matter thc limitation ought to be removed as far as possible ; certainly it should be reduced from ten years to five. For his part, he would not object to the total abolition of the qualification, and the throwing of the whole responsibility of electing proper persons upon the Association ; he thought the members ought to be able to choose the right men for election to the Council, whether they were architects of one year's experience or of ten years' experience. He therefore should support the shortest term mentioned.

The President thought it was advisable that a member should have sufficient time to demonstrate his fitness to represent the Association. He thought, however, that five years was quite a sufficient time for that, and would support the motion to that effect.

Mr. C. H. Acton Bond asked if a non-member might be allowed to speak on this matter, and being assured by the President that the meeting would be very glad to hear either him or any other of the visiting members, made the suggestion that a safeguard would be provided if a certain proportion of the Council was limited

to ten years' men and the other portion to five years' men.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, did not think there would be any danger in making members of even less than five years' standing eligible for positions on the Council. Of the younger members there was no likelihood that any would be put forward but those who engaged actively in the work of the Convention, and gave evidence in that way of their capacity for administration ; the others would not suggest themselves as suitable persons. lie felt that the interests of the Association were far more likely to suffer from inability to elect to the Council really desirable men of less than ten years' experience than from any sudden influx of the younger element.

Mr. Wickson, while recognizing the suggestion of Mr. Bond as theoretically the ideal one, thought there were considerations ions which would render it impracticable, such as the rotation question. With the permission of the Chairman, he would withdraw his amendment, and allow the original motion to go to the meeting.

Mr. Burke, seconder of Mr. Wickson's amendment, having assented to its withdrawal, the original motion was put and carried.

The meeting then proceeded to the consideration of "New Business."

Mr. Burke, following up the remarks made by him in presenting the Treasurer's report with regard to the state of' thc funds of the Association, said he thought the time had now arrived when the Association or the Council ought to consider some scheme for the reduction of the expenses. He did not know whether he had any support in the meeting on his view, but he very much desired to elicit some expression of opinion regarding this subject.

Mr. Baker thought the Treasurer's report was not quite so discouraging as some seemed to imagine, but rather indicated that after the dark days of the past few years there was light ahead at last. It was true they had not succeeded in obtaining the sought for amendment, but he thought it would be well now to recognize the inevitable and direct their energies, hitherto expended largely on that object, into other ways of building up the Association. With that object in view he had prepared a few suggestions, which were as follows



That a committee, consisting of six members in good standing to be selected by the President, he appointed to consider the following and other matters

1.	To find, and if possible obtain an option upon, a premises which would make a suitable headquarters for the Association.

2.	To consider the advisability of increasing the membership fees, and of using a portion of the increased income to form a benevolent fund to be used for the relief of any worthy member who may he in distressed circumstances.

3.	To approach the government with a view to their appropriating funds to provide a medal, to be known as the " Ontario Gold Medal," to be presented annually to the member of the Association or other architect, whose work in ordinary practice in Ontario is considered of the highest merit.

4.	To consider the advisability of providing a suitable medal out of the funds of the Association annually, arid of raising a sum of money by popular subscription or otherwise to found a scholarship or travelling studentship, and that this medal and scholarship he presented each year to the student who ranks highest in the final examination for qualification for membership, or for other qualifications. 

That this committee confer with the Council from time to time and present a definite report to the Convention of 1900, and that the adoption of this motion stand as notice that these matters will he moved at the next convention.



He made these suggestions merely to afford a working basis or plan of action. It would be observed that the suggestions operated equally in favor of members residing in Toronto or elsewhere. Referring to the first item, lie thought it was time they abandoned their swaddling clothes and assumed the full status of manhood as an Association. He thought the Association ought not longer to rely upon the good offices of those who had so kindly in the past permitted them to use the School of' Practical Science, but should now establish a headquarters of their own ; he felt that the dignity of the Association demanded it. The second item, the increasing of the membership fees and forming a benevolent fund was equally desirable. He thought the present membership fee was exceedingly low ; he had

