<doctype type="text">

<article title=" HOW A NEW BUSINESS HAS GROWN." author="">

	168	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



HOW A NEW BUSINESS HAS GROWN4

Seldom does a concern of the magnitude of the Luxfer Prism Co. Limited attain thereto in so brief a time, and from a beginning so modest. There is a vast deal in having merit in the product. How Luxfer Prisms facilitate the endeavor to secure good daylight for store and office buildings, otherwise doomed to darkness, the architects themselves best apprehend. It was a case of experi

equipped both for prism work and ornamental electro-glazing. This year the Luxfer Prism Co. makes a most interesting exhibit at the Industrial Fair, next north of the Rice Lewis Co's. old established stand. Their building will be lighted with Luxfer Prisms and plate glass, and the contrast between the two as a means of lighting interiors will be strikingly displayed.

The company extends the most cordial invitation to old and











































































































NEW OFFICES AND FACTORY—LUXFER PRISM Co., LIMITED—98-100 KING STREET WEST, TORONTO.

(Extending to Pearl Street.)



menting at first, with the result that now Luxfer Prisms are included in the specifications of every important new building.

"Advance" will be the motto of the new company, which— with a largely augmented capital—recently acquired the business of the old one.

The battery of electro-glazing tanks in the new and specially designed King street factory quadruples the capacity of the present one. In every way the extensive plant will be thoroughly

new friends to visit them either at the Fair grounds or in their fine new premises, Nos. 98-100 King street West. To architects especially a hearty welcome will be given, and a new and noteworthy exhibit of ornamental iron work, pressed brick, and other high-grade building materials—for which a new-born, but healthy demand exists in Canada—will be presented for their delectation, in addition to the important Luxfer features in prism work and art glass.

