<doctype type="text">



ILLUSTRATIONS.

STREVEL TERRACE, WINNIPEG. —GEORGE BROWNE,



ARCHITECT.



HALL IN W. FLUMMERFELT'S HOUSE, VICTORIA, B. C.---S.



MACLURE, ARCHITECT.



LEAVES FROM A SKETCH BOOK.—BY STEPHEN A. HEWARD.



The church tower at Wraxall, Wils, is very simple and pleasing, and it has a peculiarity in the construction of its roof—no wood at all being used. Large stone slabs, which weather on each other, are supported by arched stone ribs inside, one rib being under each longitudinal joint, of which there are five.

Wiltshire is a " stone " country, and in a stone country good architecture is usually to be found, because the builders of the period used the material that was at hand and learnt its nature and capabilities.

From this use of local material the external effect is usually happy and good, and to this is attributable the beautiful harmony of nature with buildings so noticeable in English country and villages. The stone walls and roof of a building for the roof in this country is always of stone, too weathered and aged exactly as the stones in the fields, being the same, and so became a natural part of the landscape.



MURAL DECORATIONS IN THE NEW MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS,



TORONTO. BY G. A. REID, R.C.A.



On the afternoon of Tuesday, the 16th inst., these mural paintings were formally. presented as a free will offering of the artist, to the city of Toronto, by Mr. B. E. Walker, President of the Toronto Guild of Civic Art. In making the presentation Mr. Walker recalled the circumstances attending this generous gift on the part of Mr. Reid, as follows

"In 1897 when the city hall was nearing completion certain artists, Mr. Reid among the number, who had been studying together the most advanced methods of wall painting, and especially the methods of Paul de Chavannas, offered to decorate several panels in the Council chamber with certain subjects, the designs of which were submitted. The price suggested for the work would clearly not have remunerated the artists in an adequate manner, the offer being made in the interests of the development of art in this country. It the offer had been accepted the work was to have been done under the supervision of the Guild of Civic Art, a body as most of you know, the advisory board of which is composed partly of laymen, partly of artists, architects and designers. In view of the great cost of the city hail the Council did not feel that they could afford to pay for the decorations at that time, although there was a very strong feeling on the part of many of the aldermen in favor of encouraging such a good work.

"The project for decorating some of the panels of the Council chamber having failed for the moment, Mr. Reid generously offered to decorate two panels and the spandrels of the arches constituting the main entrance as a gift to the city, the work to be done under the supervision of the Guild of Civic Art. It seemed desirable that at the very commencement of the use of this noble building there should be in constant evidence some touch-stones of modern wall decoration, so that we may be saved from mere commercial decoration such as we have heretofore had in Canada, and also from wall paintings conceived in a proper enough spirit, but executed without regard to the true principles of decoration. It also seemed desirable that it should be made

clear to the simplest mind that mural decoration does not involve, as it seemed to at one time, an entire departure from the ordinary facts of life. It is true that these facts must be dealt with in a manner entirely different from that adopted by the painter in easel pictures. Such realism and dramatic action as may be necessary to tell the story must be subordinated to certain principles of line and color which are vital in decoration.

The projection on walls or other flat spaces by the painting or sculpturing of scenes commemorating historical events, or by other designs of general interest to man, is one of the oldest means of decoration of which we have knowledge. Such painted or sculptured designs have always attracted the great mass of humanity, and it must be because of our intensely utilitarian habits that thus far in Canada this phase of art has been neglected and some great buildings have been allowed to remain for years with all the ugliness of bare walls and without even a serious protest from the public. We have only to look at this beautiful hall, however, to realize that this is a fitting time and place to begin a new era in Canada for this particular art, and let us hope that the good seed sown by Mr. Reid will so root itself in the minds of the people that other artists will be able to project their ideas upon these and other walls until a great national school of wall painting has been developed.

"To speak more directly, we hope that year by year, not too rapidly, the various spaces in this magnificent building—and there must be hundreds of them—will be filled with histories and allegories bearing upon the development of Canada, and especially of this part of Canada. * * * * You will notice that at the top and bottom of the panels thirteen spaces are arranged. A committee of the Canadian Historical Society were asked to suggest names to fill these spaces and as a matter of record I will now read the names selected Galinee, Simcoe, Tecumseh, Brock, Osgoode, Laura Secord, Baldwin, Strachan, William Lyon Mackenzie, Allan, Macdonell, Ryerson, Scadding."

With the paintings there was presented the following document

TORONTO, May 16th, 1899.



This document is to record the presentation to the corporation of the City of Toronto of the series of mural paintings which occupy the panels immediately on either side of the main entrance of the new City Hall, and the spandrels between the arches, by George Agnew Reid, painter, member of the Royal Canadian Academy.

These paintings are a gift to the city from the artist, and in accordance with his wish, their execution has been supervised by the Toronto Guild of Civic Art. The members of the Guild take this opportunity of recognizing with the deepest appreciation the generosity of Mr. Reid in thus giving of his best to the city in which he lives. On his behalf the Toronto Guild of Civic Art hereby hand over to the corporation of this city these paintings which commemorate and illustrate the heroic life and work of the pioneer settlers of this country, in the hope that while they add to the completeness of the building in which they are placed, they may also help in the creation and maintenance of a refined and artistic taste in those who from time to time look at them.

In tendering this gift, the Guild take leave to express the hope that these fine decorations may prove to be but the first of a series of historical memorials of this nature illustrating the progress of our country, which may be placed in this and other buildings. They beg to record their conviction that no better investment can be made than the expenditure of money in the proper decoration of such buildings, which thus not only add to the attractiveness and interest of the city in which they stand, but are calculated to be a valuable means of artistic education and an inspiration of true patriotism.

Signed on behalf of the Guild,

B.	E. WALKER, President.

W.	A. LANGTON, Secretary. SUPERVISING COMMITTEE.

B.	E. WALKER.	JAMES MAVOR.	BERNARD McEvoy.

PROF. CLARK.		FRANK DARLING.	L. R. O'BRIEN.

		E. WYLY GRIER.

