<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BUILDING STONES AND STONE-CUTTING." author="Marshall, Alexander">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	239



from the manner of setting and arrangement may be formed, and any workman, by practice and experience, may become able to build a good wall. It is quite different with the rubble stone used in common masonry. The workman has generally to deal with stones of various forms and sizes, and a constant exercise of judgment is required of him beyond thc tact or skill gained by practice. Thc bonding of the work is the most essential part, and a skillful workman can make good strong work from rubble stones, though very irregular in shape. Coursed rubble and shoddy work is much easier to set the stones being gauged to certain sizes and squared, the bonding does not require the exercise of judgment, as with common rubble.

The art of stonecutting is of very ancient origin. The tools used by the ancients must have been of the most primitive kind, consequently the labor must have been greater and much longer time taken to execute the vast works of the early ages. With the improvement in the tools used the quality of stone cutting has improved. Much larger stones are now placed in buildings, and the work is finished with more accuracy.

A stonecutter must have some knowledge of architecture, geometry and projection. His work is constantly changing from one style or order of architecture to another, corresponding with the difference in character of the buildings he may be employed on. He should he a man of taste and judgment to give to his work the best finish in the shortest time. The mouldings and ornament in stonework are all cut out of solid materials, unlike carpenter, joiner, or plaster work, that is worked in sections and built together. Commencing with a rough block, lie must define the exact size of the finished stone, make the templates and patterns required, and consider the manner of cutting the work to the best advantage and with the smallest amount of labor. There must be constant care exercised, as one careless blow may spoil the work when nearly finished, and so lose all his labor A long and studious training is necessary to gain a sufficient knowledge to lay cut and make templates and patterns for such work as arches, circular work, ramp and twist arches on a circular plan, niches, tracery, skew arches, domes, groined vaulting, etc., in an accurate and scientific manner.

The causes of decay in stone are partly chemical and partly mechanical, and may generally he traced to absorption of water so that any contrivance that will check the admission of water will be most likely to succeed in arresting decay. Stone, when completely immersed in water, and not exposed to the air, will remain without any appearance of decay. It is when the pores become filled with water, then exposed to the air that chemical action takes place. When moist and frozen, mechanical action causes expansion of the cementing matter between the particles, then disintegration takes place. There have been many nostrums tried with more or less success to remedy decay in stone. Common drying oils, a mixture of linseed oil and sulphur, linseed oil and beeswax, solutions of various gums and resins. Oil has been used with considerable success when applied thin, when the stone is perfectly dry, or a solution of common soap dissolved in boiling water, allowed to dry and then apply a solution of alum dissolved in water. The lower mouldings and the under parts of cornices and strings are most liable to decay, owing to the water filtering through the stone. If the upper surface or wash is coated with oil it would prevent water from sinking into the stone, and obviate, to some extent, the decay of the lower parts.



<article title=" AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS.*



IT is my province and my privilege to welcome you to this Thirty-Third Annual Convention of the American Institute of Architects, to congratulate you on the national prosperity and progress which it is your high function to symbolize in works of architecture to refer briefly to the main incidents in the history of American architecture during the past year; and more especially, to out how the work which we are organized to perform may he more effectually carried out and how the beneficient influence of the Institute may he more widely extended.

If architecture during the past year has made a sufficiently definite advance in structural ingenuity or artistic beauty and fitness to he noted in the official review which it is my duty to lay before you - if in this interval it has earned rind is receiving from the public and the nation a more intelligent and appreciative recognition as a fine art, we may justly attribute these results to two causes first, to the American Institute of Architects, through the cordial affiliations of its members and its organized and persistent efforts during more than fifty years of its existence ; and, second, to the schools of architecture, which are now considered so essential to the generous culture of the youth of our country that they form a part of the systems of technical instruction in many of the principal institutions of learning in the United

*Annual address of the President. Mr. Henry Van Brunt, delivered at the Thirty. third Annual Convention, held at Pittsburg, Pa., November 14, 1899.

States. The splendid hospitality of Ecole des Beaux-Arts is no longer essential to tire complete equipment of the American architects. During the past year the results of the special training obtained in our own schools have become very evident. The graduates are beginning to make good their place in the ranks of tine profession, and the older members find that they are stimulated by a fine emulation of new blood and fresh inspiration. Almost daily new names become prominent, and new reputations are beginning to struggle with old for pre-eminence. The impulse of this new and healthy dispensation is already felt in the remotest parts of the country, amid the vulgar architectural venacular which has there prevailed is giving place to coherent and disciplined style.

The institute should take immediate measures to refresh itself from this influx of new and abounding life. It is most evident that these two powerful influences, the institute and the schools, which are thus working for the advancement of architecture, should work, not apart in rivalry, but together, in closer and more effective co-operation than heretofore.

To this end, I venture to suggest that, by a single amendment of the by-laws, the committee on education should include ex-officio, all these professors and instructors of the architectural schools who are members of the institute, and, if there are any who are not members, that they should he brought within our fold, so that this committee may act not only as a bond of union between the institute arid the schools, but between the schools themselves ; that the annual report of the committee should embrace a general statement of the work and methods of the schools, the number of pupils enrolled, and the names of those especially distinguished ; and that the practical interest of the institute in the welfare of tine students should he made evident to them by the establishment of a system of institute prizes, and, if possible, of one or more travelling-scholarships, open to the students of all the schools.

There are nearly five thousand persons practicing as architects in this country, and it cannot be denied that the professional practice and standing of this large body of men is made more secure, more honorable, more respected and more remunerative by the fact that one-tenth of their number is organized and united in a national institute, which for many years has labored successfully to the artistic, scientific amid practical efficiency of the profession. It is true that the influence of tine institute is in proportion rather to the wisdom than to the number of its members. It is no less true that the institute is organized for a far larger and far more widely distributed membership than it at present enjoys, and that, until it has such a national membership, it cannot have its full and proper effect as an instrument for the advancement of our profession, and adequately represent its dignity before the world.

The question how our strength and resources can he best enlarged is, therefore, of the first importance. The men whom the institute most needs are the taco who most treed the institute. A late earnest appeal to the chapters has in several localities been fruitful in securing many valuable members, as with be explained in the report of the board of directors. The Kansas city chapter has been rehabilitated and will he restored to full affiliation with the institute under the new by-laws. But the strengthening of the institute requires measures much more farreaching. We need new chapters in every part of our wide domain, and within them, more members, and a much more active and efficient adjustment of their machinery to the needs of young men. No effort should he spared by the chapters to make their meetings so attractive and so essential to the younger men that the necessity for the existence of junior societies in their neighborhood should he less apparent, and there should he no occasion for rivalry. The institute should he especially hospitable to the graduates of the schools, and I am persuaded that, if the connection between tine schools and the institute should he established on some such basis of mutual interest as has been outlined, the professors would prove the most effective recruiting agents, and that their pupils on graduation would he made to consider that junior membership in a chapter in the institute is essential to their proper arid regular advancement in the profession and a necessary preliminary step in their career as architects. The institute should not only he the guardian of professional purity and dignity in practice, should not only advance the interests of our art and act as the fountain of professional honor, but should aim to secure a more effective unity of effort between old and young, so as to inspire our work with the strenuous spirit of our national life, and in this service to make our art distinctively stronger, truer, and more beautiful. Therefore the institute needs in its membership, not only the wisdom of age and experience, but the enthusiasm and zeal of youth if it would keep in closer touch with the most healthy aspiration of the profession and avoid becoming the slave of its own

