<doctype type="text">



























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

Warm Frame Houses.

There are three methods of protecting the walls and floors of frame buildings, so as to make them almost frost proof,

and which are simple and comparatively inexpensive. First, the floors must be laid in either one of the following ways Nail strips 1 x 2 inches, along the sides of the joists, about two or three inches from the top edge. On these strips lay a false floor and nail well ; then fill in with lime or cement mortar to the level of the joists. When dry, lay over this two thicknesses of heavy felt or building paper, and lay the finished floor over all. Or the joists may be covered by a solid matched floor, well nailed, then lay two thicknesses of felt, and lay the finished floor over all. A third method is to strip the joists as mentioned above, then lay false floor, on this lay tarred felt paper, seeing that the paper runs up the sides of the joists and laps over their edges, and that all the joints of paper are well broken. Fill in with lime mortar to top of joists and over this lay the finished floor. The first method is the better one, but either of the other will answer very well For the walls, in which the studding is assumed to be 2 x 4 or 2 x 6, cover inside and out with surface boards and then covered with felt or other good paper well lapped over and nailed. The outside may be sided or it may be roughcast, and the inside may be "furred," and have 1 x 2 inch strips nailed vertically 26 inches from centres, and be lathed and plastered in the usual manner. A second method is to build solid brickwork between the studs three feet high from the sills, or fill it up that high with concrete. Strip the studs vertically on the sides with 1 X 2 inch strips, lath on the strips and plaster in between the studs. Board inside and out, and cover with paper, and finish same as in previous method. For a third method, sheath the studs inside and out with inch boards ; cover outside with heavy dark canvas, painted one heavy coat of lead and linseed oil. Before inside sheathing is put on, cover the sides of the studding and the back of the outside sheathing with tarred felt paper, starting on face of stud, thence on side of stud along the sheathing, out on side of stud around the face, and so on, in and out, forming a perfect air chamber ; put a lath on all joints, which must be vertical and close. Prepare the first floor and ceiling joists in any of the methods described for preparing the floors, and it the work is well done, the building will be as warm as the best brick house in winter, and as cool as any stone building in summer. In the construction of the roofs, well tarred paper under the shingles, and lath and plaster between the rafters, right up to the ridge, then rough board under the rafters, nail on paper, then lath and plaster as usual. Do not bring windows close to the floor, and see that all the joints around window and door frames are made close and tight. When using

About Flashings.

felt paper see that the laps are perfect around all frames and openings and that all joints are well nailed close. The warmth of a house depends very much upon the care taken in fitting everything about window and door frames close and tight, and having the paper careful]y "tucked" into and around all angles.



In most specifications there is inserted a clause which' says '' All necessary flashings must be put on in the best

manner," but other details are generally omitted, and the metal worker or carpenter generally put on such flashing as they think are " necessary," and the matter generally ends there, until the roof commences to leak and then there is trouble and extra expense which the owner has to pay. Often, even the material to be used is not specified, and the contractor, as a matter of course, makes use of the cheapest material he can employ so that it will cover the "necessary" clause in the specifications. The very best material for flashings is copper, as it is almost literally indestructible, but, copper flashings are costly, and therefore cannot be employed only in the most costly buildings. Lead makes excellent flashings and it is so pliable that it may be bent to almost any shape without injury. Zinc also makes good flashings, and may be used altogether for flashing hips and valleys. For valleys, the zinc should be made in one piece the whole length of the valley, and should never be less than sixteen inches wide. It should be soldered at the joints, and tacked to the roof boards at its edges, at long distances apart. In some cases, however, it is best to put the zinc in three or four pieces, if the valley is very long, as the expansion and contraction of the metal, it very long, will be apt to break the flashings from the nails, and tear away from the solder at the joints. Where the joints are not soldered there should be a good long "lap" in order to prevent water from backing up and causing a leak. Long- strips of flashing should not be used when the flashing is being done against a brick wall, where the edge of the flashing is bent over to be tucked into a reglet groove or " raggle" which is cut in the stone or brickwork of the wall six or more inches above the slope to the roof, and parallel with it. The efficiency of this kind of flashing depends altogether on the care with which it is done. The effect of heat and cold alternately on such a flashing is to warp it until it springs out of the " raggle " either at one end or in the middle, letting a stream of water run down into the rooms below, and this can only be prevented by cutting the groove quite deep, an inch or so, instead of the half inch that is common, turning in the flashing to the bottom of the groove, and wedging it in firmly with slate chips and Portland cement. The wooden chips

