<doctype type="text">



Strengthening Effect

of Metallic Cores

in Mortar.

















































A Spoliation

Scheme.

wards of half an hour, they arq almost certain to cause the walls to collapse and bring about the wreck of the entire structure.



IN the Comptes Rendus there was published recently the results of tests made by M. Considere to determine the value

of metallic cores for adding to the strength of mortar and concrete. M. Considere states that the insertion of an iron core increases by twenty times the elongation of the mortar. Tests were made with various mortars and concretes, using prisms of square section 6o cm. long and 6 cm. in the side, in which were embedded rods or wires of iron. M. Considere is of opinion that injury to buildings by the settling of foundations, unequal expansions and shocks is much less liable to occur when cores are used, and finds that wrought iron and hard steel of the kind used for rails is capable of strengthening mortar and concrete to a much greater extent than is the iron usually employed for cores.



THE management of the Toronto Street Railway are endeavoring to secure right of way for a car line up University

street and through or beside Queen's Park to the northerly city limits. The proposal is one which the citizens should promptly and strongly oppose. By the expenditure of nearly $50,000 two or three years ago, the attractiveness of Queen's avenue and Queen's Park was greatly enhanced. There is now at the disposal of the citizens one central spot to which young and old may resort for pleasure and rest, undisturbed by the grinding of wheels and clanging of bells. Every effort should be made to preserve this condition. There is no wish or demand on the part of the citizens for additional street car lines in this locality, which is already well served by the belt line, Yonge street and Avenue road. The proposal has its origin in the greed of the street car company, who have never shown much regard for the comfort or even the rights of the citizens. The Toronto Guild of Civic Art, among whose members are gentlemen identified with Toronto University, the interests of which are affected by this proposal, should at once take decided action in opposition to the carrying out of the scheme.



THE legislature of British Columbia during its last session seems to have been largely under the influence of the leaders of organized labor. Reference was made in a previous number to an Act passed at this session, the object of which is to prevent contracts being made with workmen residing in the other provinces of the Dominion. This must be regarded as being legislation of a very narrow sort, and calculated to check free intercourse between the people of the different provinces, and the building up of a homogeneous nationality. Another measure was passed forbidding the employment of Japanese coolies in certain industries and upon public works, which has resulted in a strong protest from the Japanese authorities to the British government, which in turn has brought the matter before the Dominion government at Ottawa, where it is now being considered. The Japanese Ambassador to Great Britain, who passed through Canada recently en route to his native land, protested against the Japanese in British Columbia being placed on the same level with the Chinese as the

Ill-Advised Legislation.

Canada at the Paris Exposition.

former spend their earnings in the locality where they reside and conform in their dress and habits to the customs of the country. It was intimated that the retention of the new law ON the statute books of British Columbia would be likely to seriously disturb the international good feeling which at present prevails between the governments of Great Britain and Japan, and likewise restrict the development of the growing trade relations between that country and Canada.



MR. J. A. Radford's suggestion that the Dominion government should institute a competition among Canadian

architects for designs for the Canadian building to be erected at the Paris Exposition is an excellent one. We fear, however, that it comes too late, as plans for the building are said to have been already prepared. The Hon. Sidney Fisher, on his return from France last year, stated that while in England he had inspected and approved of plans for a Canadian building, prepared under the direction of the Executive of the Colonial Committee, of which Lord Strathcona is the chairman. It was proposed by these plans to erect a building which should cover the entire space allotted to Canada, which at that time was extremely limited, but which has since been increased by an allowance of 8,ooo feet of the space allotted to Great Britain. This plan, on being submitted to the French Executive Committee, was rejected, and the Colonial Committee were informed that each colony was expected to erect a small kiosk-like building. To this regulation the Colonial Committee made urgent protest, on the ground that the erection of such buildings would tend further to reduce the already too limited space at the disposal of the colonies. We have not learned in what manner the difficulty was adjusted, but the recent announcement that the plans for the Canadian building had arrived at Ottawa would indicate that an understanding has been reached, and also that, in view of the difficulties which have been experienced, there is little prospect that the government can be induced at this late date to re-open the question of the design of the Canadian building. Notwithstanding, we could have wished with Mr. Radford that the design for this important structure had been thrown open to public competition, in order that the building might rightfully represent the product of the highest architectural skill of which Canada could boast.



A FIRM of heating contractors in Toronto recently received a letter from New Zealand inquiring whether any

method had been devised of using Canadian radiators for cooling dwellings during hot weather. The writer was looking about for means whereby houses in New Zealand could be made comfortable in summer as well as in winter. He had become acquainted with the excellent heating apparatus manufactured in Canada, and which is rapidly finding its way into use in many foreign countries, and his thought naturally turned in this direction when seeking a method of cooling. Unfortunately, the desired information could not be given him, for the reason that Canadians have not yet solved the problem for themselves. By the use of fans or blowers located in the basement and operated by steam or electricity, large buildings are being successfully ventilated, heated and cooled, but the method, if possible of application, has not yet been put to practical use in ordinary dwell-

Methods of

Cooling Buildings.

