<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS' BANQUET." author="">



	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER.	87



in excellent style a recitation, in which some clever hits at well-known plumbers were introduced.

Mr. Anthes, of the Toronto Foundry Co., who was greeted with " Daisy Shaker Just Now," said he had some good news for the plumbers. In Montreal a few days ago the manufacturers of soil pipe had raised prices 20 per cent. He remarked ironically that the plumbers should now raise their prices from 25 to 30 cents per hour.

Mr. Patterson, of the Toronto Hardware Co., assured his hearers that his firm always made it a rule to have a 4-inch hole in their pipe. He hoped the plumbers' banquet would be made an annual affair, so that the manufacturers and the members of the trade might become better acquainted.

Mr. Geo. Taylor, of the Gurney Tilden Co., expressed his regret of the unavoidable absence of Mr. Tilden, and wished success to the Plumbers' Association. Mr. Chas. Marks, of the same company, in lieu of a speech, favored the company with a German drinking song.

Mr. McMichael, manager at Toronto of the James Robertson Co., in response to repeated calls, also briefly responded to the toast.

The toast to '' Our Guests" was enthusiastically received, and brought forth a number of interesting replies.

When Mr. Clarke, President of the Hamilton Association, rose to speak, some inquisitive individual inquired "Where's the mountain?" and subsided on being assured that it was in its old accustomed place. Mr. Clarke stated that while the Hamilton Association was as yet in its infancy, it nevertheless included in its membership about all the bona fide plumbers of the city. Previous to its formation the trade was in a very bad condition. Mr. Clarke was followed briefly by Mr. Stewart, of the firm of Fairly & Stewart, another representative of the Hamilton Association. Mr. Roger, another member, said the Hamilton Association owed much to the untiring efforts of Mr. Clarke.

Some wit cried " Remember the Maine !" as Mr. John Main of the Poison Company took the floor. After remarking that the plumber was envied when he comes to collect his bill and admired when the pipes freeze, Mr. Main secured release from further speech-making by telling several funny stories.

Mr. Maxwell, President of the Journeymen Plumbers' Association, hoped the good feeling at present existing between the master and journeymen plumbers would continue. The master plumbers should meet for consultation the journeymen as well as the manufacturers. The National Association of Master Plumbers of the United States at its recent meeting had appointed a committee to confer with the journeymen. Why not have such a conference here? The apprentice question and many other matters demanded consideration and adjustment.

Mr. Leigh, of London, and Mr. Anderson, of the James Morrison Mfg. Co., responded briefly.

The city plumbing inspectors, Messrs. Kirk, Meadows and Copping, replied on behalf of the toast to "The Medical Health Department." They bore testimony to the improved relations now existing between the Department and the plumbers, and to the fact that they had least trouble with the men belonging to the Plumbers' Association. The more associations there were, and the higher prices went, the less trouble the

inspectors would have. Mr. Copping suggested that there would be a great saving in expense and trouble if the plumbers had testing machines and made it a rule to test work before sending it out.

The proceedings closed with votes of thanks to Mr. Joseph Wright and his coadjutors on the committee for their successful efforts to bring the various branches of the trade together under such pleasant auspices. The following gentlemen composed the Banquet Committee:

Joseph Wright, chairman ; W. G. Ritchie, secretary; A. Purdy, Win. H. Meredith, Mungo P. Huffman, K.

J. Allison, C. E. Pickard, J. B. Fitzsimons, Henry Hogarth, J. S. Bates, W. Mansell; and they are to be congratulated upon the success of their labors.

At intervals during the evening songs were sung in capital style by Messrs. Bert Harvey, W. G. Ritchie and —. Matthews. Mr. Spafford also gave a humorous reading.

It is understood to be the intention of members of the Supply Association to tender a return banquet to the Master Plumbers at an early date.



<article title=" CONDITIONS IN THE PLUMBING TRADE." author="">

CONDITIONS IN THE PLUMBING TRADE.

ONE of the objects in view in getting together the Master Plumbers and representatives of the manufacturers and dealers in plumbers' supplies at the banquet held last week, was to give an opportunity of adjusting certain difficulties existing between the plumbers and supply companies. It will be remembered that at the Plumbers' Convention held in Quebec last year, the members of the Supply Association signed an agreement that they would not sell goods to any but legitimate plumbers. Complaint has of late been made that some of the supply houses were violating the terms of this agreement. On the day following the banquet, a meeting of the plumbers and representatives of the Supply Association was held in Toronto to discuss this matter, and we understand that the result of the conference was entirely satisfactory, the supply companies having pledged themselves to stand by their agree-men t.



THE IMPERIAL BRICK COMPANY.

A new company is seeking incorporation under the above name, to manufacture common and paving brick on a large scale at List Toronto. A number of well known capitalists of Toronto and Brantford are the promoters of the enterprise, which has already advanced to a point which admits of no doubt that it will be carried to successful completion. The necessary buildings and equipment will be provided at an early date, an experienced manager having already been engaged. The manufacturing appliances will be of the latest improved description. The intention is to operate the works throughout the year. The works will be situated in the midst of the clay deposit, thus obviating the expense of cartage. Shipping facilities by rail and water will also be provided. The character of the manufactured material was foreshadowed by one of the projectors of the company, who remarked that it was the intention to make a common brick which could he handled less carefully than eggs. The present would seem to be a favorable time to launch this enterprise, as a distinct revival in building seems to have set in, and stocks of common brick have run low while the demand for paving brick is said to much exceed the capacity of the present Canadian factories.

