<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ARCHITECT'S CLUB." author="">

ARCHITECT'S CLUB.

The weekly meetings of the social club recently organized by some of the younger architects of Toronto, have proved both interesting and instructive. The practice thus far at the meetings has been for one of the members to submit a number of architectural photographs, and in a brief talk discuss their merits. Following the talk has come a general discussion by the members. On resuming their regular meetings after the vacation, the purpose is to endeavor to arrange for a series of papers on architectural subjects.



<article title=" CUTTING STEEL GIRDERS BY ELECTRICITY." author="">

CUTTING STEEL GIRDERS BY ELECTRICITY.

The Moulton Starratt Contracting Co., of Chicago, while engaged on the reconstruction of the New York Life Building, in that city, found it necessary to cut through six steel I beams, each 15 inches high with a  inch webb and 6 inch flange varying in thickness from inch at the outside to 1 inch at the center.

girders was about twelve hours, and from four to five hours more were spent on mechanical work, such as removing girders to get at the remainder. The electric arc therefore, did in two working days what would have required from two to three weeks by the usual method, resulting in a great gain of time for completing the remainder of the job.

The plan of operation, as described by the Western Electrician, is very simple. Current was applied at 110 volts from one of the dynamos in the plant of the building. The current used was about 350 amperes. The positive side of the circuit was grounded on the structure of the building and the negative connected to a carbon holder containing a 1 ½ -inch round carbon. The carbon holder had a wooden handle. The operator struck an arc between the spot on the iron to be melted and the carbon. The light and heat were intense, and the effect was very disastrous to the eyes where proper precautions had not been taken. The arc is usually covered over with a muffle, consisting of an asbestos lined iron



















































COURT HOUSE, HAMILTON, ONT.



The point at which the cut was to be made was located in such a position that it would be necessary to have special saws made, and as three I-beams of this size, side by side, would not cut very easily, it was estimated that in addition to the time required to make the special saws it would take two men at least two weeks at $3.50 a day to saw them off. This loss of time in finishing the job and the expense involved were important considerations, and when it was suggested to Ralph Starrett, superintendent of the contracting company, that inasmuch as a smooth cut was not necessary, it might be feasible to get the girders burned off with the electric arc, he placed the matter in the hands of Clyde

J. Coleman of the Coleman Laboratory of Experimental Engineering. Mr. Coleman has done considerable work in line of electric arc burning for the purposes of getting into safes and vaults with broken locks, and for

cutting new doorways in vaults already in place, and  an interesting experiment to demonstrate the

possibilities of safe burglary by this method. Mr. Coleman pronounced the plan of burning off the I-beams perfectly feasible and undertook the task. The time actually required for electrically burning off the six

box, with a hole in the back just large enough to admit the carbon used. The box is placed against the iron to be burned and the carbon thrust through the hole and the arc drawn. In places where there is not room for the box the carbon is simply thrust through a shield consisting of a sheet of heavy asbestos board. Some resistance has to be placed in the circuit, as is the case with any arc working on a constant potential circuit. The resistance used in this case was simply a few turns of German silver wire placed in a pail of water under a faucet, from which it was constantly replenished.



QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

IN answer to the query of a subscriber, "Could you give me a receipt for filling up small cracks in plastered walls before having them kalsomined or painted?" we beg to submit the following Mix up plaster of Paris to the consistency of soft putty ; press the mixture into the cracks with a trowel or with a painter's putty knife; smooth off the wall before the plaster sets, and f not smooth enough, rub down lightly with No. a sand-paper. The plaster expands as it dries and remains firm in the crack.

