<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	83























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKIN(; IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

Some Odd Bits of

Finish.

A very simple, yet neat finish for a main stairway is shown at Fig. i. The newel is plain, balusters square, and

the stairstring unpretentious. The spandel is fitted in

dressed one inch stuff. The brackets are sawn out of two inch plank with a jig or band saw. The root may be covered with shingles or with tin or galvanized iron. The cresting, where such is required, may be cut from one inch pine or cedar and the rails and balusters may be wrought by hand or machine, out of pine, as may be thought best. The top rail may be 2½ inches thick, and the middle and lower rails may be made from two inch stuff. The frieze should be not less than an inch















FIG. 1.—A NEAT STAIRWAY.





with matched and beaded stuff and the newel is plain, neat and effective. Fig. 2 exhibits a plain four paneled door, with machine wrought trim head and base blocks. The door panels are sunk and moulded, casings are 4'2

































FIG. 2.—DOOR AND TRIM.





inches wide and 7/8 inch thick ; head or corner blocks are 1 1/8 inches thick and have a small diagonal ornament placed or nailed on them. The base blocks or plinths, are '8 inch thick and the same width as the casings, the top mouldings projecting above the base. The base is eight inches wide, moulded on top. A carpet strip is nailed in against the base and is mitred around the base blocks. This door and trimming is well suited for ordinary country work or suburban cottages. In keeping with the stairway and door and finish, is the verandah finish shown at Fig. 3. The whole work is plain and within the range of most workmen. The posts are turned from 5 x inch stuff, and the plate, which forms part of the finish may be formed of a x inch timber, or it may be built up of

FIG. 3.—A CHEAP VERANDAH





wider than the joists and should project down low enough to receive the lattice strips. The base may be any width to suit the position. The lattice strips should be 3/8 inch thick and about 1 ¼ inches wide. The gutter or trough forms the finish for the cornice, and is made of tin or galvanized iron. The design is very simple, low priced, and withal attractive.





In putting down footings it is essential that the mason get good flat bed-stones for his first course and that he lay the

best side with its face on the flat earth. Spawls should not be used in packing up the first layers of footings between the earth and the stone, as this practice is sure to cause unequal settlement, and is, moreover, likely to result in more serious damage, particularly in clay grounds. Before laying in the footings, particularly where the foundation walls are not more than from two

Foundation Footings.

