<doctype type="text">



large, and it is found that the chimney smokes, it may be sometimes cured by having a hood put over the opening, dropping down anywhere between five and ten inches, and projecting four or more inches from the breast of the fire-place. If a fire-place smokes when the wind is only from one direction, and draws well otherwise, one of two things is the trouble, either the chimney is not high enough, or some tree or some other building is the cause of the down draft. In a high chimney it may be necessary when starting a fire, to drive out the long columns of cold air, by burning loose paper or by setting fire to a rag that has been saturated with coal oil, which will force the body of heavy cold air up the flue and thus permit the passage of the lighter warm air from the fire, and when once the warm air takes possession of the flue, the draft will generally be all that is desired.





It was a common practice some twenty-Defects in Some five years ago, to finish off the edge of

Eaves.

the roofs of cottages with a slight



curve upwards in the manner shown in Fig. 2, and it must be confessed, this curving of the ends of rafters and hips gave to the roof quite a graceful appearance, but, if the projection of the eave happened to be a foot or more over the wall, this curving became a very serious matter , as the sudden retarding of the flow of water from the upper portion of the roof, would most assuredly, in freezing weather, increase the tendency for ice to accumulate on the edge of the roof, a condition that would cause the water to " back up " under the shingles or slating causing leakages on the wall, or on to the ceilings of the buildings. In warm countries, the adoption of the method of curving the roof at the eaves, may do very well but in this " Canada of ours











































Fig. 2.—CURVED EAVE.





the system is bad, and should not be practised. The method of forming an eave, shown at Fig. 3, while not so graceful, is sure to give better satisfaction in the end. The curving feature might he used with success perhaps, in mansard roofs, or on roofs having but little inclination from the perpendicular, but for the ordinary pitches, such as are generally employed in this country, the curving as shown in Fig. 2 were better avoided Many of the old roofs that were so curved years ago, have either rotted out at the eaves long since, or have

had the curving removed when re-shingling, for few of the older cottages so treated when first built, are to be found now showing this style of finish. Recently, there seems to be a desire among country carpenters, to revive the custom—likely because of its graceful effect - but, if we were asked our advice on the matter,





























FIG. 3.—STRAIGHT EAVE.





we should be strongly inclined to give it up in the same manner, and with the same emphasis, that Punch replied to a correspondent who was about to get married

—namely, '' Don't.''





The following makes a good form for Form for Estimating, making up an estimate the columns

may be ruled off as given, on ordinary foolscap paper. The estimator will find great assistance by making use of a little work entitled THE CONTRACTORS HAND-BOOKS, as it contains many things lie will find useful, in the way of quick methods of determining quantities of brick, stone, flooring, roofing, plastering, and many other things ; and if handy on the desk or table it may be referred to at a moment's notice.

	FORM FOR ESTIMATING.

QUANTITY	DESCRIPTION OF WORK	PRICE,

		$ cts..

	500	yards cubic,, excavating for cellar, walls, &c     

	65	cords rubble masonry, and all materials          

	96	thousand bricks laid in wall, at                 

	18	squares inch flooring, laid, at               

	24	doors, 3 X 7 ft., 134 inches thick, including frames,

		   mouldings and hardware, at                 

	28	windows, frames, sashes, locks, weights,	pulleys

		   and all complete, at                        

	28	pairs inside blinds, in two flaps, hung and finished,	at.

 double windows, complete, at                  

	11	summer blinds, complete and fitted, at           

	90	yards of stucco cornice, at                    

	1206	yards of plastering, including lathing and	all

		   materials at                            

	4	centre piecs, at                                     

	2	stucco brackets in hall, at                       

	2	flights of stairs, including rails, newels, balusters,	&c.

	28	squares of shingling, including roofing boards,	nails,

		   etc                                



The foregoing description will be a guide for all other items. After making use of these forms they should be carefully laid aside for future reference. While there is no royal road to estimating, the labor may be very materially minimized if well directed methods be adopted.



The Trent Valley Peat Fuel Co., of Peterboro' Out., has placed an order with the F. D. Cummer & Son Co., of Cleveland, Ohio, for one of the world-renowned Cummer dryers. The dryer will be used for drying peat preparatory for pressing into briquettes. The dryer will have capacity for evaporating two and a half tons of water hourly from the wet peat, which would give about sixty tons of dried peat per day of 24 hours.

