<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE 0. A. A.—A SYMPOSIUM." author="">	

214	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



THE 0. A. A.—A SYMPOSIUM.

The approaching annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects will afford an opportunity, which should not he allowed to pass unimproved, to consider and adopt means of increasing the membership and usefulness of that organization. The prosperous conditions now prevailing would appear to make the present an opportune time for an effort in this direction.



Having in view this object, the editor of the CANADIAN Architect AND Builder solicited from leading architects throughout Ontario answers to the following questions, together with suggestions which might prove helpful for placing the Association on a more satisfactory footing



1.	In what directions might the efforts of the Association be most usefully and profitably directed ?

2.	What can be done to increase the membership, and especially to bring tile young men into the Association, and lead them to take an active interest in promoting its welfare?

3.	What can the Association do for the benefit of students which would be likely to meet with their recognition and appreciation, arid advance the standard of architecture in Canada ?

4.	What changes, if any are required in the present policy of the Association and method of conducting its affairs ?



5.	What would tie tire best means of bringing the Association and its work before public notice ?

6.	Please stare concisely any opinions or suggestions not covered by the above inquiries.



The following are the replies which have thus far been received

TORONTO, Nov. 11th, 1899.



1.	One of tire ways in which tire efforts of tire Association might he most usefully and profitably directed is, it seems to rue, in making the obtaining of the proposed change in our charter a live question on all occasions and at every opportunity, especially when coming in to contact with members of tire local legislature --so that an educative influence might he constantly exercised with a view to the cultivation of public opinion demanding the same restrictions in regard to architects as to physicians and lawyers.

2. This is a difficult question and may be taken as part of No. 4.



3. The reception of the efforts of the Association in behalf of students, has during the past five or six years, been so coldly received by the students themselves (with a few exceptions), that there is little encouragement for further effort.



Several of the busiest architects have spent a large amount of valuable time preparing examination papers for students who have been too indifferent, or lazy, to take advantage of the course of reading or study involved.



Marry students have argued that the Association can do them no good arid that the preparation for and the passage of these examinations, qualifying them to become members of the Association, is therefore useless trouble-- forgetting that the study and discipline involved and tire knowledge gained are alone quite worth the effort, and will amply repay from every point of view.



What, therefore, CAN the Association do under the circumstances? it cannot COMPEL the students to take advantage of any serious effort in their behalf. The door to the practice of architecture must he put under guard before our students will he induced to wake up to their own good.



4. One of the changes required in the present policy of the Association, and which I advocated when on the Council, is the reduction of the running expenses. I think we are in such a position as to call for tire very minimum of expenditure. To this end all services should he honorary till the revenue warrants greater expenditure. Till this change is made it will keep a number out of the Association. I do not think they are doing right in tire stand they are taking, and think they should have remained in the Association, even when the hard times made the payment of the fees difficult. They could, by their presence arid vote, have dictated its policy.



What we need is esprit de corps, an unselfish devotion to the interests of tire Association, a willingness to sacrifice our time and abilities for its welfare, a resolve to put good active men into office and to stand by them loyally. These things alone will go far to make the Association a success. Apathy will kill it.

I am, yours truly,



EDMUND BURKE.

LONDON, Ont., November 11th, 1899.



in reply to your circular letter asking for opinions and suggestions as to means of increasing the membership and usefulness of the Ontario Association of Architects.



Adopting the premises that the Association might he on a more satisfactory footing," the cause of not being on a satisfactory footing may he found in the constitution, members or management. It is not a simple matter for any one person to locate the cause, particularly if that person he not on the inside. And because I cannot speak with definite knowledge of the workings of the Association, it would not he well for me to give answers to the clauses that might be based on imagination rather than facts.



But in a general way I would suggest that there might he more confidence and fraternity between the members fostered in local organizations having regular meetings and reporting to the general body or "Grand Lodge" at other regular meetings. To that end the province might he divided into Association districts. Some modes of well known fraternal societies might he enquired into. These societies are generally successful.



Above all there should he a more harmonious spirit—a common cause to which all may put a hand, pulling all together rather than each his own way. Without a common bond of good fellowship and confidence in leaders or officers no association, not even an association of architects, will meet wit ii success.



Yours,



HERBERT MATTHEWS.



HAMILTON, Ont., November 6th, 1899.



Sirs, --In reply to the circular letter received early in the month in reference to means to he adopted for improving the Ontario Association of Architects, I have little to say.



Having previously made suggestions and been subjected to a cold water douch by members of tire Council and the Registrar in consequence, I do not care about a repetition of the amusement.



I will, however, make one answer to your list of questions -- the first one--asking " In what direction might the efforts of the Association tie most usefully and profitably directed?



My answer is:'' In the direction of winding itself up and retiring at the earliest possible moment."



Yours truly,



R.	W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.



OTTAWA, Nov. 3rd, 1899.



Your vexed questions relative to 0. A. A. are before tire, hint I doubt if I can help you ; however, here goes



1.	Inculcate its members with the necessity for professional etiquette. Institute a court or committee of enquiry, so that any case of unprofessional conduct of members may he dealt with and if necessary expelled from the society.



2.	Keep down expenses and make fees as small as possible.



3.	Worry the governments until a grant is made to assist students by establishing a school of architecture and fine arts with travelling studentships.

4.	Am not posted upon the policy of O.A.A. Outside of seeking incorporation, did riot know they had any.



5.	By holding conventions in the principal cities, instead of confining it to Toronto, and allow members outside a chance to elect sonic of the officers, as it is now the outsiders are only a buttress to a Toronto society. In my opinion tire society can never he provincial in its character until you hold your meetings outside Toronto, as the Toronto votes out number all the rest. I might cite the R. C. A., where the president lives in Montreal and secretary in Toronto.



Quebec Association is different, as there ate no Cities of importance outside of Montreal in Quebec province, their fourth largest city being only a suburb of Ottawa.



Local branches of 0. A. A., if I may judge from Ottawa, will not succeed. We started a local society and hailed. We made a lot of rules and by-laws which were broken ere the printer's ink was dry.



Yours truly,



JOHN H. W. WATTS.





TORONTO, November 10th, 1899.



Sir, In reply to your questions—l anti waiting, with interest, to know what the Council, which was specially charged with the consideration of means of placing the O.A.A. on a more satisfactory footing, will report as having been done and what it pro-

