<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TERRA COTTA." author=" HYNES,M.J.">

	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER.	37



TERRA COTTA.*

By M. J. HYNES.



Terra Cotta is a very large subject-—anything from a doll from Tokay to a glass retort on the Ohio—and I fear a much-abused term. It includes everything made of baked clay, all indeed, with the exception of bricks, which are always, just bricks. Everything else in the category comes under the head of Terra Cotta.'

Terra Cotta is a mixture of clay and brains the manufacturer supplies the clay, the architect the brains.

It not being my intention to give you a history of Terra Cotta, I shall however endeavor, with my limited ability, front a practical standpoint, to give you something that may possibly enlighten you on the practical utility of this material, for I feel that the knowledge gained by some fifteen years experience may be of some little service to you.

The question has probably occurred to you, and naturally, Why is it that in Canada, we have not a first-class Terra Cotta Works?" Gentlemen, the answer is with yourselves. Except in a a few individual cases, you do not ask for the material. Possibly you are prejudiced against it, and desire to remain so. It may be that you are not conversant with its utility, its virtues and its beauty, and have either been too busy or too indifferent to look into the matter with that degree of interest and study which the subject demands. While in the United States numerous buildings, some of them twenty stories high, have been constructed of this material, as yet you have failed to put it to anything like general use in this country.

Again you may say, "Why does not some responsible firm in this country cater to the Terra Cotta trade, with artistic work and good material ?' The answer is as before, "You have not made the demand on them, and offered but little inducement or encouragement for the expenditure of the necessary money, with which good works are established, wherewith they could place themselves in a position to meet the requirements of the trade, did such requirements exist."

Why did the company with whom I have the honor to be connected for some time, expend large sums in the erecting and perfecting of works for the manufacture of Portland cement, a cement which is acknowledged to be equal to the best and second to none ? For the simple reason, gentlemen, that you as professional men demand a first-class Portland cement which could not always be had in the imported article, and having the raw materials in quantities, that for excellence cannot be surpassed, this company met the demand, which demand, as I said before, you are in a large measure responsible for.

The same argument can be applied to Terra Cotta. If you will create the demand, there is no doubt that some responsible firm will rise to the occasion, and will meet the demand with material that will be as good, if not better, in artistic exellence and in quality, as any that can be procured in any foreign country; for in Canada we have plenty of the raw material we have the capital, and we can soon secure the artists and workmen if we have not got them now. But you have ignored Terra Cotta ; you have, with a few exceptions, left it in the background by erecting buildings in an old-fashioned manner and upon principles which, in the first instance, are cheap, and where the possibilities of combustion are apparently of minor consideration.

I may say that I am not advertising any existing Terra Cotta works. I am very much like Micawber, '' Waiting for something to turn up," so that my efforts to impart any knowledge or information I have acquired is not in the interest of any particular firm or company, but purely in the interest of the material, which I feel when better understood and more cultivated, will come more generally into use, for its possibilities are practically unlimited.

Since the liquidation of my company in Toronto some years ago, I have been connected with the Rathbun Company of Deseronto, or possibly more properly speaking, of Canada, and I regret to say that during that time three of the brothers in that company have "passed beyond," and in the death of the late Mr. F. S. Rathbun, Terra Cotta has sustained an irreparable loss, by losing one who was alive to its possibilities, and who from a personal as well as a business standpoint was a strong advocate for its use.

It is to be regretted that some of the gentlemen of this Association have openly declared, that were they ercting a building of Terra Cotta, they would place their orders in a foreign country, forgetting, possibly, that they are dependent upon Canadians for clients, and that their utterance must of necessity cause



*	Paper read before The Ontario Association of Architects, January 18th, 1899.

people in this country to believe that no such material as Terra Cotta is being made in this country, or if so, that it is of so poor a quality that it could not be used. I am anxious to impress upon these gentlemen the fact, that the more they do to foster Canadian enterprises and industries, the better materials they will secure, and the more clients they will have, thus benefitting themselves in the end. American architects employed over here in the erection of some of our large buildings have not so acted, for they have always used Canadian material when such could be obtained, and it is a pleasing fact that some of our Canadian Terra Cotta has found its way " over the line."

Without touching upon Egyptian, Assyrian, or even Italian and Spanish of later date, the actual revival of t he use of Terra Cotta does not extend back much beyond fifty years. True, in England they made chimney pots and tiles as in European countries, but the English architect in the revival of classical architecture, sought for material that was at once light and durable, indestructible by fire and time, and which would not he an imitation like painted galvanized iron. This he found in Terra Cotta—a material of itself, with a beauty of its own, and not an imitation.

Modern buildings with a skeleton constructed of steel, offer a motive for the use of Terra Cotta, or, in other words, in Terra Cotta has been realized the possibilities of steel construction.

In touching upon the revival of Terra Cotta, reference must be made to England. The architecture of each country has developed its own individuality, and in England had the advantage of such men as Blashfleld, Sir Henry Dolton, Sir George Skey, Jennings, Gibbs, Cowan and others ; and even in the hands of these men, and under the leading architects of the day, the material as first produced, could not be called beautiful. The South Kensington Museum, and the Albert Memorial Hall, show what might be accomplished, but in no way satisfied the architects or the artistic public. The material in the Albert Memorial Hall was manufactured out of natural raw fire-clay, and having been submitted to open contact with direct heat in the kiln, resulted in twisted and distorted work.

Contrast this work at the Albert Memorial Hall with the gates at Lord Rosebery's mansion, made with clay carefully washed and free from impurities, mixed with broken glass, spar and grog (you must excuse the word "grog," and not take it in the ordinary acceptation in this instance it is a term applied to fire-clay that has been burned and ground), properly dried and burned this work could never be taken as an "imitation" of brown stone, granite or any material, but is simply Terra Cotta.

Another instance of success in the early days, is the work on the Dulwich College, carried out after the design of the late Charles Barry, and costing some $t4o,ooo.



Terra Cotta received a great impetus when Sir Henry Dolton's Works were erected upon the Thames embankment in London, for the manufacture of this material and other fine art goods. The building and machinery alone represent an expenditure of £ 1,000,000, the interest upon which at 5you, gentlemen, can easily estimate. I have just received a letter from a fellow-workman, at one time with me, but who has returned to England to his old shop. He informs me that now there are three Terra Cotta Works, where there was only one when he left a few years ago. The English architects must have created this demand, and I trust Canadian architects will follow their example.

I)elf, china, faience, etc., etc., are made at the Dolton Works in Staffordshire, but the manufacture of Terra Cotta has no relationship to these industries at the various branches of the works mentioned.

The work in the United States has made rapid strides. Much has been accomplished, but Englishmen have been at the head, men such as James Taylor, Joseph Joiner, and others, all of whom received their practical education in England. In the United States to-day, the importation of Terra Cotta, delf, china, etc., is visibly decreasing. Why? Because a demand having been created —the architects giving the preference to home industries—— investors grappled with the problem, with the result that to-day large works are dotted all over the country, doing a substantial, profitable business, and turning out material equal to the best that could be imported, as witness the work of the several Terra Cotta companies, and the magnificent work at the Rookwood Pottery at Cincinnatti.

Terra Cotta in Canada has failed for two reasons—first and foremost, lack of support upon the part of the architects; second, because every person who connected himself with it, made brick, and making brick takes up about twenty-four hours a day, and leaves very little time for attention to Terra Cotta.

