<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ON SKETCHING." author="">



	STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.	____

ON SKETCHING.

''Only the best artists," said Hamerton, ''can sketch really well. The vulgar notion about the facility of sketching is a delusion. A sketch differs from what is commonly considered finished work, in always acknowledging that there is much beyond what it has recorded, in avowing this quite frankly in the manner of the work." His felicitous description of etching as ''highly concentrated drawing" may, I think, equally well apply to sketching, writes Mr. Walter Millard, in Architectural Association Notes. Confining ourselves, for the occasion, to the consideration of what we generally understand as architectural sketching, and not including exercises of the imagination, we may say that a sketch brings before us in a concentrated form the essentials of its subject as they impress themselves on the mind of the sketcher, non-essentials, and what seem to him points of secondary importance, being eliminated ; and this it does as much by means of suggestion as by direct statement of fact. The art of happy suggestion is the handmaid of good sketching, determining alike how much is to be put in and what is to be left out. Spaces in a sketch left quite blank to our visual organs, may in the mind's eye be filled with detail if the suggestion of this be but rightly given ; whilst, on the other hand, the covering of the entire surface with touches may fail utterly to convey any true idea of the subject, either as a whole or in detail, if the suggestion be not there of that "much beyond what is recorded," which Hamerton speaks of.

At the same time, though there is usually a great deal that may well be left out in making a sketch, and much that needs be omitted, no statement directly contrary to fact can be excused in the work on the mere plea that it is only a sketch. Architectural sketching, certainly, whether slight or finished, carries with it no privilege to tell or suggest the thing that is not ; in it the whole truth may not he told by a long way—nor need always be told, nevertheless, what is told or suggested must be nothing but the truth, if we are to say that the artist sketches well. His work may not go far but, so far as it does go, we expect it to be faithful.

The sketcher, who is also a student of architecture, makes his sketch of any object for the sake of something in it that he wants. What this may be is for him to decide, in each instance, and the sketch will surely bear on its face evidence of what it is in his subject that he has cared for sufficiently to delineate it. To go and sketch what you do not care for or require for some definite purpose—to sketch just for the sake of producing sketches is not the way to ever sketch well. .More than that, the really vital question for students of architecture is, not so much how to sketch as, what you sketch and why you sketch it, a question which opens up a wider field of enquiry than is covered by the matter of Sketching only. On the student's choice of subjects to sketch may largely depend not alone the manner of his sketching but also, perhaps, the whole bent of his mind towards architecture, for life—not merely how he is to pursue the study of architecture but, ultimately, what sort of man he is to turn out as an architect.



A deputation from the Society of Architects lately waited on the Lord Chancellor and petitioned for a parliamentary committee to inquire into the present law with regard to ancient lights, with a view to saving the large amount of money being expended in determining the rights of owners in regard to the same.

<article title=" INTERSECTING ARCHES." author="">

INTERSECTING ARCHES.

INTERSECTING arches were most likely an early, and certainly a very widely-spread mode of embellishing Norman buildings, and some of them were constructed in places and with stones requiring centres to turn them on, and the construction of these centres must have been by something equivalent to compasses. Thus, even supposing (which could hardly have been the case) that the arches were constructed without a previous delineation, the centres would have led to the construction of the pointed arch ; and when once formed its superior lightness and applicability would be easily observed. To this remark it may be added that the arches necessarily arising in some parts from Norman groining would he pointed. A careful examination of a great number of Roman buildings will also lead to this conclusion, that the style was constantly assuming a lighter character, and that the gradation is so gentle into early English that it is difficult in some buildings to class them, so much have they of both styles. The same may be said of every advance, and this seems to be a convincing proof that the styles were the product of the gradual operation of a general improvement guided by the hand of genius, and not a foreign importation.—Builders' Reporter.



<article title=" LIQUID AIR." author="">

LIQUID AIR.

PRIOR to 1887, says the Engineer, air was thought to be a permanent or incondensable gas, but it was liquefied simultaneously by Messrs. Pictet and Caillete at that time, though at an enormous expense. About 200 years ago the lowest temperature thought to be obtainable was produced by a mixture of snow and ice, and was used by Fahrenheit in establishing a zero for his thermometric scale. Since that time scientists have reached a temperature some 400 degrees below the lowest point ever reached by Fahrenheit. Of the three known methods for producing cold, the first, i.e., by the rapid solution of a solid was used entirely up to 1820 and yielded a temperature of 50 degrees below zero centrigrade. The other two methods are the rapid evaporation of a volatile liquid and the rapid expansion of a cooled and compressed gas. By a combination of pressure and refrigeration, Faraday in 1823 liquefied all except six of the existing gases, but it was not until 1869 that it was discovered that these gases must first be cooled to a critical temperature. By subjecting hydrogen to an enormous pressure and at the same time lowering its temperature it was found possible to liquefy it. Hydrogen has a critical temperature only 33 degrees C. above the absolute zero of temperature. From the experiments performed, the conclusion was drawn that solids, liquids, and gases were but different forms of matter through which any substance could be made to pass by the addition or withdrawal of heat and pressure. The liquefaction of air economically and in large quantity has only recently been accomplished.





The dwelling of Sir Christopher Wren is now a national school in Botolph Lane, London. The house still contains a finely carved wooden staircase, but his

private chapel has become a warehouse, with a window over the ceiling. Near by stands the church said to have been designed by his daughter, and which is peculiar in that the stone of which it is built remains white to some extent in spite of all the city smoke.

