<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	219























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO TOE REQUIREMENTS OF TILE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE

AND BT ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

Cement Floors for Cellars and for Sidewalks.

To make a good floor For a cellar, or to lay a good lasting sidewalk with cement requires considerable knowledge of the materials employed for the purpose, and some skill in their manipulation. For cellar floors, the first thing to be done is to prepare a foundation for a thick layer of concrete ; this foundation - or bed— should be well tamped down, and afterwards a layer of gravel, cinders, or broken stones or brick, should be put in from three to four inches thick,—if the bed is of gravel from the start, that will be sufficient- - this should be well drenched with water, and properly tamped until the bottom appears solid. The concrete, to a depth of three, four or six inches, may be put on this bed, being careful to tamp it solidly down to bed. If a smooth surface is desired, a thin coat of cement and sand should be well troweled over this ; the cement being formed of one measure of Portland cement, and three of clean, sharp sand, mixed dry, and then moistened to suit. In preparing the concrete, the first thing required is a water-tight box or platform. Measure the correct proportions of cement and sand, then mix thoroughly dry ; moisten slightly with clean water to make a stiff plastic paste. Drench the aggregates,— which may he broken stone, broken bricks or gravel of the proper size--—-well with water. Spread the proper proportion of this aggregate over the mixed cement and work it in with it quickly and thoroughly, then deposit in place as quick as possible and ram well into a compact mass. Place layer upon layer until the required thickness is obtained. If only three or four inches of a thickness is required, this maybe put down at once; but, if several layers are necessary, then each layer should he allowed to remain twenty-four hours before the next is applied. Always clean and wet the surface of the concrete thoroughly before applying the next layer. If the area is large, and several mixings are necessary, connect the joinings with neat cement mortar, and if possible arrange the different layers so that the joints will be broken. Twenty-four hours after the work is finished, the floor should be moistened with clean water, and this practice should continue for a couple of weeks in order to get the best results. The temperature should he kept between 35 and 70 deg. Fahr. until crystallization has set in, which generally takes from twenty to thirty hours. The proper proportions for the concrete should be, one measure of cement, three measures of clean sharp sand, and six measures of broken stones, bricks or other suitable materials that will pass through a two-inch round hole. Mix as directed in the foregoing. In preparing for sidewalks, extra care must be taken to insure the best

results, When there is danger of frost, dig out the

foundation eleven inches below the surface except at the outside edges, where a narrow trench two feet deep should he dug. Fill to within five inches of the surface with screened and washed cinders, pretty coarse gravel, or broken stones, well rammed and levelled. On this foundation place the concrete base four inches thick, well tamped. For extra heavy traffic this concrete should be six inches or more, in thickness. In very important work, iron rods or expanded metal laths are sometimes bedded in the concrete to prevent cracking. The top, or finishing coat, should be about an inch thick, and should be composed of one part cement, one part clean sand, and one part of crushed granite, crushed quartz or fine clean washed gravel the first being the best. The concrete base must be roughened, cleaned and wetted before the finishing coat is applied. Level the surface off with a wooden float and straight-edge, obtaining the proper grade. The finishing coat should just have sufficient water to give it the consistency of fresh-dug earth that will stick in a ball when pressed in the hands. When about to set, trowel hard with a steel trowel or roll with brass roller. Cut the surface into blocks of proper size to prevent cracks, and to allow for contraction and expansion, cover with boards, paper, straw or sand to protect against atmospheric changes and to keep in the moisture. After twenty-four hours keep the surface wet for at least two weeks —this is important. The top coat should he applied before the base is dry, to keep it from separating from the foundation. Cellar floors can be laid for, from 8 to 15 cents per superficial foot, and sidewalks can be laid for, from 12 to 20 cents per foot, according to the quality of the work. As a rule it takes 2½ barrels of cement to lay 100 feet of walk. One finisher and two helpers will lay from 300 to 8oo feet of walk in a day, depending on the style of finish. For ordinary cellar floors three inches thick, one barrel of Portland cement and three barrels of sand will cover five square yards. Barnyards should be paved with concrete so that all the drainage may be carried to a pit. Stable floors, with drain at end, can readily be made of concrete and cement, and are lasting, sweet, and easily cleaned, and when properly made, form the healthiest of floors for horses or cattle. Cement may he colored without injury, if the best metallic oxides, without sulphur, are employed. Venetian red or lamp black should never be used ; they run and fade and soften thc cement. Excelsior carbon black, is the strongest black known. The following colors, if mixed with either prepared lime flour, or stainless Portland cement mortar, give excellent results For black, use 2 per cent. excelsior carbon black;

for red, use 10 per cent best raw iron oxide ; for brown

