

<doctype type="text">	

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">	THE	ARCHITECT AND	247



wide at their beginning, and increase in width the same as aisles having seats on both sides.

The stage of every theatre shall he separated from the auditorium by a brick wall nut less than sixteen inches thick, which wall shall extend the whole width and height of the building, and two feet above the roof. There shall he no openings through this wall except the curtain opening at or below the level of the stage. These latter openings shall not exceed twenty-one superficial feet each, and shall have bright tinned wood self-closing doors, securely hung to rabbeted iron frames or iron rabbets in the brickwork, or wood frames covered with bright tin.

The finish or decorative features around the certain and wood work of the stage shall lie covered, arid if practicable saturated with fire resisting material.

No fixed portion of the stage except the floor shall he of wood.

The framing of the flour of the stage shall he steel or iron. The framing and floors of fly galleries and rigging lofts, and al rails, with t he supports and stanchions of the same, also all sheeves and pulleys and their supports, shall also he of steel or iron.

The proscenium or curtain opening of every theatre shall have a curtain of incombustible material approved by the Building Inspector, sliding at each end within iron grooves securely fastened to brick wall and extending into such grooves not less than six inches on each side. That curtain shall he raised at the commencement of each performance and lowered at the close of same and operated by approved machinery.

There shall he over the stage of every theatre one or more ventilators constructed of incombustible material the area of said ventilators shall equal one-thirtieth of the total area of such stage every such ventilator shall have a damper or valve so arranged and counter-balanced as to open automatically, and shall be kept closed when not in use by a cord reaching to the prompter's desk; such cord shall he of incombustible material, and so arranged that if it is severed the ventilator will open automatically.



STORE ROOMS AND WORKSHOPS.



All scene docks, carpenter, or property shops, and wardrobes of every theatre hereafter built, shall he separated from the stage, auditorium, or dressing rooms, by brick walls not less than twelve inches thick. There shall he no openings in these walls to the auditorium, or dressing rooms, and all openings to the stage shall have tinned wood doors securely hung to iron frames, or to iron rabbets in the brickwork.

All rooms in any theatre for the use or occupancy of persons employed therein shall he located as remote from the stage as practicable, arid shall have at least two independent exits to a street, lane, or court ; the partitions, floors, walls, etc., of such rooms shall he constructed of incombustible materials.

There shall he at least two four inches stand pipes on the stage of every theatre, with ample provision of hose and nozzle, attached to the stand pipe at each level of the stage on each side, and the water shall be kept turned on said stand pipes during the occupation of the building by an audience. Over the whole area of the stage there shall he a complete system of sprinkler pipes, with automatic sprinklers approved of by the inspector, the size of said pipes and spacing of sprinklers shall be according to the rules of tire Mutual Mill Fire Insurance Coys. and shall he supplied by mains connected with the city water pipes. The prosceniun opening shall be provided with sprinkler pipes arid sprinklers, so constructed that when in operation there shall be a complete warm curtain fur the entire width of the proscenium opening.

There shall lie on the stage of every theatre in addition to the stand and sprinkler pipes before mentioned, four casks full of water with two buckets to each cask, thc said casks and buckets shall lie painted red and marked For Fire Use Only there shall also he riot less than four portable Babcock or other automatic fire extinguishers approved of by the inspector, said extinguishers shall he placed in some conspicuous position and within easy reach.

In some conspicuous place on each gallery and flour the regulations for the protection of tire public against fire or accident shall be posted.

Every theatre shall he illuminated entirely by electric light the lights in the entrance halls, corridors, and stairways shall he independent of the lights in the auditorium and stage, and shall be kept lighted during a performance and until such time as the audience has left the building. There shall he a light opposite each exit, and at the top and bottom of each stairway, and all such lights shall have glass globes colored red.

All gas and electric lights in the halls, corridors, lobby or any

other part of said building used by the audience, except the auditorium, must be controlled by a separate shut off located in the lobby, and controlled only in that particular place.

In cases where electric light is not obtainable, o when the electric apparatus is out of order, gas light may he used.

Gas mains supplying the building shall have independent connections fur the auditorium and the stage, and provision shall he made fur shutting off the gas from the outside of the building. Where interior gas lights are not lighted by electricity other suitable appliances to be approved by the inspector, shall he provided.



All suspended or bracket lights surrounded by glass in the auditorium Or in any part of the building devoted to the public, shall be provided with proper wire netting underneath.

No gas or electric light shall be inserted in the wall woodwork, ceiling or any part of the building unless protected by Fireproof material.

All lights in passages or corridors in said building and wherever deemed necessary by the inspector, shall be protected with proper wire network.

The footlights in addition to the wire network shall be protected with a strong wire guard nut less than 2 feet distant from said footlights, and tire trough containing said footlights shall he formed of and surrounded by fire proof materials.

All border lights shall he constructed according to the best known methods, and subject to the approval of the building inspector, and shall he suspended for ten feet by wire rope.

All ducts or shafts used for conducting heated air from the main chandelier or from arty other light or lights, shall be constructed of metal, and made double with an air space between.



All stage lights shall have strung metal wire guards or screens nut less than 10 inches in diameter, so constructed that any material in contact therewith shall be out of reach of the flames of said stage lights, and must he soldered to the fixture in all cases.

The stand pipes, gas pipes, electric wires, hose, foot lights, and all apparatus for the extinguishing of fire or guarding against the same, as in this section specified, shall he under the control of the inspector of buildings, and lie is hereby directed to see that the arrangements in respect thereto are carried out and enforced.



No boiler, furnace engine or heating apparatus shall be located tinder the auditorium, nor under any passage, stairway, or exit of any public building.



SECTION 106.--No theatre hereafter erected, or altered to comply with the foregoing provisions, shall he opened to the public until the same has been examined by the inspector and approved by him as conforming to the requirements of this by-law. It shall he the dirty of the inspector to visit every such theatre at least once every two months, to ascertain if the provisions of this by-law are observed, and to bring to justice any person no  contravention thereof.



CONCERT AND ASSEMBLY HALLS, CHURCHES, HOTELS, ETC.



SECTION 107. - No public assembly or concert hall or church (with the exception of halls in school buildings) which are capable of seating 400 or more persons shall he placed in any second class building are greater height above tire pavement or street than twenty feet to the level of the main floor of said hall or church.



Every such hail or church shall have at least two stairways leading to a street or square, or to a court or lane communicating directly with a street or square, the said stairs shall not he less than five feet in width in the clear, and shall increase six inches in width for every additional fifty persons which the said ball or church can contain over four hundred, the said stairs shall he constructed of incombustible materials except the treads which may be of hard wood, arid shall he of ample strength to safely bear the loads which may be imposed on them ; in no ease shall there be windows in such stairs without tine consent of the inspector, nor shall there he more than fifteen, nor less thorn three steps between platforms or landings, the cut of the string fur such stair shall riot exceed 6½ inches rise nor he less than 11½



inches on the treads ; no winding steps shall be used.



All such staircases shall be enclosed on at least three sides with solid brick or stone walls.

In all assembly and concert halls, churches, and all buildings of a public character to be hereafter built, such as hotels, restaurants, railroad depots, or other buildings where 200 or more persons may assemble, the stairways, halls, corridors, and exits shall he of ample size, and so arranged as to afford easy egress in ease of fire or accident, to the persons therein assembled, and so as to afford requisite and proper safeguards for the public protection. 

