<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TRADITION AND MATERIAL IN ARCHITECTURE." author="Gibbon, Alexander M.">

	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER.	121



from it, and to those who know there is an added piquancy. We KNOW that in our ordinary practice stones are delivered at a job of approximate fitness in size for the particular parts they are intended for, so there is considerable affectation in the studied excess of irregularity in door and window quoins sometimes seen ; weak in construction, it disregards the workman's practice. It will give a craftsman's interest without the architect's influence in any way being impaired, to let local practice assert itself in things immaterial.

Let this, then, suffice to answer the query. Has the architecture of the past been influenced most by material or tradition—the motive of the designer? Assuredly by the latter. And that said, are we prepared to go further and forecast in the future, say, which of these will he the potential influence in days to come? A question not strictly within the limits of a practical paper, yet not wholly idle ; for as we realize the greatness of the future so shall we he inclined to see the dignity of the present, out of which that future must proceed. To me it seems that only in the experience of the past have we any assurance for the future, and if we are inclined to think of the maxim, "The thing that hath been is that which shall be," as derogatory to present day life and progress, let us reflect that the part of architecture is something very noble, of an antiquity greater far than that of music and painting, the popular arts of to-day. Hence our data, gathered from a wide source, permit of an augury that one might not attempt in these arts. " Forty centuries look down on us from the Pyramids," while music, which in much is analogous to architecture, and has been delighted in by man since its creation as an art with formulated canon, is of comparatively recent date. Seven centuries ago harmony as now understood was not, while the best of the musical instruments are the inventions of the last two. Landscape painting, with its developments of perspective aerial and linear, of recent date. Sculpture resembles architecture, not only in mass, hut in age its principles and practice are as old as civilization. The same may be said of poetry ; so it is not to be wondered at that these, with architecture, fail to show the modern development that music and painting exhibit.

This antiquity, then, of architectural practice gives data for a forecast of its future. Of course, architecture has not been a thing of evolution and broadening precedent only. An intelligent review shows that besides logical advance, with increasing utilitarian needs and variety of materials there has never ceased to exist a sentimental influence, impalpable but potential, viz., traditional motive -which very often has expressed itself in tenacious retention of old forms for the sake of associations connected with them, material or religious. And hence have arisen all these delightful inconsistencies in the use of materials that we have discussed ; the prejudices that influence a national choice of lintel or arch style, Classic or Gothic, that no one can suppose ever came out because of the architect class decreeing the superior merit of one or the other, even had the architects themselves been quite beyond the influence of the current taste. And so architecture is seen to be a history of human progress written in stone. Surely national peculiarities are worth preserving, even provincialism in due measure ; it is a spurious altruism that would replace these by a lifeless cosmopolitanism. Timber, as we have seen, is quite available in Scotland, hut just because of the historical

fact that heretofore it has not obtained favor, perhaps we do well to preserve the character of our architecture as we find it. We do not condemn half timber work if we elect to use stone, for there is a difference between our retention of old forms and that of former times; this, namely, that our conservatism is self-conscious. Then it was that, knowing no other way and convinced that their father's methods were best, a traditional method was followed ; while we, not even by implication, affirm that other forms are less worthy, where we retain those indigenous to our land, or specially associated with our race. Vandalism was the characteristic evidence of life in all previous periods; nowadays we rightly taboo that spirit, for we can exercise the right of liberty in choice of our models without destroying those we do not follow. Employing past forms and archaic materials does not imply that we are wilfully blind to the excellence of modern ; it but indicates the cultivation of a sentiment that adds poetry to our too matter-of-fact day. Modern needs, comforts and conveniences may he depended on to demand and get full attention, but a fostering care is required for the beauty that should accompany these, and this will often take the form of ingeniously preserving the historical continuity of traditional forms.

The phonetic power of architecture is very limited beyond the expression of majesty, richness and beauty, I know of none a building is capahie of. The first is effected by actual hulk, the second by repetition of parts, the third by refinement of form. Beyond these it is by association of ideas merely that certain styles are popularly apportioned to certain types of building, to the church, the theatre, the town hall, the family dwelling, &c.

Now, these three emotions are excited independently of particular materials. Thus, much of the Italian Renaissance is of brick covered with stucco, simulating stone construction ; and, regret as we may the unsubstantiality of the meaner materials, the architectural form is there and gives us pleasure that pleasure would, of course, be heightened by the presence of the real rather than the make-believe. Still, intellectually, it is better to have, say, Palladio in stucco than not at all. Whether granite or stucco, in mass there is produced an emotion of awe. Repetition of parts expresses richness ; its equivalent in poetry is rhyme. That may he allied with doggerel, hut is none the less a component part of noblest verse. So in a structure the repeated feature may be poor, though not necessarily, but simply because with its repetition a sense of richness results. This principle is best exemplified in Indian work, but a colonnade or arcade are cases in point ; and to come to details, note the dentil course in a cornice or a balustrade. Of the Greek triglyph, you remember Ruskin has asked if any one ever found pleasure in it; but even if unlovely in itself, repeated, it fulfils a purpose. Repetition of parts and symmetry are methods by which an architectural effect is produced, and that quite irrespective of materials. And clearly, abstract beauty of form is in no degree dependent on material.

So we may confidently predict of all coming architecture that whatever he the material employed, not merely the principles of the past, but as these were practised --

the actual form — will he retained. Novel materials may emerge, hut in the main the old will he preferred. There will be cycles of fashion in revivals of past styles, but withal there will result an accretion of real worth, so that it will not be possible for future cognoscenti to be misled in distinguishing the chronology of these successive revivals, for each will have acquired insensibly a character peculiarly its own. Color indeed may perhaps he more considered than it has been, for chemistry or commerce may bring to us colored material hitherto denied us ; but this will never revolutionize architecture. The best correction of the mistaken notion that the coming years will see new materials, and hence a new architecture, is a reference to history can any one conceive of greater social changes than the past has shown, or wider variety in material than timber, stone metal and slate?

