<doctype type="text">	

24	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



became one who has been identified with the subject in a practical way for more than a quarter of a century. The nature and possibilities of plastering materials were clearly explained, and suggestions made regarding the methods to be adopted to secure satisfactory results. Such an interchange of thought between the architect who designs and supervises the construction of the building and the skilled contractor who executes the work cannot fail to improve the relationship between the two and elevate the standard of workmanship. it has occurred to us to suggest in connection with future conventions, that if printed copies of' the papers to be presented could be placed in the hands of members in advance of the meeting, it would tend to promote well considered discussion.





WE have received from this club a The T Square Club of volume which serves the double purpose

Philadelphia.

of an exhibition catalogue and an annual review of architectural affairs in Philadelphia. A prominent place is given to a series of letters from eminent architects in the United States, written to answer the question which forms the title at their head:

"An Unaffected School of Modern Architecture—will it come?" The T Square Club's view of the present state of affairs is stated in a pathetic extract which is quoted from the address, in French, of their delegate to the International Congress of Architects, held in Brussels in August, 1897. He says (as we translate)

"Among our reproductions of Continental architecture, we have already, in Florida, specimens of the Spanish Renaissance as beautiful as any whatever in Spain. In Philadelphia, we have a lofty office building of which the ground and first floors are in the style of Francis the First, as exquisite as any example of that period existing in France. In New York we have a Giralda tower of Seville, and in Boston a library of Sainte Genevieve in perfection! But, a modern spirit, national, indigeneous, inspired by our own times, which will mark and represent our own times, in place of these servile copies of the monuments of the old world, is still to come, and we await it with impatience." It is remarkable that the letter writers most hopeful of an unaffected style are those two determined stylists, Mr. Louis H. Sullivan and Mr. Ernest Flagg. The latter, whose thoroughly French looking design for the Bronx Park Botanical building appears in the illustrated catalogue of the exhibition, assures us that it is only unacquaintance with the principles that lie beneath the surface that makes people look upon the movement, which derives its origin from France, as an attempt to gallicize American art and a passing fashion. He affirms that it is an evolutionary movement. That may he so, hut it does not bear upon it the stamp of such evolution as Mr. Sullivan, who gets at the matter abstractly, finds necessary; that the architect "must absorb into his heart and brain his own country and his own people." The French have a living style. In that truly Renaissance country one enjoys the influence of unity of style which we suppose to have been the architectural charm of cities before the Renaissance. It is no wonder that the ordinary architectural student in Paris is overcome and carries home an impulse which, however fervent for the development of an architectural style in his native country, is much more likely to find the way for it by informing it with his own derived ideas than by the patient absorption into his

heart and brain of his own country and his own people. This process is a slow one. It is as when a husbandman, having sown his seed, "has long patience with it." The current business of architecture is only a process of cultivation ; that very process of absorbing into the heart and brain the needs of their clients. It was possible for an autocratic French monarch to found an architectural style. The president's veto has not the same power. Architecture in the United States, which is of the people and for the people, will be found in the long run to have been formed by the people. As Professor Ware, with thoroughly national and indigenous expressiveness says, in his excellent letter "I don't think the T Square Club need worry." If the United States have not a living style in architecture, there is in this production of the T Square Club abundant evidence of a live spirit. The designs are admirable and beautifully rendered. There is plenty of native originality clothed in different styles, but perhaps the most interesting part of the book is the genuine and serious earnestness of the letter press.



WE regret to observe that a hill has

Restrictive

Legislation.	recently been introduced in the Legislature of British Columbia which aims

to make illegal any contract for labor entered into with persons in other parts of Canada, as well as with persons in foreign countries before their arrival in that province. The fact that the bill was read a second time without a division would indicate that it is likely to be placed on the statute books of the province. We have no sympathy whatever with this class of legislation, believing it to be a factor calculated to retard rather than advance the welfare of the country as a whole, as well as the particular province to which it applies. The Dominion Parliament was in a sense obliged to pass an alien labor law by reason of the legislation of similar character previously adopted and enforced against Canadians by the government of the United States. We trust, however, that at no distant day the governments of the two countries may reach an understanding by which narrow minded legislation of this sort will be abolished. The proposed law in British Columbia is infinitely more objectionable than the national legislation referred to, inasmuch as it would discriminate between persons residing in different parts of our own Dominion. To our mind, there should be the freest possible intercourse between the people of all the provinces, such intercourse being one of the best means of building up an united nation.



IN a letter printed elsewhere in this The 0. A. A. number regarding the Ontario Association of Architects, Mr. Gambier Bousfield strongly commends the proposal made by Mr. Baker, at the recent convention, that rooms for the use of the members of the Association should be fitted up and conveniently located in the central part of Toronto. From our point of view, this is one of the lesser requirements. The expenses connected with fitting up rooms in a suitable manner, and placing them in charge of an attendant so that they would be available at all times for the use of the members, would amount to a considerable sum. We believe the money which would be required for this purpose could be expended to much better advantage in other directions, as for example in prizes to students. The most important work to which the Association can apply itself would seem to be in the direction of cultivating closer relations between the students and the Association, and in awakening public interest in architecture. The first of these objects could perhaps best be attained by instituting competitions and offering prizes, or, if the necessary funds could be obtained, to institute a travelling studentship. The second object would be greatly assisted if some of the municipalities could be induced to follow the example of the city of Paris in offering yearly prizes for the building of the best design erected during the year.

