<doctype type="text">

But the nose will not help us to arrange the air supply for an unbuilt house unless we find out what quality in the air is indicated by the faintly pungent, musty smell in a room which we call closeness, and which the nose rejects as unfit to breathe. The impurities which distress us are not themselves easily measured, but they are always accompanied by carbonic acid gas, and this is easily detected and measured by the readiness with which it combines with the lime in lime water, causing the precipitation of carbonate of lime. There are many instruments for effecting this combination, and measuring by its means the quantity of carbonic acid gas present in the air. One instrument, devised by Prof. Wolpert, and described on p. 25 of "Billings' Ventilation and Heating," seems to be simple enough to be used by architects to make their own tests. It consists of a measured tube to contain a given quantity of lime water, and an Indiarubber bulb injector of a measured size, by means of which air from the room may be blown into the lime water in measured quantities. On the bottom of the glass tube is a black mark. Air is blown into the lime water until it becomes so opaque from the formation of carbonate of lime that the black mark on the bottom is no longer visible. This result has been found by the inventor of the instrument to indicate a certain quantity of carbonic acid gas ; and the number of times it was found necessary to fill and empty the air bulb in order to produce this result shows the proportion of carbonic acid in the atmosphere of the room. The less number of charges of air delivered from the bulb, the greater the proportion of carbonic acid in the air.

By means of instruments of this nature it has been found that the normal quantity of carbonic acid present in the air is about 4 parts in 10,000, and that when as a product of respiration there is so much more carbonic acid added to the air in a room as to make it unpleasant to the nose, the proportion is from 7 to 8 parts in 10,ooo. The nose can stand without offence the addition of 2 parts in 10,000 to the normal, so that the air in a room may carry 6 parts in 10,000. Further experiment has shown that to keep the air in a living room diluted, so that the total proportion of carbonic acid shall not rise above 6 parts in 10,000, requires the introduction of one cubic foot per second per head, or 3,600 cubic feet per hour.

Accepting this standard as sufficiently established for practical purposes, it remains to find out how to introduce fresh air in such a measured quantity and how to provide for warming it. These points will be the subject of a second article.



THE FIRST TECHNICAL SCHOOL AT

OTTAWA.

Under this title a school has recently been established at Ottawa, Ont., to provide instruction in art and handicraft. It is conducted on an independent basis by A. Marion Living, Werner E. H. Noffke, and Sydney B. Johnson. The courses of instruction include industrial Design, Architectural and Machine Drawing, Commercial and Pictorial Illustration.

In the Applied Design class students are taught how to make designs practicable for the printing of wallpapers, silk and cotton dress goods and draperies, oilcloth and linoleum, the manufacture of stained glass, tiling, iron decorations, silverware and wood carving. In the Advanced Design class is taught carpet designing and interior decoration including clay modelling.

Instruction is also given in architectural drawing and planning.

We observe by the prospectus that several well known architects and art workers of Ottawa have given their assistance to the undertaking by attending the Exhibitions and offering suggestions and criticisms upon the work of the students.



BY THE WAY.

Responding on behalf of the R. C. A. to a toast proposed at a luncheon given by the Directors during the recent Toronto Industrial Fair, Messrs. F. McGillivray Knowles, Wylie Grier and Gagen referred to the necessity for a proper fine-arts building, to take the place of the present art gallery at the Fair, which is altogether unsuitable. These gentlemen are doubtless correct in their opinion that the providing of proper accommodation would result in a much finer exhibit, not alone of pictorial subjects, but of the work of architects and designers. In reply the President said that the Exhibition Association were dependent upon the city council for funds with which to erect new buildings.

	x	x	x

Contrary to the opinion which one hears expressed by the majority, an experienced builder of my acquaintance states that he has found it possible to do more substantial brickwork in winter than in summer. He asserts that in frosty weather the mortar becomes as hard as stone, while in the heat of summer it retains to a certain extent its plasticity. The fact is recognized however that the character of mortar is seriously injured by alternate freezing and thawing.

	x	x	x

A pair of houses recently changed owners on one of the principal residential streets of Toronto. Not long after the new owners had taken possession, one of them set to work to built a heavy stone and wood piazza almost across the entire front of his house and extending right out to the sidewalk, thereby shutting out the view of the street which his neighbour formerly might have enjoyed from his front windows, and depreciating the value of his property by at least five hundred dollars. The Toronto Building by-law should contain a provision which would protect property owners from loss and deprivation of their privileges through the whim or selfishness of their neighbours.

		x x x

One of our largest builders some time since amused himself says The Brickbuilder, by making calculations as to how much time he would require with modern machinery and appliances to construct the great Pyramid. Our recollection is that the time was something like sixteen months. This is on the assumption that it was to be constructed of block granite, but if it were to be constructed of brick throughout, he estimated that he could contract to complete the whole inside of nine months. This would be at the rate of something less than one hundred million bricks a month.

	x	x	x

From The Chronicle Fire tables for 1899 it is learned that out of the many thousands of fires which occurred in the United States and Canada, 95,240 in all, during last year, sparks lighted 5,296; lightning, spontaneous combustion caused 1,179, and the 6,981 attributed to incendiaries. But more than causes were referable to defective flues, which to rank highest in the list of causes.

