<doctype type="text">

bins" are not known so well as they ought to be, and the illustrations given herewith are presented in order to show the construction and enable any intelligent mechanic to understand their anatomy. Fig. shows a method of construction where the bin is swung on a pivot, the pivot being shown at N. This pivot or pin may be formed of hardwood, or it may be an iron teat screwed to the side, being first riveted into an iron plate provided with screw holes. If the pivot is of hardwood, it may be inserted from the outside through the case and the bin in such a manner that it may readily be taken out so that the bin proper can be moved at will. The pivot must be placed a little to the front in order to admit of the bin swinging back properly to its place. The dotted lines show the bin when it is tipped so that its contents may be got at readily, the shaded line showing it when closed. Another style of tilting bin is shown at Fig. 6. This method of construction permits



























Fig. 6.—ANOTHER METHOD.





the bin to remain open without being held, whereas, that shown at Fig. requires to be held slightly to keep it open, as it drops to its place automatically by force of gravitation. The method by which it is swung (Fig. 6) is shown at N. Any further description is unnecessary.



While there are many hip roofs all over the country, there are very few of them that are finished over the hips in a

proper or scientific manner. Nothing looks so ugly and unworkmanlike as a hip being finished off with two ridge boards and topped with a roll. A well shingled hip requires no ridge roll, ridge boards or other like contrivances. Fig. 7 shows a method of shingling that is





















FIG. 7.—Showing Ridge BEFORE IT IS SHINGLED.





handsome when finished, and quite effective in turning the water. The dotted lines show where a line has been struck on the roof-boarding, about four inches from the ridge line and parallel with it. In laying the shingles put the corner of each course to the line as shown. The tops of the shingles are then trimmed to correspond with the line, then the hip itself is shingled as shown with the grain of the wood running parallel with the ridge line as shown at Fig. 8. This method of

Shingling Hips.

laying the shingles excludes all danger of curling up as most shingles do that are cut to a point in the usual method of covering hips. At first sight this method has a different look, but when tried in actual practice it will be found easy enough, and every joint will be well broken. The trimming off of the top of the shingles





















FIG. 8.—SHOWING Hip WHEN FINISHED.





must be done of course, on the line of the ridge, and this, together with the proper adjusting of the corner of the first shingle in each course, is the secret to the solution of the whole problem. In covering a roof by this method, it is always best to start the shingling of the hips on the opposite ends of the same side of the roof together, then the line can be drawn from butt to butt, thus insuring uniformity in the weathering of the shingles. A hip-roof finished in this manner always impresses the looker-on with an idea of neatness and tightness. If the roof is painted, the shingles on the hip may be made a different color to the body of the roof, though the colors should not form too strong a contrast. There are many other methods of covering hips— some good, and more not so good- - which may be described and explained in future issues of the

CANAIDIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.







COATINGS FOR DAMP WALLS.

THE Plumber and Decorator is authority for the following: —The wall must be thoroughly cleaned and the plaster renewed if found to be impregnated with so-called "wall nitre" or efflorescence. The surface is then brushed over twice with a 50 per cent. solution of waterglass (silicate of soda), followed after a thorough drying with three coats of the following mixture 100 parts of mastic dissolved in an equal weight of absolute alcohol ; 200 parts of gelatine dissolved in 1,000 parts of water by cold steeping for six hours and subsequent boiling ; 100 parts of 50 per cent. spirit ; and a hot solution of 50 parts of ammoniacum in 250 parts of 50 per cent. spirit, the whole being well stirred and kept warm over the fire for five minutes. It should be freshly prepared for use. When this coating is dry it is overlaid with a coat of oil, or oil-lacquer paint. The sweating or efflorescence of fresh brickwork may be prevented in a similar manner, but substituting distemper or limewash for the oil paint. Newly built walls intended to be prepared can be prevented from sweating by two or three coats of the gelatine solution, which will preserve the paper from discoloration ; and dirty patches arising from smoke, soot, etc., in kitchens and corridors can also be covered over with the same liquid, and so kept from showing through the fresh coat of paint.



Carmine is readily affected by heat, turning to dull brown, and metallic salts have an injurious effect upon it. Exposed to strong light it is not permanent, fading away completely in less than six months, unless well protected.

