<doctype type="text">

ILLUSTRATIONS.

HISTORICAL PANELS IN STEAMER "TORONTO."—MESSRS.



BOND & SMITH, ARCHITECTS: EXECUTED BY



MESSRS. BAILEY & OBEN.



These panels are in the main entrance hall of the R. & 0. steamer "Toronto," and form part of a Canadian historical frieze in old ivory finish low relief. This frieze surmounts a high mahogany dado, and is combined with it by double mahogany Ionic pilasters. The frieze was designed as part of the decorative scheme by Messrs. Bond & Smith, architects, who also designed the entire interior decorations and furniture on the steamer.

The panels were modelled by Mr. Geo. Bailey, of Bailey & Oben. Much credit is due to Mr. Bailey for the clever way in which he has handled the work, the first of its kind in Canada.



INTERIOR OF NEW ROYAL HOTEL, HAMILTON, ONT. W. P.



WITTON, ARCHITECT.



The interior of the hotel has recently been completely remodelled. All plumbing has been replaced, numerous bath rooms put in in connection with bed rooms, and every room decorated. The whole hoase has been refurnished, steam heating and electric light have been installed, and in main hall, bar, reading room and dining room, all plaster work and finish have been replaced. The floors of ground floor, bar and lavatory are mosaic, the wainscot of main hall Mycenian marble, and bar is furnished in mahogany. The main entrance on James street opens into a spacious rotunda with mosiac floor, marble pillars and wainscot and mirrors of plate glass. On the left hand side is the office, with the main entrance and elevator immediately in rear. The staircase is in marble and elaborate open brass work. The elevator is enclosed in elegant grill work. To the right of the rotunda is the reading room Mycenian marble. By the reading room are the news and telegraph office, cigar stand and barber shop. The crowning feature of the rotunda is the palm house with its panelled and arched ceiling, extending into the second or third storey, and enriched by ornamental plaster work.

Directly in rear of the rotunda are the entrances to the main and auxiliary dining halls and the hallway to bar. The dining hail is finished in quartered white oak with parquetry floor of same material, and has a high vaulted ceiling, in panels. The panels are deeply set in enriched borders, and all combine to make an elaborate arch from end to end of the room. Marble columns support the vaulted ceiling, and the walls are set in plate glass. The lighting is done by means of incandescent lights at the base of the arch and hidden from view from the floor of the hall by rich plaster work, all executed by a well-known local firm, Messrs. John Clap-ham & Son. Against the wall all round the room are pilasters, corresponding to the enriched columns, and the spaces between the pilasters are wainscoted. The woodwork throughout is selected and quartered oak. Adjoining the main dining hall and connected with it by four large, double doors is the auxiliary dining hall finished in quartered sycamore.



STAINED GLASS WINDOWS IN NEW MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS,



TORONTO—DESIGNED BY MR. ROBT. MCCAUSLAND.



An illustration of the large stained glass window, which occurs opposite the principal entrance to Toronto's new municipal buildings, appears for the first time in this issue. About three years ago, in response

to a request, a number of designs were submitted for the work, from among which Mr. Robt. McCausland's design was selected, to whom also was intrusted the execution of the glass. In the provision for stained glass, under the specifications, it was the intention to have all of the windows in the main entrance of equal quality, but the architect wisely decided to simplify the others and have a special feature made of the great central window which occupies so commanding a position as seen from the main doorways—hence, without additional outlay a window of consummate beauty is the result. The colour scheme of the glass has been handled with evident fore-knowledge of the requirements, for where accentuation is needed it is happily managed, as for example the brilliant colouring of the Dominion flag, which is placed in the immediate centre of the composition and defines the line of demarcation between the civic and county sides of the building. Numerous lifesize figures, illustrating "The Union of Commerce and Industry," forms the principal theme of the design. In the central panel are two figures, one a female, typifying " Commerce," wearing a civic crown, the Canadian ensign occupying her left hand, while her right is clasped in that of "Industry," which is symbolized by a stone-carver who stands on the steps of a dais. Behind him are his co-workers, the carpenter, ironworker, labourer, &c. The figures in the left panel represent Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, each bearing a distinguishing trophy, and further exemplifying the extent of Toronto's commercial intercourse.

Building and shipping industries are shown by views of the old and new City Halls, and distant vessels while across a broad expanse of sea the sun bursts forth with far-reaching rays of prosperity. The city arms occupy the upper central panel, on either side of which are seated figures indicative of " Peace " and

Honour."

The Romanesque ornamental details of the glass are conspicuously well designed, and being executed in monotone, the more salient features of the design are thus brought into forceful prominence.

The window is of colossal dimensions, each of the three panels measuring about five feet across, its total height being about twenty-four feet. This work marks an epoch in the history of stained glass in Canada and cannot fail to be regarded as one of the most important windows on the continent.



The attention of our readers is directed to the advertisement in another column referring to a newly published work on plumbing and heating, for which Mr. Thos. Henry, Toronto, is the Canadian agent.



WALL PAPER PASTE.—A paste with which wall paper can be attached to wood or masonry, adhering to it firmly in spite of dampness, is prepared, as usual, of rye flour, to which, however, are added, after the boilling, eight and a half grammes of good linseed oil varnish and eight and a half grammes of turpentine to every 500 grammes.



CLEANING OLD BRICKS.—A correspondent of one of the London architectural papers, in describing his method for cleaning old brickwork, states that after the joints were raked Out he had a mason tool the whole face of the brickwork. This, he states, was not costly, but was effectual, as mere scraping would not answer the purpose. Afterward, the brickwork was rubbed down and pointed. Another correspondent discussing the same question stated that he had employed a liquid paint remover, called "Lithicum," which he diluted with water, and after using was washed off with hot water, the work being finally gone over with a wash of vinegar and water.

