<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS EXCHANGE." author="">

Mr. Blight sang with good effect, " Soldiers of the Queen," after which Mr. Aif. McGuire proposed the third toast, " Our City," coupling therewith the name of Mayor Shaw. After a song by Mr. Young of the Aikenhead Hardware Company, the Mayor, in reply to the toast, said that he was born in Toronto and had lived there all his life, and it was by the merest accident that he was not a member of the Builders' Exchange, his father having been a builder and he himself having been in his earlier days an apprentice to the trade. Just here a voice from the company remarked " You've get a better job, John." The Mayor disagreed with the speaker on this point and said that, while he had attained a prominent position, he believed he would have been better off financially had he followed in the footsteps of his father who was a successful builder. He declared that the city government of Toronto was recognized to be a good one, and he believed that good government would continue to prevail. Toronto was never more prosperous than at the present time. New buildings and industries were springing up on every hand which he took to be an evidence of confidence in the city government. He predicted a great future for the city, and in concluding his remarks wished the Builders' Exchange the greatest possible success.

Mr. Neil Burton gave a couple of recitations in excellent style.

Mr. E. F. Clarke, who had in the meantime arrived, then responded to the toast with which his name was identified. He regarded the large attendance at the dinner as an evidence that harmony and good feeling prevailed among those connected with the building industries of the city. He was happy to know that after a period of dull times, this important branch of industry was now sharing in the return of prosperity. Referring to the toast he said that Canada belonged to an Empire of free men, and that for quality and character Canadians are the peers of any people. They had received from the motherland educational and political institutions of the highest order, and in this country there was a chance for every man to obtain a prominent position. As proof of this he referred to the fact that Mr. Alexander Mackenzie, who was by trade a mason, had risen to the position of premier of the Dominion. The fathers of Confederation had the utmost confidence in the future of Canada, " and shall we," said the speaker, " who have witnessed the larger possibilities of the country have less confidence?" With such resources it would be our own fault if we did not work Out the destiny which God had in store for us. The speaker reminded his heroes that this destiny could best be achieved by each individual doing the duty which lay nearest to his hand, and dealing honestly man with man."

Mr. John Hanrahan, chairman of the carpenters' section, proposed the next toast, " The City's Industries." In doing so he said that Toronto was one of the finest cities of the world, and, according to post-office and other statistics, stood first as a business city in the Dominion. He coupled with the toast the name of Mr.

J.	J. Withrow, one of the oldest builders of the city and President of the Industrial Exhibition Association.

Mr. Withrow, in responding said, that if time would permit he would be inclined to become reminiscent, as he, like the Mayor, was a native of Toronto, and had witnessed its wonderful growth. He had had the honor of being for many years, the secretary and afterwards the President of the Builders' Association, which pre

ceded the present Builders' Exchange. At that time the industries of the city were, to a large extent, combined with building. Other industries, like that of the Massey Harris Company are now taking their place. While there would yet be done a considerable amount of building each year, it must be remembered that the city was now, to a large extent, built up, and therefore the build. ing industry could not afford employment to so great an extent as in former years. It should therefore be the purpose of the aldermen to endeavor to encourage the location of industries in the city, and thus provide employment for the people. In conclusion, the speaker referred to the " specification " on the table, and re marked that he never saw a specification so well lived up to. The plan also seemed to have been carefully prepared. He hoped the Builders' Exchange would live on through the years of plenty and also through the years of famine.

Mr. Kirby sang "The Death of Nelson" in a manner which called forth hearty applause, after which the President proposed a toast to the "Ontario Association of Architects," coupling with it the names of Mr. Belcher and Mr. Wickson. He referred to the fact that Mr. Belcher had come all the way from Peterboro' in order to be present on this occasion.

In reply, Mr. Belcher said that exactly twenty-nine years ago he arrived in Canada, and in the following spring first came to Toronto. At that time, the Dominion Bank Building at the corner of Yonge and King streets was in course of construction. He had visited the city on many occasions since, and had marked with pleasure its wonderful progress. To-day for the first time he had entered the new City Hall, a building which reflected the greatest credit on the architect, Mr. Lennox. Osgoode Hall he described as a work of art, and made reference to some other important buildings.

Mr. Wickson followed in a humorous vein. He remarked that he was pleased to have at last found a bill of extras which he could go over without feeling that he was liable to have his innocence taken advantage of by the contractor. He reminded them that contractors, especially masons, were given to "chiselling." He noticed a growing respect on the part of builders for architects, and a disposition, when something good was required, to go to the architects for the designs and plans in preference to undertaking the preparation of them themselves, as was formerly the custom.

Mr. Henry Simpson, architect, whose ability as a ventriloquist is well known, entertained the company, and got off excellent hits on some of the public men and prominent members of the Exchange.

