<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER.	77



ILLUSTRATIONS.

HOUSE FOR MR. BRYDON, ESQUIMAULT, B.C.—J. G. TIARKS,



ARCHITECT.



WAREHOUSE OF THE E. T. WRIGHT CO., HAMILTON, ONT.—



W. W. LACHANCE, ARCHITECT.



DESIGNS FOR ARTISANS' DWELLINGS, SUBMITTED IN A



LIMITED COMPETITION FOR THE SHATTUCK PRIZE



OFFERED BY THE MASSACHUSETTS CHARIT



ABLE MECHANICS' ASSOCIATION.—A.



FRANK WICKSON, ARCHITECT.



<article title="Correspondences." author="WICKSON, A.Frank ">

The author submitted with his designs to the secretary of the committee in charge of the competition, the following memorandum:

DEAR SIR, Competition work in the midst of the year's busy season usually carries with it the liability to suffer from being somewhat hastily rushed through, and before submitting the following memoranda relative to the accompanying plans, allow me to express to your Committee regret at my inability to devote that amount of personal attention to the work which a subject of so much and universal interest demands. I refer more particularly to the details of the design, for in the general scheme adopted in the elevations, of varying the heights of the several blocks and slightly changing the design of each to avoid monotony, there lie, I believe, with proper study, possibilities of a satisfactory treatment.

I beg to briefly draw attention to the following points in the plans to which, I may say, I have paid the more attention

1st. Comparative absence of corridors.

2nd. Privacy, there being generally but two and never more than three apartments opening off one staircase on each floor.

3rd. Every apartment having at least one aspect either on to a large court, or one of the streets, and in the majority of cases having both.

4th. Rooms so arranged that all others opening directly off the living room are easily heated.

5th. In place of laundry tubs in each apartment, there would be a set to each block, with a drying room attached, a small fee being charged for the use of a tub, hot water and the drying room, large washings with no proper place for drying being undesirable.

6th. Staircase halls heated from the same boiler as the laundries and drying rooms.

7th. Basemems fitted with lockers for coal, the same being received through small pavement areas.

8th. Hand-lifts in each staircase.

CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.—The construction would be that described as "Second Class" in the Boston Building Laws, with outer and division walls of brick, partitions of framing, or preferably of the steel and metal lath type, if the cost were not too excessive, and the floors of wood, excepting the first floor of the small six storey portion in the centre of the long sides, which would necessarily be fire proof. The staircases should be of incombustible construction. The exterior would be pressed brick with terra cotta string courses, sills and bed moulds to the cornices, the latter themselves being of metal.



COST OF BUILDINGS AND RETURNS FROM SAME.-—The buildings figured up at cents per cubic foot, or $5.26 per square foot for the five-storey blocks and $4.25 per square foot for the four

	storey blocks would cost	$373,500

	Add value of land	240,000

		$61 3,500



Income from rentals:

176 four-roomed apartments, at $2.50.. $440 per week

	132 three	"		"	2.00...	264

	180 two	"	"		1.50...	270	"

	68 one	"	"	,,	1.00...	68

		$1,042	 "

	On per aunum		$54,184



Allowing $14,184 for running expenses, repair fund, etc., the net revenue would then be $40,000, this being 6.5216166n the capital.

Yours respectfully,

A.	FRANK WICKSON.



<article title=" ETHICS OF DESIGN AND COLOR IN DECORATIONS." author=" Silver, Arthur W. ">

ETHICS OF DESIGN AND COLOR IN

DECORATIONS.*

INASMUCH as design plays so important a part In interior decoration, I may not be Out of place in making a few remarks on the ethics of that portion of our subject.



Somebody has said that a plain sheet of white paper is

more beautiful than any pattern or painting ever worked on it. This statement belongs to the popular class of depreciations that the incompetent have to hurl at those who attempt. If such a statement is true, it is only so in the sense that silence is golden is true. Would knowledge have advanced if all practiced golden silence? If we all had adopted the cult of the white paper, where had art come in 2 Fallacies are the sheet-anchor of matter-of-fact persons. Common sense (as Philistia understands it) is based upon the lack of understanding, whether pattern or politics happened to be concerned. To be satisfied with nothing is the pride of those who cannot obtain anything. Therefore, as we are not satisfied with bare walls, we must have design. If we have design we must endeavor to realize the purpose to which the particular design is applied. The first is to grasp and adhere to the fact that walls are perpendicular and that the surfaces are fiat. Also, let it be continually borne in mind that, almost without exception, a room has its definite purpose. It also contains, as a rule, doors, a fireplace, windows and recesses. The wall spaces are broken up by the fittings, furniture, hangings and pictures. Therefore the continuity' of the design is certain to be interfered with in the ordinary course of things. These conditions are emphatic, and must be accepted and likewise turned to advantage.

Let us briefly consider the various purposes of the various rooms. A sensitive worker is necessarily influenced by different emotions in sympathy with the character of the rooms for which the design is being prepared. It is only by realizing acutely what these are that a fit and proper result can be achieved. For the mistress of a house to superintend the culinary arrangements when attired in evening costume is quite as reasonable as to attempt to take motives suitable for a lady's boudoir and apply them to a design for a kitchen wall paper. The cauliflower and jessamine will not lie down together.

The dining room should suggest breadth, solidity and hospitality; the library a physical repose and an inducement for study ; the drawing room should be stimulating and yet refined in detail; the boudoir should express dainty forms of facile and easy invention, and conduce to the charm of confidential exchanges; the bedroom is for slumber, therefore we do not want nightmares in the flat, nor complete oblivion, but the song of the lullaby in pattern. For the nursery and its innocent, fresh with the breath of life, what genius is too lofty to design for this humble purpose? He would be unworthy the name of "artist" who felt this work beneath him and ignored the opportunity for a never-ending influence in fancy, form and color, associated with the vastly important fairy tale or legend. What a genius of the first rank can do with a fairy story you may all see in Sir E. Burne-Jones' pictures of "The Briar Rose." The possessors of imaginative gifts, who realize their ideas both for the finer and " coarser " arts for the advantage of the little ones, give to them a groundwork of an education ; an education which is as important and permanently influential as it is unconsciously received. Or for

From an address delivered before the Royal Institute of British Architects by Arthur W. Silver.

