<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS." author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



the good of the public, and if they went on there was no necessity for changing the constitution at all. They had failed in securing the legislation asked for, but there was no reason why they should not go on and make the most of their Act in its present form.

Mr. Helliwell regarded the discussion which had been taking place as one of the most important which they had ever had. It had become apparent that the point was reached when they must either sink or swim, and with a view to swimming he thought the suggestions made were exceedingly valuable. He thought Mr. Langton had put the pith of the whole thing into a sentence when speaking of the Toronto Chapter, that if they had a right to exist, let them prove it ; if they had not that right, let them die. He thought that applied equally well to the Association as a whole. A gentleman in conversation with him had remarked that the Council was the whole Association, and that ought not to be, and instanced another society, in the old land, where, while the Council had the responsibility of conducting affairs, yet standing committees were appointed to deal with practical questions and confer with the Council. It seemed to him that some of the questions now brought up might very well be dealt with by such a committee, who would deal with them vigorously and effectively. lie thought it would be a great misfortune to let the Association die a natural death, because, as had been pointed out, there was really nothing to prevent it achieving beneficent results. He sincerely hoped that it would not be allowed to drop without earnest effort to accomplish the practical results which he felt confident were attainable.

Mr. Gemmell said that while the President, the Treasurer and some others were pointing out that it was hardly possible for the Association to do more than eke out an existence on its present resources, Mr. Baker was seeking to inaugurate a kind of new dispensation, and to induce the Association to embark in a number of new projects. No doubt, if there were ample funds in hand, it would be justifiable and perhaps wise to undertake many things. The idea of medals, he thought, was a good one, and something quite in line with the policy pursued by similar associations elsewhere. He thought the most important thing for the present was to raise the fees sufficiently to place the society on a self-sustaining basis, which he thought would enable it to assume a more commanding position in the eyes of the general public. It had been suggested that the term " Registered Architect " had been too much despised, and that if the Association had gone to work with the powers conferred by its Act, without amendment, and stuck to it, they might have found themselves nearer the realization of their hopes than was now the case. He advocated proceeding now on those lines, by endeavoring in all available ways to educate the public and the rising generation of architects, and he hoped that the younger members of the profession would throw in their lot with the Association, and try to make the title " Registered Architect" so distinctive that in time the government would without pressure see the wisdom of passing some such legislation as that which had been sought, but thus far without success. The immediately pressing point, he thought, was, "What can be done to prevent the continuance of this leaking away of the funds of the Association?"

Mr. Wickson believed that if every member would make use of the title '' Registered Architect" on his office stationary, his sign and in other available ways, the public would be led to inquire the meaning of the title, and in that way would come to know more about the Association and its objects than they did now. He quite agreed with the policy of accepting the situation, and going to work under the powers they possessed and making the most of them.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, was unable to agree with the inferences apparently drawn by Mr. Bond from the experience he had related regarding the Royal Institute men who had shown themselves lacking in ability. It was not reasonable to argue that failure was the result of too much education instead of too little ability. At the time when he first accepted the

registrarship of the Association he had done so without any great degree of enthusiasm as to its educational features, but in the performance of the duties devolving upon him in that office he had grown to regard the educational scheme as something of great value to the public. At present, however, it was out of the question to hope to secure that amendment to the act, for those with whom the power of making the amendment lay did not seem able to understand that it was possible that the Association desired the amendment for motives of public spirit and not for some selfish ulterior reason. There was, therefore, nothing for it but to accept the situation and make the best of it. He was thoroughly in accord with the views of the young men, of whom he accounted himself one, that architecture is an art. He would go so far as to say that no man could be a good constructor who was not an artist. If it is to be a question of talking about the art of architecture he would always be glad to attend meetings Now that they were forced to abandon the idea of securing the amendment, he thought their object should be to strengthen and draw closer the bonds which held together the best and most thoughtful members of the profession, and to devote themselves to educate the public in a just appreciation of that which was best in architecture.

Mr. Bond disclaimed any intention whatever of decrying the value of education, but desired to point out that the passing of examinations and the holding of certificates or diplomas did not necessarily afford indisputable proof of the competency of their holder. He was fully in accord with the other ideas put forward by Mr. Langton.

Mr. Baker thought Mr. Bond ought to withdraw his statement. That gentleman had met two members of an association who had proved to be incompetent. He would undertake to produce for Mr. Bond 100 men who were not members of any association who were most utterly ignorant and lacking in qualification.

Mr. Bond said he had no intention whatever of casting any slur upon the institution in question, but was merely drawing attention to an instance which had come under his notice.

Mr. Gemmell said he had heard that not less than six or seven of the young men brought up under thc influence of the Ontario Association had been able to take and hold positions in the city of New York and other parts of the United States, with credit to themselves and to thc Association. He was not able to give the names, having merely heard it mentioned incidentally.



Mr. Wells said there was no doubt that was true, but he thought thc young men themselves were entitled to a certain degree of the credit, their success being due in a very large measure to their own effort.



Mr. Bond said that while he did not wish to appear ungrateful to the Association, he felt bound to say that he had learned more by burning the ''midnight oil'' arid in sketch clubs than other ways, and he thought students all derived the greatest good from their own individual effort.



Mr. Langton was glad Mr. Bond had raised that point, because among the good things the President had enumerated of the Association, he had not mentioned that, in drawing up the curriculum, it had made a list of things that an architect ought to know, which was very helpful in directing individual study and effort. Speaking for himself, lie was glad to acknowledge that he had been very much helped by merely assisting to draw up that curriculum.



Mr. Burke said that something must be done in order to avoid the defection of members. Members complained that the Association was run on lines that were too expensive. He found that many objected to keeping up their membership for this reason. Others thought they were not reaping any material benefit, and as they did not see any cash value in the concern to them, refused to pay their fees. He was forced to the conclusion that unless some radical change is adopted the income of the Association would not be sufficient to meet the expenses, and a constant deficit would result. The only way to make ends meet, with the prospective small income at our disposal, would he to have no paid officers, the work being done by an honorary secretary, and expenses cut down to a minimum. Certainly the work of the Association cannot he carried on indefinitely if it is to he

conducted on the existing lines. That was something which could not be ignored. He thought thc suggestion of Mr. Wickson, as to making use of the title " Registered Architect ' on signs and letter-heads, &c., was a good one. If the members agreed as an association to adopt that course he thought it would have the effect of inducing these members to keep up their subscriptions as a matter of self protection, which would provide the funds necessary to carry on some of the desired projects.

Mr. Wickson, following on the line of Mr. Burke's remarks,

