<doctype type="text">

<article title=" LUXFER PRISMS." author="">



LUXFER PRISMS.

Application has been made for a charter by a company which proposes to take over the business of the Luxfer Prism Company, of Toronto, and conduct the same on a more extensive scale. The new company which will have a capital of $400,000, have putchased a site for a new factory on King street west, and in addition to the manufacture of luxfer prisms will make artistic iron work and other building materials.

<article title=" MARITIME CLAY WORKS." author="">

MARITIME CLAY WORKS.

The Maritime Clay Works, Limited, of which Mr. Robert Brownell, of Truro, is general manager, is the name of a new concern which is about to begin the manufacture of clay building materials at Pugwash, Nova Scotia, where the company control extensive deposits of the finest clay. The company's new works comprise a main building, 60 x 61 feet, dryers 6o x too feet filled with steam tunnels, 15 kilns, boiler and engine room. From sixty to one hundred men will be employed, including experienced clay workers from the United States. The class of goods manufactured, will embrace building and ornamental bricks, hollow building blocks, terra cotta, fire bricks, and tiling of all kinds.

<article title=" FIREPROOF WINDOWS." author="">

FIREPROOF WINDOWS.

IN our last issue appeared an article upon " Safety from Fire in Hotels," mention being made therein of the desirability of having the end of every passage open upon a balcony. " Over the door to the balcony," it was stated, " may be, framed in iron, heavy glass of the luxfer prism order, sufficient to illuminate the passage, but not likely to be soon injured by heat." Since this was written, more particulars about the fire-proofing product of the Luxfer Prism Co. are to hand.

A brick test-house, assuming the nature of a furnace, was furnished with a large window made of 4-inch plate glass squares, glazed electrolytically in copper by the luxfer prism process. The test was witnessed last February by Fire Chiefs Bonner and Dale of Brooklyn, and Superintendent Anderson of the New York Board of Fire Underwriters, and a number of insurance experts, architects and builders. About one-fourth of a cord of pitch pine, mixed with resin, was piled on the grated floor. The match was applied and a few minutes later the great draft had raised the flames to such an extent that the plate glass was red hot. The rest of the story is from " The Insurance Press

"At that stage Chief Dale ordered his men to turn the water on, and the windows were cooled and the fire was damped. Then the doors of the structure were opened and the windows examined. They were found intact. The insurance experts then desired that the test be continued, and more resin and wood were piled in, and very quickly the terrific heat within made itself evident. The plate glass was cracked, but every square remained intact in its copper frame and did not even move before the full force of the hose when the fire was extinguished. Fire Chiefs Bonner and Dale, Mr. Anderson and Architect Le Brun expressed themselves as highly satisfied with the fire-resisting qualities of the

Luxfer Prism Company's plate glass squares. The heat attained was more than 2,400 degrees Fahr." We may add that this and other similar experiments in New York and Chicago were made after the discovery that luxfer prisms successfully withstood the ravages of fire and water in buildings where disastrous conflagrations had occurred.

<article title=" MANTELS AND GRATE FITTINGS." author="">

MANTELS AND GRATE FITTINGS.

In the show rooms of Messrs. Rogers & Son, Toronto, is a mantel of chase design, made of enamelled whitewood. The space immediately above the grate is filled in with glass and pearl mosaic set in white cement, the cement backing being held by an iron frame. A design in suitable colored glass serves to relieve the surface of the white glass mosaic. The top of the grate opening is bordered with brass, plated with gold, the andirons being of the same material. It is gratifying to know that the Toronto Ornamental Iron Co. have successfully made some wrought iron grate fixtures for the above firm, and that in future the attempt will be made to produce in Canada goods of this class which have always in the past been imported from abroad.

The craze for cheapness which prevails to so large an extent in this day is an obstacle in the way of firms who attempt to produce original and artistic goods in this and other lines. The masses appear to be satisfied with any kind of imitation, so long as it is cheap, and many manufacturers, with a keen eye for profits have planned to meet the demand by appropriating whereever they find opportunity, the designs of the better grade goods and by machine carving and other processes cheapening the cost of production to the required extent. To such a degree has this become the practice that the manufacturer of a well designed piece of furniture dare not give the same exhibition in a public window. Happily there is a more limited demand for all well designed and properly manufactured goods. Let us indulge the hope that with the increase of culture and wealth in this country will come public perception of merit and the distaste for shams.

<article title=" THE COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF CONCRETE " author="">

THE COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF

CONCRETE.*

AS DETERMINED BY TESTS MADE AT MCGILL UNIVERSITY.



CONCRETE, especially in the construction of piers and foundations, is coming every year into more extensive use. It is therefore desirable to determine its strength, and more particularly the resistance to crushing, as it is to a compressive force that it is most often subjected. The results of very few tests with this end in view are given in any of the treatises on concrete or building materials, or in the engineering journals. A few results may be found, but they are scattered and very irregular, and little information can be obtained from them.

During the past three years a few tests have been carried on by the students of civil engineering at McGill University, The first series, two years ago, was to determine the effect of different percentages of water upon the strength, and the best percentage to use. This was found to be about 20 per cent. of the sand and cement. Last year tests were made comparing the strengths of concretes made respectively from an English Portland and a German one. This year tests



From a paper by W. B. Anderson, Stud. Can. Soc. C. E., read Thursday, March 16th, 1899.

