<doctype type="text">

<article title=" STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT." author=" GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD,R.W.">

certificate is granted fraudulently. That is, it the builder has in collusion with the architect presented a certificate that is not honestly due, the owner may refuse payment, but he must establish the charge of fraud against the architect to succeed, and Lord Herschell has said

Fraud is proved when it is shown that a false representation has been made: (1) Knowingly or (2) Without belief in its truth or (3) Recklessly—- careless, whether it be false or true." A false statement is not necessarily fraudulent a false statement may be made in error, in an honest belief that it is truth, and where that is the case it is not fraudulent. An architect may be misled by the statement of the builder and grant a certificate in consequence ; it has been held that such action on the part of the architect was not fraudulent.

With regard to plans and specifications an architect cannot be held liable for inaccuracies ; he may make mistakes due even to gross negligence, but, unless he wilfully misrepresents and thereby purposely deceives the contractor, he is not liable. The contractor to be relieved from carrying out that for which he has contracted must prove fraud on the architect's part. Serious discrepancies, through negligence, have been found to exist between the drawings and the specifications, certain things shown on the drawings but omitted from the specifications the contractor, however, is prevented from claiming extra payment by the clause which states that the drawings and specifications together form the contract. In a specification of a house all reference to flooring was omitted. The contractor provided the material because it was shown on the drawings, but refused to lay it without additional charge. Judge Pollock said, in delivering judgment, "that the flooring of a house cannot be considered an extra any more than the doors or windows." "The contract," said Channell, B., "is that the HOUSE should be completed, not that the works herein before mentioned should be completed."

Just a note on " Penalties" and " Liquidated Damages." it the word '' penalty " is used for the amount to be forfeited by the contractor if he fails to complete the work within a certain time, it necessitates the employer proving the damage or loss he has sustained but, if the expression be "liquidated damages," the contractor in default must pay the amount mentioned without further investigation.

I have refrained from citations in the foregoing notes, but, in conclusion, let me say, that every point brought out is the result of an actual lawsuit in each case, and the decisions stand as precedents for all time.

R.	W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.





THE CHICAGO SKETCH CLUB.

IF we may judge by the programme of the meetings, the Chicago Architectural Sketch Club is conducted on unique lines. The notice for the meeting on Feb. 27th read as follows:

CONTINUOUS VAUDEVILLE AND DRAMA.

Curtain rises at 8 p.m. sharp.	"Chaser" at 2 p.m.

First performance of the roaring Comedy.

"THE NEW DRAUGHTSMAN."

Specially written for the occasion by

MR.

and presented with marvelous stage settings and gorgeous scenery under the personal direction of the author.

A number of bright and catchy vaudeville " turns" will be put on before and after the drama.

	Eatables.	Drinkables.

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

THE regular monthly meeting of the Toronto Chapter of the O.A.A. was held on Monday evening, March 13th, in the form of a dinner at McConkey's. Mr. Helliwell, the chairman, was unable to be present through illness, and as Mr. Baker, the vice-Chairman, had the management of the affair on his hands, Mr. Edmund Burke was asked to take the chair, which he did to the satisfaction of all.

After the business of the meeting was disposed of, Mr. J. A. Duff, of the School of Practical Science, was called upon, and responded with an address upon the subject of the value of official tests of building materials, and, as usual, he handled his subject in a masterly manner. He confined his remarks to timbers, and read paragraphs on the subject from the American Government Reports, extending over the last ten years. About the beginning of that period engineers had been impressed with the evident fact that the methods of calculating stresses in timbers employed at that time, the system of employing factors of safety, etc., partook largely of the nature of guess work, owing to the manner of establishing coefficients for the different woods. 'The specimens upon which tests were made were simply taken from timbers of the different kinds in lumber yards and without considering the age of the tree, locality of growth, nature of soil, time of year cut, etc., etc., and without knowing anything of the stick, except its kind and whether green or dry.

It was thereupon decided to commence a series of systematic tests of timbers, and the U.S. Government having made an appropriation, competent botanists were despatched to different localities and trees marked, full data being kept of all surrounding conditions. It was at first supposed that the method of testing small sticks, say x" square and 12" inches long, was not a safe one, and machinery for testing large timbers was secured, but experiments proved that the testing of small pieces produced practically the same results. It was also thought that the manner of drying, whether naturally or artificially, affected the strength, but it was found that this made no difference, and that the extracting of the turpentine from yellow pine did not affect its strength.

The importance of observing the growth rings on the cross section of the logs was referred to, conclusions being drawn from the amount of spring and summer growth, which could easily be detected by the sappy nature of the former and the density of the latter; finally, reading from the latest reports, the speaker showed how accurately calculations can be made with the information now in hand, pointing out that the formulae for compression strains could be used with slight variations for the calculation of all others. He had made tests at the School, after calculating the strength of the stick, which proved how close calculation can be made, with sufficient data, to the actual strength.

After some discussion by the members, a vote of thanks was extended to Mr. Duff.

Mr. C. H. C. Wright, of the School, followed Mr. Duff and more briefly touched on the testing of stone, brick and cement, stating that the tests of brick piers, already made by the School, had been of great use in establishing standards of this material. He spoke of further tests now in progress, of which reports would be forthcoming later. He expressed the thanks of the staff of the School to the Ontario Association of Architects, who had taken the steps which he hoped would bring about the thorough official testing of Canadian building materials, so that standards might be established which would benefit all classes of the community.

An adjournment was made at 10. 15 p.m., after one of the most successful meetings of the year.

