<doctype type="text">

80	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



true should this he of men about to become priests in the church which created or directed, or ministers in the church which inherits these glories of mediaeval art. Any one not conversant with the facts would confidently expect every little up country parish or mission church, as well as the more important edifices to bear some impress of the splendid associations amidst which the officiating clergy were reared. So far from this proving to be the case, one finds almost as little to admire, or rather, almost as much to disgust, in the sorry apologies erected under their auspices, as in those built by those branches of the church which lack the romantic traditions and noble heritage of the Romans and the Anglicans.

Why should nearly every building committee with its priest, parson or minister at the head, deem it necessary to place tin pinnacles on wooden boxes all painted and sanded with the too evident intention of hoodwinking the Architect of the Universe into mistaking them for massive stone? It is not merely very ridiculous, but worse still, savours almost of blasphemy. Wooden walls barely 6" thick contain openings with wooden arches and, oh ! shade of William of Wykeham ! those openings are not infrequently filled with wooden tracery. Roofs are covered with stamped tin tiles and imitation shingles, wooden label moulds are spiked onto weather boards; wretched imitation is heaped on wretched imitation until it might reasonably be deducted from this multiplication of absurdities that the building is dedicated to a great God of Sham; one lives in apprehension of seeing hollow rustic weather boarded flying buttresses and lath and plaster fan vaulting added to this already formidable list of absurdities.

Is it necessary that church builders should ape "Gothic" in the senseless, soulless manner which poses for Gothic that is? There probably are scarce a score of architects in Europe who can successfully reproduce that lost chord, for the workmen of the middle ages carried the secret of their art with them to the grave, and the machine-made, eight-hour-a-day mechanic of these days cannot recover it the trade unionist and the Gothic worker have no resemblance—nothing in common. It is impossible, absolutely and undeniably impossible, to invest our work in this very prosaic brand new country with the charm and mystery with which the devout builders of the Old World imbued their creations. The fault, or difficulty, call it what you will, lies with the changed times, with the altered conditions of life and thought, facts which our church builders would do well to accept once and for all, and by directing their efforts with a due regard for these altered conditions they will, in time, produce something more worthy of the age in which they work.

Architecture is the history related in stone of a nation art and literature stamp its intellectual level and mark its standard with unfailing truth what has the Christian Church in Canada produced in the nature of ecclesiastical architecture to save her from oblivion? Judged by the standard of our places of worship, what will be thought of the religious devotion and artistic perception of the people who were satisfied with them?

It is strange indeed to find the Church setting an example least to be expected from such a source by substituting cheap sham for the truth our forefathers only built just so much of a cathedral or a church as they could afford to build, adding to or enlarging and beautifying as their resources permitted; or they built a portion, the nave or perhaps but an aisle of an ambitious scheme which occupied centuries to develop; thus it is that one of the most charming of studies in the whole range of architecture is that of archaeology, tracing the origin and growth, the vicissitudes, the gradual advance towards fulfillment and—decay, of an old church building. How different is the story of a modern church

—rushed up with an almost indecent haste on the lump sum contract principle with one desire only uppermost, to get the job paid for debt frequently nearly overwhelms the congregation. Sometimes a church is erected and financed on joint stock principles. Think of that! seeking heaven by means of a few shares in a Joint Stock Co.!!

Poverty is the hackneyed excuse trotted out as the cause of the present pitiable condition of ecclesiastical architecture, but in the face of all the expenditure wasted on bad imitation and on fake ornament such a plea cannot be accorded any consideration. An utter failure to realize the appropriate and the fit, a desire for decorative features at any cost, even of stability, together with an apparent reluctance to trust to the generosity or to the piety of future generations to carry on and complete any work we may commence, impels the rash erection of a work in a season which might with great advantage have been allowed a century to develop in.

That the immediate descendants of that race which has made France famous as the mother of so many great artists in stone, should be so blind to the elevating influences of art is even more astonishing than the apathetic attitude of the British section of the people, whose apathy the writer believes to be largely due to the survival of the old Puritanical feeling already alluded to. And yet it is not by their sins of omission that her church builders have offended and continue to offend, as by their infinitely more awful sins of commission—Catholics and Anglicans, Methodists and Presbyterians all show themselves nearly equally lacking in a sense of what constitutes architectural dignity, beauty and repose.

It is not so much my desire to discover or to assign a reason for this indifference as to draw attention to it and its evil results, that it may be fought against and overcome. Perishable as most of our modern buildings are, they will endure long enough to exercise a baneful influence on the habits of taste that do duty with most people for educated or cultivated taste. The more solid constructions may unfortunately remain for an indefinite period to mark the decadence of art in the oldest colony of two peoples almost equally distinguished by their mediaeval architecture and whose modern work shows every sign of a reawakening. It is not too much to say that the ecclesiastical architecture now existing in the Dominion will convey lessons only of a decidedly negative description to the future student of archaeology.

There is some comfort to he derived from the thought that our machine-made galvanized iron pinnacles, bosses, cornices and what not, will quickly perish with stamped metal shingles, ceilings and other rubbish, and as this painted and sanded "ornament " is not infrequently supported on the slightest of substructures the decay of this same barbaric "ornament

implies the possibly early dissolution our " sacred edifices." It is impossible to hope that many of the young architects upon whose endeavors the future of Canadian architecture rests will be able to enjoy the great pleasure and innumerable advantages derivable from a few years sojourn among the works of the giants of the past, for the study of ancient buildings is of incontestable value to the student, representing as these do what has been aptly described as the accumulated experiences of past ages; but a healthy regard for the appropriate utilization of materials and astern refusal to countenance a cheap and flimsy mockery of detail which well nigh defies repetition even in living hands working on honest materials, will do much to lift us out of the abyss into which we are fallen. When necessary to build with great economy let them learn to build honestly in those simple lines and measures which confer dignity of purpose, and leave the rest to the future. One beautiful piece of window painting is of more true worth than acres of gaudy meaningless stained glass so commonly found in Canada. Let it be impressed upon the young architect that restraint is a tar finer trait than fussy effusiveness; they in their turn may do something to impress this upon the laity, and then there may indeed arise a hope for a national architecture, worthy of ourselves, worthy of the two grand races that began Canada.

ROBERT M. FRIPP.





LEGAL.



RAT PORTAGE LUMBER Co. V. AHLBERG.—Chadwick, assignee for benefit of creditors of defendant Ahlberg, appealed from certificate and finding of local Judge at Rat Portage in a summary proceeding to enforce a mechanics' lien. The plaintiff supplied lumber to defendant Ahlberg in June, 1897, and then registered a lien against the land. There were three mortgages against the land, amounting to $1,800. Plaintiffs proceeded under section 31 R. S. 0., ch. 153, against both defendants, Ahlberg having after registration of lien assigned for creditors. The lands were sold for less than the amount dime under mortgages. The local Judge found that Chadwick was properly added as a party. The mortgage sale took place in November, 1897, and the assignee contends that the plaintiffs should then have proved their claim against the estate, and not proceeded with the action, because the lien had ceased to exist, and also that the mortgagees should have been made parties to the lien proceedings, and that the costs of a proceeding like this should be saddled in the estate against the other creditors. Appeal dismissed with costs.



Objection has been made by the architects of Hamilton to the city building inspector being allowed to enter into competition with them by preparing specifications and superintending building contracts.

