<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">	

228	THE	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



cupants of the same, shall be deemed a nuisance, and any person who shall commit such nuisance, or permit the same to be committed, or shall neglect or refuse to abate the nuisance after being notified to do so, shall be liable for the penalty prescribed in section 169 of this by-law.

HEARTHS AND FIRE PLACES.



SECTION 86.—The hearths of all fire places in buildings of the second and third class shall be supported on trimmer arches of brick or terra cotta, said arches to be not less than four inches thick, and having the crown of the arch not less than two inches below the level of the floor.



Or the hearths of said fire places may be supported on iron bars, placed between and firmly secured to the wood floor joists and trimmers, the top of said bars to be not less than six inches below the level of the floor on these bars not less than two courses of brick or terra cotta or concrete shall be laid, in mortar or cement, and the joists in the same thoroughly flushed with mortar or cement.



The hearths of fire places, whether of marble, slate, stone or tile, shall be laid upon the trimmer arches or brickwork or cement before described in cement.



All hearths and trimmer arches or brick foundations for hearths of fire places shall be at least twelve inches larger, on each side than the width of the fire place opening and shall be at least eighteen inches wide in Front of the chimney breast.



The jambs and backs of all fire places, whether using coal, wood, or gas, as fuel, shall be at least eight inches thick of brickwork; the brickwork over the fire place opening, shall be arched and supported on a cambered iron bar. Fire place openings that are not used, but which have smoke pipes entering into flue of same above the opening, must be closed by means of an iron damper in the throat of fire place opening securely fixed.



The flue from a fire place in which gas only is used as fuel, may be a cast iron or fire clay pipe not less than four inches internal diameter, and such pipe shall be carried Out to above the roof, and shall be incased in brickwork not less than four inches thick. If this pipe is not imbedded in a stone or brick or terra cotta wall, then the pipe must be properly encased with asbestos.



HEARTHS BELOW STEAM BOILERS, FURNACES AND RANGES.



SECTION 87.—No steam boiler or furnace for manufacturing purposes, or any range, stove, oven, or boiler used for cooking in a hotel, restraurant, or club house, shall be placed on any floor above the cellar unless the same is set upon steel or iron beams and brick or terra cotta arches, and shall have a hearth of brick or terra cotta laid in cement ; said hearth shall extend in front of said range, stove or oven, for a distance of not less than two feet, and at sides and back not less than one foot.



In no case shall such boiler, furnace, range, stove or oven, be used until the same Shall have been examined and approved by the inspector, and a certificate obtained.

Any wood floor below a hot water furnace shall be protected by a hearth of brickwork laid in cement or mortar, and said hearth shall extend in front, sides and back of the furnace at least eighteen inches.



COOKING OR HEATING STOVES.



SECTION 88.—.-Cooking or heating Stoves shall be kept clear of any woodwork at least eight inches, unless the woodwork is protected by bright metal shields, in which case the distance shall not be less than six inches. Below all such stoves resting on wood floors there shall be a metal plate, and said plate shall project in front of and all around the stove at least twelve inches.



SMOKE PIPES.



SECTION 89.—No smoke pipe shall project through any externa1 wall or window or roof.



No smoke pipe shall pass through a wood or stud partition, except through a metal ring, built around with brickwork or terra cotta, for a distance of not less than four inches from said ring, or through a double metal collar of the same thickness as the partition, the said collar to have a ventilated air space of not less than two inches around the pipe.



No smoke pipe shall be placed nearer to any woodwork than eight inches, unless such wood is plastered or covered with tin. If the wood, in addition to the plastering, is protected by a metal shield placed two inches distant from the wood, the smoke pipe may be placed within six inches of the wood.



No smoke pipe shall pass through a wooden floor except in a double metal collar, extending the full depth of the joists, floor and ceiling, said collar to have a ventilated air space of not less than two inches around the pipe, and be fitted at the floor and ceiling with metal flanges.

Any smoke pipe from a steam boiler or from a furnace in which the flue is heated to a high temperature shall be kept clear of any woodwork at least twenty inches and such woodwork must be protected by metal shields in such manner as will render it safe from fire. If the pipe is covered with "asbestos" or other good non-conductor, or if it is made double, with a space of at least one inch between the metal of the two pipes, it may be placed within twelve inches of woodwork, subject to the approval of the inspector.



HOT AIR FURNACES.



SECTION 90.—Hot air furnaces, whether enclosed in brickwork or by metal casings, shall, unless resting directly upon the ground, rest upon hearths not less than four inches thick, made of stone or brick, laid in cement or mortar, and said hearths shall extend not less than two feet in front of the furnace.



Hot air furnaces shall be placed at least eighteen inches from any wooden partition, or from a wood or plaster ceiling, unless the partition or ceiling is protected by a metal shield, in which case the distance shall not be less than one foot.



Cold air boxes connecting with a hot air furnace shall be made of metal for a distance of not less than three feet from the furnace.



Pipes for conveying heated air from a hot air furnace shall be made of bright tin. No hot air pipe shall be carried above the level of the ground floor of any building, unless the same be encased in brickwork or terra cotta not less than four inches thick.



No pipe from a hot air furnace shall pass through a wood or stud partition, except in a metal ring, surrounded with brickwork or other incombustible material, or in a double metal collar as described in section 89.



The openings in floors for hot air registers shall be surrounded with borders of incombustible materials not less than two inches wide, and firmly and securely set in place, and bedded in plaster of Paris.



The register boxes shall be of metal and double, and. the space between the two thicknesses of metal shall not be less than one inch.



PIPES AND REGISTERS FOR WARM AIR OF MODERATE TEMPERATURE.



Where air is heated by contact with steam or hot water pipes, or in a furnace which does not heat the air over 100 degrees Fahrenheit, the air may be carried in pipes made of other metal than tin, and the double metal register boxes described in the preceding section may be omitted. Should such pipes pass through a wood or stud partition, they are to be kept clear of the woodwork at least two inches. Hot air furnaces and pipes, registers, etc., in connection with same for heating purposes in dwelling houses or other buildings, shall be so constructed as to avoid any danger of fire, and shall not be used until the inspector's certificate shall have been obtained.



SECTION 91.—All metal pipes conveying steam which have to pass through a wood floor or partition, shall only do so in a metal sleeve or thimble, and there shall be a space of one quarter of an inch between the pipe and thimble.



Steam pipes passing through joists or other timbers shall only do so in a metal sleeve or thimble, and there shall be a space of at least one-fourth of an inch between the pipe and thimble.



SECTION 92.—If a steam pipe passes nearer to a joist or other timber than two inches, the said timber shall be protected by a metal shield or casing, but in no case shall the pipe be nearer to the wood than one-half inch.



FLOORS.



SECTION 93.—The floors in all buildings hereafter erected, or floors in existing buildings which may be renewed, shall be so constructed as to carry safely the weight to which the proposed use of the building will subject them, but the least capacity per superficial square foot, exclusive of the materials in the floor, shall be as follows: For floors of dwellings, 70 pounds; for floors of offices, 100 pounds; for places of public assembly and schools 125 pounds; warehouses, stores, factories, or buildings for any other manufacturing or commercial purposes, 150 and upwards, according to the use for which they are intended.



STRENGTH OF FLOORS TO BE CALCULATED.



In all warehouses, storehouses, factories, workshops and stores where heavy materials are kept or stored, or machinery introduced, the weight that each floor will safely sustain upon each superficial foot thereof, shall, within ninety days after the passage of this by-law, be estimated by a competent person employed by the owner or occupant. But if the inspector shall have cause to doubt the correctness of said estimate, he is empowered to revise and correct the same, and for the purpose of each revision, he and

