<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL CLUBS." author="">	

116	THE CANADIAN	AND	BUILDER.



ARCHITECTURAL CLUBS.

ARCHITECTURAL societies naturally, owing to the different fields of usefulness in which they operate, have divided into two classes—those that look after the professional interests of their members and those whose members look after the interest of architecture as an art. True, some of the former have endeavored to do both, but never to the satisfaction of those who espouse the cause of the latter in fact, it was this dissatisfaction which led to the establishment of the latter. Now, however, clubs that look after architecture as an art hold an acknowledged position with the loyal support of the clubs that look after the professional interests of their members, and find that their interests in no way conflict, but rather supplement and assist one another.

Architectural clubs that look after the interest of architecture as an art are not so long nor so systematically organized as those that guard the professional interests of their members, and consequently have objects and aims that are not widely understood, while their own work has an educational influence which keeps constantly extending their usefulness. Their object is the promotion of good designing and draughting, with a practical knowledge of the many subjects with which an architect is called upon to deal ; to bring together the architect, sculptor, painter and art worker that they may learn of one another, harmonize their points of view, and work together on the opportunities that occur and may be made to occur by being brought under each other's influence. An unexpected, but very far reaching—on might almost say—duty, has devolved upon them, the performing of which is sometimes resented, sometimes looked upon with suspicion and sometimes accepted with thanks, but will no doubt yet be sought when its aim is thoroughly understood and appreciated. This is their influence in municipal affairs where opportunities and money are invariably not only wasted, but used to blemish our cities, of which we are all proud. Why should not schools be structures of good taste and refining influence? Would it not be part of the education? It does not mean more money but more thought of the proper kind likewise the beautifying of parks, the grouping where possible of public buildings and the decorating of same already built or building. Again, opportunities of beautifying cities are often lost by it being no one's business to advocate them or point them out; this architectural clubs make their's, and watch all opportunities with the object of suggesting and assisting when possible. In a word, to the outside citizen the architectural club is a body whose members are by training and occupation, in a position to speak and be listened to on matters of civic improvements. With these views, and with some, these experiences, more than one hundred members of architectural clubs met in Cleveland, Ohio, on June 2nd and 3rd last, representing thirteen clubs having had one visiting delegate as follows:

Boston Architectural Club.	Irving T. Guild.

Architectural League of New York.	Julius F. Harder,

Society of Beaux-Arts Architects. New York.	John E. Howe.

Pittsburg Architectural Club.	John Comes.

Pittsburg Chapter, A.t.A.	W. I. East.

Detroit Architectural Sketch Club.	J. W. Case.

Chicago Architectural Club.	Joseph C. Llewellyn.

St. Louis Architectural Club.	William II. Ittner.

Cleveland Chapter, A. I A.	Charles W. Hopkinson'

Cleveland Architectural Club.	Herbert B. Briggs.

Toronto (Canada) Architectural Club.	J. P. Hynes.

T.Square Club of Philadelphia.	Adin B. Lacey.

Illinois Chapter, AlA.	P. B. Wight.



The programme was as follows



FIRST DAY, FRIDAY JUNE 2ND.



9 A.M.—Registration of delegates, rooms of the Cleveland Architectural Club.

to A.M.—Meeting opened by President of Cleveland Architectural Club Mr. Albert

E.	Skeel. Mr. j. C. Liewellyn, President of the Chicago Architectural

Club was then elected chairman of convention, and Mr. N. Max Dunning,

Sec. of Chicago Arch. Club, secretary. The chairman then outlined the

object of the convention.

Roll call.

Appointment of press committee.

t.	(a) "Club Organization and Management." Adlin S. Lacey, '1'. Sq. Club.

(b)	Resume of club work. Outline from each delegate giving short history and concise statement of his club's work and organization. (Remarks limited to three minues

 each

Discussion.



2.	(a) "The Annual Exhibition." Mr. Henry W. Tomlinson, Ex. Comm.

C.	A. A.

Discussion.

(b)	Appointment (on motion) of committee to arrange schedule and circuit for exhibitions for 1900. Also to make arrangements for lodges, packing, shipping, etc.

(c)	Appointment of National Exhibtion Committee (by nomination) to solicit foreign exhibits.

3.	Paper: "Code Governing Competitions." Mr. J. F. Harder, Archt. l.eague, N.Y.

Discussions.

4.	General discussions (and references to committees) of such subjects as may develop at the convention.

8 P.M. — "The Grouping of Public Buildings." Mr. H. K. Bush-Brown, Archt. League, N.Y.

SECOND DAY, SATURDAY JUNE 3RD.



10 A.M.—Meeting called to order.

		Roll call.

		Reports of committees.

(a)	"The Architectural Society and its Progressive Influence." Mr. Albert Kelsey, T Sq Club, Phil.

(b)	Letters from schools as in the educational scope and province of Architec

		 tural clubs.

	2.	" The Modern Phase of Architecture." Mr. Louis H. Sullivan, C. A. A.

	3.	"The Ope ation of the Illinois license Law" Mr. P. B. Wight, Secy.

		 State Board of Examining Architects.

	4.	Open for general discussions



The programme of entertainment as outlined by the Cleveland Club was as follows



Friday afternoon, a Tally Ho rule to points of architectural interest in Cleveland.

Saturday, a visit to the Olney Art Gallery.

Saturday evening, a reception and banquet at the rooms of the Century Club, on the 15th floor of the New England building.



TOASTS.



Herbert B. Briggs, Cleveland,

Toastmaster.

Welcome	.	.	.		Benj. S. Hubbell, Cleveland.

Music.

Response . . . . . The New President.

					Albert Kelsey Philadelphia.

Music.

"What We Gain by Concerted Movement," . Win. B. Ittner, St. Louis.

Music.

Reciprocity between Architectural Clubs ant Architectural Publications,"

	Music.	Irving T. Guild, Boston.

The Architectural School from an Architect's Standpoint,"

Geo. R. Dean, Chicago.



These deliberations resulted in the formation of the "Architectural League of America," which title was substituted for the National Architectural League owing to Toronto being represented at the convention.



The proceedings of the convention will be published, and as it will be interesting reading later, I will not anticipate here. The delegates might be generally described as young men and practicing architects, with a noticeable capacity for hard work, as may be instanced by the committee silting up till three in the morning and again at work by six in order to report to the convention, which, unfortunately, only sat two days. It was also an evidence of their enthusiasm for their profession, which, like the "one touch of nature which makes the whole world kin," gave the delegates common ground on which to meet, and by the time the first session was over it was hard to realize that few of' these men had ever met before. So much at home were they with each other that one felt more as if at a college reunion than at a first convention of an association representing ten cities.



The discussions that occurred during the sessions were interesting and animated, especially when it turned on precedent, which might be described as the debating ground of architecture in America to-day. Tile earnestness on both sides was evident, but the confidence of being right and the strength of argument seemed ever with the anti-precedents.

The local Entertainment Committee sent each delegate away heavily indebted to them for the place of meeting, the rooms of the Associated Technical Clubs (one of which is the Cleveland Architectural Club), for their tally-ho drive and their banquet, but most of all for their personal attention, the value of which to a stranger in a strange city can only he appreciated by being experienced, and not described.

Returning from the Convention, Mr. Adin B. Lacey, President of the T Square Club of Philadelphia, together with his wife, accompanied Mr. J. P. Ilynes, the Toronto delegate to Cleveland, to Toronto for a short visit. On Tuesday the sixth of this month, the Architectural Club entertained Mr. Lacey at a lunch served at Webbs, and the members present were priviliged to hear from the lips of the President an outline of the T Square Club's very interesting history. That this club has won no small fame, is due to the untiring efforts of its officers and members. From small beginnings, working consistently for improvement of the architect as a designer, and for the enlightenment of a public blind to real merit in the architect's work, the T Square Club has become a power for good in the Quaker City.

If that latent enthusiasm for their art, which it is hoped Toronto architects possess, might germinate and find in some sort of organization, existing already, or new opportunity, to do for Toronto a tithe of what the T Square Club has done for Philadelphia, Mr. Lacey's visit will not have been in vain.

