<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TRADE DISPUTES." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	AND BUILDER.	107



TRADE DISPUTES.

As we are about to go to press, the pleasing information is received that a settlement has been reached between the master builders and the bricklayers who recently went on strike in Toronto. An agreement has been signed fixing the standard of' wages at 37½ cents per hour, for one year from the first of' the present month. The carpenters are demanding an increase of wages from 22½ cents to 25 cents per hour, and it is probable that some increase in wages will be granted to them. The recent strike of the brickmakers in the vicinity of' Toronto has been settled, and operations have been resumed. The disturbance to building operations may therefore be considered to be at an end, and it is hoped that the temporary cessation of' work may not seriously affect the prosperity of the present building season.

The strike inaugurated by the bricklayers was based upon a demand for only 1 ½ cents per hour above the wages which the employers offered to give. It was also declared in the face of an offer from the employers to submit the matter in dispute to the decision of' the County Court Judge as arbitrator. When strikes involving serious disturbance of' trade are instituted under circumstances like these, it becomes apparent that some means is urgently required of' adjusting future differences between employers and employees in the building trades, and we trust that such means will be devised before the expiration of the agreement which has just been signed.



<article title=" THE WASTE IN FURNACE HEAT." author=" RIPON, S. HAMPTON">

THE WASTE IN FURNACE HEAT.

S. HAMPTON RIPON.



I have been making a little calculation of the wasted heat due to leaving the leader pipes in furnace heating unprotected by covering material and I confess I am startled at the results disclosed. The waste un-checked, I am Jed to believe, is largely responsible for the dissatisfaction so often expressed at the magnitude of the coal bills and poor results therefrom.

Take as an illustration a furnace heating a small cottage ; four 10-in. pipes to the first floor and three 8-in, stacks to the second. Consider the average length of pipe in each line to be 10 ft. ; then we have 40 ft. of 10-in. pipe and 30 ft. of 8 in. leader in the basement.

Each 10-ft. length of 8-in. pipe contains 21 sq. ft. of surface, or 63 ft. in all. Each 10-ft. length of 10-in. pipe contains 26 sq. ft. of surface, or 104 sq. ft. in all, or a total of 167 sq. ft. in the basement leaders. Add, if you please, the casing of a 40-in furnace 48 in. high and, ignoring the top, we have 42 sq. ft. more. Now, under ordinary conditions it is safe to assume that the temperature of casing and pipes is at least 140 deg. We have here a total of 219 sq. ft. of surface radiating heat into a waste space with a surface temperature of 140 deg. Had we that number of square feet of radiation in a hot-water heating job we should consider it sufficient at that temperature to heat a room containing at least 4,200 cu. ft. of space, or, say, a room 15 x 28x 10. Now, suppose the apparatus were to be wrapped first with a layer of asbestos paper and then with hair felt. I think all will agree that 25 per cent. of this waste heat would be rendered available. Probably most would claim a greater saving, but assume that for the sake of demonstration 25 per cent. of 4,200 cu. ft. is 1,050 cu. ft., or equivalent to a room 1 o x 1 1½ x 9 warmed by waste heat. At an estimated cost of 10 cents per

square foot, the entire bill for covering in this manner would be $21.90. The annual interest on this amount, allowing for gradual depreciation, etc., ought not to he 10 per cent., but we will assume that our householder values his money at that figure, so that the net annual cost would be $2. 19.

Now, it needs no mathematical demonstration to prove to any one that $2. 19 would be a small investment to warm a room containing 1,050 cu. ft. of space.

This then expresses a minimum saving ; the practical, actual saving, all will recognize as being much larger.

Now I am wondering whether, in view of what is here demonstrated, it is not possible for those whose ambition it is to do the best work to persuade their customers to invest a little more in their heating plants to cover the dealer's expenses, and profits, he to cover the pipes in a scientific and workmanlike manner not merely a single layer of asbestos paper, but a complete job as good or better than the one outlined here.



<article title=" PERSONAL " author="">

PERSONAL.

At the recent examination, Mr. W. F. Shepherd won first year honors in the Department of Architecture at the School of Practical Science, Toronto.



Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett, architects, have removed from their old quarters in the Saturday Night building into new offices in the Canada Permanent building on Toronto street, which has lately been completely remodelled, under the direction of Mr. R.

J.	Edwards, architect. Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett's offices now comprise one of the finest architectural suites in the city, being tastefully decorated and furnished.



The death is announced, on the 1st inst., at Thorold, Ont , of Mr. F. T. Walton, a well known Contractor, in the 61st year of his age. The late Mr. Walton was a native of Hamilton, Ont. He resided for some years at Niagara Falls, during which time he erected the Niagara University, Loretto Convent, Spencer House and Brunswick House, He subsequently removed to Toronto, where he built the House of Providence, Loretto Abbey and St. Joseph's Convent. During the last eighteen years he resided at Thorold.





The Canadian Office and School Furniture Co., Preston, Ont., have found it necessary to build an addition, 36 x 38 feet, to their factory.

The Expanded Metal Co., Toronto, has been incorporated with a capital stock of $110,000 to manufacture expanded metal for fireproofing purposes.

Recently a marble block was taken out of the quarry of the Southern Marble Company in Pickens county that weighs over 100,000 pounds, and, so far as known, is the largest block of marble quarried in the world during modern times. The block of marble is almost pure white, and measures twenty-seven feet two inches long by four feet three inches wide, having in all the mass 500 cubic feet.



Mr. Raoul Aube, resident representative of the French syndicate which two or three years ago purchased the works of the Canada Stone Chinaware Co. at St. Johns, Que., has applied for an order of the courts to wind up the business. The business has been run in a very spasmodic way since the transfer, and the new proprietors appear to have had difficulty in getting all the stock taken up. Finally, friction developed between the Messrs. McDonald, the former owners, and the company, resulting in recent litigation.



Messrs. Darling Bros., of Montreal, have recently published a well printed and complete catalogue of the special appliances manufactured by them, and foreign devices for which they are the Canadian agents. Prominent among these may be mentioned the Webster vacuum feed water heater and purifier, which is largely employed in heating systems in large buildings, also passenger and freight elevators operated by hydraulic or electric power. A list of some of the buildings in which these appliances are in successful operation are included in the catalogue.

