<doctype type="text">



Fig. 5 is shown a method that is better adapted to balloon framing than any of the foregoing examples, and it is the most economical. Here, the sill is simply laid on the foundation wall bedded in mortar—and properly leveled up ; the joists are sized at the bearing points, laid on in their proper places and firmly toe-nailed to the sill. The studs may then he notched over the joists at the ends of the building, or they may stand

INTERIOR FOOTINGS,

IT is customary in light buildings to put footings on the cellar side of walls. Considering that the weight of the superstructure bears directly on the outer half of the foundation wall, and that from 9 in. to 12 in. of it only are required to carry the ends of

the joists, these internal footings seem to be unnecessary, and, when used, a great inconvenience and useless waste of stone.



























their whole width on the outside of the joists, the latter being spiked to them. This is the better way when nothing interferes with adopting it. In all cases the studs should foot on the sills, and if the spacing will admit of it, the studs should stand alongside the joists and he well spiked to them. If the wall is wide enough, there might be two tiers of sills, one on the outside edge of the wall and the other on the inside edge. This would give a double bearing for the joists.



LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

THE annual meeting of the London Builders' Exchange was held on the afternoon of the 16th inst., _ in the Exchange rooms. There was a very good representation of the members present. After the ordinary routine business had been disposed of, the auditors' report was received, showing receipts for the year $403, disbursements $375, with a balance on hand of $30. The report was certified by Messrs. John Shopland and Win. Tyller, auditors.

The election of officers resulted as follows: President, William Jeffery (re-elected) ; 1st vice-president, Scott Mutray (re-elected) ; 2nd vice-president, William Smith (of Smith Bros.); secretary, Geo. S. Gould (re-elected); treasurer, James S. Luney (re-elected) ; directors, Messrs. Thos. Jones, Joshua Garrett, William Tytler, Ernest Fitzgerald and Henry Stratfold; auditors for the ensuing year, H. C. Simpson and John Shopland.

The President, in his address, gave a brief resume of the principal business that had come before the Board during the year, congratulated the Exchange upon the steady progress that had been made, and strongly emphasized the fact that although every member of the corporation had been benefited through belonging to and meeting with the Exchange, still there were far greater benefits to be derived by each trade being properly organized as a section of the Exchange, and every member of every branch making it a point to be punctual at each sectional meeting, and using their influence to improve the standing of their craft. The matter of a Provincial Association was also broached, and in the near future we hope to obtain the opinions of the other Exchanges along this line.

Under " Good and Welfare," it was decided to have a banquet as soon as possible, and a good committee was appointed to make the necessary preparations for the same.

GEO. S. GOULD, Secretary.

The concrete or wooden cellar floor must cover them, causing a diminution in the height of the cellar and an additional expense to deepen the cellar if a high basement is required. interior chimneys of from 40 to 50 feet in height should have their bottom at least one foot below other walls, to save trouble with floor.





METHOD OF VENTILATING CELLARS.

THE disagreeable odors from a cellar laundry or vegetable room can be drawn off by an arrangement of a double

 flue,		(by utilizing the passage of smoke from one	flue

		to the other, forming a double loop).	The

long flue runs from the basement upwards. Commence the kitchen fluc below ceiling line. In the '' wafe leave a hole 9 in. x 1 2 in. high 3 feet above the kitchen thimble 7 feet above this hole leave a similar one, then 5 feet above it another. and finish with one 3 feet above the last one. Should the height of the chimney be low, then the proportional distances between he wafe—holes will be reduced.



The continued warmth and smoke of the kitchen flue t he year round will ensure a perfect draft for venting the cellar. The introduction of fresh air into cellars is only thought of as coming via the windows or the area door. Where the flues are extended to the cellar level, and arc applicable for ventilating purposes, the building of duct flues in the external walls will create a channel for the colder outside air to drop



into the cellar. The warm vent flue, causing an upward draught, will draw the air from outside and into the cellar. In building the stone walls, commence a 9 in. x 12 in. flue starting from the floor line, an(l extend two feet above the grade line, turning its outlet externally into the finished stonework. To prevent foreign matter clogging this air-shaft, cover upper vertical front with a register

