<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES AND PRACTICE." author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	103



arbitrary, but determined by certain inevitable causes, has almost dropped out of sight, and I suppose that, in practice, the very worst work that has ever been done in England has been done in the last fifty years. I need hardly add that a few men of powerful and original mind have done admirable work, but the average of architecture has been left untouched, and it is by the average level that the state of architecture has to be gauged. We cannot look back with pride on the artistic attainments of the 19th century, judged from any standpoint, and it appears likely that we shall enter on the 20th century without having hit upon any certain way through this quagmire of modern architecture. It is here that the study of the past must help us. The days of the craftsman working independently, yet in unconscious unison, ceased when the choice of styles arose. He tasted of the tree of knowledge, and henceforth to his knowledge of his craft had to he added the responsibility of conscious judgment, if he was to undertake, I will not say architecture, as it might be thought to beg the question, but building of any sort. Because, in any building now-a-days, a man has to use one method of expression in preference to another, and implicitly in this there is raised the whole question of selection. Now, this responsibility proved too much for the simple craftsman, as you may see from the blunders in design which abound in more ambitious Jacobean works; and it was only a question of time how soon there should arise the man who had sufficient training and intellectual capacity to enable him to discriminate between good and bad, to enable him to grasp the logical coherence in expression which is an essential element of architecture. As soon as such a man arose, the matter was settled for good or bad. The architect ceased to be a craftsman in the technical sense, and what might be lost in craftmanship was assuredly gained in architecture. I think, therefore, that this critical function of an architect, this detachment from the actual details of craftsmanship, which chafes the enthusiasm of some of by no means the least gifted of our younger men, is of the very essence of his work. The more of craftsmanship he has the better ; but a man may be a very good architect without being a very good craftsman I mean a good craftsman in the sense of being able to carve his own woodwork and model his own ceilings. His craftsmanship must be of a wider range. It must embrace full knowledge of the past ; it must rest on a constant habit of analysis of the best methods of expression in building, and a keenly critical insight into the abstract qualities of architecture, mass, balance, rhythm, and proportion. An architect, to my mind, should be like a fastidious man of letters, he should not be content to express his purpose anyhow, he should be anxious to find the exact inevitable phrase. It is in this sense, I think, that an architect should be an artist of the highest order, and this is the position that has, in fact, been forced upon him since the days of the Renaissance. Perhaps this reflection may be some consolation to those who would reluctantly abandon the idea that in craftsmanship lies the future of architecture. Nor, again, is this ideal less exacting than the other. To attain to this faculty of reasonable judgment it is clear that a man must possess knowledge of what has actually been done in architecture—the more the better, provided he is not over-burdened by it and this knowledge is not mere student's learning, but means a practical knowledge of buildings, gained by careful analysis and measurements, and by exact

observations of materials and local circumstance. A lifetime of constant study is not too much for such a task. I would suggest to you, therefore, to those of you, that is, who are now beginning your career, that there is no short cut to architecture through pattern books, or even through the pleasant paths of detail craftsmanship; but that, nowadays at any rate, you must have knowledge, and that now, as always in the history of architecture, you must seek that knowledge not only in books, but also in the builder's yard and on the scaffolding of buildings. I have still one more point to bring before you. Perhaps in this paper I may seem to you to have insisted too much on knowledge, too little on imagination, and the criticism has been made on some remarks of mine elsewhere. In the first place, I would point out that we seem to be face to face with some dangerous developments of originality, or, rather, eccentricity. To judge by the majority of our buildings, it appears to be thought that "knowledge hampers imagination," as it was put by the eminent Capability Brown. Certainly, the results are a very nightmare of architecture. Now, there is only one antidote to this sort of originality, and it is knowledge. I fancy that some of the more accomplished of our original designers would be rather surprised to find that the flattest of the ogees, the boldest of their amazing proportions, have been anticipated, not only in Italy, but even in England. Even a cursory knowledge of the work of such a man as Baldassare Peruzzi would show them that profound knowledge is not incompatible with the most complete freedom in design; and further, that the most daring imagination can co-exist with the most trivial detail. You may recollect the indignation of the old Sieur de Chambray at the pretensions of the men of his time, who thought that by turning a capital upside down, or something of the sort, they had invented a new architecture, "as it the Pantheon" (I quote the Sieur de Chambray) that same stupendous and incomparable structure, were not the invention of the architect who built it, because he has vary'd nothing from the Corinthian ordnance of which it is entirely composed." In the second place, and this is the gist of all that I have said, this knowledge is not an end, but a means. For an architect does not study in order to reproduce what other men have said once and for all, but to perfect his own mastery of expression ; and just as a poet does not invent a jargon of his own or write in the language of Chaucer, but takes the current language of his time, and compels it to his purpose, so an architect would not waste his time in a vain ambition of a new style, or a futile copy of an old one; but would master the best in all the architecture of his country, and find thereby an ample language for his own individuality. It is not styles, therefore, that we are concerned with, but style that indefinite quality of all good architecture, whether Greek or Roman, Gothic or Renaissance; indefinable, and ever varying, because it varies with the individuality of the artist, because it depends on the faculty that the man possesses of giving the simplest and yet the most complete expression of all his purpose. It is here that knowledge must come in, as the groundwork of good architecture. We want to know, as a part of our training in our art, how other men in the past have solved the difficulties that confront us now; and it is only by this long laborious study that we can learn to discriminate between good and bad, and to free our own method of expression from what is trivial and irrevelant. It is this way, and not along the pleasant paths of the amateur, there lies the best chance of the architecture of the future.

