<doctype type="text">



American Institute

of Architects.

of their own library each of these bodies would be supplied with a copy or copies of a complete catalogue of the books contained in all the associated libraries, including lists of additional books when purchased. Under this system, duplication, and the useless expenditure incident thereto, would be abolished, while the members of the various societies thus affiliated would have at command the use of the books comprising the combined collection. The advantages of the system are so obvious as to make advisable its adoption in all cities where there has been established more than one public library.





At a meeting of the executive of the

A.	I. A. held in Washington on July

17th, a draft programme was adopted for the convention to be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., on November 13, 14 and 15, next. The papers to be read will be classed under several heads relating to artistic subjects ; to historical topics and to construction. Under the first head there will be several papers on the influence of the French School of Design on Architecture in the United States. One or two papers are promised on architecture and the allied arts. Several papers are expected on the legitimate style of ornamental design for skeleton steel construction, as well as a few papers on historical topics. The Pittsburgh manufacturing plants, such as the Carnegie steel works the Westinghouse electrical plants and the plate glass works will be thrown open to the architects for examination, and before this examination papers will be read describing the methods of manufacture, &c., of the different plants that will be visited.





A YEAR was spent by a Committee of

the Province of Quebec Association of

Architects in framing a new building by-law for Montreal. The result, in the form of a draft by-law, underwent further revision at the hands of a special committee of the City Council, the Builders' Exchange and other local associations whose interests would be specially affected thereby. Having by these been finally approved, it now requires but the sanction of the City Council, which will doubtless be given at an early date. Under the proposed by-law an architect would be placed at the head of the City Building Department, having as his subordinates men possessing a practical knowledge of modern building methods and requirements. In Montreal as in Toronto there is urgent need for a thorough revision of the present obsolete building regulations, and also for the reconstruction of the City Building Department in a manner to insure a more thorough and satisfactory compliance with proper constructional methods.





IT is an unpleasant duty that an architect is sometimes called upon to perform, when he is commissioned to report on the work of another architect because the client is not satisfied. Most architects would prefer to decline with the reason that they do not care to interfere with the work of another architect, but it is self-evident that if one who is asked so to report declines some one else will be employed, and probably the man who feels like declining will be actuated by a less antagonistic and criticizing spirit than one who would be only too glad of the work. If professional ethics were worth more

New Building By-law

in Montreal.

Professional Ethics.

than the paper they are printed on the criticized architect would be willing enough to leave the matter in the hands of the architect who is to report on his work, knowing that lull justice would be done him. But as it is, he may naturally fear that the opportunity thus put into the hands of another architect will result in his being torn to pieces without mercy. Under any circumstances the architect would prefer that the matter should be submitted to arbitration. A painful case of the kind has recently occurred in connection with the new Record Hall of New York. Mr. Thomas, the architect, had proposed a great deal of very costly work that the Mayor thought useless and extravagant considering the fact that the building was not for the use of the public but for the storage of books and documents. Mr. Thomas has been subjected to scathing articles in the New York papers and feels aggrieved that his artistic work is to be spoiled on account of economy. Since the city has to pay it would have been better had Mr. Thomas quietly submitted to the exclusion of such costly work as he proposed and been willing to modify his plans. As it is the Mayor requested Messrs. Horgan and Slattery to look into the matter, with a view to ascertaining if it was necessary to incur so great an expense. It is due to the profession, and in particular to Messrs. Horgan & Slattery that the true nature of their report should be given publicity, to counteract the biased statements of the daily press. Their work has been honorably carried out ; they have not detracted in any way from the character and ability of Mr. Thomas or in the least contemplated the possibility of stepping into his shoes and getting the work away from him. Their report, in fact, is Worthy the attention of all who may be called upon to report on another architect's work. The result is that Mr. Thomas has been ordered to make a modification of his designs whereby nearly a million dollars will be saved.





ARCHITECTS would do well to turn their attention to the subject of contracts between themselves and their clients.

It is a matter that architects' associations should take up in a more definite manner than they have done heretofore. Except in large undertakings, contracts are seldom drawn up ; the custom of the profession seems to serve as an implied contract between the parties. So long as the architect's work is at its commencement expected to be completed within a year, a written contract is not required by law. A recent contract entered into by the corporation of Toronto and the architect for the market improvements contains one clause in particular that is hardly fair to the profession, if, as is likely, this contract will form a precedent. The clause is to the effect that the corporation shall have the power to dismiss the architect if in their opinion his work is not satisfactory. No doubt this clause, if occasion arose, would be governed by an arbitration clause. But the point is, that a client, having selected his architect, presupposes that he is capable of carrying out the work entrusted to him, and the idea of putting in a clause to enable the client to get rid of him must produce a feeling of uncertainty, with a bias against the architect. It happens in very many cases that a client who is prone to be suspicious believes his architect is not acting fairly towards him when he decides some matter in dispute between client and contractor in favor of the latter, and under a contract containing such a clause as the one in

Contracts Between

Architects and Clients.

