<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	'35



HAMILTON

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)



The Hamilton City Improvement Society is one which might very well have its counterpart in every city of the Dominion. Its objects are, in the first place, practical rather than artistic. Its aim is to beautify the city by cleanliness and attention to sanitation before it undertakes ideas towards embellishment. It is composed of every citizen who likes to join and pay one dollar towards expenses. The management of the Society is in the hands of a large executive committee, composed of

many residents of influence and property, and some of the ministers of various denominations. It is not intended in any way that the organization should be antagonistic to the City Council, but entirely the reverse. It wishes to assist the council by its moral support in the carrying out of all schemes that shall be for the welfare of the city within practical limits. The Society is very young yet, having only held one meeting of the executive, but upon that occasion it was decided to send to the city council a memorandum suggesting various improvements and requesting that instruction be given to the various officials to have the matters attended to. Such matters, for instance, as the flushing of the sewers—a most necessary precaution in a long dry season such as we are having—the failure to attend to this being a fruitful cause of epidemic. No doubt the proper department of the corporation should see that this is done without having to he reminded by the citizens, but since it is overlooked, it is well to have somebody to give a gentle prod. The cleaning up of the streets in the centre of the city, after "closing time" on Saturday night is also a matter being looked after by the H.C.I.S. It has been the custom for merchants to sweep out their stores into the streets, and on Sunday morning the litter of paper and rubbish at the principal corners has a disgraceful appearance. Perhaps one of the most important functions of the society will be to keep alive the suggested improvement schemes after the decease of the council in which they are first contemplated. Many a good scheme has been propounded, and everything got ready for its execution, and then a new council board being elected the scheme is forgotten and nothing is heard of it again for perhaps many years. In this way it is hoped that all pro-perk)' digested plans for the embellishment of the city may be carried out within a reasonable time after their conception. It has Laken the city something like fifteen years to get the extension of Gore Park carried out, but this has been accomplished this year. According to an old resident it is nearly fifty years since the idea of making the" mountain" slope into a park was first projected and it still remains to he accomplished. It is probable that the society before long will divide up its executive into committees to deal with different branches of improvements, but at present it is all under one head. Mr. R. T. Steele is president and Mr. Dexter, secretary.

It is certainly hard on the students of the art school that they should be made to suffer by the stand that has apparently been taken by the manufacturers and their '' boycott " of that institution, for that is practically what it amounts to. I know of more than one case where a student having an especial talent for stained glass work or designing metal work, has devoted as long as two years to the cultivation of his talent because it was pointed out to him that there was a field for him here and that he could make his living in supplying designs for manufacturers. But when

his time expired and he has offered his services or attempted to sell his designs, offering them even at a ridiculously low price, not one manufacturer would buy even for the purpose of giving encouragement. There can be no question as to the necessity of a thorough investigation as to the cause, for in the meantime the usefulness of the school is impaired and its influence wasted. Not only that, but the government grant becomes unnecessary, for the school develops into a mere drawing school—the result of its teaching is not the provision of a livelihood for the students in the city. They must pack up and go elsewhere if they would put their talents to good uses.

A convention of Canadian Electrical Engineers has been held here and appears to have been in every way a success. About 150 members from all parts of the Dominion convened at the New Royal Hotel, holding their meetings and making excursions on the different electric railways that converge here.

R.	XV. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.





LEGAL.



The position of sub-contractors' men in relation to contractors is a subject which might well engage the attention of builders associations. There is no doubt, says the the Builders' Reporter, that the men who are directly employed by the contractor very often impede the men who are indirectly employed. But a case which was heard before Mr. Adshead Elliott as arbitrator in Manchester on the 6th inst. suggests that it would be well to have definite notions about the position of sub-contractors' men in other ways. The applicant was a bricksetter's labourer, and was engaged on some works for which Messrs. Robert Neill & Sons, who are leading builders in Lancashire, were the contractors. The man assisted Messrs. Neill's men in removing columns, and in the course of the work he was injured. The question was, by whom was he employed? The foreman for Messrs. Neill admitted that on the day in question he asked the sub-contractor to lend him some men, but when the accident occurred the labourer was nut employed by his authority. Messrs. Neill defended the action on the ground that if they were compelled to pay compensation to sub-contractors' men who meddled with their work after working hours, the liability would be enorous. The arbitrator said that the only man who could possibly bring the applicant into the employment of the firm was thc foreman. But he denied that he had obtained the aid of the man after 4 o'clock, and the accident occurred after 5.30. The application was therefore dismissed. In one sense the result is unsatisfactory, for, with a firm whose works are so well organized as those of Messrs. Neill, how could a man be allowed to "meddle" with any of the operations without the knowledge of some official? The removal and setting up of columns cannot be considered a pastime. T he men engaged in it are exposed to contingencies, and on that account men alone who have a definite position should be employed. A conciliation board would do well to take up the subject and consider it in all its varieties.





PERSONAL.



The sympathy of many friends is being extended to Mr. A. B. Gordon, architect, Toronto, who was recently bereaved of his wife.

Messrs. F. XV. Fuller and D. Ewart, architects of the Department of Public Works, Ottawa, are at present in the Klondyke region for the purpose of supervising the erection of public buildings.

Mr. John S. Hooper, of the firm of S. Hooper & Son, architects, Winnipeg, Man., was united in marriage on June 5th, to Miss M. A. Bell, of Dominion City. Mr. Hooper and his bride were the recipients of congratulatory messages and tangible tokens of esteem from many friends in Ontario as well as Manitoba.



An effort is being made to organize a company to manufacture cement at Durham, Ont. The sum of $24,000 of stock is said to have been already subscribed, with the prospect of the amount being doubles in a very short time.

Chimney Design and Theory—a book for engineers and architects—by Wallace Christie, consulting engineer, &c. New York The D. Van Nostrand Co.; price, $3.00. The author refers to the lack of printed data on the subject of chimney design and construction as the impelling motive in the preparation of the present work on the subject. The large number of defective chimneys which are met with in every locality is also evidence of the need for a more widespread and thorough knowledge of the subject on the part of architects and builders.

