<doctype type="text">

<article title=" WHAT PURPOSE SHOULD A NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PLUMBERS SERVE?" author=" BRADEN, En. Jr.">



WHAT PURPOSE SHOULD A NATIONAL

ASSOCIATION OF PLUMBERS SERVE?

En. BRADEN, JR.



In response to a request received from the Chairman of the Essay Committee, I have selected the above mentioned subject.

There can be no more important question before the national body than the purpose it should serve in its relation to its membership. With this question successfully answered, the duty of each individual member is plain.

When men decide to co-operate—when they agree to harmonize social or commercial interests, the very first thought is, what valid excuse have we to offer for such an association ? Is the object or purpose praise worthy ? Is it necessary to better social relations or business interests, as the case may be? Is there a principle of right which we can use as a basis of organization, and which the great public at large must respect? These are the thoughts which must come to men who found organizations based upon principles of mutual interest, or social harmony.

I believe that the true purpose of an association of master plumbers should be as follows

First, to advance the cause of scientific sanitation. Why? Because plumbing and house drainage are its most important departments.

Second, its special object should therefore be a sanitary law which would provide for the examination and registration of plumbing labour and honest inspection. To secure such law, public prejudice against, or ignorance of its necessity, must be overcome, and to do this there must be a plan formulated for the education of association members who need it, and the education of the people. To educate members the maintenance of pleasant association rooms in each city is the essential point. These rooms should be provided with maps, charts, and blackboards. The library should consist of the latest scientific works on sewer building, house drainage, ventilation, bacteriology, etc., and there should be kept on file at all times trade literature for ready reference. To educate the people to realize the necessity of a plumbing law, educational literature should be issued by the association and distributed by members to their customers and friends.

Third, an object of the Plumbers' Association should be to place the supply trade and the retail trade on a basis of mutual interest. Their interests are identical, and there should be hearty co-operation, and to my mind, there seems no good reason why this cannot be accomplished, if right methods prevail. To this end we must enlarge our memberships and improve the commercial credit of our members through open, honorable, and co-operative business methods.

When we build an association attractive enough to secure 95 per cent. of the purchasing power and reduce the risk of selling materials in our own ranks, we will command absolute trade protection without question, and what is more to be desired, with respect.

To overcome public suspicion and prejudice, we must by these methods improve the character of plumbing work. There is no surer way to win the respect and confidence of the American people than to reduce the death rate of cities and the expense of sickness, which are the result of flagrant, I might say, criminal, sanitary neglect.

A paper read at the Annual Convention of the National Association of Master Plumbers of the United States, New Orleans, March 8, 1898.

:\n association of plumbers built upon, to my mind, the above lines would become speedily a powerful factor in the world's best progress. Following out such a purpose, our annual gathering would become the theater for scientific discussions and debates of great public import and interest.

Here, for instance, we are met in a city which seems to be upon the threshold of great sanitary reform. I am advised that the press and the people have been looking forward for months to this visit of the nation's plumbers, believing that the deliberations of this convention would bring to them valuable information, aid, and encouragement.

What a disappointment it would be should we, an association organized to serve the purposes enumerated, fail them. Ah, gentlemen, we make a sad mistake when we, as an association of master plumbers, refuse to interest ourselves in the great sanitary problems of the day.

The Southern League of Master Plumbers, an organized district of the National, has tried in a number of ways to show the advantages of an organization on the basis I have outlined. The results which have followed our efforts should convince every member of the association that such a plan meets with the approbation of the public, and as an earnest advocate for the betterment of the plumber, and the elevation of the business, I urge the National Association of Master Plumbers to adopt that plan.



<article title=" BUILDING MATTERS IN BRITISH COLUMBIA." author="">

BUILDING MATTERS IN BRITISH COLUMBIA.

A correspondent of the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER writing from Vancouver, says

I am much pleased with your Spring Number, particularly with the article, " Builders' Exchange

Why?" Since its arrival the builders of our city met and organized, hoping to be able to do something towards upholding prices, and preventing the keen competition which has, tip to the present time, whether the trade was dull or brisk, rendered our business precarious to say the least. I notice, however, by your editorial notes that in your city, where an exchange has been thoroughly organized for some years, the same conditions seem to prevail. The masons and bricklayers organized some four or five months ago, and formed a branch of the International Union. The contractors were notified at the first of the year that an increase of wages from 45 to 50 cents per hour would be asked for on April 1st. So far, although there is a large amount of work under way and coming out, the contractors have not consented to this increase ; unless they do there will probably be a lock out to-morrow or next day. Most of the men have been getting the increased rate since the 1st of the month. This city seems to be the jumping off place for all comers from the east. This fact, in my opinion, accounts for the difficulty of maintaining an organization of either employers or employees. Much of the work now going on is in the hands of outsiders who have been here but a few months. The average number of bids for buildings let by tender and open for all comers is about fourteen.





The following is recommended as a good recipe for a black varnish for ironwork Take lb. of asphaltum and lb. resin, and dissolve in pint of turpentine rub 2 OZS. of lampblack with a little linseed oil to form a paste and stir this into the first mentioned ingredients.

