<doctype type="text">

<article title=" METAL WORK." author=" BROWN, T. SWAFFIELD">

	158	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



the root of the spike. A leaf clasping the lower curve ot a volute, or in many other situations, does the same. In each case a little laboratory is set tip, and commences operations at once for the conversion of good iron into rust, which for our purposes is destruction. Witness the new gates at Weston Park, and the new electric traction posts. The old gates of the same park, though much smaller and less pretentious, are good in desigo, and all these principles are in force in them, and it is perhaps hypercritical to suggest that they would have been better with more ties and fewer rivet, ; hut at all events they are now in better condition than tlie new ones.*

All the greater curves should be designed to make contact with others or bars, and should he tied at that point as often as possible. Two curves of weak structure become strong by mutual support when so treated.

Of course these considerations do not apply with equal force to chancel screens, gates aiid grilles, and such interior works, which are not subject to such destructive influences nor seen in the same light as out-of-door work ; but the same principles and processes

	govern	their	construction.



Different conditions come into play again, in such work as hinges and clamps for doors and chests. Here the iron-work is carried and kept in position by the wood, which it protects,  strengthens and adorns. (I do not forget that the hinge really carries the whole thing, but I am speaking of the ornamental development of the outer clamp). The governing conditions are the gradual distribution of substance from the points of suspension, the necessary positions of the holding bolts, and tlie flatness of the surface, which it must closely fit.

For these and similar purposes the work should he hammerfinished, not only because the hammered surface is most durable, hut because it is most expressive of the character of the material and t he method by which it is worked. At tlte same time, in avoiding the seductions of mere smooth finish, as it is called, we must itot allow ourselves to be deluded into the idea that rudeness is a virtue per se, and exaggerate it purposely, as is frequently done now.

 But under Other circumstances it may he quite necessary to give higher surface finish, as in locks, keys (and, in the past, body armor), which its great strength makes it the most fitting for. Here its susceptibility to high elaboration is a useful quality. It may he chiselled, embossed, twisted, filed and ground, and damascened.

This mode of stirface decoration is a very tedious and delicate one. The lines of the design are chiselled or graved very deeply; gold wire or plate is then laid in the grooves and hammered; this drives the gold in, and brings the edges of the groove partly over it and locks it in. This process is seldom practised now but another and easier one is the etching of the ground away by acid, and burnishing very thin gold ttpon the raised lines while warm. This process makcs work which is extremely liable to damage ; the other cannot he injured by any means short of the destruction of the object decorated.

Silver and gold, though differiog widely in weight and valuegold, as I have said, being neatly twice as heavy as, and thirty ttiites more costly than, silver—I propose to deal with together, because their processes are tIme same, only differing in scale from each other and from those of other cold-worked metals. In their pure state they are extremely ductile and malleable, but they arc

seldom used in that state, on account of their softness. To remedy this, silver is alloyed with copper iii the l)roliortion of silver thirty—seven, copper three. In this state it is ca led sterling or standard silver, because it is the standard of silver vaittes, and is always referred to where silver is spoken of, except in the rare instances of time use of fine or pure silver, which is always distinguished as "line.' These are the only two qualities recognized by assay masters, and are stamped or "Hall marked' with different symbols.

Gold is alloyed with silver or copper, or both, it may be in any proportion, but is only marked as 22, 18, 15, 12 and 1) carat by the assay masters. (Carat in this use is not a fixed weight, but merely the twetny-fourthi part.) There are two standards, the first of twenty-two parts fine gold with two of alloy, which is the

standard of gold coinage ; and the second, eighteen parts line with six of alloy, which is the standard of gold work generally, and is understood if quality is not specified.

The art of working these metals, as practiced of old, and as it



The posts I refer to are not guod in design. The ornamental work is flinisy in

execution, and does not properly fulfil its ostensible purpose, that of supporting the span carrying the cables. tins futility is indicated by the tie rod introduced above it to do its work.- T.S.B.

must be again if silver work is to remain '' art " work, is now all but lost. Improvements of process -the elcetro-plating vat, the steam stamp, tlie spinning lathe—have, by the fatal facilities they offer for the evasion ol skill and the production of imitations ot its results, reduced thic silversmith to a niechanic ; and the character and qualities of die material, instead of being developed and manifested in the work, are really thrown asvay.



For instance, let tins consider, as a type of silver work, the makitig of a drinking-cup (in ecclesiastical use, a chalice), It is the emblem of hospitality, from the time of Melchizedeck, arid of fellowship in the greatest society in the world, the Holy Catholic Church, and therefore claims precious material and the best work. The howl and foot ate each hammered out of a disc of metal (formerly as cast from the crttcihle, on a flat stoiie or anvil, but the need of the mere labour of the earlier stage of the work is now superseded by the rolling mill) .Afte r being roughly dished into the hollow of a wood block or saud—bag, it is hammered out the outside in circular courses, with a hammer adze-shaped bttt bluint, upon a rotund—surfaced iron, squeezing the metal upward and inward and distributting its substance gradually as it is needed, t tick in the bottom and tititi at the lip, or otherwise as the worker wills, until the fortit desired is attaitted—all is as regular as the deposits which butild tip a snail's shell or a crystal, and the same restilts follow, good hue and contour. In this state it us marked all over with the evidences of its process, tlie impressions of the hammer, in the form of long hollow grooves, to the axis of tlie howl. These are removed and the form still further developed b a s imiliar operation with a flat—faced hammer (called a planisher). This leaves the inner surface quite smooth, and the outer covered with faint hexagonal facets again you observe that these are the evidences of process, and their regularity is the index of the worker's skill and the perfection of his work ; butt it is not intentional, it is merely thue accident of the process, and is generally removed in finishing or by subsequent decoration. These two cotuditions of the work are the sources of origin of that class of work which has been much practised lately under the euphonious titles of ' chip—hammered ' and

ballet-hammered,'' neither of them possessing the character of tIme original, and only serviitg to disguise the svat,t of invention of its designer. The whole work is entirely dependent upon the skill of the craftsman, amid this simple object illustrates the whole art of the silversmith. But now—a disc of silver is banged into a steel die, with a ton of iron for hammer, or is wrapped round a revolving piece of wood by time pressure of steel tools, and its character is that of the steel die or the turned piece of wood. It us exactly like a multitude of others, all weak where they should he strong, and heavy where they should be light—all wrong ; and those that make them become like unto them.

Having indicateth the principles, and touched import time processes of metal-work, I will adtl mu few words abotit the revival I spoke of at time commencement. One of its evidences was visible iii Shueffield a short time ago in a collection exhibited in the New Gallery, which did not attract mIme attention it deserved. Without saying that it was altogether admiraluhe- it contained sonic very beauttiful objects—it was fnll of suggestion, and showed aim appreciation of the qualities and capacities of material, and a freedom of treatment, which were absolutely refreshing. But there svcre evidences of affectation (which is poison to good art), which

point tIme danger I referred to of neglect of principles ; such as the imitation of thie cruidity of old work ; tIme covering of articles with



irregular hammer marks, not as tIme result of the forming process (or, if so, mIme work was very badly done), but hor their own sake its deroration ; anti similar tricks unworthy of tIme name of art, which must not he practiced if that revival of lie union of Itearm aitd head, hiand and hammer, is to he realised tumid resume its power its the expression of tIme presence of art in our midst.



To which happy end I, as an earimest craftsman, ask you, tIme amehitects amid art leaders of Sheffield, to give all the assistance of your influence for tIme luonotur of your city and the credit of your country.





In the foundations of the new Chicago Post-Office, piles have been driven to mu depth of over severity-five feet, these being suirmominted by broad timber eaps covered with a deep bed of coimereme, which forunus bases for the suonme piers, which in turn support the 208 steel columns carrying tIme building. It is said that in this foundation, when completed, there will luave been tised over 5,000 piles, nearly 800,000 feet board measure of timber capping, 150,000 cubic fcet of concrete, and over 350,000 cubic feet of stone.

