<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author="">



THE VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

We have the privilege of presenting herewith the portrait of Mr. C. P. Shindler, who has been elected vice-president of the Vancouver Builders' Exchange, vice Mr. Mitchell, resigned—also brief personal sketches of the other officers, whose portraits appeared in our August issue.

MR. EDWARD COOK.



President the Vancouver Builders' Exchange, was born at St. Mary's, Ontario, 1853. After having received a commercial education he served an apprenticeship as stone cutter, mason and bricklayer. He was afterwards two years under instructions in engineering bridge and building construction in connection with N. Y. state works at Buffalo, and the International bridge. Returning to Canada he carried on a general contracting business under the firm name of Cook Bros. for ten years, in the towns and country between St. Marys, Sarnia and Goderich. He followed the tide westward when the contract was let for the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway—arriving in Winnipeg in '79—and at Vancouver in March, i886. Since that time he has been identified with the upbuilding of Vancouver, and is one of the city's leading contractors, and has confirmed his confidence in the city's future by investing in central business property. He is a strong advocate of the best methods and principles in the conduct of business, and conjointly with the board of directors and members of the Builders' Exchange, is doing much to improve business relations in the building trade, as it affects the owner, the architect, the material supply dealers, employees and contractors.

MR. C. P. SHINDLER.



Mr. C. P. Shindler, vice-president, was born in Germany 35 years ago and crossed to this continent in 1880, since which time he has been constantly in the







































MR. C. P. SHINDLER.





building business. He received his early training with the firm of Kuppler & Keifer, of South Bend, Ind. With this firm he succeeded in making himself so useful that in i886 he was admitted as a partner. Two years afterwards he withdrew and went into the contracting business on his own account, gaining a wide experience by working for ten years in the states of Indiana, Florida, Oregon and Washington.

In 1890 Mr. Shindler came to Vancouver, and ex

cepting a few vacations spent in his native land, he has since been constantly engaged in building up that city. The Hudson Bay building and the De Beck block are two of the many structures, large and small, that he has erected.

Mr. Shindler is known as an all round man in the business, and his wide experience renders him a very capable member of the Exchange.

MR. A. E. CARTER.



Mr. A. E. Carter, Secretary, is a builder by birth and association, being the son of the late John Carter, builder and brick manufacturer of St. Catharines, Ont. He was educated in the St. Catharines Institute, then served an apprenticeship with his father. Before reaching his majority he left home and widened his knowledge and experience in the trade, by working as a journeyman stone-cutter and bricklayer in New York, Pennsylvania, Florida and other States. Returning to Canada, he first went into business as a contracting builder at Niagara Falls, the brick and stone memorial church on the historic Lundy's Lane battlefield, being one of the marks he has left in this locality.

In March, 1889, Mr. Carter decided to take Horace Greely's advice and came west to Vancouver, where he was soon afterwards joined by his brother, the late S.

B. Carter. Together they carried on an extensive business as building contractors, replacing with substantial brick and stone structures, the giant stumps which were so conspicuous until recently on even the main thoroughfares of the city. Since his brothers' unfortunate death, which was caused by a fall from a building in December, 1897, Mr. Carter has been alone, and is one of the busiest men in the busy city of his adoption.

MR. H. A. BELL.



Mr. H. A. Bell, Treasurer, is a well known builder and contractor of Vancouver, He was born in Northumberland, Ontario, served his apprenticeship as carpenter at Belleville, and then entered the employ of Messrs. Shaunbergers of Pittsburgh, Pa., for eight years. After successfully carrying on contracting at Winnipeg for five years, he removed to Victoria in 1885, and commenced business as builder and contractor in Vancouver in the fall of the same year. Many of the prominent buildings have been erected under his management. He has also been entrusted with important contracts in British Columbia for the Dominion and Provincial Governments.

Mr. Bell has suceeded well in his undertakings, is the owner of considerable real estate in Winnipeg and Vancouver, and in a general way deserves credit for energy and ability. He is much respected as a citizen and known as a man that will carry out his undertakings.



The organization of the Builders' Exchange has resulted in bringing into pleasant acquaintanceship, the leading contractors of Vancouver, many of whom were previously strangers to one another, notwithstanding that some had been in business in the city for ten years and upwards.

The principal business which at present engages the attention of the Exchange is the preparation of a code of rules to govern the relations between the architect and contractor.

Business in Vancouver is reported to be as brisk as ever, but it has been somewhat retarded by the difficulty of obtaining stone-cutters. There are plenty of men in other trades.

