<doctype type="text">

<article title=" RELATION BETWEEN ARCHITECT AND HEATING ENGINEER." author=" THOMSON, T.N.">



RELATION BETWEEN ARCHITECT AND

HEATING ENGINEER.*

By T. N. THOMSON.



IT is unfortunate for the advancement of heating and ventilating interests that so little consideration is given to the scheme of installation while the building is in the embryonic condition. There is so much " hurly-burly" in the current methods of business that the bulk of our wisdom is included in the "backsight" instead of in the

foresight " lens of discernment, and until clear and well defined lines of procedure are adopted in the offices of both architects and engineers, little progress can be hoped for.

Example.- Broker Martineau calls on architect "Sector" with the information that he has purchased a lot and wants him to get out the drawings for a four storey residence right away ; in fact, a friend of his is ready to start excavating as soon as the cellar plan is out, which must be within ten days.

The architect naturally maintains that it is poor policy to talk of building cellar walls before he has thoroughly studied the requirements of the building and had sufficient time to complete the structural plans in detail, but his client feels that immediate progress must be made, and will listen to no explanations. As a persuader, he hints that architect Todhunter is very anxious to do the work, and unless Mr. Sector can see his why to go right ahead he will have to see the other fellow. The client's patronage is valuable, and he must he humored, so the result is that Mr. Sector immediately commences preliminary studies and submits them to his chief draughtsman with instructions to push them along, as Mr. Martineau will call in three days to examine them. Before the broker and his wife, however, have made up their minds as to the many details of arrangement which they wish incorporated in their residence, it is found that thirty days have elapsed and the architect is still goaded by his impatient client to make a start. The office force is set to work preparing the working drawings, and the chief draughtsman, having decided on the structural requirements of the design, now turns his attention to the location and size of the smoke and heating flues, etc., provision for which must be made in the walls. He therefore consults with his superior on the proposed system of heating, but finds that the owner has not yet decided upon a system. The work must be pushed, however, and the very important matters of heating and ventilation are entirely neglected until the building is under cover. Up to this time the only provision that has been made for the heating system is a chimney flue located somewhere -generally anywhere—and it will he a miracle if this flue is not too small.

The reason why this state of affairs exists, possibly, is that the owner does not know what kind of a heating system he wants, and consequently, his architect has been working in the dark ; it is more probable, however, that the energies of the architectural force have been concentrated on the construction of the building, and the heating system has, therefore, been overlooked. The owner is now notified by the architect that a decision must he made on the system of heating and the contract must he let and the work started immediately, otherwise the plastering will he delayed. After many consultations between architect and owner, the latter decides that, as the design of his residence has attracted so much attention and has been so favorably commented

* Abstract of paper read before the Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, New York.

upon, he is justified in having the very latest and most approved system of heating and ventilation installed in the building, and Mr. Sector is instructed to submit schemes for accomplishing the same, with estimates of

cost.



The architect immediately calls in a few expert heating and ventilating engineers and explains to them the characteristics of the structure and certain conditions which he is desirous of having complied with. He also gives each engineer a set of blue prints and general  instructions. 

Of course each engineer decides upon an indirect steam or an indirect hot water system, but when he takes a general survey of the now half-finished building the difficulties to be surmounted are so pronounced, and the expense of such an installation is so great that he reluctantly feels like recommending the old direct-radiation method all over. It is just the old story- no provision made for anything but the chimney.

After an enormous amount of worry and scheming each engineer submits two sets of plans and specifications one set is for direct radiation and the other for indirect radiation with the necessary outlet or vent flues and probably an aspirating stack.

The indirect plans are submitted first, and the architect is simply stunned. His practiced eye sees at a glance that this vent stack and that flue boxing, along with many other projecting monstrosities, will ruin the internal effect of the structure. The basement will be like a factory, and, in fact, the entire building will become a " hotchpotch " of pipes, flues and boxings. Something must be done so that a reasonable degree of character and style will remain in the internal treatment. Engineer and architect now consult and decide upon a '' give-and-take" plan. The architect is willing to cut out here and build up a little there in order to conceal certain flues. He changes the plans somewhat to get in a central vent stack, and puts in a few more open fireplaces for the sake of ventilation. He also agrees to build an underground duct and brick in the indirects, etc., all for appearance and general utility's sake. The engineer, on the other hand, cuts out some indirects and replaces them with direct radiation, because it would weaken walls or beams too much if the proposed flues were all run through, and s6 the thing goes until a fairly good arrangement is mapped out on the "trestle board." But see what it will cost to make the changes in the building ; compare it with the very simple, economical and unobtrusive system that could have been devised if architect and engineer had but worked together on the first lay-out of the plans, before the construction was commenced.

This is no fable it is an every-day occurrence, and almost every engineer can testify to it. Why is it that some of the very finest and most costly buildings in the country to-day are defaced internally by steam pipes running here, there and everywhere? it is simply because no provision was made for a better arrangement in the working drawings, and before the building was com menced.

Why is it that the basements of most large buildings look like factories? Just because the engineer came on the scene too late to have it otherwise.

'Why is it that the basement of a building is not usually finished in a half-decent manner? Just because there is a general impression among architects and owners that this part of the building, at least, must be sacrificed to the several engineering contrivances now in use in all modern buildings.

Architects are not blind to this fact, and nobody knows that better than we do; they all prefer consultation with the engineers before the working drawings are made, because they know how much can be saved and how superior the results will be when all installations are carefully considered in detail and accurately mapped out before the cellar walls are built. But this treatment of a building is seldom resorted to except by a few of the leading architects.

