<doctype type="text">

	74	THE	AND BUILDER.



which it was put. Judgment was given for the sum of $712.50 with costs.

Referring to a recent lecture by Professor Cox, in which the importance of ventilation and the use of open grates was emphasized, a correspondent pertinently enquires if the inmates of houses in this climate would not be likely to suffer as great injury from draughts as by impure air, and calls upon the Professor to explain the system by which ventilation by grates and windows, without draughts, can be secured in winter.

Although the building season opens rather later than usual this year, prospects at present are very favorable. Nearly all of the architects' offices are full of work, and both architects and contractors are looking forward to a busy time.

The Council of Arts and Manufactures closed on the 7th inst. a very successful season's study. The classes have been well attended, over 450 pupils being entered from this city alone. A formal closing will take place next month—date not yet fixed—at which addresses by the Provincial Ministers and also by the professors will be delivered, prizes presented to the successful students, and an exhibition given of the work clone during the winter evenings.

The collapse of the building at 71 Commissioners street occupied by Messrs. F. X. Benoit & Son, flour merchants, proves conclusively the necessity of a thorough inspection of all large buildings, etc., throughout the city. This building was remodelled and the interior specially constructed for its present use three years ago. The accident is stated to be due to faulty construction, the iron girders only being embeudded about four inches in a brick wall. Messrs. Lacroix, building inspector, and Benoit, chief of the Fire Brigade, will commence immediately an inspection of the city structures, and hope to complete their work in about two weeks. their report will he given in our next issue.

The civic hospital was visited on thc 12th inst. by the special committee appointed by the Health Committee for that purpose, viz., AId. Prenoveau, Ames, Turner, Gallery & Dufresne; thc Medical Health Officer, Dr. Laberge, and the architects, Messrs. Perrault & Mann. The object of the visit was to ascertain the condition of the building, and after a thorough inspection had been made it was unanimously decided that the building was not in immediate danger of collapsing, and orders were given to shore up the structure where needed. The site of the new building has not yet been decided upon, but no time will be lost, as work will be commenced as soon as the frost is out of the ground.



<article title="Correspondences." author="BAILLAIRGE,Charles ">

WORDS OF APPRECIATION.

Q UEBEC, March 29th, 1899.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—While I cannot agree with you as to the present being the closing year of the nineteenth century, since one year more—the year 1900—is required to complete it; every 100 being made up, not of 99 units, but of 100 of them—I am free to say that your last issue is a splendid one in every respect, and replete with the best of literature on many most pertinent subjects.

I would more especially refer to Gambier-Bousfield's paper under the heading (at page 58) "Students Department." This paper should be read not only by students, but, and more usefully so, by architects themselves, and by each and every architect, and re-read and committed to memory; and if I have considered it necessary thus to signalize it, it is precisely because under its. present heading of "Students' Department," it may not appear to appeal as it really does to the attention of the professional members.

Architects, I say, should read this paper and act up to its suggestions, for  my extensive term of experience enables me to say that all the suggested difficulties have happened and more than once (luring my time, and the " my wife" element is, as Bousfield says, creative of any amount of trouble; as well the fact of firms disowning responsibility in the case of a not legally authorized agent.

The article "Builders' Exchangc, Why?" is also a well timed one, and, in a word, thc whole issue is made up of readable, interesting matter.

CHAS. BAILLAIRGE,



Consulting Engineer and Architect, Quebec.





To Protect IRON STRUCTURES FROM RUSTING.----Mix one part of quicklime with five parts of water, stir it up to allow thc lime to settle then pour off the clear water, and mix the lime with sufficient olive oil to make a thick cream, and paint this over thc iron surfaces to be protected.

ONTARIO	ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS— TORONTO CHAPTER.

The regular and annual meeting of the above Chapter, was held at the School of Practical Science, on the evening of Monday, April 10th. Mr. Helliwell occupied the chair.

The report of the Secretary-Treasurer was read and adopted. It showed the Chapter to be in a healthy and prosperous condition.

The chairman presented an address, dealing with matters of interest to the profession which occurred during the past year. He congratulated the members on the great improvement in business and accounted for the small attendance at this meeting by the fact that most of the members were so busy as to have to work in the evenings. He pointed out the importance of the architects being prepared for an increased amount of work by exercising thought and study, and by thus turning out better work, reap the benefit of public appreciation. lie deplored the fact that there were still citizens of Ontario who thought it necessary to go out of the country for professional advice in connection with building operations, and trusted that the time was close at hand when the very largest operations, without exception would be trusted to our architects. lie thought that Ontario architects should at least be given an opportunity of showing what they could do in every case before foreign advice was sought. The matter of competitions was touched upon, and a recent competition in which the conditions were not in accordance with the principles of the Ontario Association of Architects, and for which a ridiculously small number of architects had entered, was cited as a matter of congratulation to the profession, as it indicated that the day of irregular competition was past. He made a strong appeal to all the architects of the province to stand loyally by the Ontario Association of Architects, which body he claimed had done much to further the welfare of the profession, and which from all indications promised to do even more in the future. The Toronto Chapter too had been the means of bringing the local members together, and he was sure that a better and more contented feeling existed between the architects, as a result of the Chapter meetings.

The address was much appreciated by those present, and Mr. Helliwell was warmly applauded.

The meeting adjourned after seeing a number of most interesting lantern views, taken in the West indian islands, thanks to the kindness of Mr. Wright and Mr. Harkness, of the School.



IMPROVED BUILDING REGULATIONS.

There is noted a disposition on the part of municipal authorities in the United States to pay greater regard to regulations governing the erection of buildings. In Chicago, Boston and other cities a limit has been placed upon the height to which new buildings may be erected, thus effectually checking the further development of the sky-scraper style of architecture. For the purpose of determining who is the actual owner of the land and building and aiding to fix responsibility for violations of the building law, a regulation has recently gone into operation in Boston which requires the owner to sign each application for a building permit. The application must also be accompanied by a deed of the property or a certified copy thereof. Permits will no longer be granted, as in Canada, on applications signed by the architect and builder.

