<doctype type="text">	

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

	250	THE	ARCHITECT	BUILDER.



nor shall any person set fire to any fireworks on private property nearer to any building than forty yards.



SMOKE HOUSES AND KILNS.



SECTION 123.—No person shall use any smoke house or kiln for curing HAMS or for the drying of wood, or other materials, until the same shall have been inspected and approved by the inspector.



LUMBER YARDS.



SECTION 124.—No person shall use or occupy any yard or lot for the storage or sale of timber without having first applied to the council and obtained a permit to do so, as provided for in section 122 of this by-law.



FIRE ESCAPES.



SECTION 126. - Every dwelling house occupied by three or more families above the first storey, and every building already erected more than three storeys in height, occupied and used as an hotel or lodging house, and every boarding house having more than fifteen sleeping rooms above the first storey, and every factory, mill, manufactory or work shop, hospital, asylum, or institution for the care or treatment of individuals, and every building n whole or in part occupied or used as a school, or place of instruction or assembly, and every office building not of fireproof construction of four stories or more in height, shall be provided with such good and sufficient outside fire escapes, stairway or other means of egress in case of fire, as may be approved of or directed by the inspector.

Such fire escapes shall consist of an iron stairway with a suitable railing, and shall be connected with the interior of the building by doors and windows, and shall have suitable landings at every storey above the first, including the attic, if the attic is used as a work-room; and they must be kept in good order and free from any encumbrance or obstruction whatever.

The inspector shall have full and exclusive power and authority within the sad city to direct fire escapes and other means of egress to be provided upon and within aforesaid buildings, in addition to any provision heretofore made.

The owner or owners of any building upon which a fire escape is erected shall keep the same in good repair and properly painted, and the occupant of such building shall keep it free from encumbrance of any kind whatsoever.

SECTION 127.—In case of the falling of any building or part of a building, where persons are known or believed to be buried under the ruins, it shall be the duty of the building inspector, immediately after being notified thereof, to engage men to search for and recover the bodies of the killed or injured, and the city treasurer is hereby authorized to defray the expense incurred by the building inspector for that purpose, and all expenses incurred in so doing shall be recovered from the owner of such building, in any court having jurisdiction in the matter.



PLUMBING WORK.

I.

SECTION 129. -No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or work at the business of plumbing, either as a master or employing plumber, unless such person, firm or corporation, has received a license or certificate therefor in accordance with the provisions of this by-law relating to these, as hereinafter contained.

11.

The word "Master Plumber" as used in these regulations, shall be deemed to mean one who employs practical plumbers or journeyman plumbers, and who keeps a shop or place of business for which he pays a business tax to the city.



III.

Any person engaged in or working at the business of plumbing, prior to the passing of this by-law, and desiring to engage n or work at said business, either as a master or employing plumber in the city of Montreal, shall apply to the board of examiners herein after provided for, to be examined as to his qualifications for such business.

IV.

In case of a firm or corporation, the examining and licensing of and granting a certificate to any one member of the firm or the manager of the corporation, shall satisfy the requirements of this by-law.

V.

There shall be a board of examiners of plumbers, consisting of the building inspector or his assistant, the sanitary engineer (who shall be ex-officio), and a master plumber of at least ten years practical experience, to be appointed by the city council, on the recommendation of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, for the term of two years at a time. Said third member to receive as compensation for his services a sum not exceeding five dollars a day for actual service.



VI.



The said board of examiners shall then appoint a chairman, and designate the time and place for the examination of all applicants desiring to engage in the business of plumbing within the city of Montreal. Said board shall examine said applicants as to their practical knowledge of plumbing, house drainage, and plumbing ventilation and shall submit the applicant to some form of practical tests, and if satisfied of the competency of the applicant, shall so certify and issue a license, authorizing him to engage in the business of plumbing in Montreal, either as a master or employing plumber.

VII.

The fee for a license shall be two dollars for a master or employing plumber, and said license shall be renewed yearly, on the payment of one dollar for master or employing plumbers.

PLUMBING, DRAINAGE, AND VENTILATION OF BUILDINGS.

SECTION 130.—Every licensed master plumber, or drain builder, or drain layer, shall be required to register his name and place of business at the office of the Board of Health, and to give notice at the said office in case of the removal of his place of business.

An official list of such plumbers, and drain builders, or drain layers recognized by the Board of Health, shall be published once a year during the month of May.

It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on the trade of plumbing or drain making in the city of Montreal, unless licensed or registered as above.

SECTION 131.—All plumbing and house drainage and ventilation in the city shall be made and constructed in accordance with the following rules, which shall be binding on all parties concerned.

No drains shall be made or plumbing work done in any building until a permit to do so has been obtained from the sanitary engineer, as provided for in section 22 of this by-law.

No alteration of drains or plumbing work in any building affecting its sanitary condition shall be undertaken before giving notice to the sanitary engineer. Forms of application and specification for the drains and plumbing work of a new building and for a new building and for alteration of the same in old buildings will be supplied by the Health Department.

Pipes, drains and plumbing work shall not be covered or concealed from view until approved by the inspector, who shall examine the same within two working days after notice that they are ready for inspection.

The material used shall be of good quality and free from defects, and the work shall be executed in a thorough and workmanlike manner.

SECTION 132. -The arrangement of the soil, waste and ventilation pipes shall be as perpendicular and direct as possible.

The soil, drain, waste and drain ventilation pipes shall, as far as practicable, be exposed to view, ready for inspection and for convenience in repairing.

When necessarily placed within partitions or recesses of walls, soil, drain, waste or ventilation pipes shall be covered with woodwork, so fastened with hinges or round headed screws, as to be readily uncovered.

SECTION 133.—Every house or building shall be separately and independently connected with the street sewer, in front of such house or building, or with such other sewer as shall be designated by the board of health but in all cases of dwelling houses there shall be a special connection with the street sewer for each fifty feet frontage of said house, if there be only six dwellings in the said space ; and in case there shall be more than six dwellings in the said space of fifty feet, the special connection with the street shall be as directed by the board of health.

SECTION 134.—Interior house drains when above ground shall be of cast iron pipe when laid under ground may be of vitrified clay pipe with a fall of at least ¼ inch to the foot ; where water-closet discharge into them, the pipe shall be at least 4 and not more than 6 inches in diameter, and be laid in a straight line if possible. All changes in direction shall be laid with curved pipes and at least one clean-out length shall be provided. All drain pipes laid in the ground must have a solid foundation. When necessary, concrete made with cement, must be used.

Every such drain put in and covered, without due notice to the health department, shall be uncovered within 24 hours, for inspection by the sanitary engineer or his representative.

SECTION 135.—No brick, sheet metal, earthenware or chimney flue, shall be used as a sewer ventilator, or to ventilate any trap, drain, soil or waste pipes.

SECTION 136.—Soil pipes shall be of cast iron of the weights specified in section 144, and shall extend at least two feet above the highest part of the roof, or coping, undiminished in size, and in no case shall they be less than four inches in diameter; where the soil ventilating pipes come within fifteen feet of any windows, open louvres, or other openings, they must be carried up 5 feet above top of such window or opening.

Soil, waste and vent pipes, in an extension, shall be carried above the root of the main building when they are closer than 20 feet to the windows of the main building of adjoining houses.

SECTION 137.—All water closet traps must be amply back air ventilated with a pipe from 2 inches to 4 inches, or other approved device, or the pipes must he so arranged as to prevent syphoning.

SECTION 138.—Joints of sewers and soil pipes shall be gas and water tight.

SECTION 139.—When stacks of pipe are required for sinks only they shall be carried through the roof, and be not less than 2 inches for four sinks or inches for over that number; but the portion above the roof in all cases must be 1 inch greater diameter than that below the roof.

SECTION 140.—When lead pipes are used to connect fixtures with vertical soil or waste pipes, or to connect traps with vertical

vent pipes, they shall not be lighter than six		sheet	lead to

the square foot.

 SECTION 141.—There shall be no traps			with ver-

tical soil or waste pipes.

 SECTION 142. - All pipes shall be sound	and free	from	holes or

cracks.

SECTION 143.—The following weight per foot or yard for cast iron and lead pipes, are the minimum 



IRON PIPES.



FOR PLUMBING WORK.—2-inch, 4 pounds lineal foot; 3-inch, 6½ pounds ; 4-inch, 9 pounds 5-inch, 12½ pounds 6-inch, 17 pounds.

FOR DRAIN WORK.—4-inch, 13½ pounds per lineal foot; 5-inch, 17 pounds 6-inch, 20 pounds.

