<doctype type="text">

<article title=" On Slate Roofs." author="">

























[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE HY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



On Slate Roofs.

If slates are laid on a boarded roof the boards should he covered with a waterproof bitumenized felting, overlapping on the incline of the roof. If when slats or battens, a sheet wire netting might be stretched from slat to slat in order to keep the felt from sagging, and the slates laid with the proper tilt to make the tails lie close. To keep out draughts, as well as a special precaution against leakage occurring on exposed sites from driving rain or melting snow, the slates are often pointed with hair mortar on the inside, or " torched" as it is termed, or they may be shouldered or bedded for about two inches at their heads in hair mortar, generally mixed with coal ashes, which have been sifted and washed, to give a good slate color, and this method is more effectual than mere pointing, as it does not get loose nor drop out, while it tends to keep the tails or feet of the slates down tight. Sometimes the slates are rendered on the undersides with good hair mortar, both to keep out the weather and maintain a more equable temperature within. If the slates are already laid and the roof leaks, pointing must be resorted to as suggested, but there is a cement for pointing which has been in successful operation in this country and England for a long time, and it is superior to hair mortar. It is made as follows Take equal parts of whiting and dry sand, add 25 per cent. of litharge, make into the consistency of putty with linseed oil. Use just enough sifted and washed coal ashes, in addition, to give the mixture a good slate color. Apply where required while soft. It will not crack when cold, nor melt like coal tar and asphalt with the heat of the sun. Slate makes a superior roof, but is heavy and costly, and requires great care in laying on the roof, but when once done, it is good for several generations.





WORKMEN by their united action, often

accomplish many things favorable to

themselves, that never could have been done without organization. The occasional misuse of the power attained by organization does not alter the fact that through unity of purpose the greatest good for the greatest number can often be accomplished, and in this sense, when employers of skilful and other labor in the building trades are associated together they can do much, by combined effort on reasonable lines, towards warding off the labor disturbances that seem particularly to afflict the building trades. Under existing circumstances, labor organizations have no headquarters to which to submit their grievances, and the individual contractor does not, as a rule, feel justified in conceding to his dissatisfied workman, something he imagines would be unjust to himself and fellow con-

Builders' Exchanges.

<article title=" Remodelling Old Buildings." author="">

Remodelling Old Buildings.

tractors. If there was a recognized authority a Builder's Exchange—in any city or town where dissatisfaction existed between the employers and employed the two parties could easily be brought together, and by talking their differences over and "reasoning together," a rupture might be avoided " and peace with honor secured by both parties. The peculiar condition of the building trades from a business point of view is that nearly all contracts are secured by competition, and this makes united action on the part of employers difficult to obtain, for the reason that there are always certain builders who will not identify themselves with any movement they may fancy will place their business in temporary jeopardy. As a rule, however, the majority of contractors associate themselves with an Exchange when once it is established, knowing that to become members benefits of many kinds are sure to result, but they do not care to take an active part in its establishment, partly from modesty and partly because they imagine it will make serious inroads on their time — and their purses. As a matter of fact, it need take but little of either if proper methods are employed.





IT is quite a difficult undertaking to re-model and modernize an old building, particularly if it is expected that

much of the old building is to be left untouched. Heroic measures are generally the best to adopt in work of this kind, and designing the new building to a large extent regardless of the old one, keeping just a few things in view only. If the old building is large enough on the plan to cover the requirements, the task is generally more difficult, as additions can always be rendered so that defects in old structure may nearly always be hidden, and windows and doors and gables may be so distributed in the new part as to subordinate a great portion of the old work to it. If the floors and floor timbers are sound, and the building is not to be raised on its foundations, the task will be made much easier than if new floors were required, or if the building had to be raised. If a new lay-out of rooms is necessary, this will be governed largely by the position of the stairways and well-holes, and by the position of the partition or partitions that support the inner ends of the floor joists. Moving or disturbing the partitions that carry one end of the joists should be avoided if possible, and the new lay-out should be so designed that the old well-hole remains undisturbed. Where this latter cannot be avoided, there should be new joists inserted, and the short joists and trimmers forming the well should be taken out. This is important, as carrying short joists from trimmer to wall is inadmissable, as it would leave the floor too weak to resist every strain it might be

