<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



HAMILTON

(Correspondence of the CANA

DIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)





I suppose the inhabitants of this city of undeveloped possibilities could not he expected to he alive to their interests in any one direction more than another. If they cannot he brought to develop natural resources they could not be brought to consider the necessity of the preservation of their own creations. If they will do nothing towards making Hamilton a summer resort, can it be expected of them that they should do anything to prevent the total destruction of

their city by fire? And yet perhaps that is the very reason for their supineness. It certainly is no use developing a place that is expected to be destroyed. They have their fire by-laws and they have a living inspector, who has told me that they have a pretty solid kind of city, from a building inspector's point of view. I wonder if it has ever occurred to the City Council, that after having passed and approved of plans for building -facit per alia facet per se—and after having in theory, if not in fact, approved the building when completed, if a serious fire should occur, resulting in injury or death to any of the public, the corporation is in danger of being mulcted in damages? But in the happy-go-lucky way of doing things, so very characteristic of corporations generally, it is to be concluded that if the constituents don't care, their representatives need not worry. Now Mr. Anderson is not only a living inspector but he has the advantages of youth and activity, a keen eyesight and a well developed sense of smell, and it is no doubt due to his natural capacity for his position that Hamilton should be as he says it is, so solid. No matter however, how brilliant a young man may be, he cannot be expected to shine if he is put under a bushel, and city authorities are usually more weighty than a bushel. But after all, especially with the experience of other cities before us,— by-laws cannot avert destruction by fire, especially when they are pigeon-holed and their provisions disregarded.

One clause of the by-laws says that "every elevator shall be constructed with brick walls ' (sizes given) "with iron doors at each opening," the walls to be carried up feet above the roof. It does not say whether the "elevator shaft" means the space occupied by the car in its ascent and descent or whether the "shaft may be large enough to include a staircase winding round the car well, which is an arrangement so well calculated to cut off all means of escape in the event of fire. And with reference to the iron doors it does not define whether they shall be solid, of sheet iron, or of open ironwork—it is a question for the city solicitor to say whether a "grille" is an " iron door. Another clause says "or, and that little word is capable of filling us with renewed hope for our safety, until we know whether what follows it is carried out—" or shall be made with sides consisting of bars of iron open on each storey, and shall have horizontal fire proof doors on each flat, which shall automatically close the elevator opening in the floor when the building shall be heated by any fire, etc., etc. Now we have departmental stores and we have office buildings, warehouses and other places of business where the "shaft" " has been taken to include the staircase and that staircase is made of wood, and where the elevators are inclosed with iron railings and no horizontal fire doors exist. Another clause says that the outer 'walls of" every building or part of a building "shall be of " iron, stone or brick," conse

quently frame gables, brick nogging, half-timbered work and such picturesque details are at a discount, but at the same time we have in the centre of the city, and newly built, a departmental store with the front of its upper story of wood, between piers of iron faced with brick. It is true the greater part between the piers is of glass-—but the lights being circular headed have large wooden spandrils and abutments of wood, exposed to the elements. But what do the public care; we may all he burnt as we frequent these places but that does not trouble us; we are far more interested in the "Gore Park" (which of course is so well known I need not describe it, although it, like chickens and kittens. owes its beauty—no doubt—to its minute proportions.) However we are happy at last because the block paved triangular space which has served as a cab-stand for so many years, eastward of the confines of the present enclosed portion, is to be made into a flower bed as soon as the weather permits, and as there is nothing in the fire by-law referring to the construction of flower beds, we need not Worry.

R.	W. GAMBIER BOUSFIELD.







THE INFLUENCE OF THE MODERN CHRISTIAN CHURCH UPON THE ECCLESIASTIC ARCHITECTURE OF THE DOMINION.

Why has the church of the present day an evil rather than an elevating influence over the architecture of this colony? This is a question over which many a thoughtful architect must have pondered sadly enough; the contrast to be drawn between the magnificent temples that are an honor and a glory to Christian Europe, marking the devotion of her peoples, and representing as well the elevated taste, culture, and persistent effort of the clergy of the Christian church, whose buildings reveal not only the highest ideal in architectural design but the greatest of constructive skill—the contrast to be drawn between such an ecclesiastical architecture on the one hand, and the temporary, and too often trumpery and wholly inartistic, nature of church building in Canada, is indeed a painfully strong one.

In speaking of the church it must be understood as having reference to the Christian church as a whole, embodying all denominations, none escaping the reproach that is levelled against our sacred edifices—far too dignified a term to apply to the great mass of churches, chapels, meeting houses and so forth.

That the great dissenting bodies should worship in buildings in no wise calculated to inspire any other feeling than that of horror at the general disregard, sometimes amounting to an almost savage disregard, of the beautiful, is perhaps traceable to that old Puritanical creed which held it and Idolatry to be nearly akin, a creed which would appear to be still held by those who have the regulation of the building operations of these bodies. This old Puritan spirit evidences its existence in the dedication to the service of the Almighty of buildings which are mere travesties of architecture. The spirit which promotes this unfortunate objection to the beautiful is the same as that which prompted the barbarous destruction by English Puritans of an untold wealth of sculpture, carving, painted glass, pictures, tapestries, iron and brass work, etc., which had been accumulated during the long centuries when the church was well nigh the only repository of such treasures, a loss of inestimable magnitude from an art and historical point of view, the wicked and wanton destruction of which doubtless is largely responsible for the degeneration in English applied arts from which we have only comparatively recently began to recover. Until the Dissenters in the Dominion realize that the Almighty is the greatest of architects, that all His works are beautiful, and that in consequence lovely buildings, fine carving, noble sculptures, grand frescoes and indeed anything and everything in the production of which there is necessarily evidenced a strong love and patient, study of the sublime in nature, cannot be distasteful to Him. I say until the truth of this is borne home to them they will continue to disfigure His lovely world with their architectural aberrations in the vain belief  that they are thereby gratifying God.

But how is it with the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches? Do they in their works show that they strive to emulate the splendid example of their predecessors? Very many of the clergy of these two great divisions of the church are men who have been educated at Rome, Oxford, Cambridge, Durham— places steeped to the core in art, places in which it would seem impossible for any ordinarily observant person to live for a single year without bearing away with him a love and a reference for the grey old churches, chapels, colleges, libraries and galleries with the countless treasures they contain. But how much more

