<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	9



MANUFACTURES and MATERIALS

THE LATE MR. F. S. RATHBUN

WIDESPREAD regret followed the announcement of the sudden death from heart failure on November 26th last, of Mr. F. S. Rathbun, Secretary-Treasurer of the Rathbun Co., of Deseronto, Ont. The late Mr. Rathbun was born in Deseronto in 1856, his father being the late Hugo Burghardt Rathbun, founder of the Rathbun Company. At the age of sixteen he quitted the school which he had been attending in New York, and entered the office of Messrs. H. B. Rathbun & Son. At the formation of the present company he was













































THE LATE MR. F. S. RATHBUN,





appointed secretary-treasurer, a position of great responsibility, which he filled with marked ability. He was also an officer of a number of other enterprises in which the Rathbun Company were financially interested, and in addition was for many years treasurer and postmaster of Deseronto.



A strike of stonecutters is in progress in connection with the quarries at Crookston, Ont. The owners express their intention to cease operations at the quarries during the winter.



The Londonderry Iron Co. of Nova Scotia have gone into voluntary liquidation. At recent meeting of creditors held in Montreal, Mr. Geo. Creak, accountant, of that city, was appointed liquidator.



A quarter of million dollars is said to have been subscribed towards the establishment of the paving brick Company, of which Mr. J. W. McBride, of Toronto Junction is the promoter, reference to which was made in our December number.



The Dominion Radiator Co. of Toronto, have recently purchased additional land 150x130 feet, south of their present premises, and are negotiating for land on Melbourne Avenue with a view to further enlargement of their present extensive works.



A new abrading material equal to emery in hardness, according to the claims of Mr. Floryanowicz, the Russian inventor, as described in the Engineer, is made from fireclay. The clay is thoroughly washed, mixed in a pasty mass, dried, and then burned at a temperature of about 2,300 deg. Fah. The result is a uniformly hard product with a hardness of 8 to 9 on the Mohr scale ; this is equal to that of emery. The burned clay s crushed and used for making wheels, etc.



IN mercantile architecture, the demand for show window space has forced upon architects many a sacrifice in the way of design. This feature of large show windows must be frankly accepted as

an essential condition in retail store buildings, and in every detail they should be made as effective and attractive as possible. The proper lighting of these windows at night does not always receive the attention it should from architects. If it were a question of lighting a picture, no architect would hesitate as to the right way. Why should not a show window be arranged to light the merchant's goods, as a picture is lighted? The best specification for this purpose is the store window light devised by Mr. I. P. Frink, after forty years experience in making special lighting fixtures. It is a modification of Mr. Frink's famous "picture light" used in he Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, the New Corcoran Gallery, Washington D. C., the Art Institute, Chicago, Ill., the Carnegie Library, Pittsburgh, Pa., and many other public and private art galleries. Full particulars of this store window light, as well as a estimate on any particular work, can be promptly secured by writing to Mr. Frink, at 551 Pearl St., New York.













C. A. & B. STUDENTS COMPETITION.

BELOW will be found the reports of the Committees of Award of the 0. A. A. and P. Q. A. A. on the above competition

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—We have placed designs by "Caza' first, in connection with which we make the following remarks



Design of domestic chimney (left hand upper corner): The general idea of this one is good, but the buttress set-offs on same are much too low down, not only detracting from the appearance, but interfering with the saddle, which would have to be placed behind. The details of the top are not as good as the outline.



The other domestic chimney is a good simply-designed feature, and is agreeably worked in with gable, and has evidently a nice corner beside the fireplace.



The scholastic chimney is an exceptionally nice quiet bit of designing, the proportions being unusually good, and the drawing in connection with this is well done.



The classical chimney is weak in design and poorly drawn.



In "Caza's" details he has failed in more than one instance to design proper drips to his mouldings, which in execution always is attended with bad results. 



"Percival's" designs are also good, but the design in left hand corner is somewhat "fussed." The outline of upper part is not a pleasing one, with the chamfer below and the angle columns above buttress set-offs. The drawing could be improved upon.



Lower left hand design is an agreeable bit of composition, nicely proportioned. The cut stone base to the angular portion is "faked" in the perspective, as if constructed as shown in detail, the splay is too flat to be properly seen in execution.



His "Queen Anne" chimney represents a rather well designed gable, though the top is hardly in keeping with the ramped work.



The classic chimney is an unpretentious but well designed feature.



"Colonial" submits a sheet of designs in which he shows his good sense in trying to design in a good style. With one exception his designing is unconstructional, having stone angles without bond swags across brickwork, etc. He is practically ruled out of the competition by not conforming to its requirements, but it is to be hoped he will try again.



It is to be regretted that a competition on such an interesting subject met with such a poor response.

JOHN GEMMELL

W.	A. LANGTON O.A.A. Committee.

A.	F. WICKSON 



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,-—Re C. A. & B. Students' Competition for four ornamental chimneys, compositions as a whole were found weak, design by "Caza" showing better qualities of drawing—"Percival" being nearly equal to the first mentioned. As to "Colonial," he is inferior in drawing and composition.

For the standing Committee on Competitions, P.Q.A.A.,

Jos. VENNE, Secretary.





[The names of the successful competitors n this competition are: 1. "Caza" (Mr. A. H. Chapman), 28 Toronto street, Toronto; 2. "Percival" (Mr. Elmer H. Russell), 145 Yorkville avenue, Toronto.—THE EDITOR C. A. & B.]

