<doctype type="text">

barrels of best cow-hair, 1¾ yards of sharp sand, 34 yard of washed gravel and 16 pounds of cut lath nails

1¼ inches long. A quarter barrel of lime putty should he mixed with every barrel of prepared gravel for the dash. The dash may be colored to suite taste by using proper pigments. To color 100 yards in any of the tints named herewith use the following quantities of ingredients For a blue-black, 5 pounds of lamp-black; for buff, 5 pounds of green copperas, to which add one pound of fresh cow manure, strained, and mixed with the dash. A fine terra cotta is made by using 15 pounds of metallic oxide, mixed with 5 pounds of green copperas and 4 pounds of lamp-black. Many tints of these colors may be obtained by varying the quantities given. The colors obtained by these mixtures are permanent ; they do not fade or change with time or atmospheric variations. Earthy colors, like Venetian red and umber, soon fade and have a sickly appearance, and they tend to weaken the mortar. Buildings roughcast in this manner are warmer than when covered with siding or shingles, and are less expensive, quite as durable, and more fire-resisting.



THERE are several ways of making



Some Points in

Balloon Framing.	corner posts for a balloon frame building, some of which have considerable



merit, and others that ought not to be permitted to obtain. It is very bad construction to simply spike two 2 x 4 studs together to form a corner 4' x 4' in section, and then spike a third piece on these to receive

















 A









the boarding or lath on one of the return angles. By this method, one of the sides of the wall is dependent altogether for its adherence to the corner post to the draw of the nails or spikes holding the third piece to the doubled studs. Sometimes, though not often in these days, the corner post is formed of 6" x 6" timber, which has a rebate of 2" x 2 taken out of the internal angle in order to allow of the inside boarding or lath 

F

STUD







o	









FIG 2 Showing Sill.



ing being nailed to it from both walls This is a very good method, but is a costly one, and often an inconvenient one, as 6" x 6" posts are not always obtainable. A better method, or at least a more convenient one, and one that is less expensive is shown at Fig. 1. Here we make use of three 2" X 4' studs, B B B, to

form the corner, and by this arrangement we get all the conditions required to make a good solid corner. D shows a hollow space between the two outside studs, and A shows the outside boarding, which may be dressed and matched stuff, or it may be rough boarding. The centre stud projects out just two inches, and forms a good hacking to nail to from one side, while the inside stud forms a good basis to nail to from the other angle. The projecting stud may be notched out at the proper height to receive thc joists, which would give the latter a solid bearing. This method of forming a corner is simple, cheap and effective. There are a number of current methods employed in laying down sills for balloon framing on a brick or stone foundation. At Fig. 2 is shown one method that may be considered a fairly good one, but unnecessarily costly, as a 2' X 4"







LI 







0





 









FIG. 3—ANOTHER METHOD.





sill would answer just as well and the notching out of the joists could well be dispensed with. Fig. 3 exhibits another method in which there is not so much timber employed, but the same amount of notching is required. While both these methods are effective, as the full strength of the joists is retained because of its resting on the wall at 0, it is better when it can he done to have a 2" x 4' hard timber at the point X, as this will prevent any splitting of the joists at the angles S S. Two other methods, taken from Magginis' "How to Frame a House," are shown at Fig. 4. The first





Stud



[Stud

















 





 









FIG. 4—SHOWING Two M Methods.



method shows the joists resting on a 2' .X 6" sill, and having a portion of the foundation wall built up the depth of the joist to the foot of the studding. This method is not to be commended for general use, but there are sometimes situations when its use is necessary, and it is to meet these conditions that the author intends it. The second example is much better. The sill consists of two pieces of plank bedded in the wall, the lower plank being quite wide, the upper one being much narrower. By this arrangement the joist gets a hearing on the lower plank, which gives the whole strength of the joist to resistance of floor pressure. At

