<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL TERMS." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	63



course—and over this is placed one thickness of flooring felt. Then, on a line with the joists, battens 7/8 of an inch thick are laid as shown, and on them the finished floor is laid. This is a very good way, but there is really no actual necessity to run the felt down the sides of the joists and along the bottom boarding, as shown at X X X. This is a waste of labor and material ; a strip of felt laid over the top edge of the joist answers just as well as covering the whole surface. It may then be asked, ''What's the use of the boarding between the joists ? " Well, for deafening purposes, it is of no value ; if for keeping out cold, then it is all right as far as it goes. A cheaper, and perhaps a more effective method than either of the two shown is to first lay a strip of soft felt on the top of each joist, then lay the first floor, cover this with felt and put down the finishing floor on this ; then tack strips of soft felt on to the under edges of the joists, and lath over the strips. This cuts off all communication between the floors and the ceiling, so far as woodwork is concerned, but the nails that are used for nailing on the felt often convey the sound from the floors to the joists, and so on to the ceiling below. No effective cutting off of sound, however, can take place so long as the joists rest their ends on girts or bond timbers in the walls, for sound travels along the floor to the wall, and is then transmitted to the joists, and by them passed to the walls and then on to the other floors. Felt, lead, or other "deadenino" material should be placed under the ends of all joists, and between them and the plates of all partitions, if effective deafening is required.











<article title=" GLASS AS A WALL COVERING." author="">

GLASS AS A WALL COVERING.

In recent years glass in a variety of forms has been applied to many purposes in building, and seems destined to find employment to a still greater extent in the future. A year or so ago it was reported that in France glass bricks were being manufactured and were likely to come into use. It has been decided to build on the grounds of the Paris Exposition a glass house or luminous palace, parts of which are now being constructed. It is thus described: "The principal facade, in the form of an immense portico, its roof surmounted with spires and with a winged statue representing Light, will be supported by heavy columns. The ground floor, reached by a double flight of stairs, will be used as a great exposition room. To the right and left will be large glass

to allow of the general use of the material. Perhaps the most successful experiment in this direction was made by Mr. Butler of Gas City, Indiana, who produced a plate of glass about half an inch thick in a mould, a tongue being formed on the back of the tile which could be inserted in the joints of ordinary brick work while building. In practice it was found that the excessive weight of the wall caused the tiles to break, and frequent re placement became necessary. Mr. Butler next perfected solid glass tiles about one half inch thick, pressed in moulds containing designs which were thus reproduced on the surface of the glass. These tiles were plated on the walls when built. Some of them are still to be seen in position on the walls of the Penn























































GLASS WALL COVERING IN DEPOSIT VAULTS, TEMPLE

BUILDING, TORONTO.



Block, Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. The material in this form likewise proved to be too expensive.

Mr. Edwin Hill of the Toronto Plate Glass Importing Co., has recently perfected a process of plating walls with glass, which seems to fulfill all requirements. The tiles which are about one-tenth of an inch in thickness, are made either in pure white, or in any tint or color desired, and of every conceivable shape or size. They are solidly backed in cement on a foundation of plaster. The cement being of a plastic nature, becomes tenacious and

GLASS WALL COVERING IN BATH-ROOM.



basins, overhung by grottoes of glass. In the interior of the hall will be five large openings, in which will be represented the five divisions of the globe."

Much attention has been bestowed on methods of utilizing glass as a covering for walls. Where success has been attained so far as the manufacture of the slabs or tiles was concerned, the cost of the production has been too great

extremely hard, thus preventing either the tiles or plaster from becoming loose. The character of the work is such that it is unaffected either by excessive dryness or moisture. The cost of this material is said to be about one-half that of glazed tiles. Its adaptability as a sanitary wall covering for hospitals, etc., is at once apparent. The accompanying illustrations show the material in situ as a dado in a bathroom, and on the walls of the safety deposit vaults in the Temple Building, Toronto.



The Canadian Granite Company of Ottawa have commenced the manufacture of silica sand from sandstone deposits belonging to the company in March township. The material is ground to the fineness of salt, and is used in the fluxing of iron.

A syndicate of English and

American capitalists have purchased from the Messrs. White, of Windsor, Ont., the stone quarry at Amherstburg, Ont. It is the intention of the new owners to operate the quarry at its full capacity. Stone from this quarry was used for the canal locks of the Sault Ste. Marie Canals, and for the United States Fort at Detroit, as well as in the construction of a number of public buildings.

