<doctype type="text">

<article title=" STUDENTS' AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S COMPETITION." author="">



Students' Department



STUDENTS' AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S

COMPETITION.

THE publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite architectural students and draughtsmen in Canada to enter a competition for architectural photographs. The subject is a constructed residence costing $10,000 or under. Photographs must show a perspective view of the entire building. They must not be less than 4 X 5 inches in size, and must be accompanied by a brief memorandum descriptive of the location, site and aspect of the building and the material and coloring, together with the name of the architect, if obtainable. The photographs will be judged from an architectural standpoint as exhibiting specimens of good design the object being to test the student's or draughtsman's knowledge of design. Photographs must be suitable for reproduction. Competitors are not restricted as to the number of photographs which they may submit.

Photographs for this competition should be sent under nom de plume, all charges prepaid, marked ''Competition," addressed to the "Publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation life Building, Toronto," and must reach this office not later than p.m. on Thursday, May 25th next. They must be accompanied by a separate sealed envelope containing the nom de plume and full name and address of the competitor.



The merits of the photographs submitted in this competition will be judged by a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, whose decision will be final.



The publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER reserve the right to publish any of the photographs submitted, and to withhold the prizes if in the opinion of the judges, a reasonable response is not made on the part of the students and draughtsmen to this invitation.



The first prize will consist of architectural books to the value of Ten Dollars and the second prize of architectural books to the value of Five Dollars. The persons to whom the prizes shall be awarded will have the right to select such books as they may desire within the above mentioned limits of cost.



<article title=" NORMAN CONSTRUCTION." author="">

NORMAN CONSTRUCTION.

THE skill of the Norman builders in the science of construction is attested by the strength and durability of their structures. The three essential ingredients of which they composed their walls -squared stone, rubble and cement when combined could be equally relied upon for their firmness against pressure, or their resistance for a very long period to the operations of time and weather. The system, therefore, of bonding or tying together the ashlarwork on both sides of the wall was very rarely practiced, and there is not an example of it in a wall of great thickness. The practice would

have been useless; solidity and capacity were indispensably requisite to Norman construction, and the concrete was so dexterously composed that it would have derived no advantage from the introduction of blocks in a transverse direction. For the same reason neither timber nor iron were concealed in walls thus composed. The rugged, rock-like aspect of many buildings which once exhibited a well-wrought surface of stonework mingled with the elegant ornaments of architecture proclaims the toil with which their strength had been secured. Fountains Abbey and St. Pancras Priory at Lewes are interesting and deplorable examples; but in still stronger confirmation of the durability of ancient cement, there are places in the walls of Conway and Barnborough Castles, where the stone has been forced from the mortar, which protrudes in large and prominent masses, and which are not in any perceptible degree injured by the weather. Another peculiarity occasionally observable in the construction of Norman masonry is that the angles of openings and the mouldings of piers composing the jambs attached to them are not bonded together, but that every member of the jamb throughout the thickness of the wall consists of distinct and similar layers of stone, which when not compactly joined and firmly sustained by cement, become crippled by length of time, and fall asunder beneath the pressure of their arches. The tower of Canterbury Cathedral was a remarkable instance of this imperfect kind of construction.

<article title=" MAGNETISM IN BRICKS." author="">

MAGNETISM IN BRICKS.

PROFESSOR Lawrence, of the University of Rochester, New York, has made some important observations on an unsuspected property of bricks. Some two years ago he noticed certain unaccountable movements of a sensitive magnetometer which he had placed for steadiness on a brick pier in the basement of the university laboratory. Last year, while visiting at Ann Arbor he was told that a similar phenomenon had been noticed there, and his informant half jokingly said that the bricks in the walls must have affected the needle. Professor Lawrence, remembering that in his own experiment the instrument rested on a brick pier, thought more seriously of the matter, and, on his return to his own laboratory, began a series of experiments to determine whether bricks really could be magnetic. Collecting a large number of samples of bricks of different kinds, and testing them with a delicate magnetometer, he found that nearly all red bricks, and some white ones, were appreciably magnetic, a brick of the strongest sort, a brownish variety made near Rochester, giving a power equal to that of wire as large as a knitting needle, and in. long, completely saturated with magnetism. The only brick which was absolutely free from magnetic power was a white one, also made near Rochester, but a yellowish one, from some place not specified, was also nearly free from it, while another white one, from Washington, was very nearly as magnetic as the Rochester brown one.



THE CHICAGO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB.

THE catalogue of the Twelfth Annual Exhibition by the Chicago Architectural Sketch Club, held at the Art Institute, Chicago, from March 30 to April 16th, comprises 136. pages of letterpress and illustrations, the latter representing the work of architects in various parts of the United States. It is disappointing to find so few illustrations of the work of members of the Club. There is printed as an introductory article a paper on

Modern Architecture," by George R. Dean.

