<doctype type="text">

<article title=" METAL WORK." author=" BROWN, T. SWAFFIELD">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER.	157



keenly sensible to many which lie deeper than the surface; but I am the more concerned with the new, that which we have to live with (some of us by) in the present, and to be remembered by in the future.

It is curious to reflect that, through all the centuries, and in these days of startling discovery, the metals used generally in the arts remain substantially those used in the remotest antiquity, i.e., iron, copper and its compounds, bronze and brass, silver and gold, lead, tin, and in some forms, zinc. Platinum, aluminum, and many others have been discovered, but their use in this connection is too limited to affect this generalization. Nickel is an exception, but its discovery and use has done little but mischief in its common form (combined with brass as German silver)—I will mention presently how and why.

PRINCIPLES.



The principles which govern the choice of material and the degree of elaboration to which it should be subjected are simply and precisely those by which we regulate, or ought to regulate, all our other affairs, and may be summed up in a very few words fitness for purpose, and sincerity.

For instance, iron is the strongest, hardest, lightest and least costly of the metals used in this connection. Therefore it should he used wherever these qualities are of greatest importance but it is practically black, and extremely liable to destruction by oxidation or rust, and it must be worked at a great heat. These are limitations demanding that its design be simple, exhibited in lines rather than broad masses ; that its arrangement of foliation or other features should furnish as little lodgment for moisture as possible, and that it should be capable of being wrought rapidly.

;In its cast form it is brittle, liable to fracture either by violence or other causes, such as extremes of temperature its character can only be that of the material in which the original pattern is made, and that much marred. If these qualities indicate suitability for any purpose, to those purposes it should be confined.

Copper is tough though soft, beautiful in color, heavier than iron and much more costly, extremely ductile and malleable while cold, hardening under the hammer. It cannot be cast, except by the addition of an alloy. With about 10 per cent. of tin it becomes bronze with about 25 per cent. of zinc it becomes brass. In these three forms, however, we find very different qualities. As fine copper, its toughness—untearability—points to its utility in the form of plate for purposes which require considerable tensile strength and complex form, such as large vessels for holding liquid. Its malleability renders it a fit material for embossed work, especially in exposed positions, in which it is quickly protected by a brown patina which forms upon its surface.

As bronze it is much harder, more costly, very imperfectly malleable. Its great limpidity in a state of fusion, however, and its beautifully colored patina, render it peculiarly suitable for some purposes, in which the hammer is out of the question—such as the casting of statues, bells, etc., to which uses it is practically now confined.

As brass it is less costly, and the most brilliant in color of all the baser metals. Fairly malleable and ductile, strong, but liable to become rotten all through its substance if allowed to get corroded, and consequently needing to be kept bright, it is the metal to use where brightness of aspect is an object. It is capable of being embossed ; but as its beauty is only or chiefly to be developed or preserved by polish, it is not suitable for delicate elaboration, but rather for breadth of undulatory surface, the design being worked out in brilliantly reflected light.

Silver and gold, heavy and costly—gold nearly twice as heavy and thirty times costlier than silver—are the precious metals, precious not only intrinsically, but because of their qualities beautiful in color, in-odorous, tasteless, incorruptible, and susceptible of elaboration to the highest degree of refinement, are naturally the materials for precious purposes—for sacred vessels and symbols, for the higher domestic uses, for personal adornment, for insignia of rank or degree, for all intimate use and personal contact.

These being the principles of selection of material, the next principle, the great one of good craftmanship, is " Sincerity."

Whatever the material and the work is, that it should appear to be. Whatever purpose it is to fulfil, its design should fit it for, arid point to. Whatever the character of the material may be, its manipulation should develop and not destroy it.

Consciously or involuntarily actuated by these principles, and hammer in hand (not in the drop stamp), the smith will do good work whether he thinks he is doing art work or not and without them he will not do good work, even if he thinks he is doing art work.

And now as to means. The chief, the archetype of smiths' tools, is the hammer. "By hammer and hand," the adage says, all things do stand ;" and only by it, controlled and directed by heart and head (that is, by will and by skill), can his work stand.

The effect of a hammer stroke can be got by no other means. The hammer is a part of the man who wields it, and the instrument through which his imagination or feeling finds expression; every blow has a subtle bias, perhaps unconsciously given, which

aids that expression; and as soon as you begin to substitute mechanical work for imaginative, you throw away the substance for the shadow the living thing for the dead body; you discourage skill, and lower the value, the mental and moral status, of the worker. Handwork owes much of its charm to effects which spring spontaneously from various causes, physical and mental, perhaps in the quality of the metal or the condition of the temper of its worker, but which give individuality to every curve, or frond, or boss, which often lead to fresh developments hitherto uncontemplated; and so the work gains variety without departing from the general intention or impairing the utility of the object.

This touches the questions so often discussed, of machine-work versus hand-work, and "When does a tool become a machine?' Well, I think a tool becomes a machine as soon as it is taken from the hand of the living man, where its direction and force is subject to the slightest variation of his will, and made the instrument of involuntary and unsentient energy, in which position it may only be employed legitimately for the doing of labourers' work, the putting of material into convenient form for elaboration by hand, and thus saving the expenditure of much human energy without superseding human art.

In the actual working of the metals there is little difference of process, the greatest being that iron, speaking generally, must be wrought while hot, and all the others can only, or better, be wrought cold (although heat is necessary in some stages of the work). For this reason I shall deal chiefly with iron and silver, because silver processes are fairly representative of those of the other metals.

IRON.



Iron, as you all know, is through its possession of the qualities I have mentioned, a metal of very wide and varied use. In its wrought form, its great strength and hardness fit it especially for the defence, security and protection of more precious things; and for other purposes, involving power of resistance to force; and its stern aspect is in keeping with such duties. But for all that it may be made exceedingly comely under proper treatment, and the docility with which it submits to such leaves no excuse for its neglect.

You have been spending a large amount of money in wrought iron work for tramway purposes, and what have you got for it? Wrought iron, yes, of a sort, but one pattern to every detail repeated every forty yards, I believe, to hundreds. (I suppose now, if you were to substitute for these, beautiful golden angels, with jewelled crowns on their heads, and hands outstretched holding the wires which, you think, are to be such blessings to the city, your admiration of the first would be turned into scorn or indifference very quickly by their palling uniformity of expression.) Well now, if these are wrought by hand, each might have its own character, or, at all events, you might have had a considerable variety—it is done in some places—without adding to the amount of work fixed by the proposed expenditure. Some would be better than others, some probably bad but you have discords in music sometimes which are useful.

The process of working is simple. Forging, bending and welding are the principal operations. Forging is the creation of the desired form by hammer strokes out of the rough material; bending explains itself; and welding is the joining of separate parts by hammering them together at an intense heat. This method is peculiar to iron work, and by succession or combination of these operations the whole work is done. Its results are most familiar to us in the form of screens, gates, door-hinges, etc. As its dark surface reflects but little light, it is generally seen en silhouette, therefore its design should be clear in outline and its details very distinct. It is worked in fits of heat which rapidly subside, therefore its detail should not be dependent upon prolonged elaboration for its effect. Welding heat is apt to become destructive, "burning " the iron and impairing its strength, therefore welds should not be unnecessarily multiplied, especially between parts of unequal thickness. Ties and bolts often become pleasant features in the design, making decided little breaks without disturbing or obscuring the lines on which they occur.

Foliation is a difficult subject to deal with, In the form most generally used—that of an acanthus frond partly enveloping the stem upon which it grows-—I think it entirely out of place. All foliation on this class of work should be in a vertical plane or approaching it, and kept as clear from the stems as possible, not only because otherwise it blurs the lines of the work, but because it becomes a fruitful source of mischief unless very carefully dealt with.

For instance, upright husks surrounding a central spike, unless kept open at the bottom, catch the rain and dew and store it at

