<doctype type="text">

venient to handle, and are conductively connected

together.

<article title=" SEASONING OF TIMBER BY ELECTRICITY." author="Nodon, A.L.C., & Bretonneau, C.A.">

SEASONING OF TIMBER BY ELECTRICITY.

A METHOD of seasoning timber by electricity, patented by Messrs. A. L. C. Nodon and C. A. Bretonneau, of Paris, France, has been adopted quite largely in Europe. The patentees have recently made some further improvements in their apparatus, which are shown by the accompanying illustration.

The apparatus used remain essentially the same, the modifications being improvements of detail, including the employment of a stronger current of electricity, and in modifications of the apparatus to make it more efficient, lighter and easier to handle. The improved bath is composed of a solution of 10 per cent. of neutral borate of soda and 5 per cent. of resinate of soda maintained at a temperature of about 35 degs. C. during the process. The electric current which causes the electrocapillary changes, and causes the sap of the wood to be extracted by the borate, has an electromotive force of 50 volts, sufficient to traverse 50 to 60 centimetres of wood

<article title=" THE MARKET FOR CEMENT IN AUSTRALIA." author="Larke, J.S.">

THE MARKET FOR CEMENT IN

AUSTRALIA.

MR. J. S. Larke, Canadian commercial agent at Sydney, N.S.W., writes that there is a market in that colony for nearly 200,000 barrels of Portland cement per annum, and a proportionate demand in the other colonies. There is a revival in building operations. It is understood to be the purpose of the proprietors of the British Columbia Portland Cement Works at Vancouver to seek an outlet in Australia for their material, and the extent of the demand, as indicated by Mr. Larke, would show that an extensive trade is likely to be the result.

<article title=" GLASS MADE BY ELECTRICITY." author="">

GLASS MADE BY ELECTRICITY.

AT an experimental plant at Cologne the electric furnace has recently been employed in making glass, and the process is said to work most satisfactorily. The apparatus is much similar to the ordinary form of furnace, and the glass obtained is free from impurities. The chief saving effected is in the retention of the heat,











































THE NODON-BRETONNEAU PROCESS OF SEASONING TIMBER BY ELECTRICITY.



and complete the operation in five hours. The solution of borate and resinate of soda penetrates by reason of the electro-capillary action, into the whole mass of wood, and produces a thorough extraction of the sap, which is carried towards the anode and remains mixed in the bath. To facilitate the manipulation of the woods, and to obtain a controllable immersion, according to the progress of the treatment, the patentees have devised the arrangement represented in the illustration, in which H indicates the bath, S the heating coil, L the water supply pipe, 0 the negative pole (cathode). The frame of double lower bottom rests on the support, A, upheld by the pistons, P, of an hydraulic jack, V. This latter is manipulated by a pump, p, and the pistons, P, can either be raised or lowered as desired. When the latter is raised, the wood can be placed on the frame, and then be plunged in the vat, B, by lowering the pistons. The same action reversed serves to withdraw the wood after treatment. The upper porous partition C has also undergone a modification in its construction to make it lighter and less expensive ; it is now composed of a number of sashes or frames, D, the bottom of which is formed of strong sail-cloth, t, fixed with brass nails. These frames are lighter and more con-

which in the usual type of furnace is transmitted to the ground. The heat is supplied by the electric arc, and the charge can be raised to the melting temperature in fifteen minutes, instead of thirty hours, as is the case with the ordinary furnace. A large furnace also is not required, and the work can be stopped at any time, such as holidays and Sundays, without any loss of energy. A saving in coal consumption of as much as three-fifths is claimed for the process, and for experimental work it allows small quantities of the material to be used.

<article title=" THE PRICE OF PORTLAND CEMENT." author="">

THE PRICE OF PORTLAND CEMENT.

IN sympathy with the general advance in prices of materials in other lines, and in face of a strong demand, the European manufacturers of Portland cement have recently increased the price, and the American manufacturers are being urged to do likewise. The cost of production is declared to have been enhanced of late from 8 to 12 cents per barrel.



The Dominion Bridge Co., Montreal, whose works are at Lachine Lock, Quebec, near that city, are making important additions to their plant which will enable them to increase their output of iron and steel products to the extent of about 8,ooo tons per year.

