<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	189



LEGAL.



The Public School Board of Toronto has appealed to have set aside the decision of Judge McDougall, under which the Board were fined for alleged violation of the city plumbing by-law in permitting the use of a dry earth closet system in the Church street school. The rule was asked for on the grounds that there

no appeal from thc dismissal of an information, that the proceeding should have been by indictment, that by-law 2478 should not apply to defendants as to the form of a system installed before it was passed and approved by the Medical Health Officer of the City of Toronto, and on other grounds. Rule nisi granted.



ROSEDALE PRESSED BRICK & TERRA COTTA Co. v. F0STER. -



Aylesworth, Q. C., for the liquidator of the company, appealed from order of Master in Ordinary dismissing application by liquidator to settle the name of Major Edward H. Foster upon the list of contributories of the company in respect of ten shares. The alleged contributory signed the stock hook before the incorporation of the company, and the shares were allotted to him after tile incoporation. There was, however, no proof of formal notice of allotment, though there was a correspondence between the alleged contributory and the secretary of the company in which the latter insisted that the former was a shareholder. The Master held (following Tilsonburg Mfg. Co. v. Goodrich, 8 0. R. 565) that subscription before incorporation was of no avail unless there was a subsequent ratification, and there was none such here, and the alleged contributory was not a shareholder by estoppel. The appellant contended that the subscription was a continuing offer to take shares, and when it was accepted after incorporation it became a contract. The court was unable to distinguish this case from the Tilsonburg case, and also pointed out that the alleged contributory had a valid excuse for taking advantage of the absence of a binding contract to take the shares. Appeal dismissed with costs. Leave to appeal granted.





USEFUL HINTS.



To CLEAN SOILED WALL PARER -- First thoroughly dust off the walls and ceilings wherever the paper to he cleaned may be. Tie up two quarts of wheat bran in a coarse flannel cloth or bag made of flannel and rub it over the paper briskly, taking care to miss none of the space.



A quick-drying, weather-resisting paint of dark colour for zinc sheets is made by mixing 6 lbs. of graphite (plumbago) with

gallon of vinegar. The oxidized surface of tile zinc, previously well brushed, is painted with the above, one coat giving a sufficiently dark colour. New sheet zinc, however, requires two coals, and must first be oxidized by the following application, which is not strong enough to cause any deterioration of the metal One part each of chloride of copper, nitrate of copper, and salammoniac, dissolved in 64 parts of water, and part of hydrochloric acid added to the solution.



IRON SCREWS IN STONE WALLS. —An ingenious and simple method of fixing metal screws into stone walls has been devised. Wooden dowels, beside the tendency to weaken the walls, do not afford security and permanence. A wire of suitable thickness is coiled on the screws so as to [follow the threads of the same, and form a kind of screw nut. The coiling may commerce near the head of the bolts and proceed towards the point by laying the wire into the grooves. After arriving at the point of the screw the wire may be wound backward over the helix already wound on, hot with a steeper pitch, so as to leave wider interslices between consecutive convolutions of the wire. This wire coil or nut is introduced into the bole formed in the wall for this purpose, being slightly wider in diameter than the outer layers of wire, after which the surrounding spaces are filled up with plaster of paris, cement, or similar binding material in a plastic condition.



A NEW PAINT REMOVER.—The most popular mediums for removing oil paint coating are almost all mixed with caustic alkalis,

and consequently, if the article to be cleaned is of wood or similar material, have a destructive action on its organic composition. Such mediums can, therefore, only be employed sparingly and with great care. Moreover, they do not only decompose the wood fibre, but also prove dangerous to the skin of the operator, owing to their caustic quality. But if a mineral oil is employed in the solution of tile caustic alkalis, it will be found that all the drawbacks named will disappear, while at the same time the dissolving qualities of the medium are considerably increased. In order to keep the mineral oil continuously in emulsion, the resulting mass is mixed with a corresponding quantity of an indifferent body, such as powdered pumice stone, sawdust, etc., until a paste is obtained, which constitutes a powerful and lastingly effective paint dissolvent. Same call be applied with great ease on any surface, and has no injurious action, neither On the fibres of the wood nor on the skin of the workman. The following mixture is given by a foreign exchange as a recipe Dissolve 20 kilos of caustic soda of very great concentration in too liters of water mix the solution with 20 kilos of mineral oil and emulge in a kettle with a stirring contrivance.. Add 20 kilos of sawdust, with further stirring, and run the product obtained through a paint mill until the paste is ready.

Shea's theatre Younge Street Staff Capital by W.J. Hynes Toronto G. M. Miller 7 Company  Architects.

Seaman Kent and Company Toronto Manufacturers of all kinds of window blinds rolling partitions

Darling brothers Reliance Works Montreal " webster system " of low pressure steam heating.

The F.D. Cummer and Son company Cleveland Ohio For mechanically drying everything

