<doctype type="text">

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA." author="">



	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	147

that the bearer, besides having the necessary character qualifications, should be entitled to admission into another shop. Should he be discharged before fulfilling the full time allowed (say five years), his next employer should endorse on his certificate the time he put in with him, and so on until the certificate showed that the holder had worked as a helper or apprentice the number of years that may be decided upon as necessary. It would, of course, be necessary that no master take a lad from another shop unless he was possessed of a properly filled up certificate of discharge.

Further, the plumbing and health by-laws of all cities and towns should contain a clause forbidding the practice of the trade by any journeyman unless he could show a certificate or pass a theoretical and practical examination proving his knowledge of the business.

In conclusion, we would urge upon our association the importance of this subject, and that it should at once put the matter in practical working order. Anything insuring regularity would be a vast gain on the present lax methods.

	[Signed]	JOSEPH LAMARCHE.

		J. W. HUGHES.

		JOHN MOLL.

		P. J. CARROLL.

		JOHN WATS0N.



THE OTTAWA ASSOCIATION.



The Ottawa Association, through its secretary, Mr.

H.	A. Knox, reported as follows:

I am happy to report that the local branch is one of the soundest in the country. We have black sheep, but they are net allowed to hinder us in the least. Our objects are too important to be forsaken because of the inattention of a few. Those whose minds are weakened by individual competition are neither desirable nor worthy men to strengthen the bonds of organization. We have tried to stimulate and strengthen their intellectual power but, alas ! we found them incurable, and our attention is now directed to men who know their opportunities.

We are stronger than last year, by the addition of two members. Consequently we have more representation at the convention.

The evils we have to contend with vary: By-Law No. 1358 of this municipality, for regulating plumbing and inspection, is not enforced, because no inspector exists, uniformity is displaced by confusion, etc., and the results are disastrous all round. The carpenter, the bricklayer and the householder has each his own standard of what is good and what is bad in sanitary and plumbing work. The plumber is not, in many cases, accepted as an authority on his work. 'The architects, too, are deprived of their just heritage owing to weakness and apathy. What we need badly is the operation of the by-law. Intelligent, skilful and alert workers will then be brought into the ranks. More discrimination ought also 10 be exercised in selecting boys for the trade.

In our humble opinion, if the reforms we are seeking were sought for by other locals, the association would be a moral, intellectual and financial giant.

H.	A. KNOX, Secretary.



On motion of Mr. Harris the report was adopted. A report by Mr. Beal, regarding the publication of an

official bulletin, was submitted. It stated that the first issue appeared in November, 1898, and that the entire expenses of publishing the journal had been covered by receipts from advertisements. After the experience of the past eight months, however, it was evident that in order to continue its publication some financial assistance from the association would be necessary.



REPORT OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT.



Mr. J. W. Harris, of Montreal, vice-president of the Association, submitted the following report:

One year has already gone since I had the honor to be elected vice-president of your association. In submitting this report to your consideration, I will confine myself to a few suggestions which I think will be of general interest, and more especially the following:

I may state, in the first place, that, although the dealings of this association with manufacturers and jobbers during the past year have not been as satisfactory as we would like to see them, I am glad to say that the feeling between us and them is growing better every day.

There are many things to be done vet to better our situation with manufacturers and jobbers, things that I could not mention in this report, but would suggest that a special committee of three be appointed by this association, with full power to confer with a committee of manufacturers and jobbers on any subject that may be of interest to our association, or both associations. That committee should meet at least every three months and make a report of their doings after each meeting to the executive committee.

There is another feeling which I would like to see in existence in our association, that is to have all the members who belong to our society taking an active part in its doings and treating association matters as they would treat their own. Let us look at each other as good neighbors do, and then, instead of losing a year or two in going to Klondyke for gold, we will find good money within a few steps of our door. For that purpose, let us stand to each other and have good members. Then will be the time for us to publish in the papers that we have discovered a

gold mine which will benefit the public at large as well as the plumbers.



Report referred to Committee on Resolutions.



REPORT FOR PROVINCE OF NOVA SCOTIA.



A report by Mr. Geo. H. Perrier, vice-president representing Nova Scotia, was then presented, as follows

As your annual convention is near at hand, and, as you appointed me vice-president for Nova Scotia, I think it will he necessary for me to report upon the work done during the past year in our section of the country.

In the first place, I might say that our local association, which takes in Prince Edward Island, is in very good form. The majority of the members take an active interest in the good work, which, as you know, is half the battle. We have about twenty-six members in good standing, which I think is very good for Halifax and vicinity.

There is another matter I would like to say a word about, and that is that we do not receive encouragement from headquarters. An occasional letter from the heads of our Dominion Association would let us know that we are not simply local, but that we are a part of the Dominion Association and backed by men that are ready to stand by us in any reasonable cause.

I see by the report of our last meeting, held n Quebec, that the committee appointed to consider the question of appointing a permanent secretary reported in favor of engaging one, which I think would be a move in the right direction, for I consider the work in connection with association matters takes up so much of our secretarys time that he should be paid for it.

In conclusion, gentlemen, I must express my regret in not being able to attend the convention, but wish it every success.

GEORGE H. PERRIER.



The president, referring to the statement by Mr. Perrier that the eastern associations did not receive encouragement from headquarters, replied that he had written a number of letters, but to many of them no replies had been received. After some further discussion the report was received and referred to the Committee on Resolutions. Messrs. Joseph Wright, J. W. Chambers and E. B. Butterworth were appointed auditors, after which Mr. John Higman, vice-president for Ontario, presented the following report

As vice-president for Ontario, I beg respect fully to submit my report For the year ending June 30, 1899. During my term of office, I have written several master plumbers in the cities and towns of the eastern part of the province, doing my best to induce them to join the nearest local association, with great hopes, in many cases, of their doing so, or of forming local associations where three or four master plumbers are established. But it is a great surprise to me that so many bright and intelligent master plumbers still hold back from joining the association, when it is so evident that, if we wish to attain the high position we are entitled to, every master plumber should join the association.

The members of the Ottawa association are doing their best to help the good cause along. This year we tried to get the city council to pass a plumbing by-law, with the hope of having a plumbing inspector appointed, but did not succeed at the time, but hope to in the near future. In fact, a plumbing inspector is badly needed in Ottawa, in the interest of the public health and for raising the standard of the plumbing trade generally.

We have had two cases of wholesale firms selling to consumers here in Ottawa, which were referred to the executive to deal with, which had the desired effect.

In conclusion, I take great pleasure in thanking the officers and members of the Master Plumbers' Association for their uniform kindness during my term of office. (Signed) John Hyman.



The secretary then read the following resolution of condolence, which, on motion of Messrs. Wright and Powers, was concurred in:

Whereas,— It having been reported to this convention that, since our last annual gathering, two of our mast active members, viz., W. H. Briggs and J. Horton, both of Montreal, have passed away from the scene of their labors, therefore, be it

Resolved,—That, in the death of those comrades and friends, we have lost two of our truest and hardest-working members. How much they contributed to the prosperity of the association will probably never be known, but the kindly and devoted interest they took in all matters connected with the trade will not soon be forgotten by their wide circle of friends.

Resolved,—That the delegates of this convention sympathize with the families and Friends of our late confreres in their bereavement, believing that lie that doeth all things well will console them in their time of distress.

Resolved,-—That these resolutions be inscribed in the proceedings of this convention, and that a copy thereof be forwarded by the secretary of the association to the families of the deceased.

Mr. Wright read a letter from Mr. W. J. Barr, of the Vancouver Association, requesting him to represent that association at the convention, and stating that the association was progressing steadily. A brief report was also read from Windsor association.

in reply to a question from Mr. Butterworth as to why Ottawa was not represented on last year's execu

