<doctype type="text">

<article title=" BUILDERS' ACCOUNTS." author=" KITTREDGE, A.O.">

	88	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



BUILDERS' ACCOUNTS.

III.



By A. 0. KITTREDGE, F.I.A.



THERE remains for consideration, before bringing this series of articles to a close, the matter of a '' going balance sheet," and a consideration of those facts which have to do with closing the books. A going balance sheet, however, does away with closing the books, as that term is ordinarily understood. With a going balance sheet the books are always open and always closed, and therefore it may be declared that for our purpose the first of these matters includes the last.

In all that has preceded the underlying thought has been a showing of results at every step. The culmination to be effected in this regard is the going balance sheet. At the outset the builder's attention was drawn to a balance sheet of the conventional form, the illustration employed being of the simplest possible character. Resources were put in one group and liabilities in another, and the difference between the two, it was pointed out, represented the builders investment or his net worth, commonly called capital. A

capital, and another at the end of the business period under review, showing similar items. A comparison of the latter with the former served to show whether a profit had been made and how much, or a loss and the amount of the loss, In the interval between the dates of the two balance sheets thus compared many changes of course had occurred. Some assets had been converted; the amounts in the asset column has been varied as between the different accounts represented; in one case, perhaps, there was more cash and less book accounts, and in another case very much less cash and a corresponding expansion in book accounts. In one case there may have been very small liabilities, and in the other larger liabilities, The two balance sheets simply took cognizance of the conditions at their respective dates, and indicated by the difference between the two capital amounts the net result of the transactions which had occurred. Each transaction had resulted either in a profit or a loss. In all probability some of them had been productive of a gain and others of a loss, and therefore the difference shown between the two balance sheets was composed of both profits and losses, but of









































BANQUET OF THE TORONTO MASTER PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION, APRIL 7TH, 1899.



going balance sheet is only the arrangement of the accounts shown in such a schedule as just described, in a form to permit constant and regular additions to them, with the opportunity to strike a balance in each account, or in all the accounts, as often as they may be desired.

There are various ways in which this arrangement of accounts may be effected, and therefore it will be better to devote all the space at our command to a discussion of principles rather than to use a part of it for an illustration of a special method. Suffice it to say in passing that what is known as the " Balance Sheet Ledger," which is arranged in vertical columns for the necessary accounts, and in horizontal spaces for the records of given dates, thus permitting posting each day, or at other regular interval the results or totals of the business transaction, is that which is in most general use for the purpose, and which gives the best satisfaction.

Right here let us pause long enough to contrast the new method with the old. A moment's consideration of the difference between the two will serve to illustrate the special points that are to he presented. The old plan, with respect to balance sheets, as intimated at the beginning of these articles, was to make out one at the commencement, showing resources, liabilities, and nef

these details the usual comparison of balance sheets shows nothing.

Now with respect to the new. Instead of taking the beginning and the end of a considerable period of time for comparison, the going balance sheet presents the condition of the business at all times. Any given day may be compared with the preceding day, or a given month with a preceding month, as may be desired. The intervals recognized by the going balance sheet may be days, weeks, or months. For all practical purposes a month is the best unit. Particularly is this the case in the building business. In mercantile operations it is sometimes advantageous to reduce the period down to days. Let us now consider the form of the going balance sheet.

Suppose that we have the accounts composing our balance sheet at the beginning of the business period, and that these are spread out in a horizontal line, that is, instead of the amounts of the accounts being opposite the names in a vertical table, such as was presented in a previous article, the amounts are run along in a horizontal line, properly spaced, with the names of the accounts they represent written directly above them. Each transaction that is made results either in a loss or a gain.

