<doctype type="text">

<article title=" PROPOSED HARBOR IMPROVEMENTS AT VICTORIA B. C." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER.



PROPOSED HARBOR IMPROVEMENTS AT

VICTORIA B. C.

The scheme herewith presented for the reclamation and improvement of the harbor at Victoria B. C., has been evolved by Mr. T. C. Sorhy, architect, of that city, and has met with the general approval of the citizens. The accompanying map clearly illustrates the character of the proposed improvements, the cost and particulars of which are set forth in the following extract from the Victoria Times

The greater portion of the harbor is at present neither land nor water, and the passage available for steamers is tortuous, never 300 feet wide, crowded with rocks and shoals on every side. The

enough sand, gravel and mud to fill in behind these walls to a height of about four feet above ordinary high-water mark. The granite for tile coping is the only stone required to be brought from the outside, arid this could be worked at the quarries and set from barges after the harbor was open.

The temporary dam at the mouth of the harbor would have an opening left in the centre about 85 feet wide, and could he completed without interfering with the shipping entering or leaving the harbor. The central opening would be closed by caissons during one tide, whenever all was in readiness. The dam with its extensions would form a temporary landing quay about 40 feet wide. These works and others of preliminary nature, as installation of pumps, etc., to the extent of possibly $500,000, could be

proceeded with before the closing of the harbor. To this must be added the cost of expropriating the land abutting on the harbor,



















































































proposition is to remove all these rocks and shoals, and to use them in the reclamation of solid Land and to deepen the whole area of the harbor, from the open at Maclaughlin Point to 30 feet at low water, and to increase its available width and area.

It is proposed to close the lower harbor by temporary dams, to pump out the water, hydraulic and escavate an area of about 167 acres to a depth of 30 feet, enclosing it with a wall built up of the rocks now impeding navigation, and filling in the balance behind with the waste excavated material, thus reclaiming about 122 acres of laud that would become some of the most valuable property in the city. This reclaimed land in the upper and lower harbor will together have a frontage towards the water of about five miles. Very little material would be required in the construction of the work beyond that now actually lying at the bottom of the harbor. If the mud thrown out was found to be foul, a liberal but inexpensive use of quick-lime would remove all nuisance. There is enough rock an(t boulder nosy encumbering the harbor to build the most substantial walls round the lower harbor. There is

so that a very considerable sum of money would he placed in circulation in the city at an early St age. The purchase of the land would carry with it all wharfage dues (independent of all questions of ware-housing), from which an immediate income of about $150,000 per annum would be derived—equal to 7 per cent, on the total outlay to the date of closing the harbor.

When and the preliminary works were complete, and all in readiness for active operations, the harbor would be closed and the pumps started, and the water removed in ten days. All mud, sand and gravel would be hydrauliced and distributed over the reclaimed area (as successfully clone at Seattle and Tacoma) prior to or simultaneously with the emptying of the harbor.



In addition to these works pertaining to the construction of the harbor proper, inside a line drawn from Shoal Point to Coffin Island, there would he dredging from this tine outwards, and deepening the entrance to 30 feet as far as opposite Maclaughlin Point, where the water shelves down rapidly to 40 feet at low tide.



It is only a matter of time when the railway offices on Store

