<doctype type="text">

<article title=" STUDENTS' AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S

COMPETITION." author="">



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT. ____

STUDENTS' AND DRAUGHTSMEN'S

COMPETITION.

WE regret to announce that only one photograph was submitted in the Students' and Draughtsmen's Competition for photographs of residences, announced in this column recently. Under these circumstances we feel justified in not awarding the prizes.

The students and draughtsmen of to-day appear to lack the enthusiasm which characterized the young men of the profession in Canada five or six years ago. We would be gratified if some of them would tell us the reason for this seeming lack of interest in matters which might be expected to arouse the attention of ambitious students.

If the terms of our recent competitions have in any way been unsatisfactory, we shall be pleased to be informed in what respect they failed to meet the requirements. We, in common with many of the leading architects, are at a loss to account for the apparent apathy of Canadian architectural students with regard to matters in which students of other countries evince the most active interest. Will some spokesman arise from the ranks of the students and draughtsmen and tell us what is the matter?

<article title=" THE PARTHENON." author="">

THE PARTHENON.

THE Parthenon has gathered unto itself all the best points of Greek architecture; it has studied harmony of proportions, delicacy of feeling in optical corrections, exquisite taste in selection of mouldings, colored ornaments and unrivalled sculpture. Take away the sculpture and some accidental grace was gone ; but the building in all its transcendent beauty would remain as single and specious as a statue. Take away the sculpture and its air of sublimity would remain in the sheer weight and vigor of its masses and in the colossal scale of its architectural forms ; its air of grace would remain in the modulated harmony and exquisite perfectness of its related parts ; its air of intellectuality would remain in the austere majesty of its conception ; its air of religious awe would remain in the mystery and poetry that its author communicated to his work by means that he knew so well how to wield. Think of the expressiveness of the structure as the broad rays of rising or setting sun beat aslant the clerestory in the roof upon massive columns or undivided weight of solid wall, and threw the unlit parts into gloomy shade. Think of the small scale of the sculptures —the noble frieze, for instance, is but 3 feet 4 inches deep and compare this with the impressiveness of mighty mouldings whose abacus is 6 feet inches square and diameter  feet at the top. It is the glory of a great building that it is one grand indivisible whole; take away the sculpture and some accidental grace is gone, some emphasis of parts is lost ; but the primary quality, the central sweetness of the thing, remains. On the other hand, if a structure retains its expression, even though you remove its accessory of figure sculpture, it is different with the sculpture that is removed. The figures formed part of the very masonry of the structure. They emphasized its parts. The glory that they had was a communicated glory. The music that they made was only a part of a grand chorus, a share in the pervading harmony of the fabric that the master musician had blended with the melody and rhythm of the rest of

the related parts. The music was not theirs, for it would go on still in the fabric, and with little perceptible difference, when the figures were gone. But removal makes all the difference to the figures ; their inherent loveliness remains, but they become in a manner dumb, and remove them from the pediment or pedestal or niche to which they are allied and they wear an orphaned appearance like poor casuals without a home.

<article title=" AUGUSTUS PUGIN THE ELDER." author="">

AUGUSTUS PUGIN THE ELDER.

AUGUSTUS Pugin was an emigre one of those virtuous, blameless, painstaking Frenchmen whom the revolution drove into England, and who, taking kindly to the sober land of his adoption, like so many of his countrymen, pursued thereafter a life of diligent and worthy industry, in utter contrast to the hideous tumult which had cast him forth. It would be an interesting inquiry to discover how many such, so utterly unpolitical that the fact of their having been driven to these shores by such a whirlwind of social agitation is almost unbelievable, have stimulated and afforded new developments to English industry and laboriousness. Pugin, by dint of a faculty of drawing not much cultivated or remarkable, fell in his penniless and friendless estate into the employment of Nash, the architect, and by degrees became himself a theoretical architect of much eminence and influence, laying the foundation in his careful practical works and in the thorough training of his pupils for all that has been since accomplished in Gothic architecture. It was the age of the Brighton Pavilion and other such monstrous follies in which with souvenirs of Normandy in his heart the quick-eyed Frenchman, with his lively pencil and perception of awakening public interest, took up the vanguard in the new movement. He made the noble remains of former ages familiar to the eye and clear to the mind of the nation, which stirred by many influences, and in the flush of a new outbust of national genius and splendor, began to be doubtful of its own tame mediocrity in point of art. When public taste has come to the length of bursting out into insane bulbs and pinnacles by way of relief from the dead flat of former dulness, such an oracle close at hand is invaluable. The French draughtsman who loved his work, and had no other object in life than its accomplishment, filled his office with pupils to whom he opened a new and fascinating world. Cathedrals and castles, not of stucco, all noble, real, solemn, rose out of the darkness around the fortunate lads who were to reproduce and emulate what they saw. Their master himself reproduced only upon paper, in books that stimulated the general curiosity and helped to mend the vitiated taste which had exhausted itself upon pediments and cornices. They went into France and over England, sketching everywhere, making "examples" of the half-mouldering fragments which otherwise would have been lost to the world, and learning by what simple, splendid constructive art edifices which look like creations grew into being. Within the household where the Frenchman trained his pupils into all the individualities of Christian architecture a kind of Protestant conventual rule existed under his strong-minded English wife.



Not infrequently the final cleaning up of painting involves the scrubbing of bare woodwork. In such a case use borax freely, adding it to clean water. In acts as a disinfectant, assists the actual cleaning operations, and prevents the breeding of insects.

