<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TREATMENT OF WOOD." author="">



sive. It takes one dollars worth of creosote to preserve one cubic foot of wood. A cheaper process is under experiment in England where engineers have succeeded in extracting the sap by electric osmosis and sucking into its place an antiseptic mixture of borax and resin. This process will probably be known as the Nodon-Bretoneau process. Another inventor whose work is still in the experimental stage has examined extracted sap, and finding it to be albuminous and coagulable, has taken a hint from hard boiled eggs and solidified the sap in place. He claims that, without making the wood hard to work, he has removed the possibility not only of decay but of shrinkage.

The capacity for interminable shrinkage is the great fault of wood, and, for any fine and permanent use of the material, something must be done to overcome this fault. The trouble seems again to lie in the sap, so that woods treated with preservative after extraction of the sap should be comparatively free from shrinkage. The simple practice of soaking in a pond, which is practised in country places, has this end in view ; and it is far more effective than kiln drying. The rapid swelling, when exposed to moisture, of kiln dried wood which has received no other treatment, as compared with the comparative steadiness of soaked boards, seems to point to the sap as the seat of the hydroscopicity of wood. To dry in a kiln a board with the sap in it is to deprive it temporarily of its moisture, so that it comes out of the kiln hungry, and paint cannot keep from it the moisture it craves. It is of little use to specify a condition of dryness which cannot be made permanent. The wood is bound to attain the same proportion of moisture as the air of the house. The air of inhabited houses is found to contain usually about 10 per cent. of moisture. Flooring or other finish ought therefore to be brought into the house when the building has reached as nearly as possible its normal condition of dryness and temperature, and the wood ought to contain about 10 per cent. of moisture. It is easy to ascertain the proportion of water. If a piece is cut from the middle of a floor board, weighed, heated till dry and weighed again, the difference between the two weighings is the weight of moisture, and this should be ten per cent. of the weight of the piece when dried. If, as is usually the case, there is little hope of precision in the proportion of moisture in the wood, and good work is still sought, there remains the expedient of specifying quarter cut wood. It is the unequal consistency in the structure of the rings that makes tangentially sawn boards warp under shrinkage. The summer wood in the annual ring is thicker than the spring wood, and takes up and parts with more moisture than the spring wood. In tangential boards these portions of the ring are often opposed to one another, and the consequence is warping. There may also be a great width of summer wood and consequently great shrinkage. If quarter cut wood is used the shrinkage will be much less and there is nothing to cause warping, for the structure is the same on both sides of the board.

There is this to be said in addition in favor of seasoning by soaking, that it is as effective to prevent decay as it is to prevent shrinking and swelling. It is the sap and soluble portions of the wood that form the food of the fungus of disease, and when these are washed out the liability to decay is gone.

In the matter of inflammability, much may be done by treatment of the wood. The application of silicious

compounds has in experiment produced such results in England as to cause a decrease of 50 per cent. in fire insurance rates for buildings in which the wood is treated in this way. Experiments by the Belgian government exhibited the efficiency of treating wood with a solution of ammonium salts. Ammonium phosphate was found to be the most efficient. By the production of a non-combustible vapor, fire, which attacked untreated wood in less than two minutes, was retarded in its action for forty minutes. Such retardation is all that can be expected, but it is sufficient to reduce the inflammability of wood so that it is no longer a menace to the building in which it is used, but will instead prevent the spread of flames for such reasonable time as is necessary to let the fire department get to work. Thorough impregnation with ammonium phosphate, at 25 cents a pound, would be expensive, as it would require about four pounds to the cubic foot, but thorough impregnation is not considered to be necessary.

It is evident that, with proper care and the application of science, wood can be made more efficient than it is as we use it. Greater care is the natural accompaniment of greater value and the time is not far distant when the value of wood will rise to the point of finesse in its use. England and Germany still use wood to the extent of one quarter of our consumption in proportion to population. This amount may therefore be taken as the point of necessity. The amount represented by this point of necessity must steadily increase as our population increases ; but in the meantime the forests are decreasing and, unless measures are taken to reforest, and taken speedily, the maximum value of wood will soon be reached.





ILLUSTRATIONS.

COURT HOUSE, NANAIMO 13 C —F N. RATTENBURY,



ARCHITECT.



A BUNGALOW, BEACONSFIELD, FOR MR. C. L. SHOREY— J. RAWSON GARDINER, ARCHITECT.



DRAWING ROOM IN RESIDENCE OF MR. F. B. FETHERSTONHAUGH, MIMICO HENRY SPROATT, ARCHITECT.



OFFICE BUILDING. WINDSOR, NOVA SCOTIA, FOR MESSRS. C. D'W. ANDJ. SMITII.—ELLIOTT & HOPKINS, ARCHITECTS.



COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR ADDITIONS AND ALTERATIONS TO THE MERCHANTS' BANK BUILDING, MONTREAL



MESSRS. TAYLOR & GORDON, ARCHITECTS.



The conditions of competition issued by the bank required the addition of four more storeys to be placed on the old bank building, and great stress was laid by the bank on the absolute necessity of the " Design for these additional storeys being made to conform to the architectural style of the present building, and the two facades when complete must present a uniformity of design and not appear as two buildings of different design one placed over the other." This is emphasized further on in the conditions as follows "The design for the exterior of the new part of the building will have of necessity to conform to the architecture of the old part. The present building though not arranged as it would be if designed to-day is nevertheless one of the best designed buildings in the city and in preparing the design for the new portion, the same style of architecture must be carried Out, SO that with the building complete, the old portion instead of being detracted from would be increased in importance and dignity."

