<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER PLUMBERS AND STEAMFITTERS OF CANADA." author="">



NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER

PLUMBERS AND STEAMFITTERS

OF CANADA.

At a meeting of the executive committee of the above association held in Toronto recently, it was decided that the annual convention should take place in Ottawa on June 30th and July 1st.

Arrangements for this convention are being pushed forward by the local committee of management, which consists of Messrs E. T. Butterworth, R. McCallum,

II.	Vornam, P. Racine, J. McKinley, F. G. Johnson and H. A. Knox, secretary.

The president of the Ottawa Plumbers' Association, Mr. J. Higman, is understood to be preparing an address for this convention on the conditions surrounding contract work. Mr. Higman will urge a higher standard of proficiency, of prices and of profits.

The delegates appointed to this convention by the Toronto Association are Messrs Wilson, Mansell, Meredith and Wright.

<article title=" ALIEN LABOR LAWS." author="">

ALIEN LABOR LAWS.

MUCH discussion has taken place of late in and out of Parliament, regarding the non-enforcement of the Canadian Alien Labor Law, in view of the strict manner in which the American law is enforced at Buffalo, The Premier, in explanation, stated that an unwritten understanding exists between the government of Canada and the United States that, in the present interval between the sittings of the Joint High Commission appointed to adjust matters of difference between the two countries, these alien labor laws will not be put in strict operation. He points out that Buffalo is the only point on the

border line where the American law is being put into effect, and instances, in support of this statement, the fact that no trouble exists at Detroit, where many of the residents of Windsor find daily employment. It is to be hoped that when the Commission reassembles, these laws may either be wiped off the statute books of both countries, or so modified as to prove a less cause of irritation than at present. In this connection we observe that the Dominion government, in compliance with the expressed wish of the Imperial authorities, have recently disallowed the act passed at the last session of the Legislature of British Columbia prohibiting the employment of Japanese and Chinese by tramway and similar companies.



A recent report from Vancouver states that the building contractors of that city are about to organize a Contractors' Exchange.

Metallic Roofing Company Limited Toronto Manufacturers of fire-proof materials