<doctype type="text">

<article title=" ALTERATIONS TO THE CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO.

" author="Gray, Wilson">

street fronts is noticeable, so that every inch of space possible might be given to plate glass. To risk a whole superstructure for the sake of a few inches of plate glass may seem to be going beyond reason, but such is the case, and such is the demand of the commercial world to-day. What cannot be gained in area within a certain limit is gained in the height to which such structures are built, not ceasing to ascend till the twenty-second or twenty-fourth flat is reached—veritable sky-scrapers.

In the great commercial centres where new buildings could not be erected, the old ones are being speedily altered to meet the new conditions, and we find whole flats of heavy stonework being removed and giving place to the lighter steel construction, and what was for years a frontage of dismal stone piers, small windows, almost invisible doors, all badly lighted with gas, is transformed into large plate glass show windows, aglow with electricity, the points of support almost hidden from view with show cases and not invariably encased in mirrors. In this respect our own city of Toronto is abreast of the times. The steel construction in departmental stores has taken its place and is proving its value in remodelling old premises to meet the demand of the times. This advancement in store buildings was so rapid that the west section of the Confederation Life building fronting on Yonge street was soon left behind for store purposes, and with other new and altered structures all round, was considered out of date, and rightly so when one considers that in a total frontage in the best business section of the city of 68 feet 6 inches on Yonge street, 156 feet 6 inches on Richmond street, 104 feet 6 inches on Victoria street 57 feet were occupied with stone and lime, about three feet thick, with window reveals in some cases about two feet deep. A glance at the photograph of the building before the alteration will convince any one of the absurdity of this frontage being used for store purposes.

With a view to meet the advancement of the times and make the property more productive it was necessary to make such alterations as would bring it up to the standard of modern requirements. This necessitated the removal of the huge stone piers on both frontages, so that a prominent entrance might be made immediately on the corner to premises suitable for banking purposes, which would occupy the Richmond street front, and increase the plate glass area on Yonge street for store purposes, introducing, if possible, an additional store on that frontage. This could be done only by reducing the points of support to a minimum area by the use of steel columns with steel beams over upon which the superstructure might be carried.

In the fall of 1898 a commission to prepare plans and undertake to have the scheme carried out was placed in my hands. As soon as it became known that such an undertaking was about to be commenced speculation as to its success became rife amongst our city architects and contractors. The attempt was considered too daring to be successful, as nothing of the kind had been attempted in Canada before. Being confident however that the scheme was feasible, and satisfied that ample strength had been provided for in the construction, and that the building could be satisfactorily shored up, the contracts were awarded, not, however, without shouldering the responsibility for their successful completion upon the architect.

The problem of shoring up and holding in position such a mass of masonry and brickwork until the neces

sary steel columns and beams were inserted and tightly keyed up, at the same time keeping the tenants overhead safely in their offices and supplying steam heat to their premises as if nothing unusual was going on, was no easy task. The isolated construction of the building

—that is to say, the weight of the superstructure being carried on isolated piers and foundations without any connection with each other except by large arches over the fifth floor—and the limited area on the two frontages allowed by the City Engineer for shoring purposes, and a retaining wall existing two feet apart from the foundation piers, were limitations which had to be contended with, and offered serious obstructions to the ordinary methods of shoring. By these limitations it became necessary to construct a system of shoring upon a very narrow base or foundation to come within the prescribed area, and also to be rigid enough to prevent any sway to the peculiar construction above.

A reference to the key sketch of shoring will explain this method and while there is only one set of shores shown in this diagram the other illustrations show how closely they were inserted in order to be efficient. The foundation necessarily had to be formed in the basement. Excavations were made to reach the solid clay upon which the first heavy timbers were laid. It was found impossible to form a sufficiently secure foundation on timbers alone because of the narrow area and limitations already referred to. It was determined at the outset to use the old foundation piers as foundations for the new steel columns, and these could not therefore be disturbed. Those foundation piers however had very heavy footings with large offsets at every course above the foundation clay. The offsets suggested their use as a means of forming part of the shoring foundation. With this end in view the foundation timbers were levelled up to the height of each footing course and overlapping them as the height was increased, so that by this means the old foundations were made to do duty in carrying the superstructure although entirely disconnected from it, the weight being equally divided as nearly as possible on each side of the foundation piers. The illustrations show how the different stages were constructed, so as to keep the concrete pavement in its position on the outside and the floors intact inside. This was done for the purpose of forming a strong bond between each stage of the shoring to prevent the whole system from swaying in any direction, an action which was very liable to occur because of the isolated construction of the building. Such a firm bond was secured by this method that it was impossible for any thrust outwards to occur without tearing out the flooring systems of three flats and all the anchorage of the heavy stack of vaults and iron beams inside. The outside shores were also well provided for. In addition to the main shores an auxiliary was inserted immediately behind each with a long heavy screw-jack inserted in the lower end for the purposes of manipulation in tightening up or slacking down. The outside shores were inclined inwards at the top at a sufficient angle to bear their proportions of the superimposed weight with safety, while the bottom was kept from sliding outwards partly by the heavy weight of the building itself and partly by heavy timber abutments sunk through the pavement deep into the ground and

all firmly screwed and wedged. From the tops of outside shores to the blocking inside, steel needles were inserted through the walls and upon those the building

