<doctype type="text">

176	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

New York Life Building, Montreal,

SEPTEMBER 14th, 1899.



BUILDING ENTERPRISE.



The city Building Inspector's opinion regarding the volume of building enterprise in this city the present season is, that the expenditure is larger this year than last. A less number of buildings are being constructed, but they are of a more costly and important character. The value of the new structures is estimated at about $3,000,000. The Inspector declares that too many dwellings are being built, and that they are of too expensive a character. Sufficient provision is not made in the way of providing detached houses suitable]e for persons of moderate means, hence the class of persons are obliged to resort to boarding houses, flats and tenements.

DEATH OF MR. GEORGE ROBERTS.



One of the oldest and most highly respected builders of Montreal, in the person of Mr. George Roberts, passed out of life recently at the advanced age of 74 years. Owing to enfeebled health he retired several years ago from active business life, leaving as his successors his three sons.

The late Mr. Roberts, who was a native of England, took up his residence in Montreal in 1854, and thereafter resided con-











































THE LATE MR. GEORGE ROBERTS.





stantly in this city, where he constructed many important buildings, including McGill University Library and the Bank of Montreal.



The late Mr. Roberts was a member of St. George's church, a life member of St. George's Society, of the Mechanics' Institute, a life governor of the Protestant House of Industry and Refuge, and of the Montreal General Hospital.

TEST OF A FIRE-PROOF SKY-SCRAPER.



In a communication under the above heading to the London Building News, Mr. J. Rawson Gardiner, architect, of this city, refers to the effects of the recent fire in the Home Life Insurance Company's building in New York, and sums up the lessons to be drawn therefrom as follows "(1). That one of the chief dangers a fire-proof building has to contend against is a severe fire in an adjoining non-fire-proofed structure ; (2) that marble is useless to

contend against fire, as demonstrated by the front of the Home Life Insurance building; (3) that the space above the terra cotta arches between the steel] beams should have been filled with terra blocks, concrete, or some incombustible material; (4) that wire lathing and mortar is not to be recommended as a covering for steel construction, and, if used, should be very carefully fastened with an air space of in. between the iron and lathing, so as to allow space for a good key in the mortar."

TEST OF A FIRE-RESISTING BUILDING.



About 5 o'clock on the morning of the 12th inst., fire was discovered in the office of the American Watch Co., on the 6th floor of the Canada Life Building on St. James street. The fire, presumably caused by an electric wire, was in the wood-work behind a large safe, and had gained considerable headway before the firemen arrived on the scene. The fire was so closely confined to the one room, that, a]though burning fiercely, it was easily extinguished with Babcocks. The heat did not penetrate through the terra cotta partitions and ceilings, and the occupants of the adjoining offices—as well as those overhead—had no idea that a serious fire had taken place in such close proximity. So intense was the heat that the wood lining in the big safe was charred and some of the papers burned.

This test is most satisfactory to the Canada Life people and their tenants, as it proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that the building is a fire-resisting structure of the highest class.

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects have granted the Library Committee the sum of $1,000 for the purchase of new books. Mr. Venne, the secretary, has also donated $100 for this object. A catalogue is being prepared of all the architectural books in the several public libraries of the city, and it has been arranged that students shall have access to them all. The committee will not duplicate any book that is in any of the libraries at present. It s the intention of the Association to make further grants for this purpose until they shall possess the best architectural library in Canada.

Following is the agenda for the ninth annual meeting of the Association, to be held in Quebec on Saturday, the 23rd inst.

Forenoon session to open at 10 o'clock punctually, in the rooms of the Association, city hall, Quebec. 1. Reading of the minutes

2.	Presentation of annual report of Council; 3. Statement of the



-	Treasurer; 4. Election of officers.



Afternoon session to open at 3 o'clock sharp. 1. Motions by members; 2. Routine and other business.

A banquet will be held at the Hotel Frontenac in the evening. An enjoyable time is anticipated.



FIRE TESTING.

St. Petersburg now boasts of a Pan-Russian Fire Protection Society, organized on lines not dissimilar from those of the British Fire Prevention Committee, although fire brigade matters perhaps receive more attention there than with the English institution which deals primarily with the prevention of fire from the constructive and technical point of view.

The Russian Society is, however, also now to follow the London example of creating a fire testing station and Prince Alexander Levoff, its president, has already gone so far as to present the necessary site and building.

The scheme for this station is the result of Mr. E. 0. Sachs' visit to St. Petersburg last month, and its organization is part of his project for a series of stations in the continental capitals, to be worked on lines identical with those adopted in London, but whilst the foreign stations will attend solely to matters of local interest, the station at Regent's Park will deal with matters of international importance and serve as the centre. At St. Petersburg, for instance, attention will almost entirely have to be given to improved methods of Construction in the villages, where safer materials will have to take the place of thatch and matching, etc., a subject which would of course be of no moment elsewhere. The annual destruction of villages in Russia, it should be remembered, is very serious, and the national fire loss, according to Mr. Sachs, is about seven millions sterling.

Mr. Sachs expects that by a systematic organization of this kind, and a systematic international mode of procedure, with due regard to special local requirements, combined action in fire prevention will be arrived at on the same lines as we have international movements in sanitary and hygenic matters, which though they have one recognized centre (in the case of fire prevention this will be in London) yet allow independent treatment of purely local questions in the particular countries to which they refer.

