<doctype type="text">

BY THE WAY.

MESSRS. Bond & Smith, architects of the new Union Bank on Wellington street west, Toronto, have, with the approval of the owners, placed their name on the building. Other architects might well follow this example in connection with their important buildings. It would help to clarify the hazy ideas entertained by so many persons regarding the functions of an architect, and give the profession its proper standing.. Further, it would induce care on the part of the architects to give their work such character that it would stand as a monument of their taste and skill.

x x x



THERE are reasons why we should expect the builder of our day to rank among the most enterprising and worthy of our citizens. He has had a distinguished ancestry. Noah, the pioneer builder, spent 140 years in building the first house-boat. He may have been a trifle slow, but we know that he succeeded in making a good job. Pharoah knew a good deal about geometry, and without the aid of a steam winch piled up a mass of gigantic stones that is still the wonder of the world. Solomon, too, aided by Hiram, did a little building in his day, by which he greatly enhanced his reputation. A certain Chinese emperor comes to mind who built a retaining wall three thousand miles long to enable him to retain his kingdom against the Tartars. The wonderful temples of Greece and Rome and the great cathedrals of Europe still remain as monuments of the skill of the old builders, while in modern times we have the Crystal Palace of London, covering with glass an area of thirteen acres, the sky-scrapers of New York and Chicago, and last but not least, our own city hall, which, though it has involved a. few

extras," is nevertheless a credit to a native architect and to Canadian craftsmen. The builder, like other men, has always had troubles of his own. In old Pharoah's day, labor-saving devices were unknown, but nevertheless we are told his workmen found cause for a strike, and the strike has been an event of more or less regular occurrence in the trade ever since. There have developed, also, other troubles such as lien-laws, workmen's compensation acts, etc., but in spite of all these, the builder maintains his reputation for skill, enterprise, honesty, and good humor.

x x x



I HEAR complaint by the occupants of the new city hall that the automatic heat regulating system installed in that building does not satisfactorily perform its duty, but that the temperature goes up and down about as it pleases. Thermostats are placed on the walls and connected to the automatic steam valves attached to the radiators, and are supposed to be so sensitive as to open or close the valves at a variation of one degree. Owing probably to the difficulty, it not the impossibility, of maintaining an even adjustment of the air pressure from above with the steam pressure from below, the device is said to have failed in operation. When the steam pressure exceeds the air pressure the valve remains open, and the temperature goes up as high as it pleases, and vice versa when the steam pressure is weak, the valve remains closed and the atmosphere becomes uncomfortably chilly. While on this subject it might also be mentioned that the air used for ventilating the building is drawn by suction from the tower at a height of more than 200 feet above the ground level. It has been noticed that when an east wind prevails heavy clouds of

smoke from the chimneys of the T. Eaton Company's steam plant strike the city hall tower at the point at which the fresh air supply is taken. When the wind is from the north the smoke from the chimneys of the electric station on Terauley street envelop the tower at about the same height. This has given rise to the question, to what extent is this waste product of the coal pile sucked into the ventilation system of the new municipal building.



<article title=" ALTERATIONS TO THE CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO.

" author="Gray, Wilson">

ALTERATIONS TO THE CONFEDERATION

LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO.

By J. WILSON GRAY.



In the year 1892 the Confederation Life building was erected, not only for a home or head office for the company, but also as a revenue producer. The capital represented being large, it was necessary to consider well the best possible way to attain the greatest returns. The building was designed having three frontages— the east front on Victoria street, the south and principal front on Richmond street, and the west front on Yonge street. The design was divided into two distinct parts

-—an eastern section and a western the central tower on Richmond street forming the point of division. The eastern section was set apart for the head office of the company, the first floor being designated for this purpose, and the remaining upper floors for general office purposes, with a large ball and supper room on the top flat. The elevations of this section hear the marks of this internal arrangement and are the most handsome of the two sections. The western section was designed for a warehouse or large departmental store and was consequently somewhat subordinate in exterior treatment to its eastern neighbor. Shortly. after the erection of the building the departmental store proposition for the west section was abandoned, the ground floor converted into stores and the upper floors into offices, without altering the general appearance of the elevations, however advisable that might have been, so far as the Yonge street fronts for store purposes are concerned.

It is not the purpose of this paper to criticise or find fault with the design of the structure under consideration, but merely to point out what the advancement of the times has demanded since the building was erected, so far as the ground and first floors of the western section fronting on Yonge street and part of Richmond street are concerned. The immediate occupancy of the new sub-divisions of this west section was the best evidence of the wisdom of such a course, a larger revenue being derived from the stores and offices than could be got from any other enterprise. During the years which followed this occupancy, the general architecture and construction of store buildings all the world over was undergoing a change. In the great business centres of the world land was becoming more valuable day by day. The demand, therefore, was for structures occupying the least possible space on the ground floors with the structural materials, thus affording larger areas for light and display, while the heavens might be explored by the upper storeys. To meet this demand, we find the modern departmental store and office buildings being erected of fire-proof steel construction encased in brick, stone and terra cotta, all materials reduced to the minimum for strength, so as to utilize the greatest possible area for floors and windows. In some cases the lack of the fire-proof casing round the steel columns on the

