<doctype type="text">

<article title=" PROPOSED HARBOR IMPROVEMENTS AT VICTORIA B. C." author="">

	198	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



street will be abandoned in fax or of a more important and corn— modious terminal depot on the reserve. The old railway bridge would he removed, arid a broad bascule bridge erected at the foot of Johnson street, with wide central opening, clearing the stream at its narrowest point of all impediment to navigation, and at the same time meet the long—felt want of a direct route from the centre of Victoria city to Victoria West arid Esquimalt



It is part of tire proposition to connect the present V. & S. railway by a branch running along Work street arid over the new bridge at Point Ellice, with the central station on the Indian reserve, and also to extend these joint railways by harbor tracks along thc wharves as far as the outer dock to construct coal bunkers in thc lower harbor, and spacious dry-docks arid marine ways in the upper harbor of capacity sufficient to take the largest ships frequenting tirese waters. The harbor tracks would he fitted with hydraulic cranes arid capstans. Spacious warehouses would be built as tire demand arose, and all the most approved appliances installed for the most economical and expeditions handling, storing arid transhipping of freight, and for the accommodation of tire shipping frequenting the port and at the same time the charges kept down to rates that should make this the most desirable and most frequented harbor on the Pacific coast. These works would be gradually carried to completion out of surplus revenue.

ESTIMATE OF THE COST



Purchase of all properties abutting on the harbor, in

	eluding compensation, say	$2,100,000

Dams and removal, about	$200,000

Pumping out lower harbor	20,000

Excavation arid dredging	630,000

Revetment walls	800,000

Bascule bridge	200,000

Overflow to Thetis Cove, say	50,000

Contingencies, say	200,000

	Total works in lower harbor	2, 100, ooo

Sheet piling, upper harbor	250,000

Dredging	175,000

Rock Bay bridge abutments	50,000

Point Ellice bridge	200,000

Contingencis, say	65,000

	Total works in upper barber	740,000

Law, parliamentary, engineering and management for

	the four years construction	350,000

	Estimated total outlay, about	'5,290,000



This expenditure would be extended over four or five years, the bonds being issued as tire demand arose, and although the bulk of the income would accrue of the purchase of the property, tire charges for interest on the loan would rise but gradually, with the expenditure on works of improvement that would in themselves be revenue-producing. Thus the revenue during the first four years would, it is estimated, exceed $560,000; whereas the interest on the gradually issued bonds would not exceed $470,000 the surplus revenue being carried to capital account, thus reducing tire amount required to he obtained on loan by about $90,000

Instead of any direct grant of money- front the city in aid of this great public undertaking, it is proposed that the city should convey the mud flats and other adjacent vacant spaces, that they could he filled tip and converted into useful public property, from which an annual rent could be collected, which property would in dire course become taxable to the city.

For many years past the Dominion Government has voted $ 10,ooo to he spent in tins harbor. It is proposed that tire Dominion should increase this grant to $30,000 a year for a limited period of five years, commencing with the fourth year, that it may have a fair start in public usefulness.

The estimated revenue stands thus

Rents-receivable, about	, $78,124

Less taxes, etc	25,024

Harbor dues from existing sources                      95,000

Dominion grant in aid                                 30,000

Estimated average revenue from reclaimed	land and

 harbor improvements, say                            30,000

	$207,500

Interest on loan at 3¼ per cent., in the event

of tire frill amount being expended con—

 tinuously	$169,000

Administration, maintenance, etc., say	30,000

	$99,000



The exact results of the rate of interest and cost of work in the lower harbor would therefore determine the practicability of carry-

ing out the work in the ripper harbor contemporaneously or continuously with the lower harbor.

With reference to the repayment of the loan, the act provides that no surplus land shall lie sold within ten years, but after that period, when prices may he considered established, any portion exceeding 60 feet away' from the water's edge may he disposed of, provided the proceeds are applied solely' to the redemption of bonds. It would not he desirable to pay off any more of the loan than these circumstances may render necessary', as foreign money obtained at low rates arid profitably invested in local improvements is better retained ill the country, and the requisite powers to renew any outstanding balance of tire loan are provided in the act.

The scheme is in no way a company or speculative matter it is purely a public enterprise for the development of trade, selfsupporting from the commencement, arid all surplus revenue will be applied solely for works of further development. The funds arc now available, awaiting tire Act of Incorporation arid the required public guarantees for tire repayment of loan and interest over a period of fifty years.

The lower harbor will be the proposition to be dealt with, arid the railway extentions will follow developments.



LEGAL.

KENNEDY VS. TRUSTEES R.C. SEPARATE SCHOOLS OF HINTONBURGH, ONT. —Appeal was taken by plaintiff before Mr. Justice  Meredith at Toronto from part of judgment by the same judge at trial at Ottawa, dismissing the plaintiff's claim for extra work in connection with a building contract. The question was whether the architect's certificate for the extras claimed was sufficient for the plaintiff's recovery' or whether ire must show an order' in writing for such extras given before tire work was done, arid upon whom the burden of proof as to such written order was. Appeal dismissed with costs. Per Meredith, J. Some cases have gone a very long way in holding the owner to be bound by the certificate of his architect to pay' for work which the owner has expressly' stipulated with his contractor that lie was nor to he liable for, unless the order was given in no particular way, but if the owner is to be bound, justice would seem to require that the contractor should furnish clear evidence of a decision or adjudication by the architect as to tire subject matter, front inquiry in to which lie is to lie shirt out by tire certificate. In this case riot only is such a decision or adjudication not made out, hurl tire instruments relied on indicate that the architect has advisedly and carefully refrained from deciding or adjudicating as to the extras so as to bind the owner.

THE Architect and Contract Reporter, of London, quotes a decision of the English courts that will have, arm interest for builders everywhere. The paper say's the risks from using defective mortar are numerous, for local authorities have in most places absolute power for dealing with it A decision which was given this week by Mr. Justice Bruce, in Smith vs. Johnson, reveals that a building owner can also have his remedy against a contractor wino is not careful in using such mortar as is considered necessary for safe building. Tire plaintiff contracted with the defendant for mortar which was to be used in the extentsion of a dormitory attached to a lodging house in Whitechapel after the completion of the work. The plaintiff was ordered to take down and rebuild the dormitory because tine mortar did not correspond with the requirements of the Building Act. According to the by-laws the mortar to be used must he composed of freshly burned lime arid clean sharp sand or grit without earthy matter in the proportions of one of lime to three of sand or grit. The dormitory was rebuilt as ordered. Then the plaintiff sought to obtain from defendant the money expended on the work as well as a sum for loss of rent. It was maintained that the quality' of the mortar could not be detected because it was in a wet state. Counsel for defendant maintained that when' the contract was made it was riot understood that if the mortar was unsuitable it would he necessary to take down and rebuild the dormitory. Besides, the plaintiff should have rejected the mortar when it was supplied. Plaintiff's counsel held that tine defective

quality of thee mortar could not be ascertained until if was used, and as the rebuilding was tire result of defendant's acts, he must be held liable for the cost of rebuilding. Mr. Justice Bruce considered that, according to the evidence, as that the mortar was nun a wet state, no reasonable diligence on the part of the plaintiff could have discovered tire defects until the mortar was used. The plaintiff was therefore entitled to recover the expense of pulling down and rebuilding, as well as damages. his lordship assessed the amount at L101.

