<doctype type="text">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

cast iron post or column of less thickness than 3/4 of an inch shall be used in any building.

Cast iron posts or columns used for the support of wood or iron girders or brick walls, which are not cast open on one face shall, before being set up in place, have a hole 3/8 of an inch in diameter drilled in the shaft by the manufacturer or contractor furnishing the same, to exhibit the thickness of the metal. The inspector may order additional test boles to be drilled where he may direct

Iron posts or columns cast with one or more open sides or backs, shall have solid iron plates on top of each, to prevent the passage of fire or smoke through them from one story to another, except where pierced for the passage of pipes.

No cast or wrought iron post or column shall have an unsupported length of more than thirty limes its least lateral dimension or diameter.

The maker of all steel or east iron columns shall he obliged to stamp the same with his name and t he carrying capacity of each of them.



WOOD POSTS NOR TO BE USED FOR SUPPORT OF A WALL.



SECTION 8o.—In no ease shall a wood post or column be used for the support of any wall in a building of the first or second class (except as a temporary support), nor shall any metal column or post rest upon a wood post or beam.



STEEL OR IRON BRESSUMER AND LINTELS.



SECTTON 81. Openings in an external wall over which a wall has to be carried, and which the too wide to he linteled with stone or spanned by an arch in brick or stone of sufficient strength to carry the superimposed load, shall he spanned by a bressumer or lintel of steel or iron, and such bressumer or lintel shall he so proportioned to the load which it has to bear, that the maximum fibre stress will not exceed 16,000 lbs. for steel Or 12,000 lbs. for iron, per square inch. Steel or iron lintels used to span any opening to any external or internal wall more than ten feet in width, shall, if resting at the ends upon stone or brick walls, columns or piers, have a bearing of at least ten inches, by the thickness of the wall to be supported, and if resting upon an iron or steel post, or column, the bearing shall not be less titan six inches by the thickness of the wall to he supported.

In all cases where an iron or steel bressumer or lintel is supported on brick walls or piers, it shall rest at each end upon a stone block or iron plate properly proportioned to transmit the load to the wall or pier.



WOOD FURRINGS ON WALLS.



SECTION 82.—In all buildings of the second class used for churches, schools theatres, hotels, warehouses, manufactories or places of public assembly, external or party walls shall not be furred wit It wood or other combustible materials.

In till other buildings of bite second class, if wood or other combustible material is used for furring on external or party walls, the stone or brick of which these walls are composed, shall, immediately above each tier of joists, project from the face of the wall equal to tile projection of the furring for a height of at least ten inches above tile joists. and the coarse of brick immediately below the order side of the floor joists shall also project the thickness of the furring.



WOOD LINTELS OR BRESSUMERS NOT ALLOWED IN EXTERNAL



WALLS.



SECTION 83,—No wood lintel or bressumer shall be used to span any opening in an external wall of a second class building over which a wall has to be carried, except as herein below provided.



Wood hotels may be used to span the inside of an opening in an external wall of a second class building, provided that the opening is not over five feet in width, and that the lintel has a depth of ¼-inch for each foot in width of the opening. Wood lintels shall not be used to span the inside of openings in external walls, if such openings are placed so close together as not to admit of at least 12 inches in width of stone or brick being between the ends of the hotels.

Wood lintels may be used to span openings in internal walls (except party walls), over which a wall has to be carried, provided that the opening does not exceed six feet in span and that the lintel is 1 ¼ —inch in dept It for each foot in width of tile Opening, by the thickness of the wall to be supported.



Wherever practicable relieving arches in brick or stone are to be turned over wood lintels.



CHIMNEYS.



SECTION 84.—All chimneys and smoke flues shall be built of stone trick or other incombustible material.



Smoke flues built of brick shall not be less than one hundred

and twenty-eight square inches in area, and the walls around the flute shall not be less than eight inches thick, except that the wall between one flue and another may be four inches thick.

Smoke flues lined on the interior with fire clay pipes shall, if in brickwork, be surrounded by walls not less than four inches thick at any point, and if in stonework, by walls not less than eight inches thick the internal diameter of such flue lining shall not be less than nine inches.



Smoke flues, if made in stonework, shall be lined on the inside with brickwork four inches thick, or with fire clay pipe linings.



The top of any chimney shall not be less above the roof of the building of which it forms part, than four feet, if said roof is a fiat root, and not less that two feet above the ridge of time roof, if said roof is pitched.



The top of every chimney shall be covered with iron, stone or other incombustible material, and said covering shall be securely fastened to the chimney

No chimney shall be corbelled more than four inches from a wall twelve inches thick, nor more than eight inches from a wall sixteen inches or over in thickness no chimney or flue shall be corbelled from a wall eight inches thick.

Chimneys may rest upon steel or iron beams, provided the said beams are properly supported on stone or brick walls, or piers, or on iron columns and that the fibre strain upon the iron or steel beams does not exceed the limit mentioned in section 81 of this by-law. 

In no case shall a chimney or smoke flue rest upon, or be supported by wood,

Any chimney, not forming part of a wall of a building, shall rest upon the ground on proper foundations, proportioned to tile size and height of a chimney.

Any chimney with a flue of greater area than 400, and less than 784 square inches, which is connected with the external party or brick partition wail, amid which does not exceed seventy feet in height, shall have wails not less than twelve inches thick for a height of fifty feet; the balance of the height may be eight inches thick.

If the height of the flue exceeds severity feet, the first twenty five feet in height shall have walls lint less than sixteen inches thick; the balance of the height may be twelve and eight inches, as above described.

If the said flue is used in connection with a steam boiler or a furnace, which heats it to a high temperature, it shall be lined from the bottom of the  entrance of the smoke flue and for a height of not less than fifteen feet above the same, with fire brick.

Any chimney having a flue of 784 square inches or over iii area, and whether connected with the walls of a building, or isolated therefrom, shall have hollow wails for a height of tint less than two—thirds of the whole height of the chimney, and  they shall be designed amid constructed so that the stress due to the weight of the stack, and from wind pressure, shah not exceed the limit fixed by this by-law, as the maximum Stress to be allowed for brickwork ; the said fine shall be lined with hire brick for a height proportioned to the w mole height of the chimney, and to the heat it has to endure, but in no case shall the weight of' said fire brick be less than twenty-five feet, the lining of fire brick to be independent of the walls of chimney.

The foundations for chimneys of the size above mentioned shall be built in conformity with the provisions of this by-law respecting foundations.

No metallic chimney, not enclosed in brick work and used in connection with a steam boiler or a furnace which heats the flue to a high temperature, shall be erected, unless it is entirely isolated from tiny woodwork, and then only with the consent of and in the manner prescribed by the inspector, arid the inside of said flue shall be lined with fire brick to such height as directed by the Inspector.

The proprietor of any house or building hereafter to be erected

in this city, the chimney		of which shall not lie more than one foot

horizontally	distain from	any other building having a higher eleva—



tion, shall lie bound at his own expense tint raise the height of such chimney to be erected, as aforesaid, above apex or roof of the said house or building, but in the event of the lower building having been constructed previously to the more elevated one, then the proprietor of the more elevated building shall, at his own expense, and with dime diligence, raise the said chimney of this lower building to the height of his own chimney, or incorporate the flues in his own wall.

CHIMNEYS EMITTING SMOKE DECLARED A NUISANCE.



SECTION 85. -Any chimney emitting smoke so as to cause damage to or injuriously affect neighboring properties or the oc

