<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Correspondence." author=" GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD, R.W.">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	115



HAMILTON

(Correspondence of the CANA

DIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.)



THE article in the last issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, entitled "The Teaching of Art and Design," containing a resolution adopted by the Executive Committee of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association would certainly have the effect of causing anyone interested in the Schools of Art of the country to open his eyes. We have been accustomed to think that these Schools were properly equipped for the very purposes desired by the manufacturers, the instruction in

the principles of design and the development of talent that will lead to a supply of practical designers in every branch of trade that has occasion to employ designers. And yet the resolution tells us "There are no existing schools constructed or equipped to meet the necessities herein alluded to."

In consequence of this sweeping assertion I paid a visit to the School of Art here with the object of finding Out for what purpose it existed, if the Manufacturers statement is true, for certainly no school could have a right to its government grant if it were merely a "drawing" school, without any better object than the simplest instruction in drawing, which is what the resolution would make one think is all that these schools can give.

My first impression as a result of this visit, is that the Manufacturers do not know what is going on under their eyes; at any rate they do not know the Hamilton School of Art; of other schools I cannot speak from personal knowledge. But here I find students engaged in the study of design for wall papers, floor-cloth, brass-work, furniture, wood-carving and ornament for all purposes, from the manufacture of iron stoves to delicate stained glasswork. There are classes for modelling in clay, for the study of architecture, classes for sculpture, machinery drawing and all the usual work of the various grades. The text books used are those in use in the Art Schools in England and the Principal of the school, Mr. S. John Ireland, is a man of very many years experience in the art schools in England, a man who for years, ever since he has been in this country, has held the position of examiner for at least two great English Schools, who have thought it to their advantage to send out the students' work to him year after year for examination.

Of course "the proof of the pudding is in the eating," and no matter how highly a teacher may be recommended, if he cannot produce the results required of him in his position, he is no good. We have only to look at the work of the pupils and ascertain the results achieved by them to learn the truth in this particular. Several students of this school have obtained medals in acknowledgement of the excellence of their work. Prizes have been awarded in exhibitions far and wide. To mention one case in particular, a design for wall paper that was sent to the Worlds Fair at Chicago not only obtained a silver medal, but was the means of bringing a student all the way from Chicago to study in Hamilton under Mr. Ireland.

I saw several designs for ornamental brasswork, stained glass, lace, wall paper and carving of a very high degree or excellence, and yet the manufacturers to whom these designs have been submitted, while acknowledging their quality and expressing surprise that such work could be done here, did not care to make any use of them or their authors.

It is self-evident then, that for some reason or other, the Manufacturers here consider the school a failure as far as their interests

are concerned, and it would certainly be to the interest of the public as well as to them personally that they should speak out and say where the difficulty lies. I have not had the opportunity of hearing from the manufacturers, but I have no doubt many will be ready to take up the subject when it is brought to their notice in the columns of this paper.

Another point in connection with the Art School that has been agitating a good many people here lately, has been the earnest desire of the members of the Y. W. C. A. and Technical Institute to have their Technical Institute amalgamated with the Art School. Mrs. John Hoodless, President of the Y. W. C. A. has been working with strenuous efforts to bring this about. The matter has however been decided against her by the Directors of the Art School on very good practical grounds. The idea is acknowledged as a good one, but the first consideration would be a new building capable of holding both establishments and there are no funds available, nor is there any likelihood that any could be raised. The Art School does not see the advisability of saddling itself with the responsibilities of the Technical Institute, but at the same time the Directors would like to see a Municipal Technical School established.

A meeting of citizens of Hamilton was held recently in tile Mayors' office, when it was decided to form the Hamilton Improvement Society based on the lines of the New York City improvement Society for the beautification of tile city. A Committee was appointed to draft a memorandum embodying the scope of tile Society.



R.	W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD.







PERSONAL.



Mr. Harry Edwards, son of Mr. XX'. A. Edwards, architect, of Hamilton, has recently gone to New York for the purpose of studying architecture.

Messrs Geo. XV. Gouinlock and F. S. Baker, two well-known architects of Toronto, have recently formed a partnership, under the title of Gouinlock & Baker, with offices at No. 7 t4 Temple Building.

Mr. J. A. Sheedy, Master of Bridges and Buildings of the Grand Trunk Railway, has resigned and accepted a position in Philadelphia. The members of his staff presented him, as a token of esteem, with a silver tea service.

Mr. William Burke, who was for many years a dealer in builders supplies on Richmond street West, Toronto, and who represented St. Andrews Ward in the City Council in 1877, died at his residence a few days ago, aged 77 years.

The death is announced at Ottawa of Mr. James Strachan, a well-known contractor of that city. Among the buildings which he erected may he mentioned, the Macleod street Methodist Church and an addition to St. Andrews Church, The late Mr. Strachan was a native of Scotland, and was 73 years of age.

Herbert E. Gates, architect, of 58 Bedford Row, Halifax N. S., was married in England some time ago to Miss Sillery, daughter of the late Staff Captain Sillery, formerly of H. M. Ceylon Regiment, and niece of the late Major General Sillery, commanding the 12th (the Suffolk) Regiment.

Mr. W. J. Holland, architect, died at the General Hospital in Coilingwood last month from consumption, at the age of 51 years. The deceased had for some time practised his profession in Collingwood. Prior to taking up his residence in that town, he lived in Barrie and Toronto. Among the prominent buildings which he designed are the Cyclorama Building on Front street, Toronto, and the stores of Messrs 'r. Long & Bro. Collingwood. He also prepared the first plans for the Market Building in Collingwood.





PUBLICATIONS.



The June number of the Review of Reviews has all illustrated article on summer reading, giving a rapid survey of the important books just issued from the various publishing houses.

Among tile papers and brochures at the recent meeting of the Royal Society were three by Mr. Chas. Baillarge, of Quebec, entitled respectively "L'Antiquite de Ia Terre et de I.'Homme," "La Vie—L'Evolution—Le Materialisme," "Le Grec-- Le Latin—Leur utilite pour apprecier Ia signification des mots actuels de Ia langue, et dans Ia composition de nouveaux mots motives par les progres des sciences, arts et manufactures. Leur enseignement dans nos colleges." Mr. Baillarge is widely known as a versatile and prolific writer upon scientific subjects.

