<doctype type="text">

	42	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT 



descriptions will materially help him in laying out the work. Fig. 6 shows the method of describing a 4-inch wall in diagonal bond with English facing. Draw the facing bricks first, then take the diagonal length of four bricks A to B, strike an arc B C ; from C, with half a brick radius, strike arc D E, join E A, and from E, the point of intersection with BC, draw horizontal line EF.































From F draw F G parallel with E A, to form one of the diagonal points; all the others may be obtained by drawing parallel lines at half-brick intervals. This method enables the diagonal bricks to be laid without any cutting, but it may be preferred to fill in solid the triangular end spaces H, I, J, etc. ; then the diagonal points should be laid at an angle of 45, and the bricks cut to fit. Every alternate course must be all headers, as shown in Fig. 7, and the diagonal courses may rake alternately from right to left. Fig. 8 shows herringbone bond, the interior bricks being laid at 450 and cut to fit the face bricks. This bond should also be laid in counter directions.



THE Toronto Builders' Exchange have

	Toronto Builders'

	Exchange.	requested 	the City Council to grant

that body representation on the Board of Management of the Toronto Technical School and the Toronto Industrial Exhibition. The fact is mentioned in support of the petition that the Exchange represents one of the most important lines of industry in the city and the expenditure of a very large amount of capital. In view of the large number of young men who will every year pass from the technical schools into the ranks of mechanics in the building trades, it seems a fair proposition that the employers should have some voice in deciding what courses and methods of study are most likely to produce an efficient class of workmen. This appears all the more necessary since it is sought to substitute to a large extent a technical education for the old-fashioned apprenticeship system.



LEGAL.

ORR BROS. VS. FELLOWS. The plaintiffs, a firm of contractors doing business in Toronto, entered into a contract with Charles Fellows to execute the brickwork of a pair of houses on Sussex ave. Plaintiffs reduced their tender for the work by $100, in consideration of being permitted to use some brick and stone the property of defendant. They also agreed to accept as the last payment a note of the-defendant for $250 drawn for a period of three months, renewable, and bearing interest at 6 per cent. The revised form of contract was used, which contract was signed by Charles Fellows. At the completion of the contract plaintiffs learned that Ruth Fellows, wife of the defendant, was the owner of all the property, and she refused to endorse her husband's note for $250. Defendant was his own architect and inspector, and issued no progress certificates. The specification contained a clause that no extras

would be allowed unless agreed on beforehand in writing and signed by the owner and the contractors, which was not done. The contractors sued Ruth Fellows for $250 balance of contract, $205 for extras and $40 for refusing to permit them to make use of the old material. The High Court of Justice appointed Mr. Edward Morgan, Junior Judge of the County of York, as sole arbitrator to decide the dispute. The arbitrator found that Charles Fellows was merely the agent of the his wife, and therefore that his wife was responsible for the payment of note given by him. The plaintiffs were awarded $250 in respect of the contract price, $129.37 in respect of extra work, less a deduction of

$44.45, for work rendered unnecessary by changes in the plans and specifications, and certain work imperfectly done by plaintiffs, leaving a balance due the defendants of $334.92, with interest thereon since Feb. 28th, 1898, together with costs of action. The plaintiffs' claim of $40 for not being permitted to use the old material was not allowed, as this point in the agreement between the parties was not embodied in the contract.



Efflorescence ON BRICK.

TORONTO, Feb'y 4th, 1899.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

SIR, As far back as June, 1894, the architects and builders of British Columbia, in using pressed brick, were troubled with a white substance coming from the brick which greatly disfigured the surface of the work. They wrote to the Ontario Architects' Association asking if the3 could suggest a remedy that would completely destroy or prevent its appearance on the face of a building. The answer was, as near as can be remembered, as follows :-—"There is no process known which is effectual in pre venting the exudation of magnesia from brick work. The using of acids and oils is not satisfactory. The problem of how to avoid it, is one which has for a long time given brick manufacturers a good deal of anxiety, and if any of our readers are possessed of any useful information On the subject we will be pleased if they will contribute it."

I am inclined to think there is a possibility of the mystery being solved. Mr. F. J. French, a man well-known among the building fraternity, and a good number of the architects of Toronto, who has been in the brick manufacturing and building for a good many years, informs me that he has been studying and experimenting on the destruction of this white substance for years past, and is confident he has solved the problem. Chemicals, he says may destroy it, but that treatment is expensive; his process is simple and sure if strictly adhered to.

The remedy was placed with one of the largest firms of brick manufacturers in the province, in May of 1898, in order to give it a thorough test, which he is sure will prove satisfactory.

Yours truly,

A CONSTANT READER.





PERSONAL.

Mr. A. F. Wickson, architect, has been elected chairman of the Board of Management of the Toronto Technical School.

William J. Home, a well known Toronto contractor, died at his residence in that city a few days ago, at the age of 64 years.

Mr. F. H. Sexton, sr., who for upwards of thirty years has been identified with the building trade in Toronto, died in that city recently at the age of 67 years.

Mr. Robert Thompson, formerly of the firm of Turnbull & Thompson, builders and contractors at Paris, Ont., died in that town recently at the age of 79 years.

Mr. M. R. Burrows, architect, recently of Detroit, Mich., has opened an office in Sarnia, Ont., and will be pleased to receive manufacturers' and dealers catalogues and price lists.

The news of the death of Mr. William G. Willis, manager of the Hobbs Glass Works at London, Ont., was received with widespread regret. Mr. Willis had been in the employ of the Hobbs Company for 23 years, and was universally respected.

Mr. H. Mamizu, chief architect of the government of Japan, visited Toronto recently in connection with a tour of inspection of public library buildings. Mr. Mamizu is collecting data to be used in the erection of a national library at Tokio to cost $300,000. He states that of late years the Occidental style, with its ingredients of brick and stone, is replacing wood architecture in Japan.

