<doctype type="text">

<article title=" VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author=" CARTER, A.E.">

VANCOUVER BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

VANCOUVER, B.C., July 10th, 1899.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



DEAR SIR,—In answer to your enquiry for information concerning the Vancouver Builders' Exchange, I would say that early in the year a number of the builders met at the Hotel Vancouver to discuss the question of organization. We decided that in these days of trusts, unions, and combinations, organization was necessary in order that we might hold our own and keep abreast of the times. in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER and other trade journals, we noticed that in almost all progressive cities in Eastern Canada and the United States the builders had some kind of an association, and that in promoting their interests, securing privileges and defending their rights, they were succeeding to an extent which, as individuals, would be impossible.

The different classes with whom we as builders do business— the laborers, mechanics, merchants, and in some cases the architects—have these unions and associations, which are equally successful. As contractors, we found that we were hedged in by many protections for other people. First, there are the contract drawings and specifications; next, the superintendence of the architect and clerk of works; then trades' union rules, city bylaws, employers' liability act, etc., etc., with penalties of all sorts to protect everybody from the builder. These things are right and proper to a certain limit, but there is a contractor's side to the business. Often he is obliged to submit to an injustice, because, single handed, he is unable to cope with the difficulties which meet him so frequently.

Taking these facts into consideration, we decided that the necessity for organization was imperative. We appointed a committee to prepare a constitution, rules and by-laws, and notified all the other principal contractors, asking them to join us in organizing an Exchange.

The objects of the association are:

1st. To provide a headquarters where all interested in the building business may meet, transact their business with dispatch and cultivate at all times a feeling of mutual interest and good will. With this end in view, rooms have been taken in the Fairfield block, opposite the post office, in the financial centre of the city, at the junction of the principal car lines and convenient to the architects' offices. We are fitting up our rooms with reading and correspondence tables, telephone and other conveniences so that our members will find our rooms a sort of general bureau of information. From 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 has been fixed as 'change hour.

2nd. To provide for the settlement of disputes of all kinds by arbitration whenever possible, and in other ways to lessen the friction between employer and employee, so that disastrous strikes and lockouts may be avoided.

3rd. To secure the adoption of the "uniform contract" such as is in general use in the United States, in which the conditions are as fair and just for the one as for the other of the parties concerned.

4th. To prevent competition between builders and architects. We have less of this in our city than there is in many others, and we believe that it is to the interest of both and also of the owners that there should be none whatever.

5th. To secure legislation which will render the business of the building contractors less precarious, and to use all legitimate means within Our power, as an organization, to further our best interests.

There are rumors afloat to the effect that the Exchange, by resorting to questionable methods, will attempt to limit competition or secure a corner on the building business. We are aware that other Exchanges have made attempts in this direction, but the public may rest assured that the members of our Exchange are too shrewd to adopt any such short-sighted policy.

Our membership fee, as you will observe by the constitution which I enclose, is higher than in many similar organizations. This, and possibly some of our other regulations, may render it difficult for the irresponsible contractor to do business in Vancouver. We consider that we are quite justified in limiting competition to this extent, and that no one will suffer thereby. Any man, however, be he white or black, who can show our membership committee that he is prepared to do a legitimate business, may become a member of the Exchange by paying the same fee as has been paid by the original members. Should he become dissatisfied, or for any reason wish to withdraw, he may do so and receive back his membership fee, less 10 per cent.

The dealers in builders' supplies have recognized us favorably; they, as well as the sub-contractors and tradesmen, are joining as associate members, and are entitled to representation on the Exchange Board.

We have carefully considered the by-laws and rules of similar organizations, and in adopting ours we have tried to avoid the snags upon which others have come to grief. Our Exchange, we hope and expect, will be a permanent institution.

Thanking you for your kind interest and best wishes.

Yours respectfully,



A.	E. CARTER,



Secretary Vancouver Builders' Exchange.





<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA." author="">

MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA.

Fourth Annual Convention of the National Association.



On Friday, June 30th, the members of the National Association of Master Plumbers, Gas, Steam and 'Hot 'Water Fitters of Canada assembled in convention in the city of Ottawa, the place of meeting being the Victoria Hall. The convention opened at 2:35 p. in., with Mr. Win. Smith, president of the association, in the chair, and the rot! call showed the following members present

Toronto Joseph Wright, W. Manse!!, XV. H. Meredith, James H. Wilson, and A. Fiddes.

Montreal P. C. Ogilvie, J. W. Harris, John Watson and Joseph Montpetit.

Ottawa	E. B. Butterworth, H. A. Knox, F. G. Johnson, G. Julin, H. Normand, H. Foisy, H. Brown, G. Walsh, John McKinley, Peter Racine, and John Higman.

London XV. Smith and J. XV. Chambers.

Halifax Frank Powers.

A letter was read from the manager of the Starr Iron Company, of Montreal, regretting his inability to he present at the convention, and expressing assurance of a continuance of friendly relations with the master plumbers.

The president appointed Messrs. John Higman, J.

XV.	Harris and J. H. Wilson to act as a Committee on Resolutions, after which the president, Mr. Smith, read the following address

PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.



It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to this our annual convention, which, I trust, will prove interesting and beneficial to all. While there has been no marked improvement in the condition of business or trade during the past year, our association has not suffered from the lack of increased membership. Those admitted to membership during the past year coming from all over the Dominion, show that the interest manifested in advancing this, our chosen profession, is not local but universal. No special effort has been made to increase the membership of our association. The majority of the applicants have solicited the honor, which would indicate a recognition of the standing of the association and the necessity for a united action to elevate and advance our profession. Our association has already been the means or accomplishing much good in diffusing a knowledge of the requirements for and the best methods employed in securing good plumbing, heating and ventilation, yet what has been accomplished sinks into significance when compared with the possibilities of an association like ours, with a membership embracing the leading men in the profession in all sections of the Dominion. A united effort on the part of each individual or our association will in time awaken the people and the Government to the fact that good plumbing, heating and ventilation are necessities and not luxuries, and will secure for us the same recognition and legislation that is accorded to other professions. And to ascomplish the greatest amount of good to ourselves and to others, it is desirable that should avail ourselves of every opportunity to advance the interests of this association, and that, in electing officers and appointing committees, we should select those who can best fill the different positions and who are willing to devote a reasonable amount of time to the affairs of the association. We should also endeavor to increase our membership by securing as members all who are eligible for such membership. This can be best accomplished by the individual members in the different sections of the Dominion where they are located.

There can be no more important question before the National body than the purpose it should serve in its relation to its membership. With this question successfully answered the duty of each individual member is plain. When men decide to cooperate, when they agree to harmonize social or commercial interests, the very first thought is what valid excuse have we to offer for such an association ? Is the object or purpose praiseworthy ? Is it necessary to better social relations or business interests, as the case may be ? Is there a principle of right involved which we can use as a basis of organization, and which the great public at large must respect? These are the thoughts which must come to men who found organizations based on social or mutual interests. I believe that the true purpose of an association of master plumbers should be as follows

1.	To advance the cause of scientific sanitation. Why? Because plumbing and house-drainage are its most important department.

2.	Its special object should be, therefore, a sanitary law which provides for the examination and registration of plumbing labor, and honest inspection. To secure such a law, public prejudice or ignorance must be overcome. To do this there must be a plan formulated for the education of the people. To educate members, a pleasant association room in each city is essential. The room should be provided with maps

