<doctype type="text">

<article title=" COLOR." author=" CORLETTE, H.C.">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	181

used, more approaching what might, perhaps, be called those of a pictorial nature.

Generally the most fortunate results may be attained by selecting colors, those called the primaries, to play the most important part in the whole harmony, with the assistance of white and black. One primary with its complementary secondary, or two primaries and a uniting secondary helped with white or with black should be quite sufficient to produce very beautiful combinations. By advocating the use of primaries to a very large extent I am merely suggesting that we should adhere to a practice which the best work of the past has proved to he the most satisfactory.

To adopt the primaries as possessing the best qualities of color, need not mean that we should confine our use of them to those particular lines or the spectrum.

We are, on the contrary, free to use every shade and every line of all the primaries into which they may be converted by a mixture with black or white, or by the addition of another primary in such subjection of proportion as will not resolve the combination into a secondary color. In the same manner may we deal with the secondaries, provided we do not lose sight of the fact that our first aim must be to have color, not sombre shades of mingled ugliness. No one should be of so much force, in opposition to its companions, as to make it press forward out of the same plane in which the rest are held by due relation of tones ; nor should others be allowed unduly to hide themselves by receding from the association in which they should either play a distinct and necessary part, or else be omitted altogether.

Realism in very clever hands becomes almost deception, which we have to avoid as much as that conventionality, based upon ignorance and bad taste, which becomes distortion. But generally decorative work should interpret by a conventional use of the suggestions to he found in natural forms, while it is to pictorial design in color that we must leave the representation of these forms as they are.

The use of glass, stained or clear, as a method of adding color to architecture is such a common one that it is to be feared that many of us do not give it the careful consideration it deserves.

Where the light of day is very strong we can afford to dispense with some of it, and indulge in more color

—color, too, of deeper hues and greater screening power. But where we want light there is no sensible canon of aesthetics that will permit us to discard what becomes a primary necessity ; and, above all, we can plead no excuse for the extravagance and unwisdom that would insert deep-toned glass in windows which, at the best, if entirely clear, would barely be sufficient to admit light enough to enable persons within a building to see its architectural proportions and its decorated grandeur of colored vaulting dome whose glittering gold shines unseen in the prevailing depths of gloom. Yet this is done with an object that is not self-evident, unless it be a love of mystery which, though it may show us vaguely the beautiful lines of imposing masses, may also blind the eyes which might otherwise look full

and interested intelligence.

It may be that my previous statements sufficiently imply what I feel should be the relation between an

architect and those craftsmen who work with him. I say with advisedly, because they should not be expected to act merely for him. He has no right to consider any man who helps him to execute his purpose as a con-

venient tool. He must invite him to try and enter into the spirit of his own work, if it has any, and though such a man may be an interpreter he should he allowed also the privilege of exercising his mind as helping inventor. And since no body of men can possibly act together without the recognition of a guiding principle, there must be subordination of the many to the leading and oversight of one. But subjection is not, and never should be, interpreted to mean slavery. As in any constitution for larger purposes there must be rule from a centre if the action of law and government is to carry a purpose into effect, so it is in the things of art. A head of a State should not he too proud to seek the opinion and counsel of those who are qualified to be his advisers in special matters, and though it may be, and is, his duty to rule, it is also his privilege to confer with those he is bound to guide.

<article title=" THE ARCHITECTS' EIGHTEEN CLUB." author="">

THE ARCHITECTS' EIGHTEEN CLUB.

The club established early in the present year by some of the younger architects of Toronto, has now been more fully organized under the above title, and has adopted the following as its Constitution

1.	This club shall be known as The Architects' Eighteen Club.

2.	Its objects shall be as follows The promotion of good fellowship amongst its members, mutual help in professional matters, and progress in architectural design.

3.	The membership of this club shall at no time exceed eighteen, and shall be made up of architects whose names arc subscribed hereto, who shall be known as Charter Members," and such other architects as may prove eligible, and secure election with the unanimous assent of lie then members of the club, attested by a vote by ballot from every member. And the proper election of candidates shall be vouched for by the president before admission to the club.

4.	The officers of this club shall be as follows President, first vice-president, second vice- president, third vice—president, and secretary-treasurer. All officers shall be elected by ballot, bold office for one year, and be eligible for re-election.

5.	There shall be an annual meeting of this club for the election of officers, and amendments to this constitution may be made only at this annual meeting. A copy of any proposed amendment to this constitution, together with the name of proposer must be sent by the secretary to every member of this club at last two weeks before annual meeting, and no amendment to this constitution shall he declared carried unless the voters in the affirmative number two-thirds of the total membership of this club.



The following gentlemen have been elected to fill the offices for the ensuing year Eden Smith, president

J. C. B. Horwood, 1st vice-president ; Henry Sproatt, 2nd vice-president ; C. I-i. Acton Bond, 3rd vice-president ; Arthur E. Wells, sec.-treas. It will be seen that the social feature is the dominating characteristic of the club at present, and in order that this may be preserved it has been thought advisable to restrict the membership. The club is in affiliation with the recently organized Architectural League of America, and an effort will be made to secure for Toronto one of the series of architectural exhibitions which it is proposed to hold under the auspices of the League in the principal American cities.



PERSONAL.

Mr. Eustace G. Bird, of the firm of Smith & Bird, architects, Toronto and Barrie, is about to leave Canada for the Orient.



Mr. Geo. A. Mitchell, of Barrie, has been appointed Superintendent of Bridges and Buildings on the middle division of the

G.T.R.



Mr. G. W. Gouinlock, architect, of Toronto, has just returned from a visit to Winnipeg, British Columbia, San Francisco and other cities.



A large number or relatives and friends assembled recently at the residence of ex-Ald. Wm. Carlyle. Toronto, to extend congratulations amid good wishes to that gentleman and his estimable wife on the 50th anniversary of their wedding day. Mr. Carlyle

a well known	builder of Toronto. He was also for twelve years a member of the City Council, and for six years Chairman of the Board of Works.

