<doctype type="text">

<article title=" WILLIAM A. GUNN." author="">

MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS. 

WILLIAM A. GUNN.

THE announcement of the death at his home in London, Ont., on October 21st, of Mr. William A. Gunn, secretary of the McClary Manufacturing Company, caused widespread regret. The cause of death was Bright's disease, from which the deceased had for some time been a sufferer. His last illness dated from August, when he was obliged to cease business activities. By his death the company with which he was connected suffers a serious loss, and the city of London, in which he was born, and which was the scene of his active and useful career, is deprived of one of its most highly esteemed and valued citizens.

The late Mr. Gunn was a son-in-law of Mr. John McClary, and for twelve years previous to his death had





















































THE LATE WILLIAM A. GUNN.





been secretary of the McClary Manufacturing Co., in which capacity he displayed business ability of a high order coupled with unflagging industry. He was also a director of the Ontario Loan and Debenture Co.

A wife, four sons and two daughters comprise the bereaved family.

The funeral was attended by three hundred and fifty employees of the company and a large number of the leading citizens.



<article title=" MINERAL PRODUCTION OF QUEBEC." author="">

MINERAL PRODUCTION OF QUEBEC.

FROM the annual report of the Inspector of Mines it is learned that the total value of the mineral production of Quebec last year was $1,673,337, of which bricks alone represent a value of $6oo,ooo and lime of $140,000. About $500,000 worth of asbestos was mined and $200,000 worth of copper. This leaves about $200,000 worth of iron ore, gold, mica, chrome ore and slate. Phosphate mining, once so important an industry, has declined until at the present time it amounts to very little.

A representative of the Pierre Mahy Glass Works, of Rabusart, Belgium, was in Chatham, Ont., recently, with a view to the erection there of a window glass factory.



The Fairbanks Company, of Montreal, are sending out to architects and others a circular directing attention to the merits of Fairbanks valves. A copy of this circular will be mailed on request.



It is reported that a joint stock company is to be formed, composed of Breslau, Guelph and Toronto business men, to acquire Mr. Fred Shaefer's brick yards at Breslau, the intention being to manufacture pressed brick.

A copy of a little booklet has been received from Messrs. Henry Pels & Company, 66 Broad street, New York, which contains particulars and illustrations of machines for punching and cutting structural iron and steel by hand.

A charter has been granted to the Imperial Varnish & Color Company, Toronto, with a capital stock of $100,000, to manufacture varnishes, japans, enamels, paints, colors, insulating materials, etc. The provisional directors are J. W. Flavelle, J. M. Sparrow, I. F. Monypenny, James Monypenny and James Hales.



The extensive works of the Londonderry iron Co., at London-derry, Nova Scotia, which have for some time been in the hands of a liquidator, were recently put up for sale at auction, and purchased by Mr. H. S. Holt, of Montreal, for the sum of $153,000 cash. It is said to be the intention of the new owner to make improvements and operate the works.



A couple of errors crept into the description published in our last issue of the works of the Georgian Bay Portland Cement Co. at Owen Sound. The capacity of the storehouse should have been given as 40,000 barrels, and it should have been stated that the engine employed to operate the works is a Jerome Wheelock compound condensing engine, manufactured by the Goldie & McCulloch Company, of GaIt.



The Robb Engineering Company, of Amherst, N.S., have published a new illustrated catalogue explanatory of the construction and advantages of the Robb hot water heater. The company state that in a short time they expect to be in a position to supply a larger series of heaters than are listed in this catalogue. The catalogue contains a number of testimonials from architects and others who have given the Robb heater a trial.



A Canadian correspondent of the Clayworker has this to say regarding our native terra cotta: " Ontario sampled architectural terra cotta some twenty years ago, and used it as something that was sure to melt in the first shower or go to pieces after the first Ontario winter, but it remains, to the astonishment of some and the disgust of the stone cutter and quarry man. Its being talked against, kicked at, belittled and ignored has proven like the Irish peddler's tin—' the more you rub it and scour it the thicker it grows.' Time removes prejudice, but time uses up life too, and the pioneer grows old before the harvest comes."





PERSONAL.

Mr. M. B. Aylsworth, architect, has recently opened an office at No. 23 Jordan street, Toronto.



The death is announced at Hamilton of Mr. Josiah Baker, an old resident of that city and formerly a well known contractor. He was 73 years of age.



Mr. A. H. Gregg, junior member of the firm of Gregg & Gregg, architects, has returned to Toronto after a residence of more than a year in the United States.



Dr. P. H. Bryce, secretary of the Provincial Board of Health of Ontario, has been elected president of the advisory council of the American Public Health Association.

Mr.	Cornelieus McGourty, a well-known contractor of St. John, was recently killed by an explosion of dynamite. By his

warning the lives of eight men who were standing near were saved.

Mr. W. T. Marion, of the Dominion Radiator Company's staff, was presented with a purse of gold and the good wishes of his fellow employees on his departure with the Canadian contingent for the Transvaal.

Mr. James A. McMahon, of St. Catharines, a well known contractor, died recently from injuries received by a fall at the hate in Toronto, where of late he resided. Mr. McMahon constructed the bridge over the St. Lawrence river at Coteau and was associated with the late Mr. Sylvester Neelon in several important undertakings.

