<doctype type="text">

<article title=" A STUDY OF CONFLAGRATIONS." author=" Goad, Charles E.">



all round every building, so that all winds would be crossed by a wall? In Toronto, at any rate, the practice of draining the roof to a central point and bringing down the rain water conductor inside the building, where it can keep warm, seems to be growing in favor. There is, therefore, no need for the slope to the rear and the open end to the roof in that quarter so favorable for the communication of fire. We may box in each building with a fire wall and have, if necessary, the most severe parapet to the rear. It is assumed that roofs in business quarters will be flat, as indeed they ought to be.

Little is said about iron in this paper, but what is said is startling, In the fire at Charterhouse Square, London, "a large front wall was pushed out by the expansion of iron girders, and in its fall damaged the premises on the opposite side of a very wide street." The burning of the first non-fireproof Simpson building in Toronto is described:—"Eleven minutes after the first alarm, flames burst through the roof, which, fourteen minutes later, caved in and part of the wall fell out. Twenty minutes later the remainder of the Yonge and Queen street elevations fell out into the street." He does not, however, point out that this rapid work was due to the failure and torsion of unprotected iron. After the fire the cellar was full of twisted iron, and fifteen inch beams that had fallen across walls hung like towels on a rail. Unprotected iron is not so much a weak friend as a powerful enemy.

<article title=" SANITARY REGULATIONS FOR BUILDERS IN PARIS." author="">

SANITARY REGULATIONS FOR BUILDERS

IN PARIS.

In view of the large number of old buildings requiring to be removed and the extensive excavations necessary in connection with the preparations for the Paris Exposition, new sanitary regulations have recently been imposed on the contractors engaged in this work. Past experience having demonstrated that the disturbance of old foundations arid old buildings frequently leads to epidemics of fever and other contagious diseases in the locality by the releasing of the disease germs into the atmosphere, the new regulations referred to require that before entering upon the erection of buildings on the sites of old structures, the premises shall be thoroughly disinfected----dusting all these many centers of disease with a preparation composed of one pound of pulverized sulphate of iron, and two and a half pounds of quicklime; while all debris emanating from the demolition, and other excavated material, must be transported to the specially indicated discharging stations or points situated outside of Paris. By way of further precaution, builders are also obliged to erect boarding of a certain height, so as to prevent the dust arising from the excavation from penetrating into neighboring premises. The law also prescribes certain conditions which are to be kept in view at all times as regards the actual demolition process ; in fact, all contractors must bind themselves to observe them faithfully before being even permitted to commence operations.

All cesspools, whether of a fixed or movable nature, all wells, all cellars employed as stores for cheese and organic matters, private sewers, subterranean piping, walls, etc., are henceforth to be sprinkled over with a solution of per cent. of sulphate of iron, then properly whitewashed with a solution of quicklime. The greatest care is also to be taken to make sure that the lime wash employed is made with genuine quicklime, and not adulterated with carbonate of lime or whitening. Alum though may be added, the better to enable the lime to unite with the water, In any case, this lime wash of late is becoming less adopted. It was accepted as

an efficacious substance against epidemics and infectious disease. Its action upon microbes has been fully recognised; besides, this wash posseses the advantage of absorbing both dust and germs rapidly, while being easily converted into carbonate of lime. However, the authorities maintain that any wash prepared from whitening is to be strictly avoided, due to it containing a gelatine, which is considered more or less putrified, and so constitutes a fertile breeding ground for bacilli.

<article title=" MR. REID'S MURAL PAINTINGS." author="">

MR. REID'S MURAL PAINTINGS.

In addition to the views of a correspondent on this subject, printed in our June number, we have received from another source the following: " It is indeed to be hoped that the Toronto Guild of Civic Art is not going to develop into the condition of a "mechanical poor box" that says "thank you" for all it receives, whether it be a trouser button or a quarter. The Guild will belie its personal taste and prostitute its objects if its members have not the courage of their convictions to speak out and give their opinions openly as to the merits and value of art donations to the city. There was published in the Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, last month, a criticism from a correspondent on Mr. Reid's gift to the City Hall, and while bearing in mind the fact, that even the best examples of art are subject to adverse criticism, it certainly is a serious question, if your correspondent's remarks are correct.

The city may gladly receive the generous offerings of public-spirited men, but the Guild of Civic Art should be able to advise truly as to the intrinsic value, so that poor works may not be given too conspicuous a position or permitted to occupy space that should be reserved for better."

<article title=" THE STRIKE EVIL." author="">

THE STRIKE EVIL.

The unusually large number of strikes, not only in the building trades but in many other liner seems to have been characteristic of this season. Strikes are serious enough of themselves and do an incalculable lot of harm morally as well as financially, but when riots is added as an element of violence we seem to be getting back to the dark ages. Rioting and lawlessness are certainly on the increase among strikers and thereby the general public are made to suffer through the disputes between employers and their men, and to suffer bodily injury as well as mere annoyance or inconvenience. Our police regulations need amendment to meet the new condition of things and the machinery of Dominion legislation should be put in motion to crush out the evil.



<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE." author="MURRAY, Hugh ">

CORRESPONDENCE.

HAMILTON ART SCHOOL.

HAMILTON, July 14th, 1899.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR, —AS you have opened your columns to discuss the working of Art Schools in Ontario, the directors of this school wish to state that they consider it has met the requirements of all classes of citizens. They feel, however, that students do not study in the school sufficiently long to derive the best results, and they attribute the cause partly to the method of granting certificates, and suggest that certificates of 3rd, 2nd and 1st class be granted instead of the one standard as at present, and that the difficulty of a 1st class examination would require at least years' study by an average student before being able to pass it.

Yours truly,



HUGH MURRAY, President.



W.	MARSHALL, Hon. Sec.-Treasurer.

