<doctype type="text">

<article title=" THE ONTARIO SOCIETY OF ARTISTS' 27TH EXHIBITION." author="">



COMPETITIVE DESIGN FOR SEAL FOR O.S.A., by Mr. GUSTAV HAHN,

AWARDED FIRST POSITION.





THE ONTARIO SOCIETY OF ARTISTS'

27TH EXHIBITION.

THE statement has been made that the thing which exists, and that can look back on years of existence, is worthy of respectful attention. On this simple ground the Ontario Society of Artists may legitimately demand an initial recognition that will he freely accorded by the unprejudiced. The present is its 27th spring exhibition. Looking back over the intervening period between this and that of ten years ago it is pleasing to be able to note that there has been a gradually increasing excellence, which is all the more praiseworthy when the lean years of the last decade are taken into consideration. To the continuance in being of the O.S.A. there has been contributed much of self-repression, much of endurance, much genuine love of art and much earnest manful and womanful endeavor. No doubt during that time the Society has had its acerbities and its feuds. At the same time there have been sterling comradeship, and an amount of subordination of the individual to the general that have largely contributed to the welfare of the institution. When we think of the sensitiveness of artists, and of the way in which that sensitiveness is often needlessly outraged; of the difficulty of getting the artistic temperament to " go in harness so to speak at all, we must acknowledge that the 0. S. A. may look with some complacency on its twenty-seven years' record.

It is a mistake to look at any exhibition of art in a spirit of sectarian narrowness. As well might a man looking at a landscape admire only one sort of tree or one kind of flower. Art is a product of human nature, and human nature is very various. One gets a good deal more pleasure out of life by being able to admire a great many types of human beings, and the principle may well be applied to pictures. In looking at a picture, we wish to adjust ourselves to the factors of the case, and then to judge of the work produced. Another principle which has to be borne in mind is that of evolution. It is no more use to try to shut evolution out of art, and poetry, and even religion, than it is to shut the march of the seasons out of Ontario. Unnatural and bizarre effects are revolutionary rather than evolutionary. They may surprise, but they do not convince. At the same time, a few earthquakes and comets and cataclysms do not matter, especially as we generally know how the effects are produced—how many pounds of dynamite are used in the earthquake, and how much lime and oxyhydrogen gas it takes to "work" the comet across the stage. The path of progress in art is the good old path of evolution, let those climb by means of balloons and strange Daedalic flying machines who will.

But it is time to say something about the pictures.

Place aux Dames The women painters who are represented here are

	M. E. Dignam.	A. Hirne.	S. S. Tully.

	E. Douglass.	M. H. Holmsted.	C. Vanden-Broeck.

	E. Elliott.	L. Muntz.	H. M. Vickers.

	C. E. Galbraith.	M. H. Reid.	E. Windeat.

	C. S. Hagarty.	G. E. Spurr.	M. E. Wrinch.

	W. D. Hawley.

	The men are

	C.	Ahrens.	R. F. Gagen.	L. R. O'Brien.

	W. E. Atkinson.		J. S. Gordon.	S. Pendleton.

	F.	S. Baker.	E. W. Grier.	J. A. Radford.

	J.	W. Beatty.	G. Hahn.	G. A. Reid.

	F.	M. Bell-Smith.	S. A. Heward.	W. Robins.

	W. D. Blatchly.		F. McG. Knowles.	j. T. Roiph.

	F.	H. Brigden.	J. E. Laughlin.	W. A. Sherwood.

	J.	A. Browne.	H. Martin.	W.St. Thornas Smith

	P.	F. Brownell.	T. M. Martin.	H. Spiers.

	F.	S. Challener.	C. M. Manly.	0. Staples.

	J.	C. Forbes.	M. Matthews.	E. S. Thompson.

	J.	W. L. Forster.	E. M. Morris.	J. Willson.

	E.	Fosberry.	C. E. Moss.



Here then we have the selected work of no fewer than fifty-four artists, and it is understood that this year the committee on whom the selection devolved, exercising their function by systematic voting, lived up to their responsibilities and rejected rather more than they accepted. They are deserving of the thanks of the public and of the artists whose works they "turned down." Disagreeable as it is to have one's picture rejected, it is no worse a fate than is continually happening to literary people in the rejection of their manuscripts, and there is no progress but by the survival of the fittest. The result is, in this instance, an exhibition which is a credit to Ontario and to Canada, and which would not disgrace any city on the continent. It is interesting to note that of the fifty-four artists represented, forty-three belong to Toronto and the neighborhood, three to Ottawa, one to Ithaca, N.Y. ; two to Hamilton, one to Dundas, one to Lennoxville, Que.; one to St. Thomas, one to London and one to New York. Although this classification denotes that Toronto is becoming a very important art centre, it would certainly be pleasing to see the Province of Ontario at large a little better represented.

In these brief notes of this excellent exhibition it is impossible to refer critically to every picture, but, generally speaking, the artists whose pictures are here may be divided into two classes: those who have arrived and those who are arriving. Of course the pitch of excellence at which the first have arrived and which the second are aiming at varies considerably, and there are some who will never arrive at anything particular. Again, parenthetically, we may say that these two broad classes may be divided into those who venture to paint figures of human beings or animals, and those who do not, and we count the ability to paint figures a very important distinction, because it generally shows that the artist who attacks the figure can draw, while the other one, to a great extent, cannot.

Now, we should say that the President, Mr. Reid, has arrived," and that so has Mrs. Reid, and Mr. O'Brien, and Mr. Bell-Smith, and Mr. Atkinson, and Mr. Manly, and Mr. T. M. Martin, and Mr. Win. St. T. Smith, and Mr. Rolph, and Mr. Gustav Hahn, and Mr. Grier, and Miss Gertrude E. Spurr, and Miss S. S. Tully, and several others. They have mastered their materials and know what their hands can do with them. In the works of some, as in the Reids, in Mr. O'Brien, in Mr. W. St.T. Smith, for instance, there is the exemplification in their works of considerable poetic insight into nature they are painter-poets so to speak ; for in art as in literature there are the Platonists and the Aristolelians. But, in addition to this, there is a certain sureness of touch which is essentially characteristic of the "arrived" artists. Look for example at Mr. Reid's decorative panel " Summer," a reproduction of which is annexed, and we at once see that there is a balance, a conscious strength, a dignity about it which mark a very high pitch of artistic achievement. There is no striving for effect, because there is no necessity for it. Similarly in Mr. F. M. Bell-Smith's " Stoney Indian Camp, near Canmore, N. W.T.," though the work lacks the imagination and invention that we find in Reid's panel, it depicts nature with a considerable amount of masterly handling, and with a keen perception of what paint and brushes can be made to do, and these come only by long experience and severe study. All the Northwest pictures in the show, by the way, are the work of "arrivees." T. Morver Martin's "The Asulkan Glacier, B.C." is no work of the flux period of the artist;

