<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	73



liable according to law and the investigation must proceed on that. line.

NOTES.



The extensive manufactory of Messrs. Garth & Company, at 542 Craig street, was recently damaged by fire to the extent of

St. Peter street. It is the purpose to add four additional storeys to the building.

Several serious accidents have occurred in this province lately, due to the collapse of buildings. The latest of these took place in this city on the 10th inst., when a provision warehouse on















































THE Nicolet CATHEDRAL, BEFORE TUE COLLAPSE.



about $60,000. It is understood that the loss will be almost covered by insurance.

The La Prairie Pressed Brick and Terra Cotta Company of this city have decided to liquidate their business, and have appointed as liquidator Mr. T. Westbrook. The total liabilities, including liability to shareholders, is placed at $150,443.

The chief of the fire department and the building inspector arc

Commissioner street tumbled into ruins. The collapse in this instance was due to the weight imposed by a large stock of flour and provisions on the upper floor. A workman who was in the building at the time was seriously injured.



A laborer named Robillard recently brought an action against Mr. Peter C. Wand, a well known contractor, for injuries sustained in falling from a scaffold on one of the McGill University

























































THE NICOLET CATHEDRAL, AFTER THE COLLAPSE.



engaged in making an inspection of all public buildings, including convents, colleges, hotels, etc., to ascertain if they are provided with necessary appliances to enable the inmates to escape in case of' fire.

The Merchants' Bank of Canada have invited Messrs. Hutchison, Hopkins, Maxwell and Taylor to submit competitive designs for the remodelling of their building at the corner of St. James and

buildings while in the defendant's employ. Mr. Justice Taschereau awarded the plaintiff the amount of two and one half years wages, less 25 per cent., this deduction being made because it was shown that the plaintiff had been imprudent, and had contributed to the accident by jumping on the scaffold from a brick wall. The accident was caused by the breaking of a board which the court decided was not strong enough for the use

