<doctype type="text">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	93



ings. The time has arrived when cooling methods applicable to buildings of this class are felt to be a necessity FOR those who are obliged to spend the heated term in the city. Electric fans can with some advantage he employed in houses where electric current is used for lighting, but the majority of houses are not lighted by electricity, so that the current to operate the fans is not generally available. What is required is a system by means of which cool air could he evenly diffused throughout the house in the same manner as warm air is now distributed in winter. The idea of utilizing the steam and hot water radiators for this purpose is an excellent one, and might, we believe, be found to be practicable. If we might rely upon the statement of the author of a recent article in Maclure's Magazine, regarding the wonderful expansive, cooling and other properties of liquid air, the solution of the problem would seem to be near at hand. Unfortunately, some of these statements are so directly opposed to well-known and tried physical laws that scientific minds have discounted largely the importance which the public at first attached to the writer's so-called wonderful discovery. We invite an expression of the views of architects, heating engineers, or indeed of any reader on this interesting subject of how to maintain in dwelling houses at sufficiently low cost a reduced temperature in summer.





BY THE WAY.

EXPERIENCE has shown that wire nails are not adapted for use in shingling, as in a short time they rust away and the heads drop off. A correspondent of the American Architect instances the case of a church shingled less than a year ago, where the wire nails have been destroyed by rust.

xxx

SIR Wilfrid Lawson has thus put into jingle his view of the British Workmen's Compensation Act

"If you fall thirty feet slap bang on the street, You'll get cash if your head be split

But if, cutting it fine, you fall just twenty-nine, In that case you won't get a bit.

So the moral is this—If I'm not far amiss



If you are a wise working man,



If you find you've a tall to accomplish a fall,



Then tumble as far as you can.



xxx



The Canadian Club has decided to mark with memorial tablets historic land marks in and about Toronto. The Club would find their task a much easier one if the custom had prevailed among architects in the past of affixing to their principal buildings their names and the date of erection. Their failure to do so may have arisen from the modesty which is supposed to be an innate characteristic of the profession, or possibly they were over sensitive about what might be said about such a proceeding by the papers.

x x x



GEORGE Lynch entered into a contract to build a new spire for the Wall street Methodist church in Louisville, Kentucky. The workmen disturbed a nest of hornets in the old spire. The hornets resented the intrusion by stinging the workmen so severely that some of them fell to the ground and narrowly escaped being killed. The attempt was made to eject the hornets by sulphur and fire, but it failed, while there was danger of destroying the building. The work is accordingly at a standstill, and the contractor is being threatened with a suit

for damages by the church authorities for failure to complete his contract.

x x x



THE danger which constantly threatens pedestrians on the public streets from the accumulation of snow on roofs in winter was sadly emphasized by the recent death of a little girl in Toronto as the result of a snowslide from a church roof. Witnesses testified at the enquiry that on several occasions they had narrowly escaped injury from the same cause while passing the building. It was further shown that the attention of the church authorities had been called to the matter, but no steps were taken to avert the danger. I understand that the city by-laws require the owners of buildings to keep the roofs clear of snow, but like many other ordinances, this one appears to find its fulfilment in the breach rather than in the observance. Let us hope that the sacrifice of the life of a little school girl will lead to more strict compliance with the law for the future.

	x	x x



REFERENCE is made by a contemporary to the fact that the Jews were ever great builders and many of their ceremonies remind them of this art. The Passover is not allowed to pass without a reference to the brick-making bondage in Egypt. During the service the history of the Passover is related, being recounted in reply to a series of questions asked by the youngest person at table, who enquires the meaning of the unaccustomed things he sees about him. One quaint edible partaken of ceremonially is known as " Charouseth." It consists of a mixture of chopped apples, nuts, and spices, and forms a pleasant substitute for the mortar (of which it is supposed to be a reminder) used by the ancient Hebrews in building the cities of Pithom and Rameses, the two stone cities of the Pharaoh " who knew not Joseph."

x x x



A NEW York contemporary, Fire and Water, has made the interesting discovery that Rome in the days of Caesar Augustus, was ahead of Chicago, which has laid claim to being the mother and inventress of skyscrapers. A reference to the building laws of the Eternal City shows that in the Augustan days the rage for running up excessively tall structures was so rampant that restrictive legislation had to be passed on the the subject, and the Senate enacted that their height should be limited for precisely the same reasons as are at present urged against them in New York to-day. It was proved that they darkened the streets, thereby rendering them unhealthy ; that their deterioration was also a source of danger ; and that they increased the already existing fire risks, since the growing population was hemmed in by the walls and had, therefore, to house itself in high buildings, which were overcrowded and, in case of fire, were likely to turn out deathtraps. The old Roman skyscrapers, however, were of a different type from those of Chicago or New York. Their rears towered over their fronts. The latter were 100 feet or more above the street level, while the former rose as high as from 120 to 130 feet, there being ten or fifteen stories, with a terrace-like appearance at the top. As these buildings were voted dangerous to the public safety, a law was passed fixing the minimum height of all new dwelling houses at sixty feet. The prophet knew whereof he spoke when he said that there is nothing new beneath the sun.

