<doctype type="text">

<article title=" TESTS OF FIRE-RESISTING MATERIAL." author="">

	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.



TESTS OF FIRE-RESISTING MATERIAL.

At the station of the British Fire Prevention Committee, Regents Park, London, Eng., a test was made on Feb. 15th last to ascertain the fire-resisting merits or otherwise of a floor by the Expanded Metal Company, Limited, London, and to record the effect of a smouldering fire of fifteen minutes' duration, of a temperature not exceeding 6oo deg. Fahr., followed by a fierce fire of one hour, gradually increasing to a temperature of 2,000 deg. Fahr., followed suddenly by the application for three minutes of a stream of water, and the consequent rapid cooling.

The area of the floor under investigation was 100 feet superficial in the clear (10 feet by 10 feet). The floor was loaded with 140 lbs. per square foot. The time allowed for the construction and drying of floor was three months (winter), and the result of the test was that the plaster ceiling below the floor remained intact until the application of water. There was a slight deflection of floor and ceiling. The concrete of floor was slightly and superficially cracked. The fire did not pass through the floor. The chamber was constructed of stock bricks, with lime mortar, and measured 10 feet by 10 feet internally. The ceiling of the floor tested was 7 feet 6 inches above the pavement of the chamber. The hut was roofed in with galvanized iron. The door opening on the south side measured 2 feet 6 inches by 6 feet 6 inches, and was closed by an iron sheathed wooden door. '[he fuel used was gas produced at the station, and the supply was regulated by valves and dampers. The gas was admitted through two mixing chambers of firebrick, each 10 feet by 3 feet super. Two Roberts-Austen pyrometers were used for recording temperatures, the first to take a continuous record and the second to take four observation records. The load was of pig-iron distributed evenly on the surface of the floor.

The system adopted for construction of the floor tested was as follows On November 14, 1898, three rolled steel joists, 6 inches deep, 3 inches wide, 14 lbs. per toot, were put across the chamber. They ran north to south and rested on the 41/2-inch set-off. The two outer joists were placed 1 inch from the east and west walls respectively, and the third was placed in the centre, making the distance between the centres of the three joists 4 feet 91/2 inches. Provision for air was made by cutting holes 4 inches by 4 inches between the floor and ceiling in the exterior walls.

On November 16 three wooden bearers were put up in each bay, 3 feet 4 inches centre to centre, by 6 inches deep, 2 inches thick, and covered with I-inch boarding, as centering. On the top of the centering and covering three-quarters of the entire surface of the floor expanded metal was laid, of the kind known as 3-inch mesh, 1/4-inch by '8-inch strand ; at the centre the metal overlapped 18 inches. At the north-east corner a quarter of the area was covered with '4-inch by three-sixteenths inch metal, same mesh as before.

On the same day the concrete floor was put in. The cement used was Portland. It was not specially selected for this test, but was delivered in the ordinary course of business. The furnace ash (or cinder) came from gas works at Bank Hall. One cubic yard of furnace ash (or cinder) broken up small enough to pass through 1 1/2 inch ring was placed on a platform prepared for that purpose, and then covered with tour sacks of cement, each sack containing two bushels. The material was turned

over three times dry. The concrete was then divided into four equal parts for convenience of mixing, and one part mixed at a time. The quantity of water used was 58'18 gallons for the whole, and the concrete was well mixed. The concrete was then carried in pails on to the centering and laid over the entire surface, great care being taken to have the meshes of metal well filled. The concrete was trodden down or beaten with the flat side of an ordinary shovel. The concrete was put in 3 inches thick.

On the same day (November i6) while the concrete was still damp, one half of its upper surface (west side) was covered with 1/2 inch cement and sand in equal proportions, similar cement being used as for the concrete. The sand was good, sharp, unwashed pit sand. On the following day (November 17) the remaining half of the floor (east side) was covered the same proportions of cement and sand being used. The total thickness of concrete and cement was 3 1/2 inches.

On November 28 the centering was taken down.

On November 30 the expanded metal for the ceiling was put up. Bars 7/8 inch by inch thick were placed at right angles to and below the joists, 12 inches centre to centre, supported by steel clips 3-32 inch thick by 3/4 inch wide, which were secured to bottom flanges of the joists. The expanded metal was then secured to bars with steel clips. The metal lathing used for the ceiling is known as 3/8 inch mesh, 3-32 inch deep in strand, Siemens-Martin steel.

On December 5 the ceiling was plastered with coarse stuff, 1/2 inch thick, below the expanded metal, the materials being mixed in the proportion of of lime to 2 of sand with about 1 lb. of dry, long, well-beaten hair to every 3 cubic feet of coarse stuff, the coarse stuff being brought ready mixed on to the ground.

On February 14 the gas was lighted in the hut at 1.30 P.M. and kept very low until the test began. The roof was removed in the afternoon. The floor was loaded with pig-iron, equal to an evenly distributed load over the entire floor of 140 lbs. per square foot.

On Friday 15 the test was undertaken. The follow-is the log of the test

At 2.40 P.M. the floor and ceiling were intact. At 3.25 P.M. vesiculated water vapor from the evaporation of water remaining in the concrete commenced to rise from above the concrete on the south side. At 3.55 P.M. evaporation showed itself strongly from all over the floor. From 3.10 to 4.10 P.M., at ten minutes interval, the surface of the ceiling was viewed from the observation hole. No change in the floor or its ceiling was observed. At 4. 10 P.M. the gas was shut down and the door opened. The ceiling was intact. A slight deflection of the soffit was observed. From 4.13 to 4. 16 P.M. a jet of water was applied, the pressure ranging from 40 to 20 lbs., gradually decreasing. On application of water to the ceiling, the portion of the plaster struck immediately fell down—the portions not touched remained in position. From 4.10 to 4.25 P.M. the temperature rapidly decreased. At 4.25 P.M. the test was closed, the floor, excepting for the plaster referred to, remaining intact.

On February 16 two photographs were taken of the floor from below. Some fine cracks in the underside of the concrete are observable from these. On February i6 the deflection of the centre joist was measured and found to be 1 3/8 inch at the centre of joist. The eastern joist was deflected 5-16 inch at centre. The western joist was not affected. On February 21 the iron load was removed. Some fine cracks were observed in the cement surface of the floor. They did not penetrate the coating of cement. On February 23 a general photograph of the ceiling was taken from below, and likewise a photograph of the floor from above. On February 24 the floor was further examined, and it was found that the fire had not penetrated the floor at any point. No further observations were made.

