<doctype type="text">



The Architecture of Canadian Summer

Resorts.

Britain and contiguous COUNTRIES. Such an annual outing tends to keep alive the interest of the members in the progress and welfare of the art, and to direct public attention to the subject. While the great distances which separate many of the cities of Canada and the United States would be somewhat of an obstacle to the adoption here of the architectural excursion idea, yet we believe the experiment might with advantage be tried of holding such an excursion at perhaps less frequent intervals. Everybody takes a pleasure excursion occasionally; why should not men who have interests in common arrange to do at least some of their sightseeing in company?



As the beauty and health-giving atmosphere of the Muskoka and Georgian Bay districts of Ontario have become

more widely known, their popularity as a summer resort has rapidly increased. It is admitted by all who have visited the locality that no more beautiful or healthful spot can be found on this continent. The selection of Gravenhurst as a site for a consumptive sanitarium is a sufficient testimony to the health-giving properties of the air in these '' highlands." It is subject of regret to the visitor to this region that the architecture of the majority of the hundreds of summer residences on these lakes of Muskoka, bears so slight relation to the beauty of their natural surroundings. This applies not only to the cheaper class of cottages, the expenditure on which would perhaps not permit of a more artistic treatment, but also to residences of a more costly and pretentious character. Where Nature has so well done her part. the architect and builder should strive to work in harmony with her. We hope to illustrate at an early date a house erected during last summer on Lake Joseph which is in pleasing contrast to many of its neighbors, and which we trust will prove an incentive to the erection of others of equally pleasing character. If the designing is placed in proper hands, it is possible to have a house that shall express character and charm at no greater cost than would be necessary for a commonplace structure. This statement is equally true whether the building be required for residence or other purposes and whether situated in city, town or country.





The communications printed in the correspondence department of this number anent the teaching of Industrial Art in Canada, form a valuable contribution to subject which is now engaging public attention. The statement is boldly made by Miss Living, formerly a pupil and teacher in the Ottawa Art School, that the instruction given in that institution is a sham, and therefore of no value. An unqualified statement of this kind coming from such a source is deserving of careful consideration. The time has apparently arrived for full inquiry and decision with regard to the value of the Ontario Government Art Schools. We hear complaint from the manufacturers that so far as the teaching of industrial art is concerned the schools are a failure. We have the further testimony of Miss Living, founded on a personal experience extending over eight years, that the instruction imparted to pupils in at least one of these schools is based upon false ideals and methods. The point has been reached in our industrial history, when we should be in a position to compete with the

Technical and Art Education.

Scarcity of Structural Steel.

best products of every nation. To do this our products must not only be serviceable, but also artistic in appearance. To this end we require schools in which the teaching of technology and industria1 art shall be carried on side by side. There is probably no difference of opinion on this point, but there seems to be a lack of definite information as to the plan on which these schools should be established in order that the results may equal if not surpass those achieved by similar institutions in other countries. This is the all important question, and too much care cannot be given to its solution. Meanwhile, it would be well to decide whether the existing Art Schools of Ontario have been a help or a hindrance to the furtherance of art education, and whether the money expended upon them for many years past has been worse than wasted.



The sudden and extraordinary demand for all classes of metal goods, and corresponding advance in prices, has

been one of the most marked features of trade conditions of the present year. The effect upon the building interests was first noticeable in the steady advance in cost of undertakings. An even more serious aspect, however, is the present hindrance to the progress of such enterprises caused by the Scarcity of steel. Some of the largest building projects in Canada, as for example, the new Grand Trunk offices in Montreal and the St. Lawrence Market, Toronto, are blocked owing to the impossibility of securing structural steel. This circumstance will no doubt have the effect of reducing to a considerable degree the volume of building operations, which earlier in the season gave promise of exceeding those of 1898. The present extraordinary situation has served to direct attention to our entire dependence upon other countries for our supply of these materials, and the question is being asked—why should not Canada manufacture her own structural steel, steel rails, etc. ? In view of the constantly increasing demand, there would seem to be no sufficient obstacle in the way of the establishment of this industry in Canada. The time is surely most opportune for making the experiment. Coupled with the unusual demand for these materials, which bids fair to continue for several years at least, is the fact that large iron smelting works are at present being established in different parts of the Dominion. Mr. William McMaster, managing director of the Montreal Rolling Mills, is reported to have said recently that the works of the Dominion Steel Co., now under construction at Sydney, Cape Breton, having available Newfoundland ore within ten hours' sail, and coal delivered at the furnaces at $1.20 per ton, will be able to compete with the steel makers of the world. Why should not the manufacture of structural steel be carried on side by side with the manufacture of the raw material ?



The subject of technical education is at present engaging public attention in Canada, and we should be on the

lookout for information which would enable us to profit by the experience of older countries. A special committee appointed by the London County Council to



enquire into the existing facilities for providing artizans in the building trades with technical instruction in their craft, and to offer suggestions for the improvement of these facilities has recently submitted its report to the Technical Education Board. Some of the conclusions

Artizan Education.

