<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=""THE MONTREAL BUILDING BY-LAW OF 1899."" author="">

230	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



feet distant from an adjoining property, or if carried to the line of an adjoining property, it shall be separated from the said property by a solid brick party wall, the said wall to extend to the outside of the gallery and be carried at least one foot above the roof of the gallery, or if the gallery has no roof, to not less than six feet high above the floor of the gallery, the said wall to be not less than eight inches thick for a height not exceeding 30 feet, if over 30 feet high the first storey of the wall to be twelve inches thick.

Stairs leading from the gallery to the ground, or to an outbuilding, or from one gallery to another, shall he open, or they may be enclosed, provided that the enclosure, in all buildings of the second and third class, shall be made of solid brick not less than eight inches thick, resting on stone foundations, or if made of wood, shall have the said enclosure cased with brickwork, four inches thick, or covered with corrugated iron.



FREIGHT AND PASSENGER ELEVATORS AND DUMB WAITERS.



SECTION 102.—In any building of the second class in which there is a hoist or freight elevator not enclosed in walls made of fireproof material, the openings in each floor for said hoist or elevator, shall be fitted with substantial doors arranged and made to open and close automatically as the hoist ascends or descends.

Freight hoists or elevators in buildings of the second class, when placed in inclosures, shall have the enclosure made of solid brick not less than eight inches thick, or with an iron frame covered with metallic lathing and plastered on both sides, or be made of such other fire proof material and form of construction, as may be approved by the inspector ; the walls of said enclosure shall extend at least three feet above the roof and be covered with a skylight of suitable size ; should the elevator not extend the whole height of the building, the top of the shaft shall be covered with incombustible materials, and from the elevator shaft to the several floors shall be fitted with fireproof doors, which shall be kept closed when the elevator is not in use. In addition to the fireproof doors above described, each opening shall be fitted with a light metal or wire work door for a height of not less than five feet above the floor, and the said doors are to he arranged to open and close automatically as the car or cage ascends and descends.

Passenger elevators in buildings of the second class which are hereafter erected, and which are not placed in fire proof inclosures as in the preceding paragraph, may he placed in well holes of stairs or in hall ways, provided that the walls of the said staircase or hallway are made of brick, and that the stairs are made of incombustible materials and that the guide posts of the elevator are of iron.

Passenger elevators may he placed in any stair well, hall or court of any building erected prior to the adoption of this by-law, provided that a permit to do is obtained from the inspector, and that if the building is over four storeys in height, the guide posts and enclosures of said elevator are made of incombustible material.

Overhead elevator or machinery either for freight or passengers, shall have underneath it a grille or metal netting sufficient to protect the car from falling material ; all cars used for passengers shall he enclosed with wood or metal, except the door opening.

No freight or passenger elevator, or hoist, erected after the passing of this by-law, shall he used until it has been inspected and approved in writing by the inspector.

All freight and passenger elevators shall, after the passing of this by-law, he examined by the inspector or by some elevator builder approved of by the inspector, not less than once in six months, and if the said elevator he safe and in good working order, a certificate to that effect, stating the date of the inspection and signed by the party making the inspection, shall he posted in the car, or at the entrance of the elevator, and any owner or occupant using or allowing to he used an elevator without a certificate of safety being thereto attached, shall he liable to a fine of ten dollars for each and every day the elevator is so used.

Passenger elevators in warehouses which are nut placed in fire proof enclosures, shall have the opening in each floor through which the car passes, fitted with substantial doors, arranged to open and close automatically as the car ascends or descends, and shall have around such opening in each floor a metal or wood enclosure not less than five feet in height above the floor, and said enclosure shall he fitted with doors opening to the hoist which are opened or shut on the inside only.

All cars, whether of freight or passenger elevators, shall he suspended by wire ropes of ample strength to safely carry the heaviest load that may he imposed on them, and all cars or cages shall he fitted with safety wedges or other devices approved of by the inspector, that will prevent the descent of the car in case the ropes should break.

All dumb waiters in self-contained houses, if of wood, must he lined

with bright tin inside. All other dumb waiters, used for more than three storeys in any building, must he surrounded by solid brick walls and furnished with fire proof doors.

(To be continued.)





A charter of incorporation has been granted to the Finch Wood Preservative Co., of Toronto; capital, $20,000.

The opening ceremonies in connection with St. Andrew's Presbyterian church, Sandon, B.C., took place on the 12th and 13th inst. Mr. J. W. Bairnain, C.E., is the architect of the building.

Messrs. Seaman, Kent & Co., manufacturers of rolling partitions, wood window blinds, &c., have just removed to their new factory and offices, No, 1139 to 145 King street west, Toronto.

The Luxfer Prism Company, Limited, of Toronto, have recently removed to their new offices at 98 and 100 King street west. These offices have been specially fitted up to meet the requirements of the company's business, In the rear of the offices is their new factory.

The Canada Foundry Company has been granted a charter of incorporation with an authorized capital of $1,000,000, to establish in Toronto a foundry for the production of structural and ornamental architectural iron and cast iron work of all kinds. The company is composed of Messrs. E. B. Osler, M.P., W. R. Brock, W. D. Mathews, Win. Hendrie of Hamilton, Fred Nicholls, T. W, Horn and W. H. Winslow of the Chicago firm of Winslow Bros. It is said to be the intention of the company, at a later date, to also establish a foundry in the western part of Canada.





































Clay Model for Grip Company for Lithographing.

By W. J. HYNES, Gould St., Toronto.

