<doctype type="text">

<article title="WINNIPEG MASTER CARPENTERS' ASSOCIATION." author="">

	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER.	165



WINNIPEG MASTER CARPENTERS' ASSO

CIATION.

The advantage of organization by employing contractors in the building trades are receiving greater recognition of late. The last two years have witnessed

which in a short time will no doubt greatly develop in strength and usefulness.

<article title=" GRANITE AS A BUILDING MATERIAL," author="">

GRANITE AS A BUILDING MATERIAL,

Notwithstanding the existence in the provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick of granite of excellent quality, the material has not hitherto been employed to any considerable extent for building purposes. This may be attributable to the fact that in the vicinity of Montreal there were extensive deposits of limestone and in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia there is an abundance of building stone. From the Maritime Provinces, however, large shipments of granite have been made to New York and Boston, and also to Scotland, the home of the granite industry. We have understood that a portion of the material thus exported was to be employed in building construction. Recent events seem to indicate that our native granites are likely to enter more largely into building construction in the future than in the past. The limestone quarries in the vicinity of Montreal are said to be so far exhausted that it is no longer possible to obtain stone of large dimensions or uniform color. Even in its best days this stone was unattractive in color and its extensive use in Montreal can only be accounted for by the ease with which it could be obtained and its consequent cheapness. For the first storey of the new Grand Trunk Railway offices, Stanstead granite has been

MR. WM. BRYDON,



President Winnipeg Master Carpenters' Association.





the establishment of Builders' Exchanges in several of the leading cities of Canada. One of the latest of these organizations is the Master Carpenters' Association of Winnipeg. The association is the outcome of the recent unreasonable demand of the striking carpenters in that city.

Although at present solely composed of master carpenters, the purpose is that the organization shall be established on the broader basis of a Builders' Exchange, representing all branches of the building trades. The association occupies a suite of rooms in the Mcintyre Block, in the most central portion of the city, and is under the government of the following excellent staff of officers Mr. Win. Brydon, president ; Messrs.













MR. JOHN A. GIRVIN,

Vice-President Winnipeg Master Carpenters' Association.





John Girvin and S. B. Ritchie, first and second vicepresdents; Mr. J. G. Latimer, treasurer; G. A. Mitchell, secretary; James McDermid, chairman of the executive. The membership fee is $25 ; dues, $6 per annum. We are privileged to present herewith the portraits of the executive officers of this new and energetic association

METHODIST CHURCH, STANSTEAD, QUE.





employed, and the architect is reported to have said that he would have built the entire structure of it had he known that the material was obtainable in the required dimensions and quantity.

In color Stanstead granite is a bright, clear grey. In rock-faced work it gives a bright sparkling effect. In hammered work it shows nearly white and stands out distinctly in mouldings and carving. Blocks of any size up to 40 tons weight are obtainable and the quarries are fitted with appliances for handling them. The shipping facilities are excellent, the quarries being reached by a branch line of railway by which connection R. made with the G. T. R., C. P. R., B. & M. or M. C. railways.

The strength and enduring qualities of granite are too well known to require special mention. On this point Prof. Coleman of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, says "Having carefully examined a specimen of grey Stanstead granite, I find that it contains no iron pyrites nor other sulphide which on weathering would give a brown stain in the stone."

Hitherto the cost of working granite has been against its use for building purposes in this country, but of late by the use of machinery this drawback has to a large extent been overcome. It is claimed that by means of improved quarrying facilities and stone working machinery operated by compressed air, it is now possible to offer this material at a very slight if any advance on the cost of other varieties of building stones.

The accompanying illustration of the Methodist church at Stan-stead, constructed of granite from the local quarries, will serve to show the appearance of the material in situ.

