<doctype type="text">



BY THE WAY.

THE suggestion made at a recent meeting of the York Pioneers that the monument of the late Governor Simcoe be placed in front of the new municipal buildings, instead of in Queens Park, Toronto, is one that should not be carried Out. Governor Simcoe was the first governor of Upper Canada, and, it is therefore fitting that his statue should be associated with the Ontario legislative buildings.

x X X



SOME years ago the English insurance authorities raised the rates by 20 per cent, within certain defined limits of the city of Halifax, on account of the hazardous nature of the buildings. Fearing that similar action might be taken with regard to St. John, in VIEW of the recent fire and the inefficiency of the fire equipment to deal with the tall buildings which have lately been erected, the local fire underwriters have called the attention of the city council to the necessity of improving the fire alarm service and protective appliances, but not a word seems to have been said about the use of fire-resisting materials.

	x	x x



With the object of reducing to a minimum the fire risk, the management of the Paris Exposition have carefully regulated the width of doors and steps. All exterior doors will open in and out. Doors opening only inwards must remain open constantly. Emergency doors will bear inscriptions stating their purpose. An emergency lighting system for night use will consist of lamps bearing the distinctive red color. All wood of the framework in the buildings and all stairways will be rendered fireproof. All the floors, railings, and balustrades will also be fireproof. All awnings and canvas covering must be fireproof. A fire service, as nearly perfect as possible, will be established, with water piping and pressure sufficient for firemen's service.

	x	x x



ONE hears the complaint even from the old lands across the sea that the functions and qualifications of the architect are but imperfectly understood by the masses. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that in a comparatively new country like Canada there should exist in many minds the haziest notions on the subject. Some imagine the architect to be a man whose main business it is to draw pictures of houses on paper, leaving to the ''practical man" the task of putting the materials together in proper form. Some such idea as this must have been at work in the mind of the client of a young architect of my acquaintance, who, on visiting his building while in course of construction, called aside one of the hod-carriers, and in a confidential tone enquired of him if the thickness of the walls and supports was about what was usually considered proper for a building of such character. The architect, on learning of the action of his client, instead of manifesting indignation, was quick to perceive and appreciate the humor of the incident.

	x	x x



MR. Edward Hurst Brown states in the columns of a contemporary, the following amusing incident The other day an employing bricklayer in New York city went to a certain job he had under way and, not seeing the work progressing as rapidly as he would have liked, took off his coat, and, picking up a trowel, began to lay bricks in an expert manner. The sight of a boss

bricklayer actually engaged in laying bricks was so unusual that the journeymen stopped their work to gaze upon him. Then they began to whisper one to the other. Finally one of them left the job and hurried after the walking delegate. In the course of an hour or two this individual appeared upon the scene. ' Good morning,' said the boss bricklayer, ' is there anything wanted to-day? Clearly here was a man working on the job who was not a member of the union, and it was 1 the walking delegate's duty to demand his union card, and if he failed to produce it to insist that he be immediately discharged, and should the boss refuse, to order the men upon a strike. But the rules of the union did not contemplate the idea that a boss would actually work with his own hands. So the walking delegate studied the situation for a while, and finally said that he guessed nothing was wanted that day. Then he went to the Board of Walking Delegates and called them together in solemn council to decide the question as to whether an employer had the right to work upon a job himself unless he could produce a union card showing that he was in good standing. But as employers are not eligible to membership in the union, the problem became a very knotty one, and at last accounts the question had not been solved, and the boss was still working along with his men, and was running his own business to suit himself.



<article title=" THE SAND-BLAST IN ARCHITECTURAL WORK." author="">

THE SAND-BLAST IN ARCHITECTURAL

WORK.

OWING to the increased use of the sand-blast for producing designs on window glass, cutting ornamental effects on building stone, removal of corrosive sub-stances from clogged drainage systems, the reduction of metallic surfaces for building trimmings and general architectural purposes, the accompanying descriptions



















































of how to build and use a sand-blast, together with a description of sand sifting apparatus, may be useful to architects and builders. If the sand-blast apparatus is properly built, the force which may be obtained from the stream of fine, hard and sharp grains of sand from the machine is remarkable. The discharge of sand is capable of cutting the hardest of substances.

