<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" MASTER PLUMBERS OF CANADA." author="">



the question of continuing the publication of the official bulletin.

It was unanimously decided that the next convention should be held in the city of Montreal, although Toronto and Halifax were also brought up for the consideration of the convention.

The report of the auditors, then presented, certified to the correctness of the treasurer's books. The new officers were then escorted to their respective positions, and the convention adjourned at 12.05 p.m.



THE BANQUET.



On the evening of June 30th a banquet was tendered the visiting delegates by the local association at the Grand Union Hotel. Mr. John Higman, president of the Ottawa Association, presided in a fitting manner. About forty guests sat at the tables and a most enjoyable evening was spent. Letters of regret were read from City Engineer G ALT, Assistant City Engineer Kerr, Medical Health Officer Robillard, Chief of Police Powell, Warden King & Son, Dominion Radiator Co., Toronto, H. MacLaren & Co., Montreal, H. R. Ives & Co., Montreal. The menu was elaborate and the after supper speeches brief and humorous. The various toasts were responded to as follows: " Her Majesty the Queen" by the singing of the National Anthem; " Our Guests, The National Plumbers and Visitors," by Messrs. Win. Smith, J. W. Harris and W. H. Meredith; "The Mayor and Corporation," by Mayor Payment, AId. Davis and ex-Ald. Hill, chairman of Board of Health ; "The Supply Men of Canada," by Messrs. A. Saunders, of Goderich Organ Co., T. M. Stewart, of T. McAvity & Co., Win. Grey, of James Robertson Co., and A. Betton, of James Morrison Mfg. Co.; "The Local Master Plumbers," by John Higman and E. B. Butterworth. Songs were contributed by Messrs. Wilson, Knox, Saunders, Stewart and Dundale, and a string band enlivened the proceedings.



MR. J. W. HARRIS.



Mr. J. XV. Harris, president-elect of the National Association of Master Plumbers of Canada, is a member of the plumbing firm of Lessard & Harris, Craig street, Montreal. He was born in Buffalo, N.Y., in 1865, removed to Montreal when seven years old, thence to Chicago, where he

<article title=" STEEL FLAG STAFFS." author="">

STEEL FLAG STAFFS.

The accompanying illustration represents a galvanizized steel flag staff recently erected on the grounds of

the Normal School at Ottawa. These staffs are made of steel angles and pipe, thoroughly galvanized. They are made for use on the tops of buildings as well as on lawns. Messrs. Goold, Shapley & Muir Co., of Brantford, Ont., are the  manufacturers. 



The walls of a Washington dining room are paneled their entire height with mahogany, the panels being small and square, perfectly flat, with a simple moulding surrounding them. The wood has been washed with weak lime water

-	to darken its tone, and then has been finished with a dull gloss. The room is lighted from a skylight, which is centered over the table, and is filled with a fantastic tracery in opalescent glass, whose radiance is cast upon the white cloth and the glittering glass and china, lighting it up with gorgeous coloring, In the vertical space under the skylight is a series of panels, filled with a frieze of classic figures in low relief, tinted to give the effect of old ivory. The ceiling round the skylight is paneled like the side walls. 





































MR. J. W. HARRIS.





learned the plumbing and heating business. Returning to Montreal a few years later he became manager for Brodeur & Lessard. At the end of five years Brodeur retired, and Mr. Harris became a partner. He has invented and patented several useful devices, and a special system of ventilation for buildings, and is also a mechanical engineer.



What is said to be the largest sheet of glass ever blown was

recently turned out at the Chambers Glass Factory, New Kensington, Pa. it measured 54 X 84 inches.



Darling Brothers Reliance Works Montreal "Webster System" of Low Pressure Steam Heating.

The F.D. Cummer and Son Company Cleveland Ohio For Mechanically Drying Everything