<doctype type="text">

The Pan-American

Exhibition.























































The British Fire Pre

vention Committee.

Boston ivy as an architectural climber. It understands its work thoroughly and, like all subordinates who do, it respects the architect's design. It is the best plant for architects, but since it needs extensive protection the field is open for further discovery in climbers. As to the hedge, the barberry is as good as privet, and examples in Toronto came through the winter unhurt.



The time has arrived when the great

Pan-American Exhibition to be held in

Buffalo next year begins to assume practical proportions. The committee of architects who have been directed to design the various buildings has met in Buffalo and inspected the site and after electing Mr. Carriere of New York as its chairman and apportioning the work among its members, it has dispersed to work out the necessary designs. The eminent President of the Exhibition Company, Mr. Bissett, has great hopes that the Province of Ontario will be well represented and to this end he gathered together a large assemblage of Ontario's business men, the members of the provincial government, bankers and others, entertaining them at his own residence and going fully into the details of the exhibition. It is certain that this province can make a fine exhibition and it is to be hoped the opportunity will be greatly patronized.



The British Fire Prevention Committee has already issued nineteen publications. In another column is some account of the matter of one these pamphlets. There is no doubt that the Committee is accumulating valuable information, and it is published in a convenient form. The list of publications, up to No. 19, are as follows:

1.	WHAT is Fire Protection?

2.	AMERICAN opinions on Fire Prevention.

3.	THE Paris Bazaar Fire.

4.	THEATRE Exits.

5.	THE New York Fire Department.

6.	COTTON Fires and Cotton Bales.

7.	"FIRE Resisting" Floors used in London.

8.	FIRE Service in Factories, Works etc.

9.	LESSONS from Fire and Panic.

10.	How to Build "Fire Proof."

11.	TESTS with Unprotected Columns.

12.	THE Effect of Fire.

13.	THE Testing Station of the B. F. P. C.

14.	OFFICIAL Fire Tests with Floors (No. 1.)

15.	CONFLAGRATIONS during the Last Ten Years.

16.	EXPERIMENTAL Fire Tests with Floors (A.)

17.	THE Tall Building under Test of Fire.

18.	EXPERIMENTAL Fire Tests with Floors (B.)

19.	OFFICIAL Fire Tests with Ceilings (No. 1.)

The prices are not stated on the list, but seem to be from one to three shillings a number. There is nothing in the price to prevent their wide circulation, and certainly public libraries and the libraries of the Architectural Associations ought to arrange to receive all publications as they come out.



A movement which had its origin in the United States, is on foot to make school buildings themselves tell as a

means of education. At present their effect is either negative or positively injurious to the powers of perception which make up what we call "taste." Some time ago at the opening of the Rosedale School, Toronto,

The Toronto School

Art League.

Mr. Hughes, the Superintendent of Public Schools, made some observations on the influence of art education, and referred to the spread of the movement to make school rooms more beautiful. Taking suggestion from this, the ladies of the district immediately organized a league which was named the Ladies League of School Art. Realizing the danger of mere activity without experienced direction, the Rosedale League asked for the co-operation of the Ontario Society of Artists and finally put themselves and their movement into the hands of the Ontario Society. This body devised the establishment of a central Advisory Board for School Art Leagues, and called into consultation the Toronto Guild of Civic Art and certain officials. The Advisory Board has been appointed according to a memorandum prepared by the Ontario Society of Artists. It consists of four ex-officio members viz., the Minister of Education, the Mayor, the Chairman of the School Board and the Superintendent of Public Schools; and of twelve appointed members, to consist of four artists, four architects and four laymen; two of each class to be appointed by the Ontario Society of Artists and the other two by the Toronto Guild of Civic Art. The Advisory Board is now publishing a pamphlet which states the objects of the league and gives information to help forward their attainment. The objects are briefly defined as "good surroundings" for the children. Good surroundings are further defined as, 1st, proper hygienic conditions; 2nd, a good style of architecture; 3rd, good colouring; 4th, mural decorations or framed pictures such as will illustrate the subject matter of school books and train the childrens' eyes to the appreciation of standard works of art. Experiments made at Boston have shown that, in the matter of wall coloring, art and hygiene are at one; the most pleasing tints are also the most restful to the eye. The usefulness of the general hygienic conditions proposed under the first class of good surroundings is also capable of scientific proof. That there is gain in surrounding the children with good architecture and keeping beautiful and noble objects before their eyes is equally capable of demonstration if we put together the numberless little instances in our own experience, and the numberless illustrations that may be extracted from biography and literature of the influence which the character of architecture and the ideas conveyed by works of art have had upon young minds. Affection for home, for school, for church and country may be indellibly stamped in this way upon the mind in youth making a good foundation for domestic virtues, love of learning, instinctive religion and sound patriotism. That the art which aims merely at sensuous impressions is equally useful is to be doubted. There is such a thing as the mere cultivation of taste which is not a source of strength but of weakness. But that good taste should be used to commend good ideas is a proper aim, and is indeed the true end of art. An excellent appendix to the pamphlet is a list of photographs and casts suitable for this purpose. The size and cost and the dealers from whom they may be procured are given. Photographs of paintings and architecture are classified according to national origin. It is a useful catalogue.





The Rat Portage Brick Company, Limited, has recently been incorporated at Rat Portage, Ont., with a capital of $25,000. The Company will manufacture this season between 3,000,000 and 4,000,000 brick. They also manufacture a good quality of fire brick.

