

<doctype type="text;plate">Meadowvale, Ont —Sketched by A. A. Martin.





<article title="Applied Art" author="Reid, G.A.">APPLIED ART.

By G. A. Reid, R.C.A., President Ontario Society of Artists.

The Exhibition of Applied Art now being organized by the Ontario Society of Artists, is undertaken in the hope of aiding the movement which has shown signs of growth in Toronto. It is intended to show also that the artists who are usually thought of as painters of pictures which may sometime find a temporary and possibly an inappropriate place on the walls of a private residence or museum ,are not satisfied to occupy such a narrow groove in the world of art, but instead are chafing under the limitations of the position they are supposed to occupy, and are fully aware of the debased condition of art about them. They know that the architect, sculptor, and painter should work hand in hand to produce true architecture, which is only worthy of the name when it is so treated. They understand that without the artist artisan all art tails, and it is with dismay that they see him reduced to little more than a machine.

The Society of Artists therefore are desirous of placing themselves on record as being in sympathy with the wide movement which has for its object the reunion of the arts now so disassociated. Though there are those who cannot see how reform can come to the arts except by a return to pure handicraft, and only handwork seems to them worth being called artistic, there are others and probably they are the most philosophical and enlightened, who think that the art of every age should work in its own way as directed by conditions; thus the machine should be utilized, but not recklessly as has been the case during the last hundred years.

It is to be hoped that the riot of invention which has possessed us will soon have spent itself and that we will soon be able to judge of the respective values of the work of the machine and the hand and so reap the true advantage of the labor saving device. To make such an estimate requires perhaps a very different education and environment than now exists, but we must form our ideals and approximate our actions to them whatever the impossibility may be of reaching them.

Before the advent of steam power, there were many plans whereby the workman by this and that mechanical means aided his hand and supplemented mere brute strength to multiply his power to produce. We have only to think a moment to call to mind many such labor saving devices, and to recognize in them the first steps to the multitude of forms which we see in the machines of to-day.

Hand and foot power, horse power, wind and water power, have been largely supplanted by that steadier and more powerful motor, steam, and that is now being driven out by more subtle forces yet. To what extent

rapid increase of power may go no one is now pre

pared to make assertion, though there is much speculation.

The steam age has existed about one hundred years and the revolution in the processes of production during that period, it is safe to say, has never in the world's history been paralleled ; the statement might be made in fact, and find no intelligent contradiction, that no period of ten times the duration has seen as great a change.

To realize what such a revolution means taking place in what may be termed a life-time, we only need to picture the work man of the last century busy making with the aid of his hand and foot power machines and tools, a complete article, the design of which and its embellishment progressed as it grew, and to glance at the typical workman of to-day keeping time to the heats of a machine as a minute piece of a complete article gets advanced a step in its progress to being a completed part.

The first picture is that of an artist artisan of whom there are only a few isolated examples now in existence, and the second is that of a mechanical drudge whose work debases him and saps his life by its monotony and lack of interest for him.

The power to repeat with ease and great rapidity elaborate forms which give a show of wealth when the mechanical device first appeared, could not be otherwise than alluring to the people heedless to what it would lead, and the law of supply and demand was inexorable so that a rapid degradation and decline of the arts was the consequence.

Naturally, those who recognize the value of the plastic arts to a people have been plunged into despair as they have realized the constantly increasing domination of machine-made work over that made by hand and the consequent loss of individuality in design and workmanship in every field of art activity, and all over the civilized world many crusaders are now working, trying to stem the tide or to turn its power to account.

Arts and crafts exhibitions are one of the evidences of this widespread movement, and the intention of these exhibitions is to make all the people realize the value of work of beautiful design and craftsmanship, and to thus create a demand which would move the manufacturer to supply. This may seem hopeless to some on account of associating great cost with the beautiful building, piece of furniture, utensil, or other objects of art, but this is far from the right idea. A return to simplicity and sincerity of intention is the central purpose, and the idea that to insure the production of a beautiful thing the worker must experience a joy and delight in producing it, is coming to be recognized. The best systems of education now are stimulating the power to initiate and the time is at hand where wise manufacturers will use the initiative power of the workman as the basis of profit, instead of taking so much cognizance of mere whimsical demand.



<article title="A Decorative Hint" author="">A DECORATIVE HINT.

An excellent decorative effect has been obtained in the carriage driveway of the Bach Bay Station, in Boston, by using a high wainscot of copper, carrying out the lines of the oak vertical boarding with V-shaped joints that is employed for lining the upper part of the walls. No molding is used to break the joint between the copper and the wood, the whole effect being obtained by the difference in color. The same treatment obtains both on the walls and on the heavy circular columns that carry the roof.

