<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	173



architects as well as the general public before these intolerable designs" which afflict us on every hand (as Prof. Capper expresses it), are eradicated.

It is the architects who have thc work of teaching the public on their hands and it is their duty to erect good and refined structures, so that when the public pass by they will soon become, (even if not at first), gradually filled with the quiet beauty of the work so that they will learn to appreciate the superior design over the poorer but oftentimes more ostentatious building.

In reference to the attendance at the meetings it would not be unfair to state that it was far from satisfactory. At the meeting on Monday morning when the election of officers for the ensuing year was held, and which usually calls forth the largest attendance, only 22 members were present out of a membership of 123. This can hardly be called a creditable showing and it would doubtless be well for the Association to look well into the cause of this lack of interest.

There are several reasons which at first sight might be suggested, all of which no doubt may be partly the cause 1. The unwillingness on the part of most members to lay aside the calls of private practice with its resulting profits for the good of the profession as a calling. 2. The tendency to re-elect the Council or the majority of the members of it, as has so often been the case in past years. An improvement might be suggested so that no member of Council can serve more than two years unless a space of three years have elapsed. By this means the changing of the council would be compulsory and would therefore no doubt tend to more interest in the elections. 3. The lack of any attractions to draw numbers together, In the past year according to the annual report, no general meeting was held but only Council meetings, so that for the past year at least the only privilege members had was that of being able to use the reading room. This, no doubt, to a good many of the members seems hardly commensurate with what they should receive in return for their annual fee. Surely something that would be attractive to a large proportion of the members could be held during the year. Lectures have been tried, we believe, and not found successful, but were not the lectures even among a certain clique? It might be suggested that lectures be given by outside persons who have made

special study of their branch—on Electricity by an Electrical Engineer; on Skeleton Construction by a Civil Engineer



Cements by one who had made a special study of Cements; Decoration by an artist, and so on—allowing members to bring friends who are interested and having a short discussion started by two members who would be asked beforehand to lead the discussion so that it would not he likely to drag. These papers with the following discussions could be printed in the form of transactions of the society. which ought to be a series of valuable papers on subjects of interest to all members. The subjects are almost endless, but great care should be taken and every effort made to procure thc man who is best qualified to speak on the particular subject in question. One more suggestion that might be made would be that an annual meeting should be held in which members would be invited to ask their friends to some lecture that would be of special public interest—such as the decoration of the home, designing of furniture, etc., showing the difference between good and bad designing. At this lecture an exhibition of architectural pictures could be held and designs of decoration, furniture, etc., by outsiders who have and are endeavoring to raise the standard of such work. Invite the honorary members and their families, the members and their friends, and make this meeting a popular success, and the members will be only too glad to come. Endeavour to make at all risks the first meeting a success and the others will become a simple matter.



The exhibition of architectural drawings held in the rooms of the Association during its annual meeting was hardly a representative one. This it was hoped was on account of the architects being too busy, but it is seen that two of the busiest architects in town are the best represented so that the cause must be looked for elsewhere. Messrs. Hutchison & Wood had a very good water colour drawing of the new C. P. R. Telegraph Building now being erected at the corner of St. Francois Xavier and Hospital Streets. Also a large one of the McIntyre block on Victoria Square, and a pencil sketch of additions to the Ottawa Hospital. Messrs. Taylor & Gordon were represented by a water colour sketch of a branch bank for the Molson's Bank, also their bank at Vancouver, the branch bank of Montreal, on Notre Dame Street, Montreal, the Nurse's Home connected to the General Hospital, Montreal, and several photographs of some of the buildings at McGill College. Several of these drawings however had been exhibited before.

Some of the student's work at the architectural classes were exhibited on the tables. Among the designs were noticed one for a theatre and one for public library. The work was of a high order and it is hoped that more may be heard of these students in the future at the rooms of the Association.

Over the president's chair was hung a very effective water colour sketch of a house at Cote de Nieges, for H. L. Rutherford, Esq., by Mr. C. B. Patterson, while Messrs. McDuff & Lemieux had a drawing of a more prosaic, but no doubt not less useful building in the form of a shirt factory for Tooke Bros. at St. Henry.

Mr. Doran, our representative for mayoralty honors at the last elections, showed a pen and ink drawing of the Catholic High School.

CANADIAN BUILDING MATERIALS AT PARIS.



The Canadian exhibits of materials used in the building trades at the Paris Exhibition, ;according to accounts to hand, are on the whole, representative and a credit to Canada. That Canada has won the grand prize for its forestry exhibit should be a source of pride to all those interested in the progress of this country, and it is hoped that this exhibit may be used in the future in a more permanent manner by being placed, or at least a portion of it, in the Imperial Institute. The exhibit includes 48 54-foot deals 0 the principal Canadian woods, 1/3 of each deal being polished, '3 waxed, and 1/3 simply planed. This is a sensible, business-like method of showing the different varieties, and one likely to be of interest to those using or likely to use Canadian woods. In other building materials Canada is well represented, the province of Quebec in particular having the following exhibits

Granite from Stanstead, Mt. Johnson, St. Philippe and Riviere de Pierre.

Serpentine from Calumet Island and various points in the eastern townships.



Slate from the New Rockland Slate Co. Works.



Marble from Dudswell and Philipsburg.



Sandstone from Dudswell (Flagstones) and Beauharnois.



Limestone from Montreal, Lacheviotiere, Mt. Ottawa, Pointe Claire and Caugnawaga.



Brick from Laprairie and fireproofing from the Montreal Terra Cotta Co.



Thc above, although not a complete exhibit by any means, is a fairly representative one, and thc other provinces appear to be about equally represented.



Considering the wealth of her natural resources, Canada should look for a wider field than her own, or, in other words, the export trade should be carefully inquired into and made use of if her resources are to be utilized on the most advantageous terms. Thc home market is small and docs by itself hardly warrant the expenditure of large amounts of capital in working quarries and mines with the most modern machinery, and it is only with these modern appliances that this country can compete with thc outside world. It is therefore a question of great importance whether one large concern with capital centralized cannot work to better ends than can several small firms each fighting against the other in, generally speaking, a purely local market. Take for instance the granite industry—this is one in which to make a success on a large scale it is necessary to have the latest machinery, derricks, etc., and every thing in the way of locality, railway facilities, good and abundant stone, etc., in its favor. To procure all this needs capital, and to get returns on large amounts needs a large field, and in Canada this means in many products an export trade. It would be wise, therefore, for Canadians to study well the possibilities of creating an export trade. The government have done a good deal to forward the possibilities of manufacturers, etc., being able to make enquiries of the trade possibilities in other countries by appointing commercial agents in different parts for this very purpose, who are always willing to give information to those interested in the local requirements of the districts they represent. A list of these agents is appended

J.	G. Colmer, 7 Victoria street, London, S.W., England.

Harrison Watson, Canadian Section, Imperial Institute, London.

0.	H. Mitchell, 15 Water street, Liverpool, England.

H.	M. Murray, 52 St. Enoch Square, Glasgow, Scotland.

W.	L. Griffith, 10 The Walk, Cardiff, South Wales.

Thomas Moffat, 24 Wale street, Cape Town, South Africa.

j.	S. Larke, Sydney, N.S.W., agent for Australia.

G.	Eustace Burke, Kingston, Jamaica.

Robert. Bryson, St. John, Antigua.

S.	L. Horsford, St. Kitts, agent for St. Kitts, Nevis and Virgin Islands.

Edgar Tripp, Port of Spain, Trinidad.

C.	E. Sontum, Christiania, Norway, agent for Sweden, Denmark and Norway.

D.	E. Cash, 75 Marche, St. Jacques, Antwerp, Belgium.



Mr. Chaussee, the new city building inspector for Montreal, has already increased in a marked degree the efficiency of his department, and expects to be able to increase the revenue sufficiently o make the department self-sustaining.

