



<doctype type="text">The Latest Phase of

Unionism.

should be prepared to furnish buyers with detailed results of carefully conducted scientific tests showing the quality of their material.



<article title="The Latest Phase of Unionism" author="">THE local labor union, of Vancouver,

13. C., are reported to have absolutely prohibited their members from joining

or remaining in the militia. In doing this, says the American Architect, the unions have taken a step which brings them perilously near to giving notice that they enroll themselves in the ranks of anarchists, pure and simple, enemies of society as established, and as such to be pursued and punished to the bitterest extremity upon the performance of the first overt act against the laws of order. The militia is one of the recognized arms of government, and any citizen who evades duty in its ranks, is unworthy of the protection which under other circumstances, the law would afford him, and for all we can see, is subject to attainder for treason the first time he resists the law. Any body of men who give public notice that they feel themselves obliged to obey the rules that contravene the laws established, by and under the constitution, by the people, place themselves voluntarily in the position of public enemies, and must abide the consequences.

in attendance of late is an evidence that the institution is not being conducted on proper lines, and that it is not fulfilling the purpose for which it was established. Under present circumstances the large expenditure for maintenance seems to be an unprofitable one. Nor does it seem wise to expend nearly one hundred thousand dollars in a building before the lines on which the school should be conducted and could be made successful have been determined. It would be as wise to attempt to construct a building from the roof downwards. A few more years of such management as the school is now subjected to will result in irretrievable ruin. The cause of the trouble seems to lie in the fact that the Toronto Trades and Labor Council has been given a controlling influence on the Board of Management. Why should this be the case? The Council have no more interest in the success of the institution than the representatives of other interests. Nor on the whole are its members as well qualified by education and travel to judge of the requirements. It is time to call a halt, reconstruct the Board of Management, and decide what are the functions of a technical school, what kind of instruction is demanded by its prospective students and the best means by which it may be given.



<article title="Strength of Brickwork" author="">Strength of Brickwork.

THE failures of brickwork which occasionally occur in Canada, are probably in some measure due to the application

by architects of the standards of strength published in Trautwine's and other American hand books. The tests of Canadian bricks which have been made at the School of Practical Science, Toronto, show that the native material should not be loaded much above five tons to the square foot. The following quotation from Trautwine shows that his standard is nearly double that amount. He says: With our present imperfect knowledge on the subject, it cannot be considered safe to expose first-class pressed brickwork in Cement, to more than 12 or 15 tons per square foot ; or good hand moulders to more than two-thirds as much." Local tests have also shown quite a difference in strength as between bricks manufactured at Hamilton and at Toronto. So that it becomes necessary that the architect should ascertain for himself, as nearly as possible, the strength of the actual material which he proposes to employ, Some years ago a series of valuable tests of Canadian building stones was conducted under the direction of the Ontario Association of Architects at the School of Practical Science, Toronto. At a later date some tests were also made by the school authorities, of brick piers. It is desirable that the latter tests should be supplemented, so that Canadian architects, engineers and builders, might have all the data required to guide them in the use of the native material.



<article title="Technical Education" author="">A REPRESENTATIVE of the Bureau of Labor of the United States is said to be in Canada for the purpose of making enquiry into the subject of technical education. The results are likely to be disappointing and of little value. The haziest ideas seem to prevail here with regard to the subject. Nobody has apparently any well founded knowledge of the lines on which a technical school should be conducted, or of the character of the instruction which such an institution should impart. This statement applies also to the Board of Management of the Toronto Technical school. The large falling off

Technical Education



<article title="Province of Quebec Association of Architects" author="">Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

THE annual convention of the P.Q.A.A., the proceedings of which are printed in this number, was characterized by a small attendance and an apparent lack

of interest on the part of a majority of the members. This was perhaps, in a measure, due to the meagreness of the programme. There were no papers, and apparently no subjects set down for discussion. The Association dinner which was formerly an adjunct of each convention, was omitted also. Under these circumstances, it was perhaps too much to expect a large turnout of the members. Meetings of this kind, to be successful, must have a carefully planned programme, calculated to interest and profit the members. As our Montreal correspondent suggests, there should be papers on subjects of interest to the profession, the discussion of which should, to a certain extent, be pre-arranged. Printed copies of he papers should also be sent out to members in advance of the meeting, and they should be invited to come prepared to take part in the discussions. Our correspondent suggests other causes for lack of interest on the part of the members in the affairs of the Association, regarding which we have no knowledge. The report of the Council shows that the new Association rooms which were fitted up at considerable cost, are not made use of by the members, therefore the proposed large expenditure on an architectural library to be placed in these rooms, would seem likely, under existing circumstances, to be an unprofitable investment. The new Council would do well to try to discover the cause of the apparent apathy on the part of a majority of the members, and if possible provide a ramedy. We are heartily in accord with the views expressed by Professor Capper, the retiring president, regarding the necessity for better theoretical and aesthetic training of the students. In the proper education of the students lies the hope of a higher standard of architecture and architectural practice in Canada in the future, as well as the existence and usefulness of the Association. The Ontario Association of Architects having come to realize this fact, are about to formulate and put in operation an educational system for the benefit of students. Every young man who desires to enter as a student the office of a member of the Association in the future will be required to bind himself to take the required course of study and pass the prescribed examinations. Might not the Associations of Ontario and Quebec with advantage work together in this matter?

