<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	vii.



<article title="Useful Hints" author="">USEFUL HINTS.

A suggestion for pale green woodwork might be: Deep green walls, a greenish grey with silver on frieze, a cornice of grey and silver, and the ceiling the same. A good effect is given by having upholsterings in similar colors, relieved by old rose, the draperies being of grey.

Nearly all natural colors of goo(l quality, that are well washed and prepared, are inert and well adapted for staining outside paint. All colors that are artificial, or chemically prepared, are more or less active, as shown by their fleeting properties when exposed to the atmosphere.



Method of cross-sectioning tracings A method of cross-sectioning tracings is described by a writer, who says that he never sections the original accurately, hut merely indicates the sectioning roughly.	After the tracing is ready for sectioning, he slips a piece of cross section paper,

which is ruled about in. apart, under the tracing paper, and traces the required sectioning. If the sectioning is to be fine, every line is traced but of course, only alternate lines are trace(l, or every third for very coarse work.



Hues are modifications of color by other colors tints are produced by adding white to colors or hues while shades are produced in like manner by adding black. Tones signify colors or hues mixed with varying proportions of either white or black. White weakens or reduces the tones while black dulls them.



To fix chalk drawings: Good black paper coated with resin in following manner: Common resin (colophonium) and shellac are dissolved in strong alcohol, and the solution applied to the black paper with a broad brush a number of times, each coating being allowed to dry perfectly before another is applied. The paper

becomes matte and dull, but acquires a gloss when warmed. Chalk drawings made on this paper can be made permanent by covering it with another sheet of well-sized paper over the face of the drawing, and passing a hot smoothing iron over

it.	The extra sheet is carefully removed when cool, and the drawing can then be rolled up without injury.



The original St. George's Anglican church at Kingston, Out., built in 1792, was demolished only a couple of months ago.





THE PEDLAR PEOPLE—PLASTER ON STEEL LATH

OSHAWA,  ONTARIO



THE CANADIAN PAINT COMPANY, LIMITED

MPONTREAL-TORONTO