<doctype type="text">207                                      THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

BY THE WAY.

THE Assessment Department of Toronto estimates that there are now in that city only 630 vacant houses, and 131 vacant stores, as compared with 3,311 vacant dwellings, and 648 vacant stores in 1896, and that to meet the requirements of population 1,200 houses must he built next year.

++ +



THE multiplicity of strikes and their far reaching effects upon the welfare of the persons immediately concerned as well as upon the industrial progress of the Dominion, necessitates the adoption of legislation which would be effective in putting a stop to this method of settling disputes between capital and labor and such scenes as were recently witnessed at Valleyfield. Compulsory arbitration on similar lines to the New Zealand law seems to be the best solution of the question.

±± +



I AM pleased to note that the teaching quality at the Toronto Technical School is being improved. Mr. Barrett, a capable young architect, was recently appointed instructor in Building Construction. Mr. Banks, whose skill as a modeller is well known in Toronto, has been engaged to give instruction in modelling. If the services of equally well qualified teachers can be procured for the other departments the school may be expected to do much better work in the future than in the past.

+ +x

THE authorities of Queen's University, Kingston, have issued an invitation to architects to submit plans and designs for new buildings to cost about $150,000. It contains the usual clause that the said authorities do not bind themselves to accept any of the plans submitted. No provision is made for the appointment of an expert to judge the plans. The matter has been brought to the attention of the Ontario Association of Architects who will try to enlighten the authorities regarding the conditions which should govern competitions of this kind. No self-respecting architect should have anything to do with the competition in its present form.

+ + +



THIRTY TWO granite columns each 54 feet long, by 6 feet in diameter, and weighing about 160 tons, are to form a feature of the construction of the cathedral of St. John the Divine, New York city. The rough blocks of granite from which these columns are made, each measure 67 feet long, 8 1/2 and 7 feet cross section, and weigh 310 tons. The corners are roughly dressed off by hand, after which the block is placed in a lathe 86 feet in length, having a swing of 6 feet 6 inches by 60 long, fitted with eight cutting tools, each of which takes a cut

3 inches in depth. These cutters reduce the diameter of the block by 24 inches at one passage over its surface. Six weeks are required to dress and polish each column.

++ +



THE Builders' Journal refers to the foolish custom still prevailing at Freiburg, in Germany, of offering a reward of five shillings and a good dinner to the steeple jack who will climb to the top of the tower of the Minister, a height of 400 feet. This performance forms a feature of the celebration of the birthday of the reigning Grand Duke of Baden, In the ascent the men have to leap from stone to stone, and as the space between these is considerable in some cases, it will be seen what an idiotic practice this is ; one miss and the man would be dashed to the ground. When the top is reached a pistol is fired and then the descent is made. Three men went up the tower the other day, and one of them performed acrobatic feats on an iron bar fixed about half-way up.





THOSE who have studied the methods of the trades unions have noticed that the chief object sought to be attained by them is to secure for their members the highest possible renumeration for the least amount of skill and labor. The working hours have been reduced from ten to nine ; again in many cases from nine to eight. This rate of progress is too slow however, for some of the more advanced thinkers on this subject, in which class deserves to rank the Rev. S. S. Craig, a representative of what is called the People's Party. This gentleman in an election address delivered in Toronto, is reported to have said "He was glad to see the eight hour working plank. But he wanted something more ; he wanted a four hour workingday and the taxation of land values would produce a tour hour working day. Then our wives and our daughters would not have to leave their homes to work for a living, and everybody would have full opportunity for work." Isn't it the opportunity to escape work that is being sought for?

++ +



A GENTLEMAN who has recently visited Sydney, C. B., has been telling me of the wonderful development which has taken place in that town since it became known that the Dominion Steel Company had decided to establish extensive works there. Property which before was considered to be of little value, has enormously advanced in price ; indeed it is stated that owners do not apparently know how much to demand, and the prices asked are in many instances ridiculously high. The Bank of Montreal is said to have paid $8,000 for a site sufficient for a new building on one of the principal corners. The number of stores and high class stocks therein is said to be entirely out of proportion to the requirements, as the majority of the new population which has been brought into the town, in consequence of the operation of the steel company, principally consists of the laboring class, whose wages are small and who therefore can purchase only the cheaper class of goods. After a time, when the works are constructed and put in operation, a larger proportion of skilled workmen will be employed at higher wages, but even then it is considered doubtful if many of the new establishments which have been started will find it possible to do a profitable trade.



The Keizer Brick Machine & Mfg. Company, of Winnipeg, are applying for incorporation.

