



<doctype type="text;ad">LEGAL.

<article title="Legal" author="">A case of a rather novel kind was recently tried before Mr. Justice Kenny in Dublin, particulars of which are given in the Builders' Reporter. The plaintiffs, Messrs. Byrne & Warman, were sub-contractors on tramway works, and they sought to recover £412 118 4d from Mr. Ward, the contractor, for work done, materials provided, etc. The case in reality turned on the interpretation to be given to the words "per square yard" of excavations. The plaintiffs maintained that the words "square yard" meant a superficial square yard, the excavation being

foot deep, so that if the excavation were 3 feet deep, square yard would count as 3 instead of 1, as contended by the defendant. On behalf of the defendant it was argued that the plaintiffs had received £410 on account, which was £63 is 5d in excess of the amount due to them. It was also stated that "square yard,' when applied to excavators' work, signified "cubic yard. The judge said there was no evidence to show that it was customary to consider a "square yard " of excavation as a superficial square yard, with a depth of one foot. If the plaintiffs' hypothesis were accepted, the defendant would have to pay them nearly three times as much as he was receiving himself. His lordship therefore decided the main point in favour of the defendant.



JAMES MORRISON, CONTRACTOR, VS. THE BELL TELEPHONE Co.



—Judgment by Mr. Justice Curran of Montreal in an action by plaintiff for $2,969.93, balance due under a contract for lathing and plastering a building belonging to the defendants, situate on Notre Dame street in the city of Montreal. Plaintiff ALSO claimed damages for having been retarded in his work through the fault of defendants. He further claimed for extras done in connection with the building, which he alleges were totally independent of his contract work. the defendants pleaded that the work of plaintiff was done under contract; that if any extras were performed, to entitle the plaintiff to payment, he should have obtained written orders, in accordance with the article of the Civil Code, and the terms of his agreement. Defendants further claimed that the delays, apart from that in starting work, which was due to vis major, were entirely owing to plaintiff's negligence and fault, and that such a delay caused great loss to defendant. Plaintiff never was authorized to do any extra work but for two

items, one of $10 and the other $60. The work, which was an extra, was not done for defendants, but for the Hamilton Bridge Company, and plaintiff should look to them. The company asked $8,372 for insurance, for heating, and under the penalty clause of

$30 per day for every day that the work was not completed after six weeks, the term agreed upon. The case was referred to Messrs. Hutchison, Wright and Doran, as experts, notwithstanding the company's opposition. The experts made a voluminous report. They came to .the conclusion that the delays were not owing to the fault of the plaintiff, but arose from the acts of the defendants. The court agreed with the finding of the experts on this point, but modified thc finding on other points. It gave judgment for the plaintiff for $1,885.49, and the costs of suit, On the question of time costs of expertise, plaintiff shall pay one-third of the expenses, and defendants the other two-thirds.



About a year ago the Lyceum Theatre of Eceles, near Manchester, was in course of construction by Messrs. Moore & Sons. The decorative work was a separate contract, and was in the hands of A. R. Dean, Limited, of Birmingham. One of the painters who was engaged on the ceiling fell from the scaffolding to the pit, owing to the failure of one of the planks, and was killed. The widow claimed compensation from her husband's employers, who denied liability on the ground that painting did not come within thc scope of the Workmen's Compensation Act, and also because the scaffolding had been erected by Messrs. Moore & Sons, who became responsible. The case was brought into the County Court, and the judge appointed an arbitrator to hear it. The applicant claimed that A. R. Dean were " undertakers" in the sense of section 7, and on the other side the contention was that the work undertaken was not construction within the meaning of the Act. The arbitrator decided that thc painters were undertakers, and he awarded the widow £300 damages with costs. The County Court judge, however, set aside the award On the ground that the painting of the ceiling of the theatre was not an employment within the Act. The case was carried to the Court of Appeal. Lord Justice Smith said there was no doubt deceased was employed on a building within the Act, and that whoever undertook the construction of a substantial part of such a building was an undertaker. The applicant was therefore













THE ELLIOTT & SON CO.  LIMITED, TORONTO

INTERIOR DECORATION IN

WALL PAPERS

STAFF AND COMPOSITION ORNAMENT

PARQUETRY FLOORS