<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="The Need of an Art Museum in Toronto" author="">THE NEED OF AN ART MUSEUM IN

TORONTO.

THE Ontario Society of Artists have had printed a brochure " On the Need for an Art Museum in Toronto and some Suggestions on how it might be founded." The introductory reads as follows

The need of an Art Museum in Toronto has long been felt by those interested in the progress of Art in the city and province.



While in other branches of education Toronto takes a leading position, and suitable buildings have been erected for their accommodation, as regards Art it is far behind cities of its size and importance in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and

Cape Colony.



Visitors arc surprised at the absence, in a centre of education, of an appropriate home for the fine arts.

All art workers feel more and more the need of such an institution as a place of reference and comparison and students of art also feel the lack of opportunities for study.

It is therefore considered that a great effort should now be made on a broad basis to found such an institution. The material for this pamphlet has been prepared and published in the hope of aiding the organization of an Art Museum Association in Toronto and of encouraging donations by citizens and corporations.

The nature and functions of an Art Museum are described and suggestions offered for the founding of an institution adapted to the requirements of Toronto, as follow

An Art Museum should be regarded, first, as an educational institution, its power to delight and amuse being secondary to its instructive function. It should possess the historical aspect incidentally, and treat the history of art concisely with the best examples of the work of all periods, never exhibiting mete relics therefore, the difference between an Art Museum and an Historical Museum must be kept distinct, though a close relation may exist.



Access should be so free for all that every man, woman arid child of the community might be familiar with its contents. This, however, should be made compatible with the necessity of setting apart tunes for study by specialists and students. Free and pay days for the admission of the public would serve such a purpose.



A school of art and design should be in close connection with such an institution the collection of works of fine and applied art serving as a storehouse for reference, and stimulating art activity of every sort. An enumeration of the leading sections will serve to show the vast importance of such a museum. There should be, as a matter of course, antiquities of all sorts, valuable as art productions ; examples of sculpture, painting, architecture and textiles, and of work in metals, wood, and pottery.



These and other heads, when sub-divided, would cover a vast field of work which it is necessary for the student to see and examine to fully appreciate and emulate and it is by the examination and contemplation of such works of art that the young are induced to undertake the development of their latent abilities.

An 	ideal Art Museum, and an Art Museum such as would appear a possibility in Toronto, are probably very different things;

to accomplish the latter, as much as possible of the quality of the former should be aimed at.

The situation of such an institution should be carefully selected it would be a blind policy to take a poor site because it was cheap or was available as a donation.



Perhaps the most difficult thing to guard against, when a great public institution is being founded by the generosity of citizens, is the gift bound by conditions which may rob it of its most valuable quality. That gifts should have conditions is reasonable, but it would be better to go at a slow pace in founding a home for the arts in Toronto, asking for donations with objects well defined and application of the funds guaranteed. Therefore, to found an Art Museum in Toronto the Society of Artists believes that arm association should be formed at the outset which would have the power and responsibility to outline a plan and carry it out, to receive bequests and grants and apply them to the purpose for which they were intended.

This Art Museum should be undertaken on the principle of gradual growth ; that is, development of the building and what it is to contain The whole plan should be so prepared that a small portion could be built at first and added to from time to time the buildings to be fireproof, affording security to valuable works of art received as loans or bequests,

Accommodation should be provided in the building for the School of Art and Design, as an integral part of the museum, and suitable galleries should be kept for current exhibitions,

A fund for maintenance could be provided by a citizen's honorary membership fee, carrying with it privileges of library, lectures and exhibitions, thus making a continual connection with those interested in art for the carrying on of the government of the institution. The Art Societies and School would be independent bodies, occupying a portion of the building as tenants.

The foregoing suggestions are offered in the hope of bringing together those who are interested in the founding of an Art Museum worthy of Toronto ; on the formation of an association of citizens, the shape it should take can then be determined.

For the purpose of bringing forth additional suggestions and to show what has been and what is now being done, in cities of the same size as Toronto and also in some of the greater cities, a list is appended of art associations, museums, institutes, etc., their bequests arid outlines of government. Full particulars of all these associations have been ascertained and are available for reference when needed.





<article title="Tests of Fireproofing Materials" author="">TESTS OF FIREPROOFING MATERIALS.

The British Fire Prevention Committee have reported the results of recent tests of girder coverings by the "Gypsine Brick Co., Limited, of London and Paris. The report states that "exact details as regards the composition of the girder-coverings used were not given, the materials of which these coverings might be composed alone being named by the maker. As we have here a case where the exact composition and proportions of the substances used in the composition of the coverings must affect their fire-resistance, it is to be regretted that the details were not given. It makes it so much more difficult for the architect to know whether the protective coverings put on the market are identical with those which have been under investigation."

The object of the test was to record the effect of a fire of one hour's duration, commencing at 500 Fahr., and increasing to 1,800° Fahr., followed by the application of water for two minutes.

NOTE Two types of protective compositions were to he tested around 7 in. steel joists, the one joist being covered by a composition applied as plaster about one inch thick, the other joist bedded in a composition about 3 in. thick.

NOTE. The time allowed for the construction and drying of the covering was to be a fortnight.

The following observations were made after the test in respect to the beam of larger section

There was a longitudinal crack on the soffit of the protecting material for about half the length.

There were fine hair cracks on all surfaces of the protecting material.

The lower arrises of the protecting material were damaged.

The protecting material was very sodden from the applied water, and was very soft and easily impressed.

The composition remained attached all round, and the girder was not affected by the test.

The following observations were made after the test in respect to the beam of smaller section

A layer of the protecting material to the soffit of beam of about 5/8 in. thickness had become detached and had dropped off.

The sides of the protecting material showed vertical cracks, and the surface of the material showed fine hair cracks on all faces.

There was a longitudinal crack in the protecting material on the top surface.

The protecting material was sodden with the applied water, and was soft and easily impressed.

