	<doctype type="text;ad">vi.	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECTAND AND BUILDER



<article title="No Creosote" author="">NO CREOSOTE.

THE report that the fire at the Harvard boathouse was caused by the explosion of creosote used in the shingle stain in which the shingles were dipped was erroneous. The stain which caused the trouble was of an entirely different make.

Mr. Samuel Cabot, inventor and manufacturer of the creosote shingle stains, informs the Journal that there was no creosote stain on the premises, and that it is well known that creosoting diminishes the inflammability of wood.

Mr. Peabody, of Peabody & Stearns, architects of the building, when asked by a Journal reporter, confirmed the statement that there was no creosote in use in or about the work. Boston Journal, Dec. 29, 1899.





<article title="Manufacturing Notes" author="">MANUFACTURNG NOTES.

The capital stock of the Southampton Manufacturing Company has been increased from $25,000 to $65,000.



The Dominion Radiator Company of Toronto have recently issued a booklet setting forth in an artistic manner the merits of Safford Radiators.



The Metallic Roofing Company, of Toronto, having outgrown the capacity of their works erected a few years ago at the corner of King and Dufferin streets, have leased 85 feet adjoining, on which to build a large addition.



Of the many calendars which have reached us during thc holidays, one of the most artistic and useful is that of the Robert Mitchell Co., Limited, of Montreal, manufacturers of gas and electric fixtures, ornamental brass and iron work, etc.



The Canada Foundry Co., recently organized in Toronto, have purchased outright the St. Lawrence foundry in that city. The lines of manufacture heretofore followed will be continued and new departments added, one of which will be devoted to thc production of ornamental iron and bronze.



The B. Greening Wire Company Limited, of Hamilton, advise us that they have completed the issue of their series of catalogues of perforated metals, wire cloth and screens, wire rope, steel and iron wire, counter railings, etc., and will be pleased to forward this catalogue, free of charge, to intersected readers.



Mr. T. W. Carmichael, in a letter to the Clay-Worker, gives some particulars of the installation of a brick manufacturing plant at Lake du Bonnet, Man. This place has not yet been reached by the railways and is situated in the midst of a primeval forest. The machinery and supplies for the brick yard were brought in by the Indians by means of canoes and sleds from Whitemouth. A branch of the Canadian Pacific Railway is expected to reach Lake du Bonnet in the spring.



The Artificial Lumber Company of America whose head office is at 9 Pine st., New York, with works at Barberton, Ohio, announce their intention of establishing a factory in Canada at an early date. It is undersood that the Honorable Sir Richard Cartright, Minister of Trade and Commerce, will be one of the Canadian directors. The company are now looking for a suitable site in proximity to the raw material. The artificial lumber manufactured by this company is principally adapted for use in buildings as wainscoting, substitute for plaster and laths, ceilings, etc. It is, however, also adapted for many other purposes, and is highly recommended by architects, railroad companies and others who have used it in a variety of ways in the United States. Further particulars of this enterprise will be furnished in the near future.



THE "HAYES" PATENT

STEEL LATH



The METALLIC ROOFING Company, Limited,

	WHOLESALE MANUFACTURERS,	TORONTO.