<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	209



erected and it is time now to make suggestions. But as regards the especial memorial you propose—an arch over Queen's avenue —I hesitate to express unqualified agreement. If it were intended to raise a memorial to troops returned from victory, such an arch as they might march under on the day of their return would be a suitable memorial; the present custom for temporary decorations and precedent for permanent structures suggests it. Hut as an erection in honor of the dead, it seems, whether innately or from custom, inappropriate.



I offer this criticism of the particular proposal made, but hope, and indeed cannot doubt, that the general idea will meet with approval from everybody.

Yours truly,

W.	A. LANGTON.



94 KING ST. WEST, TORONTO, Nov. 12th, 1900.



DEAR SIR,—I think the proposal to erect a permanent memorial to our Canadian Soldiers on the site of the temporary triumphal arch is a very good one.

But I hope if this work is undertaken at all it will be done as well as they did there's.



An important opportunity like this of permanently recording a great event in our country's history should be thought out as well as we are able, so that there will be no risk of belittling either the deeds of our soldiers, or a site so valuable with a mean erection.

The Guild of Civic Art was formed I believe to advise upon

these matters and I hope they will see that the project is dealt with in a large enough manner, and riot leave us with a monument like something adrift from a graveyard.

Yours truly,

EDEN SMITH.



CANADA LIFE BUILDING TORONTO, Nov. 13th.



DEAR SIR,--—I have read your suggestion that an arch should be erected at the foot of Queen's Avenue to commemorate the bravery of the Canadian troops in South Africa. I heartily approve of the suggestion. The co-operation of the colonies with the mother land marks cicarly an epoch in our history, and no more appropriate form of monument could be erected than an arch. The position is an admirable one, and I think the Ontario government should unite with the city in erecting an arch chat would reflect credit on our country and city.



Yours truly,

JAMES L. HUGHES.



TORONTO, Nov. 13th, 1900.



GENTLEMEN,—I duly received your favor enclosing a circular with reference to the proposed memorial to those of our volunteers who were killed and wounded in South Africa.

I agree with your idea that a permanent memorial arch should be erected on the site of the temporary one at the entrance to Queen's avenue, and shall he pleased to subscribe to a fund for that purpose, providing the matter is dealt with promptly.

Yours truly,



J.	0. THORN,



Honorary Captain, Quarter-Master, 2nd Regiment

Queens' Own Rifles of Canada.

TORONTO, ONT. Nov. 14, 1900.



DEAR SIR,—Our society having heard from Mr. Reid, our President, of the intention to erect an arch to commemorate thc death of our soldiers who fell in South Africa, heartily endorse the suggestion, and would advise that all our architects and artists be invited to send designs, and that judges appointed by the Guild of Civic An select thc most artistic and suitable for the purpose.

Yours truly,



ROBT. F. GAGEN,

Secretary Ontario Society of Artists.

TORONTO, Nov. 14, 1900.



DEAR SIR,—Relative to your suggestion regarding a memorial to be erected in honor of the brave Sons of Canada who have laid down their lives in defence of the Empire in South Africa, I think there cannot possibly be two opinions upon the advisability of erecting some permanent and suitable monument in recognition of their services.

What is done, however, should be done well The monuments now existing in Queen's Park commemorating the death of those who fell at Ridgeway and in the North West Rebellion, are not, in my opinion, worthy of the deeds which they commemorate. Any monument which may be erected to the memory of those

who fell in South Africa should be one in which we can always take a pride in pointing to. I think thc suggestion of an arch, at the entrance to Queen's avenue is a good one, and it would add, as you say, interest and dignity to the approach to the Park, as well as commemorate in a most fitting manner the services o f the Canadians who fell in South Africa.



Yours truly,

W.	C. MACDONALD, Lieut.-Col. 48th Highlanders.

TORONTO, Nov. 14, 1900.





Honor thc brave Who desires to do otherwise? But in taking stops to perpetuate the deeds and memory of Canada's brave

sons, let us not be carried away by sentiment, as the stern, stubborn facts of ways and means will confront us sooner or later.

All honor to the Red Cross ladies who are desirous of erecting

a memorial arch in College avenue, as to which, the suitability

and site, there would likely be little contention if we were assured hat the amount required would be forthcoming, and the result be satisfactory. Let us not attempt too much for fear we fail. Past experiences should make us cautious. How much are we prepared to expend and what we are likely to accomplish, should be our first consideration. If we find a memorial arch is out of the question why should not the City Hall bc thc receptacle of a bronze Commemoration Panel, or one in relief, or of a piece of statuary. In mentioning the City Hall as a suitable place, might we not look forward to this building becoming the treasure house of such

mementos as we may erect from time to time, either in

marble, stone or bronze a building visited by thousands of tourists annually, and a building so well adapted for the purpose.



There is no doubt that it anything is to be done now is the time, and why, I might ask, should this not be a provincial monument? Thc position of Toronto is central, and the site most desirable, whether in or out of doors. Toronto, no doubt, will contribute most of the funds, but other sections of the Province should not bc debarred from contributing their quota to a monument in which they are as much interested as ourselves.



R.	Y. ELLIS.



TORONTO, Nov. 1, 1900.





"From thc earliest limes to the present day the deeds of kings and heroes have been recorded in arches of stone. The Propylea at Athens, the arch of Constantine at Rome, the arch of Triumph at Paris, the Washington arch in New York, and the marble arch in London are familiar examples of this fact. These memorials have been thc means of perpetuating the memory of men and events which would otherwise have passed into oblivion. Such commemoration, recording the gratitude and appreciation of the nation, incites to great deeds and emulation in those living and in generations yet unborn. These memorials fix in thc mind the sacrifices of a people on the altar of patriotism as nothing else can. They become objects of patriotic pilgrimage, and from them emanate influences which contribute to the fostering of national ideals which make for the upbuilding of the nation.

Canada has taken her place among the nations of t he earth, and has demonstrated that she is an integral part of the British Empire. Shall we not record the deeds and the daring of her

gallant sons? Shall we allow the names and the sacrifices of our fallen comrades to be forgotten? They have not died in vain, for their blood has cemented the structure of the British Empire.

The city of Toronto, as becomes the capital of the great province of Ontario, is adorned with statues and memorials of Ontario's illustrious dead. Shall we not rise equal to the importance of the occasion and erect a Provincial Arch of Triumph to her victorious sons, and to record for all time the names of the gallant dead who fell in the defence of the Empire and in the sacred cause of civil and religious liberty in South Africa.

I propose the formation of a committee to he composed of representatives of the Red Cross Society, National societies, the military element and representative men in Ontario to take the matter up and bring it to a successful issue.



G.	STERLING RYERSON.





DEAR SIR,—In reply to your article re Soldiers' Memorial, I agree that some steps should be taken to express our gratitude for the sacrifice those have boys made in giving up their lives for our country, and no more fitting monument could be erected to their memory than a permanent arch at the entrance to Queen's Park avenue.

I would therefore suggest, if the idea finds favor., and it surely must, that the architects and artists of Toronto be requested to

