<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER  32





<article title="A Method for Heating and Ventilating Churches" author="">A METHOD OF HEATING AND VENTIL

ATING CHURCHES.

So little attention is, as a rule, paid to ventilation in our churches and public halls, that we are always glad to notice any successful attempts at a solution of the problem. That it would be a great boon to the public, all acknowledge ; practical experience however, often makes one fear that its realization cannot be looked for at present.

One of the latest attempts in this direction is to be found at the Crescent Street Church (Pres.) of Montreal, where a complete hot blast or tan system of heating and ventilation has been installed during the past season.

We give a sketch plan to show location of plant, conveying pipes, &c. The church is a large one, containing some 385,000 feet in the main audience room, and about 128,000 feet in the lecture and Sunday school

the Laurie Engine Co., with cylinder 6"x 9', the exhaust steam going directly into the outside sections of the heating coil.

The fan, of the 34 housing type, is set directly over a Portland cement duct, some 35 feet in length, before connecting with the galvanized iron piping. By this means much of the trouble from vibration is avoided, and a permanent connection secured. Branch pipes lead to the lecture room directly above, and the school rooms on second floor. The arrangement of piping for the church proper is shown on the plan, and it will be seen that the front porch and towers are provided with a moderate amount of heat, thus preventing extremely cold draughts when the inner doors are opened.

Proceeding upstairs, we notice that the air enters the body of the church at twelve points, only two of which are at the floor level and these almost directly in front of the doors into the vestibule. Two openings with

METHOD OF HEATING AND VENTILATING CHURCHES.



rooms, the latter situated in the extension, which has two storeys.

Entering the basement, we find the boilers, heating coil, fan and engine, located in the extension, and directly under the lecture room. As there is a heavy division wall between this and the main church, this arrangement brings all the machinery directly under the eye of the engineer, and at the same time secures quietness for the main audience room. We find here two boilers of 25 h.p. each, arranged to be used separately or in combination, and ordinarily run at about 6o lb. pressure. The heating coif, encased in a jacket of steel, contains 5,350 ft. of 1" steam pipe, and owing to the increased circulation by this system, is equal to about three times that amount when arranged in the ordinary way. The air ducts are so connected with the heater that air from the church, or fresh air from outside, can be drawn through it in any proportion desired.

The fan has a capacity at 300 r.p.m. of 24,000 c.f.m, and is capable of changing the entire air in the church every 15 minutes, but during the services is slowed down to about 2/3 speed. The engine is one made by

diffusers are placed just under the gaffery at the front corners, and one large register each side of the pulpit and some 30 ft. from the floor. The special feature of the plan, however, is the provision for a curtain of hot air 4" thick in front of the large windows at each side, and the front of the church. With the of d furnaces, great trouble was experienced with currents of cold air from these windows that could be felt even to the centre seats, but the new plan has proved a great success. This method has not disfigured the windows, and it will take a close examination to discover how the air is admitted.

Passing on into the extension, we find the registers so arranged as to blow the air against the outside walls above the heads of the audience, with the return flow along the floor. In the main church the registers formerly used for the furnaces have been utilized for returning the foul air to the ventilating flue.

The plan of operation generally followed is, that while the church is being heated, the air is returned continually through the heater, it being perfectly fresh and pure. This is continued until just before the audi-

