<doctype type="text">152	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Montreal" author="">Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



imperial Building.



MONTREAL, August 15, 1900.



ARCHITECTURAL INSTRUCTION AT McGill UNIVERSITY.



The annual calendar of McGill University, Montreal, states that during the session of 1900-1901 special courses of lectures will he given ill connection with the Architectural Department, by Messrs. E.E.S. Mattice, B.A. Sc. (McGill), and M.C.J. Beullac,. R. Sc. (University of France), of the Dominion Bridge Works, on the following subjects

i.	Building materials the history, properties, tests and uses of all materials of construction.



2. Specifications and professional practice: The different methods of preparing specifications for estimates, instructions to bidders, and rules to he observed in writing specifications, general clauses, law of contracts.

3. Building Construction (a) Carpentry frames, joints. framing of floors and roofs, partitions, bridging, furring, etc



(h)	Slow burning construction (c) Masonry.



4. Hygiene -(a) Plumbing; (b) Disposal of household refuse (c) Heating (d) Ventilation.



5. Steel frame buildings: Design, millwork, steel and cast iron columns and connections, beams and girders, framing and wind bracing.



Special designs will be prepared in the drawing-room illustrating the several subjects of the lectures.



A course of lectures on '' The Elements of Building Construction and Foundations" will be given by Professors Capper and Lea, in connection with the course in will engineering and applied mechanics. These lectures will treat of: (a) Brick and stone masonry; (b) Timber framing—flooring, beams, columns, centering, etc (c) Iron and steel framing—girders, columns, etc (d) Fireproof and slow burning construction ; (e) The bearing power of the various soils, rocks, etc., as they occur in nature (f) The stability and character of the underlying material at any given site, taking into account tile effect of frost, erosion, etc ; (g) Tile construction of different kinds of foundations, both on land and in water, by piling, dredging, coffer dams, open and pneumatic caissons, freezing, etc.



PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



The half—yearly examinations of the P. Q. A. A. were held at the Association's rooms, 112 Mansfield St., Montreal, July 18, 19 and 20, 1900.



Tile following candidates came up for their final examinations



Edward B. Staveley, Quebec; G. W. Northwood, Ottawa ; Frank



Peden, Montreal; O. Huvt, Montreal ; also for preliminary



examinations : L. Auger, Levis, One ; Gen. L. Rapolle, Quebec;



J.	Scott, Montreal; Eug. Lalonde, Montreal ; Louis Labelle,



Montreal; Michael Levesque, Montreal; Jas. E. Boyne, Montreal;



Geo. H. Wilkins, Montreal.



The results of the examinations have not been given as yet, but will be printed in the next issue of this paper. The next examination will be held in Quebec city January 16, 17 and 18, 1901.



The annual meeting of the P.Q.A.A. will be held in Montreal on t he 3rd and 4th of September. Arrangements are being made to hold an architectural exhibition in connection with the convention.



The Association have adopted and had printed the following schedule of charges:

No. 1.—Schedule of charges to be made by members of the Association shall be as follows



No. 2.-- For plans, specifications, working drawings, and superintendence, on all classes of buildings, except such as are hereinafter excepted, a commission of per cent. (5) on the total cost of tile work.



No. 3.—On three houses of similar design and on single stores and warehouses, four per cent. (47:).



No. 4.—On tour or more houses or two or more stores or warehouses of similar design and on all factories, three per cent

No. 5.—Partial charges to be as follows:

I.—For preliminary studies, sketches, one-fifth (1/5) of tile above charges.



II. For complete plans and specifications, including the preliminary studies, one-half (12) of the above charges.



III. - For details, one-fifth (1/5) of the above charges.



1\'. For superintendence of works when drawings are not furnished, two and one half per cent (2 1/2) on the cost of the works.

No. 6.--- For work in alteration of premises, the amount of commission to be seven and one-half (7 1/2 ).

No. 7. For work in which the expenditure is mainly for skilled labor, namely : For monumental work, fittings and furniture, and for decorative work, stained glass and such like, tile commission to he ten per cent. (10) 00 the outlay. 



No. 8.—-Travelling expenses, including time lost in travelling, to he paid by the client, if the work is executed at a distance.



No. 9.—Valuations of property requiring measurements and a detailed estimate, where the value does not exceed $5,000, one and one-half per cent. (1 1/2). Where the value exceeds $5,000 the commission to be one and one-half per cent. (112) on the first $5,000, and 0110 per cent. (1) on tile remainder.



No. 10.—All works, studies, consultations and proceedings



·that are not covered by this tariff shall be remunerated according to the quantum meruit.



No. 11. .—Drawings and specifications arc the property of the architect, who only lends the drawings and specifications,





FOUNDATION AND EARLY HISTORY OF McGill UNIVERSITY.



McGill University has a special interest for architects and engineers because of its splendidly equipped Architectural and Engineering Departments. Tile accompanying concise description and early history of this now famous institution is reprinted from the Annual Calendar



"Almost alone ill this respect among Canadian colleges and universities, McGill University owes its origin to a private endowment. Its founder, the lion. James McGill, from whom tile University takes its name, was born on the 6th October, 1744, in Glasgow, Scotland, where he received his early education and training. Emigrating to Canada before the American Revolution he engaged in the North-West fur trade, then one of the leading branches of business ill Canada. Subsequently he settled ill Montreal, and, in partnership with his brother, Andrew McGill, became one of its leading merchants, distinguished for his public spirit and his exertions for the advancement of tile city. He was lieutenant-colonel and subsequently colonel of the Montreal City Militia; and, in his old age, on the breaking 0111 of the American war of 1812, he became brigadier-general, and was prepared to take the field in defence of his country. He also represented the West Ward of Montreal in the Provincial Legislature, and was afterwards a member of the Legislative and Executive Councils. cultivating and enjoying the society of tile few men of learning then in the colony, he took a special interest in tile establishment of an educational system in the Province of Quebec. By his will, bearing date the 8th January. 1811, more than two years before his death, which happened On the 19th December, 1813, he bequeathed his property of Burnside and a sum of £10,000 in money to found a college in a provincial university, the erection of which had already been provided for by the generosity of the British Government. Three leading citizens of Montreal were appointed trustees under the will, and were directed to convey tile subject property of the bequest to tile Royal Institution for tile Advancement of Learning, a body which, in 1802, had been incorporated by tile Legislature "for the establishment of Free Schools, and the Advancement of Learning," in the Province of Quebec. The conditions upon which the property was to be transferred to the Royal Institution for tile Advancement o Learning were, mainly that tile Institution should, within tell )'ears after the testator's decease, erect and establish on his Burnside estate " an university College, for the purposes of education and the advancement of learning in this Province," and that the college, or one of tile colleges in the University, if established,,

