<doctype type="text;ad">204	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Useful Hints" author="">USEEUL HINTS.

A correspondent writes suggesting that a patina on copper can be formed by washing it a few times with salt watcr. This idea occurred to him on noticing the colour of what appeared to be a small copper covered spire, facing the sea, that be saw at Brighton.



A paste with which wallpaper can be attached to wood or masonry, adhering to it firmly in spite of dampness, is prepared as usual with rye flour, to which, however, are added, after the boiling, eight grammes of good linseed oil varnish and eight and one-half grammes of turpentine to every 500 grammes.



A gallon of paint made of finely ground Venetian red mixed in oil ~vil1 cover onefourth more (and do it better) than a gallon of paint made of dry Venetian red mixed in oil. It will take much less time to put it on, ~vill wear out less brushes, will wear longer, and hold its color better. Hence, it is perhaps cheaper, as well as better, for all partics to use the article ground in oil.



An excellent effect in burlap decoration, says the Plumber and Decorator, is to hang the burlap on the lower two-thirds of the ~vall, using a white wall or a large figured paper for the upper third. If the burlap is dark red or green, a black moulding gives a pleasing finishing touch, and a narro~v leather gimp, studded with brass-headed tacks and run under the moulding and around the casements and foot-board is very effective.



The weight of a round chimney can be figured by multiplying the ~veight of a cubic unit of masonry by the contents of the separate drums or shells each figured by the formula C=0.7854z (D2—d2). In this expression D and d are the mean inner and outer diameters, z the height of the shell the thickness of the shell is assumed to be uniform. The weight and surface of architectural additions, caps, cornices and the like are to be neglected.



To PREVENT MOISTURE STRIKING THROUGH BRICK OR PLASTERED WALLS.



—After a prolonged dry spell, which has given the wall a good chance to dry out, put on a good coat of oil paint, which will soak well into the bricks, then putty up the joints and all tle holes that may be in the bricks with glazier's putty stained the color of your paint. When this is dry, give a second coat, not quite as oily as the first and finish off with a coat of flat brick color, or if this is undesirable with a good glossy, oil paint.



For making a sea green shingle stain, the Painters Magazine advises the use of Prussian blue, Dutch pink and yellow ochre, all finely ground in linseed oil, thinned down to a semi-paste with boiled linseed oil and liquid drier and finally reduced with benzine to proper consistency for dipping. The thinner the stain, the more will it penetrate into the wood. In place of the benzine, or, at least, in place of part of the benzine, creosote or coal tar naphtha may be employed to preserve the wood and prevent fungus growth.



M. Letorey, a French architect, has applied the captive balloon to the cleaning and decorating of cupolas, high roofs,

towers and monuments. The balloon can be raised or lowered from a wagon by a windlass, arid it can be steadied by stays from the side of the envelope. It has two platforms, or nacelles, one on the top, the other underneath, and these communicate by a ladder up a central tube. The

balloon scaffold," as it is called, might be useful and safe in many operations, such as now require steeple-jacks, for example, the wreathing of Nelson's column, and also in wireless telegraphy as an aerial.—London Globe.



The base of all hydraulic mortars is lme or the oxide of the metal calcium. Quicklime contains 44 by weight of carb. dioxide and 56 parts of oxide of calcium. In slaking 18 parts by weight of water unite with 56 parts of quicklime, making 74 parts of calcic hydrate. The process of slaking is greatly facilitated by the degree of heat generated. Hydrate of lime contains 10 per cent. to 25 per cent.

alumina. It differs from quicklime in that it hardens in water and is either argillaceous or Siliceous.

A Chicago man who was desirous of escaping the nerve wrecking noises of the city streets, is said to have conceived arid adopted the plan of filling all cracks and apertures in the house which might admit sound with a material so constructed as to afford access to air while shutting out noise. The material which the owner says discriminates between noise and air is in the form of strips of rubber, perforated with zigzag holes. Through this the air is admitted, ~vhile the noise is softened or completely deadened, the sound waves dying out in repeated reflections in the crooked passages. These strips of rubber have been placed over all cracks around the doors and windows of the house, and two months' experience with the plan has convinced the owner, he says, of its practicability.



THE PEDLAR PEOPLE-PLASTER ON STEEL LATH

OSHAWA, ONTARIO