



<doctype type="text">Estimating Plastering.

any contractor who is not experienced in the art should be wary of relying on his own figures in such cases, and as is done by many firms, it is always wise to consult the skilled workman when any doubt exists as to the cost of any particular piece of stone work. It is better to be sure than to be sorry afterwards.



<article title="Estimating Plastering" author="">Plastering is generally measured by the yard superficial. Openings of less extent than seven yards are not deducted. Returns of chimney breasts, pilasters or angles less than twelve inches wide, measure twelve inches. Baseboards, six or less inches wide are not deducted. In closets, add one-half to the measurement. Circular or elliptical work, charge two prices, and for domes or groined ceilings three prices. For each twelve feet in height add six per cent. extra. Cornices and centre-pieces in buildings more than eighteen feet high in the first story, should have five per cent. added to cover scaffolding and extra labor and time in getting material up. Centre-pieces, panelling and extra stucco work must be charged the regular prices for such work put in similar positions. Plaster brackets, consoles, rosettes, strap-work or other similar productions must be charged at current rates. Rough-casting on brick or stone in lime and fine grave! in two coats, should he charged at the rate of from 16 to 20 cents per yard, according to cost of materials and labor. Rough-casting on frame buildings, including all materials and lathing, two coat work, lathing diagonal double, should be charged up at the rate of from 26 to 30 cents per square yard. Plain cornices and mouldings, per inch girth and foot running, from 2 to 3 cents for each inch girth, so that a plain cornice measuring 15 inches girth must be charged from 30 to 45 cents per running foot, according to cost of material and rate of wages. This price also includes the dubbing out and putting up rough brackets wherever they are necessary and the extra lathing. All mitres over four in number, are to be charged each at the price of a foot running of moulding, except in halls or small rooms under 14x16 feet, then all mitres should be paid for extra. Lathing alone, laths and nails included. should not be charged less than 10 cents per yard super. Lath and plaster one coat material included, 17 cents per yard. The same set with fine stuff, 22 cents per yard. For two coat work, floated, 26 cents per yard. For two coat work, gauged in plaster of Paris, 30 cents per yard. If done in Portland cement, one of cement and three of lime mortar, charge 26 cents per yard for one coat work ; if two coat work, charge 32 cents per yard. For rendering on brick wall, one coat with common mortar, charge TO cents per yard; for two coats and set with fine stuff, charge 25 cents per yard. For coloured finish in stone, buff, salmon color, French grey, blue or lemon color, add 4 cents per yard to above prices. For lime washing in one coat, charge per one square (100 feet) 10 cents, if twice done, 20 cents per square ; with whiting and size in one coat, II cents per square, for two coats, 21 cents per square. Scraping off old whitewash and stopping old walls to receive new wash, charge 15 cents per square. If the plaster is much broken, extra for putting on new plaster must be charged, and for this work about 3 cents per foot super must be charged for repairs of walls, and if color is to be matched, 4 cents per foot. For repairing ceilings, hacking off old plaster and putting in new, including scaffolding and material, from 4 to 6 cents per foot should be charged. If coloured to match ceiling,

add another cent per foot ; if gauged with plaster of Paris, add 1 1/2 cents per foot. For taking down old plastering and lath, and removing rubbish to outside of building, charge 7 cents per yard, and extra if rubbish is removed to some distance from building. For taking down old scantling or rough casting and removing rubbish to outside of building, including wetting, dubbing out, and other necessary work in preparing wall for receiving plastering, charge from

	new	7 to 8 cents per

yard. Taking down old plastering or lathed walls or ceilings without renewing the lathing, including renailing the laths where necessary and removing rubbish to outside of building, charge 6 cents per yard. Walls which are warped or out of line should be screeded by applying horizontal strips of plaster mortar 8 or 10 inches wide and 3 or 4 feet apart all over the surface. These screeds should he made to project out from the first coat and form gauges or working guides to fill up the hollow portions of the wall to. They must be taken out of wind and be plumb with the walls, then a straight edge reaching from one to another will show the defects in the wall, which must be corrected by the workman. All this labor and material must be charged up in estimating independent of the regular measurement per yard. This, of course, only relates to old walls. Pugging is the term employed to denote the method of lining in the spaces between floor joists, which is usually done with coarse stuff, and is intended to prevent the passage of sound from one story to another. This is also termed ''deafening with mortar." This may be charged by the yard or by the lump; if by the yard, which is the proper way, it is worth from 3 to 5 cents per yard, the lower price for the lower stories, and the larger price for the upper stories. Mortar laid on roof boards under shingles, one half inch in thickness, is worth from 1 1/2 to 2 cents per yard, according to the quality of the mortar, and the height of the roof. This price, of course, includes labor and all materials.



The Board of Examiners appointed in connection with the new plumbing by-law of Halifax, printed in this number, consists of the City Engineer (chairman), City Plumbing Inspector, and one representative from the Master Plumbers' Association and the Journeyman Plumbers' Union.

Screws used in soft wood are sometimes driven in with a hammer and given a turn or two with a screwdriver to bring them flush. A manufacturer has brought out a new screw which is adapted for driving, and which enters the wood without tearing the grain, as the ordinary screw does. The gimlet point is dispensed with and. a cone point substituted. The thread has a pitch that it drives in barb fashion, offering no resistance on entering, but firmly resisting all attempts to withdraw it except by turning it with a screw-driver.

When inserted at the bottom of air shatts, gas jets establish active air currents which withdraw the vitiated air, and may be made especially useful on occasion when apartments are unusually crowded. It has been proved by experiment that I cubic foot of illuminating gas can be utilized so as to cause the discharge of 1,000 cubic feet of air ; and as a common gas burner will consume 3 feet of gas per hour, it would extract from an apartment 3,000 cubic feet of contaminated air during that period, By suitable contrivances also, the gas lights which are usually such active causes of deterioration, may not only become self ventilating and carry off their own impurities, but also aid materially in keeping pure the air of inhabited apartments.

