	<doctype type="text">132	THE CANADIAN ARCHITCT AND



to the Montreal Street Railway BUILDER on the following conditions, and that the whole is ratified by by-law



In consideration of the street railway continuing and extending their lines from the present terminus on Cote de Nieges Road, across the Seminary and Trafalgar Institute property, along Westmount Rd., Avenue and Boulevard, as far west as St. George's Club House. The town of Westmount will pay a bonus of one thousand dollars per annum for ten years, commencing from tile day the cars run on said extension to St. George's Club House, subject to the following t. That the said extension to St. George's Club House he further extended and continued round the mountain and then easward to Westmount Road, so as to form a circuit of the mountain. 2. To construct a loop line to Sherbrooke St. from the Boulevard, via Argyle avenue or some other street parallel west of Argyle Ave., within the above mentioned three years. 3. To carry passengers to Or from tile city to any point on said above mentioned extension and loop line at single fare. 4. The cars on said extension or loop line to run at intervals of not more than ten minutes each way.



Mr. Justice Davidson recently gave judgment in a case between the Asbestos & Asbestic Co. and the William Sclater Co., Ltd., to enjoin them from using the word ''Asbestic" or "Asbestic Wall Plaster," on the ground that it was an infringement of their trade mark. The Court held that the word Asbestic was of general use and that words used to describe an article were common property. The Court of the Queen's Bench (in appeal) has unanimously decided that a landlord who rents his houses to women of ill-repute is guilty in the same degree as the keeper herself and may be condemned to the same penalty as the principal. This judgment was given in a case which was initiated by the Recorder's Court.



Sir William McDonald, with his usual generosity, has offered to erect and endow a crematory for Montreal, and in order to have tile best and latest ideas embodied in his scheme, he, together with Mr. Andrew T. Taylor, architect, visited Boston, where the most improved plant is to be seen. It is understood that plans are now under way and that this city will soon be numbered among those that can give an option on the manner in which the last rites to the dead are to be carried out. Sanitary and common sense reasons seem to point to cremation as tile better method, though it will doubtless be many years before it will be used even by a majority of persons, and in this case it will probably be longer on account of the sentiment of an old custom lingering still more over the old ceremony.



During the months of May and June summer classes in drawing, modelling and painting, open to men and women students, were held in the rooms of the Architectural Department of McGill University under the direction of Mr. Henry F. Armstrong. Instruction was given daily, except Saturday, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., in addition to excursions for outdoor sketching. The courses of study embraced the following



FREEHAND DRAWING IN LIGHT AND SHADE IN LEAD PENCH. AND CHARCOAL.—An Elementary Course, including, (t) the drawing of common objects, casts of ornament, architectural details, and studies embodying the principles of perspective—as preparatory to outdoor sketching, etc. (2) the drawing of plant life; (3) outdoor sketching of landscape subjects in pencil. An Advanced Course, including, (1) the drawing of animals from casts in relief and in the round ; (2) the drawing of the human figure from casts of antique and other sculpture; (3) studies in drapery; (4) drawing from the living human figure; (5) weekly exercises in figure composition for those drawing from the living model.



PEN AND INK RENDERING AND BLACK AND WHITE WORK.



MODELLING. An Elementary Course, including, (t) the modelling, from casts, of ornament in low relief and in high relief; (2) casting in plaster of paris. An Advanced Course, including, (1) the modelling of animals from casts in relief and in the round (2) the modelling of drapery; (3) the modelling of the human head and the human figure in low relief and in high relief from casts of antique and other sculpture; (4) the modelling of the human head, torso, and complete figure in tile round, from casts of antique and other sculpture; (5) the modelling of the human head and figure from life; (6) weekly exercises in sculpture composition for those studying the full figure from life.



PAINTING IN OILS AND WATER COLOR.—An Elementary Course, including, (1) studies in still life, or still objects, material, fruits, etc., in groups arranged as compositions in color and light and shade. (Mixture of colors, handling, technique, etc., taught in this section) ; (2) studies from plant life in bloom ; (3) indoor studies in landscape art as preliminary to outdoor work;

(4) outdoor sketching in water color and in oils. An Advanced Course in Oil Painting, (t) from the human head, tile draped figure, and the full living model, as preparatory to portrait painting, pictorial compositions and decorative painting ; (2) weekly home exercises in figure and color composition for those painting the full human figure.







<article title="Value of Hemlock" author="">VALUE OF HEMLOCK.

A FEW years ago hemlock lumber was regarded as of little value, but recently it has steadily gained in favor until its commercial value has almost reached that of white pine. The scarcity of white pine is in part responsible for the greater attention given to hemlock. It is quite remarkable that in the North-Western States the production of hemlock lumber increased during the year 1899 over 200,000,000 feet. This indicates that hemlock is gradually occupying a stronger position as a staple article. In Pennsylvania and the east hemlock has for some time been used for the cheaper classes of buildings, and now that it has come into more general use in the west, the question has arisen as to its value is relation to white pine. The opinion seems to be graining ground among the hemlock manufacturers that there is no reason why it should not command a price equally as high as white pine ; in fact, the North-Western Manufacturers Association have established a list only $1.50 below the pine quotations. This, it might be said, is the highest relative price yet obtained for hemlock piece stuff.

What has been said regarding the hemlock of the United States is equally true of the Canadian product. There are, in Canada, two varieties of hemlock. The timber commonly known as hemlock is found more or less abundantly in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, while the western hemlock is common to British Columbia only. The quality of western hemlock is superior to the eastern article. It is likewise shown by tests that the hemlock of eastern Canada is of better quality than that of the United States. The specific gravity, elasticity, transverse strength, and resistance to indentation are higher in the Canadian article, while only in resistance to longitudinal compression is the United States article shown to be superior. It is also worthy of note that tests of hemlock show that material to he superior in some qualities to white pine, hut, of course, it is generally inferior to that timber, and is not capable of taking as good finish.

There is, we believe, a promising future for the hemlock timber of Canada, and although it may never become as generally used as the white pine, its value will no doubt advance as the merits of the timber become more generally known.



The rules for heating of buildings are many and various but tile following are given as having been found reliable in practice:



Allow one-fourth square foot of radiating surface for each of the cubic contents for first floor rooms and halls ; the same amount of radiating surface for each of cubic contents of room for second and upper floor rooms, and one-fourth square foot of radiating surface for each square foot of glass surface plus that of exposed wall. Wolff gives the following allowance for special conditions : Increase ten per cent. for northerly exposures subject to wind, and ten per cent. when the building is heated during the day time only and when the building is not exposed. Increase 30 per cent. when the building is done in the

day time only and when the building is much exposed. Increase 50 per cent. when the buildings heated during winter months intermittently at long intervals. The above factors make a considerable modification and what factor to use in any given case is a matter of judgment based on experience.

