<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	3



<article title="Walter Shanly" author="">WALTER SHANLY.

WITH the death of Mr. Walter Shanly, at Montreal, on December 17th last, there passed out of life an interesting personality. The late Mr. Shanly was widely known, not alone as an eminent engineer, but as one who once occupied a distinguished place in the commercial and political life of the nation. Born in Queen's County, Ireland, in 1819, he came with his father to Canada when a youth of 17, and adopted the engineering profession. He was employed on the Beauharnois and Welland canals and on American railways until 1850 In that year he became engineer of the Ottawa and Prescott Railway, in 1851 engineer of the western division of the Grand Trunk Railway, and in 1858 general manager of the latter system. In conjunction with his brother, the late Frank Shanly, he built the celebrated Hoosac Tunnel. His advice was highly esteemed as a consulting engineer in connection with many important undertakings. He was for some years president of the Mechanics' Bank, and was a member of the delegation of representative Canadians to the Detroit Trade Convention of 1864. From 1863 until Confederation he was a member of the old Parliament of Canada,





































THE LATE MR. WALTER SHANLY.





and sat in the first, fifth and sixth Parliaments after Confederation. He was a life-long friend and supporter of the late Sir John Macdonald. His remains were interred at London, Ont.





<article title="T Square Club of Philadelphia" author="">T SQUARE CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.

We have received from this Club the catalogue of their exhibition of 1899-1900. It is a really valuable publication, and the T Square Club is an institution to inspire hope for the future—the near future—of American architecture. It describes itself as "a working man's club," but the bond seems to be more than merely a common profession there seems to be a common aim—to follow lines not of convention but of development, In the exhibition to which this catalogue is a guide they have got together a collection of drawings by American, English, and a few French architects, which represent work in a diversity of manner, but all good of its kind, and some of the drawings are wonderful. This collection of drawings, (505 in number, of which about 120 are reproduced in the catalogue,) appears to travel from town to town, between affiliated clubs, during the year. The drawings are evidently selected with great care, either by a hanging committee or in the first instance at the office of the exhibitors. The travelling representatives in England and France have no doubt had the opportunity of marking their catalogues at exhibitions in London and Paris and afterwards begging from the exhibitors the selection thus made. The circuit of the drawings in this collection is arranged by the Architectural League of America, which seems to be a machine for obtaining combined action upon points of

common interest by architectural clubs or societies of diverse character.

Whatever the other clubs of the league may be like, there is life in the T Square Club. They have besides this annual exhibition a travelling fellowship for which is appropriated "a sum to be spent in a few months of European travel under the direction of the Club." The competitive test for the fellowship is not an examination, but a series of competitions upon the same theme. Each competition is upon a part ; the plan, elevations, the grouping of parts, the grasp of the problem as a whole, In the last two competitions improvements on the original design are allowed which would naturally be suggested in the process of making the drawings, and for the sake of which such drawings are, in actual practice, made. Each competition is judged by itself independently but the award is made on the average for the year ; that is to say upon the whole effort. The subject for this year, a Semi-Suburban Residence near Philadelphia, is characteristic of the Club. Last year there was incorporated with the catalogue a number of letters from prominent architects of the United States,

answer to an enquiry as to the possibilities of "an unaffected school of modern architecture in America.' The competition this year offers a local, practical problem exactly calculated to direct the efforts of draughtsmen in the way of the modern development of old motives which should be the way by which an unaffected school of modern architecture will grow.

The T. Square Club works not only at the art of architecture but takes a hand also in efforts to establish system and morale in dealings between the profession and the public, especially in the matter of competitions and it is endeavoring to procure competition for certain public buildings in various cities and towns of Pennsylvania under the operation of the Tarsney Act which gives discretionary power to the Secretary of the Treasury to select local architects to enter into competition for such buildings.

Here is a live Club in the best sense; it s alive in the right directions. It is pleasing to see that there are two contributors from Toronto to the exhibition. We may perhaps hope that not only the aims of the Club are growing our way but the circuit of the exhibition of drawings.





<article title="Notes" author="">NOTES.

The Trades Unions of Chicago have become so unreasonable in their demands that the architects and contractors of that city are said to have joined hands for the purpose of breaking up the power of the walking delegates.

The city council of Ottawa have appointed the Mayor as the city's commissioner on the board which is to control the expenditure of the grant of $60,000 per year voted by the Government for public improvements within the city.

The city solicitor of Toronto has been instructed to memorialize the courts to declare the Elliott & Neelon contract for the erection of the city hall closed, and to give a winding-up order which would permit of the disposal of the plant.



At the last meeting of the Provincial Board of Health of Ontario it was decided to investigate the need for adopting accurate and systematic means of ventilation for schools and other public buildings. The result of the enquiry will be reported at the next meeting.

The report of the Committee appointed by the Ottawa Board of Trade to consider what amendments should be made to the Building By-law of that city, came up for consideration a second time recently and gave rise to a somewhat heated discussion. The President of the Board was strongly in favor of the adoption of the report as printed in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for November. Several of the city architects also supported the report, which, however, was strongly opposed by some of the local contractors. It was ultimately resolved that it should be. again referred back to the Committee for revision.



Mr. John M. Byrens, architect, of New Westminster, B.C., has invented a device called a "storm lath" for the purpose of shutting out draughts from windows. It consists of a strip of zinc an inch or two wide, which, on being passed through a specially manufactured machine comes out with a V-shaped ridge down the centre. This is then fitted tightly into the window frame, if desired, on the sides as well as across the sill and the top, and when the window is lowered this joint fits snugly into a corresponding groove in the edge of the window. By its formation

small air chamber is formed, 'which has the same effect as double windows. A company has been organized and has commenced the manufacture of the device in New Westminster,

