



<doctype type="text">Metal Wainscot.

<article title="Metal Wainscot" author="">and, as the mortar makes a good non-conductor of sound, it is quite an advantage to the room. When a ground crosses a gas-pipe or an electric wire, it should be notched out or cut in two, leaving a free space for the wire or pipe. There will be other little matters arise, all of' which can readily be dealt with by the workman as he meets them. A metal ceiling, while not so nearly artistic as a panelled ceiling in oak, cherry or birch, or as a properly decorated ceiling in plaster, has a beauty of its own, and with the painter's aid may be made quite artistic ; and, as it is less costly than any other ceiling having any claim to artistic beauty, and being fire-proof, light and easily applied, it is sure to become quite popular as soon as its good

qualities are known, and the prejudices of old-fashioned workmen are removed. Indeed, metal ceilings are already pushing their way into the smaller towns and villages in the country, and bid fair to become as popular as colored glass windows.





IN preparing for putting up sheet steel wainscot, all the grounds or strips should be brought to a face with a

straight-edge and the top ground should be exactly parallel with the line of the floor, and at the proper height to receive the crown moulding or top moulding of the wainscot. this crown mould is generally in a separate piece, and in such lengths as may be required, though this is not always the case, as some manufacturers make the whole panel in one piece, base and top mouldings included. This style is not to be commended, as there are too many butt joints exposed, both on moulding and base, and it requires too much labor at the angles to make the mouldings conform with each other. We are speaking now of putting on wainscot over a plastered wall, in which case it may be found that the wall is not straight by any means, which will necessitate the straightening of it up by means of the grounds, which must be skimmed out in the hollow parts and the plaster removed at points where it bulges out from the wall. The grounds should not be more than 8 of an inch thick when possible, in order to encroach into the room as little as may be. This thickness will be found quite sufficient if the strips are well nailed to every stud they cross, and properly "shimmed" wherever required. If the building is of brick or stone, it will be a wise precaution to nail up against the outer walls a thickness of good felt paper in order to prevent condensation on the metal work, no matter whether the walls have been furred or not. This precaution, if well taken, will prevent moisture or sweating on the wainscot. It the building is new, the inner side of the outer wall should be boarded on the studding or furring, and this should, again, be covered with felt, when the metal work may be attached without further preparation, providing, always, the face of the work is straight and true. The wainscot cap, or crown, should be of sufficient projection to receive the lath and plaster above it and show a bold front in the room. Care must be taken in fitting the metal mouldings in the angles and about the doors and windows, and the workman must be provided with a pair of shears or sharp cold chisel and a couple of files, which he will find useful and not difficult to manipulate. The ordinary workman will find nothing- very formidable in the putting- up of sheet steel ceilings or wainscotings, and it will be more to his interests, and in the interests of good

taste, to encourage a more extensive use of sheet metal than it is to discourage it, as is done at the present.





<article title="Questions and Answers" author="">QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

"BUILDER," Indian Head, N.W.T., writes: Will you kindly answer the following question How is mason work measured or how would it be measured, in case

a law suit over a dispute on same. We here in this country measure around the outside of a building, while one authority on mensuration shows it as in the accompanying sketch.



ANSWER.—In measuring stonework in the wall, it is usual in most parts of Ontario to take the whole girt of the outside, bending a tape-line around corners and projections, and multiplying this by the height and thickness of wall, 100 cubic feet of wall measurement making one cord. This method of measurement is allowed for labor alone. If measured for material, the corners are to be deducted, that is to say, a wall 20 feet long, having two side walls entering it, each 2 feet thick, would measure only for material 16 feet long, while the side walls would measure the full length— thus, a building 20 x 40 would measure for material, 112 feet in length, white for labor at so much a cord, it would measure 20 feet. Where a contractor furnishes the stone and lays the wall, he will he entitled to the full measurement of 120 feet. One cord of loose stone of 128 cubic feet will, when laid in the wall, measure about 100 feet. Hence, a mason's cord of stone in the wall is allowed for every 100 cubic feet.



SUBSCRIBER " asks Which is considered the better method of putting on shiplap sheeting on studs, diagonal or horizontal ?

Answer.—It is a disputed point as to whether it is better to nail on sheeting diagonally or horizontally. We are inclined to think that if laid with horizontal joints, tight together, and well nailed to every stud, the work will be as strong and as solid as if put on diagonally, and the economy in material and labor will be quite considerable.



<article title="Plaster Partitions" author="">PLASTER PARTITIONS.

Light plaster partitions, 1 1/2 inches thick, have recently been used in toilet and bath rooms planned by Mr. Richard E. Schmidt, of Chicago. The plaster is held by a framework of small steel shapes attached to the wall and to light cast-iron posts. The latter are held at their tops by a small pipe run through them and



fixed with a set screw at every post. The frame reaches to within 10 inches of the floor and is covered with wire lath, not shown in the sketch. Where the frame meets the wall, the plaster is curved out so as to cover the steel shapes and form a good-looking junction

