<doctype type="text;plate">THE BUILDER











[THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED To FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPE RIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



<article title="Preparing Estimates" author="">Preparing Estimates.THE first thing to he considered in the preparation of an estimate is the excavating and removal of surplus earth, if any. This should be made up into cubic yards, and the measurements should extend at least three inches beyond the outer edge of the footing; with extra beyond for batten of sides of excavation, depending on depth and nature of soil. If the surplus earth is to be carted away to some distance, figure accordingly, if wheeled out and left on lot charge for every twenty yards traversed. Excavating trenches for foundation walls should be accounted by the yard, and should be charged at a higher rate than for open excavations. The same should also be charged for excavating for pier footings and similar work. When underpinning is required and excavating is necessary extra care and time must be provided for in the estimate. Filling in and ramming to foundation must be charged for at a special rate, so also must be the cleaning up and grading the grounds after the foundation is in. All excavations for drains, pipes, etc., must be figured on, but when the contractor intends to sub-let the plumbing he may obtain the figures for the whole of the work in that department from the plumber.



<article title="The Mason Work" author="">The Mason Work. 

Find the number of cubic feet of stone wall there will be in the foundation,

footings, offsets and all projections included. One hundred and twenty-eight feet of loose stone make a cold according to custom, and one hundred cubic feet in the wall make a cord of finished mason work. In estimating for this work some account must be taken of the style of work and the character of materials, as it will take up more time and labor to build a wall with the harder stones than it will with freestones or sandstones. Usually, ordinary foundation walls are built up of rough quarried stones in random rubble as shown at Fig. I. It will be noticed that only at the





















FIG. 1.—RANDOM RUBBLE.





corners is there any attempt at regularity, the other corners being formed of stones of any thickness. This style of masonry is about the most economical to construct, but when well done is quite suited to the purpose of the ordinary dwellings or buildings not more than three stories high. A good mason will lay from two to three cords of this kind of work in a day, with proper help. In country places where quarried stone is not obtainable or obtained only at a big cost, walls are often built with field stone, but it is not safe to load up walls of this kind with too much superincumbent weight. A wall of this sort may be built very cheaply and some country masons are quite expert in laying field stones, and will put in three or four cords a day if proper help is allowed them. Another style of masonry is shown at Fig. 2, which is laid up, with broken field stones. This



















FIG. 2.----RUSTIC RANDOM RUBBLE.





is " rustic random rubble." The stones are fragments of "hard-heads," or large field boulders. With the exception of the quoins the joints are irregular, and as the stones are of various tints, the face of the wall, when the work is well done, shows up very nicely. This style of masonry is more expensive than either of the preceding examples, and this fact must he considered when estimating. There are several other styles of masonry employed in laying foundation walls, such as coursed rubble," " irregular snecked rubble," " random rubble built up to courses," " broken ashlar," and others, but these are generally used on more expensive buildings than such as these paragraphs are supposed to deal with, so we pass them over for the present.



<article title="Brickwork" author="">Brickwork, 

IN estimating for brickwork several things are to he taken into consideration before the price per M is determined. It is usual among bricklayers in the country towns to set a price on brickwork in the wall at so much a thousand; without taking into consideration the style of openings or the quality of the work required ; and this price is generally the lowest given for work of the cheapest sort, a fact that often places the contractor in a false position, for it frequently happens that the better kind of brickwork costs double that of the common sort—the kind the Contractor figured on— and this should be provided for when the estimate is first prepared. Openings having semi-circular or curved heads cost twice as much to construct as those having square heads and hotels over them, and gauged arches

