<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



<article title="Montreal" author="">MONTREAL 



Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

Imperial Building.

June 12th, 1900.



PLUMBERS' CONVENTION.

The National Association of Master Plumbers of Canada will meet in annual convention in this city on the 27th, 28th and 29th inst. The local plumbers are making arrangements for the entertainment of the delegates who may attend the convention.



NEW BRIDGE ACROSS THE ST. LAWRENCE AT QUEBEC.



For several years the project of bridging the St. Lawrence at Quebec has been before the public. h may now be said to be certain to be carried out, contracts having recently been awarded to Messrs. Win. Davis & Son., of Ottawa, for the substructure, and to the Phoenix Bridge Co., of the United States, for the superstructure. Mr. E. A. Hoare, of Quebec, is engineer in charge of the entire work. The total length of the superstructure is 3,310 feet. The bridge is intended to carry two railroad tracks, two electric car tracks and two carriage roads.



THE NEW CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.



The accompanying portrait is that of Mr. Alcide Chausse, architect, who has recently been appointed as head of the Building Inspection Department of Montreal. Mr. Chausse, who is 4 son of Aid. Chausse, and a native of this city, is 32 years of age.



















































MR. ALCIDE CHAUSSE.





He studied architecture in the office of Mr. A. Raza, and began practice when only twenty years of age. He is a member of the Council of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, as well as of the Societe Nationale des Architectes de France, the American Institute of Architects, Societe Centrale d'Architecture de Belgique, International Congress of Architects (Paris, [900). Mr. Chausse, whose appointment is coincident with the adoption of new building regulations, will have opportunity to put into operation many necessary reforms for the improvement of the architecture of the city.



A LEGAL DECISION OF INTEREST TO CONTRACTORS.



In the action of Beauchamp vs. Cyr, which recently came up before Mr. Justice Doherty in the Superior Court of Montreal, the plaintiff sought to recover $350 for work done and materials furnished for the construction of a stone encasing wall, under and in virtue of a contract entered into between the parties on the 13th November last. The defendant pleaded admitting the contract alleged, but averring that the work was very badly done, and with inferior materials that the walls were packed with pieces of stone, whereas, they should have been packed with dry brick ; that the mortar used was of very inferior quality, and contained too little cement that the plaintiff did not lay the stone with a sufficient incline inwards; so that instead of leaning inwards, the walls worked outwards until they Cell out; that the plaintiff did not place a sufficient number of iron bolts to support the wall and that by reason of these defects of construction, the walls began to fall away before the work was finished

that defendant refused to accept the work so done; that by reason of the defects mentioned, the walls threatened to collapse; that since the completion of the work large portions of the walls had fallen down ; that defendant had frequently notified the plaintiff of the conditions of his contract, and of the law, both verbally and by notarial protest that the work not being completed according to law and the contract, tile defendant was not now bound to pay, and the action was premature. The plaintiff answered this plea, denying these allegations, and alleging that his work was well done, and that if it be in the condition alleged by the defendant, it was due to the defendants own fault and negligence, the only ground of complaint alleged by the defendant as to the work done by the plaintiff, which defendant had proved, was that the plaintiff had put in the spaces between and behind the large stones in the encasing wall in question, a number of small pieces of stone instead of brick—the testimony of plaintiff's own witnesses establishing that in all other respects the work was well done. The plaintiff did not by his contract bind himself to use brick for such filling, and in view of the extremely contradictory evidence as regards the comparative advantages of using Stone or brick for such purposes, and of the absence of any proof that in the wall in question the mortar froze by reason of stone being used instead of brick-—which was the danger which, according to plaintiff' s witnesses was to be apprehended where stone is so used—it was impossible to say that the use of stone for such purposes instead of brick constituted such a defect of construction as to render the wall unacceptable, or that it contributed to bring about the falling out of a portion of the wall. which occurred some weeks after plaintiff had completed his work, and after the wall had been exposed to an extraordinarily heavy fall of rain, which lasted for several days. The preponderance of evidence established that the plaintiff fulfilled his obligations under the contract, and that the work was well and properly done. The defendant, since the institution of the action, had paid $220 on account, and the court, making a deduction of this amount, gave judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $130, balance due, with costs of action as brought.



LEGAL.



THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF TORONTO VS. THE CORPORATION OF THE COUNTY OF YORK.—Judgment by Mr. Justice Street in Single Court at Toronto upon special case stated for the opinion of the court as to the proper construction of the agreement dated 26th June, 1884, between the corporations for the erection of a court house in Toronto. The agreement was validated by ch. 73 of 8 Vic. (o), and is set out in schedule A of the Act. The plaintiffs claim that the sum, not to exceed $400,000, mentioned in the agreement, includes only the cost of the site for and of the erection of the court-house as a completed building, and that defendants are also liable to pay to plaintiffs (beyond the "annual sum payable in respect of the $400,000) their just share and proportion of the cost of the first furniture and other furnishings of the court-rooms and the offices connected therewith, and for other offices mentioned in said agreement. The defendants claim that the amount to be paid annually by them should be based upon the total cost of buildings and site, including original cost of such furniture as aforesaid, not in any case to exceed in all the sum of $400,000. By secs II and 12 of ch. 39 of 48 Vic. (o), sections 465 and 469 of the Municipal act then in force were amended so as to require accommodation, fuel, light, and furniture for the library of the Law Association of the County of York to be provided, and the liabilities of the municipalities therefor are therein defined. The learned judge is of the opinion that the scheme of the agreement is that the court-house is to be erected by, and is to be the property of, the city of Toronto, and is to be so built and arranged as to provide proper accommodation for the county and the administration of justice, and is from time to time to be heated, lighted, and furnished by the city. The county on its part agrees to pay the city from time to time its proper share of the expense of heating, lighting and furnishing the court house, and a just sum for its proportion of the use of the court house based upon its cost, such cost, however, not to be taken as against the county as exceeding $400,000. This sum was intended to cover the cost of buying the site and erecting the building, and not the cost of furnishing. The county pays its proportion of the annual outlay for keeping up the furniture, and in addition it pays a just sum annually for the use it makes of the building and the offices in it, based upon the assumption that the building and offices have, with the site, cost only $400,000. The argument to the contrary on behalf of the county is based upon the idea that "accommodation for the convenient transaction of business by the court and officers" could not be said to be provided, nor the building to be fully completed and ready for use by the courts until the court rooms and offices had been properly furnished, but the whole context of the agreement shows that these expressions refer only to the building itself, for everything else including furniture, is otherwise provided for and dealt with. But the city should provide accommodation, fuel, light, etc., for the Law Association. The agreement provides that the city "will assume and undertake the statutory obligations respecting a court house of the county of York for judicial purposes only," and that it will relieve the county therefrom. The libraries of the Law Associations of the different counties in the province are by sec. 506 and 509 of the Municipal Act recognized as a part of the outfit of the courts in the various counties in which they exist for the assistance of the judges and council in the conduct and decision of judicial matters. Order accordingly. Costs of the special case to be paid by the defendants to plaintiffs, except so far as they are increased by the question relating to Law Association, as to which by agreement there are to be no costs.

