<doctype type="text;plate">CONCERNING BRICKS AND BRICKWORK.

<article title="Concerning Bricks and Brickwork" author="Hodgson, Fred T.">BY FRED T. HODGSON.



IN view of the fact that wood for building purposes has advanced in price to such a point that it is becoming a luxury, its uses in domestic architecture is certain to become less prevalent than formerly, when it was almost the only building material available in our more remote districts. Nowadays, however, the farmer or villager who intends building, thinks twice before he determines the material of which his house is to be constructed. At this writing, the difference in cost between a solid brick house and a good frame house, is so little, that all thoughtful men decide on the former, all things being equal, and are in the end better satisfied.

Bricks, both machine and hand made can be obtained in almost every settled portion of the Dominion, equal in quality to any bricks made, though first-class productions are more expensive than they ought to be, and even the inferior grades are priced too high. This, however, may be owing to two causes, first, the lack of the most improved methods and machines in manufacturing, and second, because of the limited demand for bricks. At Haverstram on the Hudson, and at other places where extensive brickmaking is pursued, the finished product can be bought some 20 to 40 per cent. less than in many places in Canada. I have seen hundreds of thousands sold for $4 per M. f.o.b., and in some cases, in large deals, for something less than that. Another thing that militates against a freer use of bricks, is the exorbitant railway and boat charges. If the rates could be cut down some 25 or 30 per cent.,



FIG. I.—AMERICAN BOND.



and the price of the bricks lowered a trifle, the narrow gap between the price of a frame building and the price of a brick building would almost disappear, and the demand for burned clay would likely be doubled in a year or two.

Bricklayers themselves could help very much to increase the use of bricks if they would but make good careful work of what they do execute, and avoid the practice of making their walls a sort of tartan exhibit, or a representation of a huge checker board stood up on edge, by introducing cream, grey, buff, and red bricks, regardless of method or good taste. No bricklayer, unless he is a man of much experience and good taste, should attempt on his own responsibility, to decorate his building with various colored bricks. Only a master can do that well, and he uses strong contrasts sparingly.

Various shades of the same color when properly disposed, may be made to add to the appearance of a brick wall if the fenestration is skillfully devised ; but good workmanship, with even mortar joints, and a judicious selection of face bricks and proper attention to the bonding, go farther to give a building a solid and cosey appearance, than any combination of ordinary colored bricks possibly can.

Bond, in brickwork, is a very important matter in several directions, though in this country, there is usually but one kind of bond in vogue, namely, that called " American Bond," which simply consists in showing four or more corners of stretchers and one of headers on the face as shown in Fig. I This makes a fairly strong wall but does not look nearly as well as English bond, an elevation of which is shown at Fig. 2,



FIG. 2.—ENGLISH BOND.



or as well as Flemish bond exhibited at Fig. 3. The English bond is the strongest of bonds, being alternate courses of headers and stretchers, while Flemish bond consists of headers and stretchers in the same course. This makes a very handsome bond, particularly if the bricks are of a fine deep red color and the joints are



FIG. 3.—FLEMISH BOND.



laid up with fine gray mortar with cut joints. There are several other kinds of bond, such as garden wall bond, face bond, etc., etc. Sometimes, if the walls are three or more bricks thick, a sort of diagonal bond is employed in order to tie the wall together. I show a couple of examples at Fig. 4. In these cases, the face





















FIG. 4.—DIAGONAL BOND.





of the wall on both sides, may be laid in any of the bonds shown, and the core of the wa1l laid diagonally, reversed in alternate courses. Walls of this kind, when intended to do much work, should be well put together with good mortar filled in between every joint.

There is another bond sometimes made use of by bricklayers and which is very useful in some cases



this is called "blind bond," and is generally used in tieing the front course in pressed brick work, where it is not desirable that any headers should be seen in the face work; and when the binders are good hard-burned brick, and the backing up is properly executed, it appears to answer well enough for ornamental brick work and fronts of structures ; but to construct the exterior face of a wall with costly hard pressed front bricks, laid in close putty joints, and then to back it up with soft bricks and the joints sometimes one-half inch thick or more, and a binder not in for a dozen courses, is the worst sort of workmanship, and should not be tolerated.

To form this bond, the face brick is trimmed off at both ends as shown at Fig. 5, 50 that it will admit a

