	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT NAD	BUILDER



<article title="The School Art-League Movement" author="">The School Art-League

Movement.

of this money, failing which a reduction will be made in the fees of members. This is a somewhat extraordinary as well as most satisfactory state of affairs. The retiring president dwelt strongly upon the advantages which would follow the closing of the profession to all but qualified engineers. The presidency for the present year has fallen into the hands of Dean Bovey of McGill University, who may be relied upon to maintain at the highest point the progress and usefulness of the society.



Two very interesting lectures on architecture were recently given by the Rev. Mr. Shortt, under the auspices of the

Art League of the Huron street Public School, Toronto. In the first of these, entitled " How to Read Architecture," the leading characteristics of the different periods of architecture were clearly explained. By means of lantern slides there were thrown on a screen charming illustrations of historic buildings embodying these characteristics. Thus was traced the rise and decadence of the forms of construction and decoration which serve to distinguish one period from another in the history of architecture, and the audience, composed largely of pupils and teachers of the public schools, were taught how they might distinguish to what period the design of a particular building belonged, and also in what degree a right use had been made of the elements of the design. It was gratifying to hear the remark from the chairman, Mr. J. L. Hughes, Inspector of the city schools, that it had come to be recognized that education should mean more than cramming the head of the pupils with arithmetic and such like subjects that ability to appreciate beauty of form and color was even more important—and that school buildings should not only be structurally secure and planned to meet the requirements, but should also within and without be in keeping with established canons of good taste. Art Leagues have already been organized in twenty of the public schools of Toronto, and the movement is rapidly extending. If carefully guided, it will do much for art and architecture in the years to come. The movement is under the direction of an Advisory Board, composed of artists, architects and other qualified persons, who will decide in what manner the funds of the Leagues shall be expended. These funds are raised in a variety of ways, such as by voluntary subscription, membership fees, public entertainments, etc. It is gratifying to learn that the new school buildings and additions to school buildings to be erected in Toronto this year, will be carried out in accordance with the views of the Advisory Board of the School Art Leagues. There is also the possibility that the designs for public school buildings to be erected in the future may be thrown open to competition among the architects of the city. Such competitions would also be conducted under the direction of the Advisory Board. The Superintendent of Buildings is understood to be in full sympathy with the proposal.



AN unfortunate condition of affairs has developed in connection with the St. Lawrence market improvement in Toronto. The Dominion Bridge Co., of Montreal, contractors for the steel work, including the immense root, recently declined to proceed unless the strength of the supporting brick piers was increased. Their contention, based upon calculations, that the piers were

<article title="St. Lawrence Market Improvement" author="">St. Lawrence Market

Improvement.

incapable of withstanding the combined pressure of the roof and wind, was disputed by the architect. The City Council then appointed as experts Messrs. J. Wilson Gray and the City Engineer to examine and report upon the construction and strength of the piers. The Dominion Bridge Company engaged for the like purpose Prof. Galbraith and Mr. J. A. Duff, of the School of Practical Science, Toronto. These gentlemen all declared as the result of their calculations and examination of the work that the piers were not strong enough for the duty which they were intended to perform. Against these unfavorable reports Mr. Siddall submitted the opinion of Mr. David Ogilvie, of Montreal, to the effect that the piers would safely carry the pressure to which they would be subjected. After hearing these conflicting reports and the statements of the architect, the Council decided to appoint an associate architect, who should be held responsible for the proper completion of the work and be paid by the Council out of the original architect's fees. This adjustment of the difficulty, while not as satisfactory as could be desired, is, considering the circumstances, perhaps the best that could be made. Prior to the commencement of the work Messrs. Lennox and McCallum, two of the city's experts appointed to examine the plans and specifications of the competing architects, concluded their report in the following words '' Your experts are also of the opinion that there has not been money enough provided for the erection of a substantial building of such dimensions as are asked for under the suggestions contained in the report of the market commission, and your experts further take the liberty of stating that in their opinion your Board will gain the desired end much more satisfactorily by either having plans prepared on a much less extensive and expensive scheme, or by providing sufficient funds to have the large and present suggested scheme carried out." This opinion was reiterated and emphasized in a subsequent report after the experts had by direction of the Council consulted with the authors of the various plans submitted. Mr. C. H. Rust, another of the city's experts, in his minority report to the Council, thought the work might be carried out within the limit of cost of $150,000, but suggested that "It might be advisable before tenders are called for to engage a consulting architect to advise upon the amended plans and to see that they comply with the alterations and additions as suggested." These recommendations of the experts were disregarded and the work proceeded with, with the above mentioned result.





The Toronto Public School Board has appointed a special committee on heating and ventilation for the purpose of obtaining information which will he valuable in considering any question in this connection. The committee have decided to make inquiry of the school boards in about forty Canadian and American cities as to their experience and opinions of the different systems in use. They will also endeavor to get the advice of the experts associated with the provincial and city medical health departments.

Mr. Howard T. Barnes, of Montreal, Joule student of the Royal Society of Canada recently delivered a lecture at Cornell University on the specific heat of water. The lecture was illustrated with lantern slides of apparatus used in experiments on which Mr. Barnes has been engaged for three years past.

