

<doctype type="text">generator. The electric power, pole line, telephone line, motors, etc., are being by the built Canadian General Electric Company. The electric plant will combine all the latest improvements known to electric science. Ten electric motors ranging from 10 horse power to 75 horse power will drive the plant.

Machinery will be installed at the present time to turn out 300 barrels per day, but the power will be sufficient to propel, and the building large enough to contain and accommodate a plant capable of turning out additional 300 barrels per day.

Messrs. R. P. Butchart, general manager of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., and W. H. E. Bravender, manager of the Empire Cement Works, located at Warners, New York State, and who are joint vice-presidents of the company, are engineering the plant, which will be of the latest construction. The cement turned out by both of these companies, holds first place in the trade, the Owen Sound Company having secured a silver medal for their product at the Paris Exposition, which will be a sufficient guarantee of the excellence of the product of the Lakefield Portland Cement Company.

The village of Lakefield have aided the enterprise by a bonus of $10,000 together with a grant of thirteen acres of land, lying along side the Grand Trunk Railway tracks in the village of Lakefield, also by exemption from taxation, for the period of 10 years.

The authorized capital of the company is $500,000. All of this is expected to be paid up and embarked in the enterprise.

The advantageous position of the company' s works upon the Trent Canal and Grand Trunk Railway, its magnificent marl deposits, its splendid water power, as well as the long experience and thorough knowledge of the business by its manager, gives every reason to hope that this company will have a long and prosperous career.

The village of Lakefield have done a wise thing in securing this industry, which will speedily convert the village into a town, and no doubt be instrumental in bringing to the knowledge of the outer world, the many special advantages which it possesses as a location for other manufacturing enterprises. Mr. J. M. Kilbourn, barrister, of Owen Sound, who is president of the company, is summering at Lakefield and directing all the movements for the construction of the plant.

There will be no connection whatever between this Company and the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., further than in the fact that Mr. Butchart and Mr. Kilbourn and their families hold the controlling interest in both. The management at Lakefield will be largely in the hands of Mr. Alexander Butchart, brother of R. P. Butchart, and Mr. Aubrey Kilbourn, son of Mr. J. M. Kilhourn, who will have charge respectively, of the manufacturing and financial branches of the work.



<article title="Litholite" author="">LITHOLITE.

Litholite, the invention of Mr. Kitchen of Chicago, who have secured patents in twenty different countries, seems destined largely to revolutionize the building trade, as well as to beget a large additional demand for Portland cement. Mr. Kitchen has been engaged for many years in the construction of ordinary concrete work, and has invented and brought into use many useful improvements in the manner of forming artificial stone. His latest surpasses in interest and utility anything hitherto done in the way of artificial stone making. The material used is the best quality of Portland cement, and a mixture of ground rock or coarse sand, which may of any color desired according to the color of the sand or stone used, and can be shaded as desired, by the use of artificial pigments. A mould is prepared of the size desired to be reproduced. The pattern to be imitated is made of galvanized iron, which is attached to a board

and backed up to produce solidity with cement or plaster of Paris, which protected by the iron, forms a strong and durable shaper. The bottom of the mould is covered with a couple of inches of fine clean and damp moulding sand. Upon this is impressed by simply pounding the design to be formed, which may imitate any description of cut stone work, flowers, faces, animals, or what-not.

The mortar of the consistency of thick cream is then poured upon the sand mould, and of thickness required to 1)e produced, usually from one to three inches accord-ding to weight and size of the artificial stone to be made. Board sides and ends are then inserted into the flasks, the centre of which is then pounded with dampsand tightly pounded in. The sides and end boards are then withdrawn, and the material is poured into the space which they occupy, thus forming sides and ends to the block. If it he desired to form a back to the block, adhering to the sides and ends the material is simply poured over the moulding sand of the thickness required, and holes are cut in the back to permit the sand to run out when the block is complete. At the end of 24 hours this block is a beautifully finished, hard, light, hollow stone, which has cost not more than one-tenth of the money which would be required to produce an ordinary stone block of equal dimensions and similar design. The method of construction is 50 simple that any intelligent person can operate it. A company has been formed of which Messrs. R. P. Butchart, manager of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co., W, H. E. Bravender, of New York, Mr. J. R. Forster, architect, of Owen Sound, Ex-alderman John Lucas of Toronto, Mr. J. E. Murphy of Hepworth, Ontario, are members, which has secured the patent rights of this process for the Dominion of Canada. It is proposed to erect factories at central points for the manufacture of this material, and the construction of works therewith.



The Dominion Radiator Co. recently gave a most enjoyable picnic at St. Catharines to their employees.



The Dominion Architectural Metal Works Co., Montreal, has applied for incorporation with a capital stock of $8,000



The Dennis Wire and Iron Co. of London Ont., have issued a neat catalogue and price list of the many kinds of wrought iron goods which they manufacture.

Mr. R. O. Munro, formerly of the Canada Paint Co., Montreal, has recently been appointed general manager of the British America Paint Co., Victoria, 11. C.



The Shawinigan Falls Brick Mfg., Co., Shawinigan Falls, Que., has applied for incorporation with a capital stock of $25,000, to manufacture bricks, drain-pipes, cement, etc.



What is claimed to be the largest marl deposit in the Dominion of Canada for the manufacture of Portland cement has been discovered by Thos. M. Rowan in the vicinity of Orangeville. It comprises, 400 acres, tile depth of marl, being from 6 to 30 feet. There arc also 200 acres of clay, of an average depth of 6 to 10 feet. This material has been manufactured into cement and found to be an exceptionally high grade. The property is within two and a half miles of a shipping point.





<article title="Visit of the Cleveland Builders Exchange" author="">VISIT OF THE CLEVELAND BUILDERS'

EXCHANGE.

WHILE the Industrial Exhibition was in progress the members of the Cleveland Builders' Exchange accompanied by members of their families paid a visit to Toronto. They were met on arrival by the officers of the Toronto Exchange, shown the sights of interest n the city, including the Exhibition, and entertained at a banquet at McConkey's. Mr. H. Martin, President of the Toronto Exchange, presided and fulfilled the duties of toastmaster. The visitors were 'also entertained by the Board of Directors of the Exhibition, and all in all, spent a very enjoyable time.



The Architectural Annual, a book of 200 pages, in cloth binding, printed on heavy paper, is published under the auspices of the Architectural League of America, and edited by Albert Kelsey, former president of the Philadelphia T Square Club. The book is dedicated to the Young Man of Ambition, whether architect or draughtsman. It aims to be a resume of architectural history for the year. It comprises original articles on many subjects relating to architecture and municipal art, sketches of prominent architects and sculptors, with illustrations of their work, extracts from papers and addresses presented before various societies, etc. The book is sold by subscription only, at $3.50 per Copy, and may bc obtained from the publishers, 931 Chestnut street, Philadelphia.

