

<doctype type="text">he thought the report just read by Mr. Smith was calculated to help them along in the line they were travelling on He thought Mr. Smith had, perhaps, put his finger on what had been the weak spot of the Association from its inception, the lack of educational facilities. The Association had been quite alive to the need of such facilities, but had found it very difficult to formulate a practical working scheme to attain the desired results. At the time of the organization ten years ago architectural education was not in as advanced a state as it was now. If the gentlemen represented by Mr. Smith would work with the Association he did not see why they should not, as Mr. Darling had said, start de novo, in the attempt to arrive at some satisfactory method of providing the students with the means of educating themselves. The attempt had been made to get the Government to provide the required facilities, but the only way that could be done was through the School of Practical Science, and, it appeared, that had not been altogether successful. He supposed the element of expense was in some measure responsible, as it necessitated the residence in the city of the student, while he could practically earn nothing during his studies. That, however, applied equally to the legal or medical professions. The suggestion had been made that there should be some examining body to examine those offering themselves as students, with a view to ascertaining whether they contained the stuff necessary to the making of an architect. That would be an easy thing to do, and some action along those lines was evidently very desirable. He thought, as he had already said, that if the gentlemen of whom Mr. Smith was the representative, would throw in their lot with the Association, and work heartily and cordially, there was no reason. why an entirely new scheme should not be put in operation for the education of the student, and after all had been said and done, that had been the aim of the Association from the beginning. They had done a great deal of hard work and received very scant credit. Whenever they approached the Legislature to ask for anything they had been treated as if they were seeking their own advantage as individuals, whereas they had really taken a great deal of trouble and put themselves to a great deal of expense, with the object of affording education to young students. They frankly admitted that their efforts had not been successful, and they were quite ready to welcome any suggestions calculated to help in bringing about a better state of things in the future. He would simply urge the 18 Club, or any organization interested in Architecture, to come in with the Ontario Association, and have a fresh start and see what could be done.

Mr. Charles Lennox, with reference to the report of the Committee of the 18 Club, said he did not think it could be as well discussed at the present meeting as between the committees representing the Association and the 18 Club ; after which the Association could act upon the suggestions of the combined committees. He thought more would be brought out in that way, because it would take a very considerable time to discuss and bring out everything the report was intended to cover.

Mr. Darling said Mr. Smith had referred to the desirability of ascertaining the kind of stuff prospective students were made of. He thought if reputable architects would insist that every student who came into their offices should pass the examination set for them by such examining body as the Association might appoint it would bring about the desired result as well as anything he knew of. That could be very easily carried out. Every student at the end of one year should pass the examination, and if he did not pass should not be allowed to pursue his studies further.

Mr. Gray suggested the appointment of a committee to meet a committee of the 18 Club for the purpose of discussing the matters under consideration.

The Registrar pointed out that that could be done after the matter before them had been discussed.

Mr. Aylsworth thought Mr. Gordon's resolution had been sufficiently discussed. The discussion had evoked a pretty general expression of feeling. He would

suggest that they now vote to take the rooms, and thresh out the details afterwards.

Mr. A. H. Gregg said he thought there was another question which it was very important to consider before voting on the motion or the question of the proposed modus operandi, and that was the question of membership, and the conditions of membership. While everyone was agreed, he thought, that certain improvements were possible arid desirable, there could be no better auspices under which to promote those improvements than those afforded by the Ontario Association of Architects. He did not think any better name could be desired, and the Association has done good work in the past ; whatever mistakes had been made, they had rendered good and faithful service. The Association now proposed to continue with certain changes in its policy. At present the membership was a limited one. He believed the Act prevented them from taking new members except on compliance with certain conditions as to examination. He thought the Association had to take things as they found them. There were at the present time a number of very desirable men, men who would make valuable members of the Association, who were debarred from membership, except by passing the examination. These men were not in a position to pass the examinations any more than the original members of the Association had been at the inception of matters. It was too much to ask men who were busy architects to pass the examination, and he thought something should be done to broaden the lines so as to admit these gentlemen, who would in any case be admitted if the Act were amended so as to be made closer.

Mr. Charles Lennox thought that difficulty might be obviated by examining such architects by allowing them to bring to the examiners such work as they had done, and let the Association pass them on that.

Mr. Darling said he thought there would be no difficulty in getting the Act amended, if it were necessary.

The Registrar stated that, as a matter of fact, it was the Council that fixed the examination, and therefore it was quite within their power 1.0 take such action as was suggested, and, with reasonable restrictions, he thought it was an excellent idea. Something had been said about the Association working for the architect, not for Architecture. That was a mistaken idea. Pie had himself formulated the phrase years ago that they were working for Architecture, not the architect, and that was true in every action they had taken. When they were approaching the Legislature they had always been able to take that position, that everything they were doing was for Architecture, and the Council had taken the view that the examinations ought to be made searching, in order to make them fulfil the conditions of the Act, which aimed at the advancement of Architecture. The proposition now amounted to this, that the Council should merely exercise its best judgment.

Mr. Darling said he was sure if they once got to the kernel of the matter, to do something for the advancement and benefit of the profession at large. the details and technicalities could be easily arranged. The main object was to get together in such a way as would create enthusiasm, and result in something being done for the young men coming into the profession.

Mr. W. R. Gregg said he sympathized very much with what had been said in regard to the examinations. A few years ago the young men thought the Association was going to be a close corporation, and that the only way to become an architect was to pass its examinations. The examinations were well conducted, and these men studied hard and passed them, but some of them left the city, perhaps, before the final examinations, and went elsewhere for the purpose of acquiring experience, and they got that experience, equal to any they could have had in Toronto. Some of them had come back, and were the, equals of those who had stayed here and passed the final examinations and come into the Association. These gentlemen who had been away were now returned and practising, and it could not he expected that they would sit down and study text books for the purpose of now passing the examinations.

