<doctype type="text">	172	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



full opening, and stay at that point till further change in temperature called for further movement. Any erratic action of shutters such as being put up too high, to be lowered again too low when fall in temperature occurs, that must then naturally take place, causes drafts, and alternate overheating and chiling of plants.

The machine must pull down as well as hold up the shutters. In carrying out the latter point in Brampton it was found advisable to introduce a spring in each connecting rod to the shutters, so that should a of ice or other obstacle be in the way of any individual shutter closing, the others could close, and in the ease of ice or snow being in the way the continued pressure of the closing shutter would eventually succeed in thawing it out when this shutter would automatically and individually close.



In principle the mechanism consists of a double action hydraulic ram operated from the water pressure (required in green-houses for watering) to actuate the shutters controlled by a delicately constructed double acting and graduating valve which is itself operated by a powerful thermostat moving its operating finger to and for as heat changes occur.

There are times in the season when heat may be out of houses when it is desirable that shutters should not entirely close at night, since in such case dampness and mildew might result. Under such conditions a stop is arranged to prevent an entire closing of shutters to any desired limit.



The introduction of automatic ventilation in the Brampton plant was simply a natural following of a leading mind, and whose absence to day is mourned as that of a brother indeed who has departed and gone before to that rest to which we all are hastening, whose aim was in accord with advanced and even advancing minds engaged in solving such economic problems as further the best interest of the human race. For him the best was not too good, while every detail of his business was carried out with that thoroughness of which the success that followed his efforts speaks. For him it was enough that ventilating shutters could be better and more economically operated by an automaton than by human attendance, resulting in his having installed to date some fifty-two automatic machines in the Brampton plant referred to herein.



The advantages of automatic ventilation are there obvious. Muscles of iron grow not weary of their task. They sleep not, an(l never forget. Like a clock keeping track front day to day of the fleeting hours of time, so automatic regulation is always prepared for operation. It may apparently sleep through the winter months, but it starts into action with the first peep of spring. It bows its head to passing clouds and closes out the chilly winds, effectually relieving the grower of one more care and asks no pay for its services other than the small amount of water under pressure required for its operation.





ILLUSTRATIONS.

(I)	GATE LODGE, UPPER CANADA COLLEGE, DEER PARK. (2)



WORKINGMEN'S COTTAGES BELLWOODS AVENUE, TORONTO.— SYMONS & RAE, ARCHITECTS.



PROPOSED RESIDENCE ON DOVERCOURT ROAD, TORONTO.—



A. FRANK WICKSON, ARCHITECT.



SUMMER RESIDENCE IN LAKE JOSEPH, MUSKOKA



The foundation in field stone is carried up in places to form tile walls. The walls are of timber framing, filled in with brick or shingles. The shingles throughout are dipped in Cabot's creosote stain, weathered shingle color. The interior of the living room is in pine toned down to a dark color. The upper wall is rough trowelled grey mortar.



<article title="Hamilton Art School" author="">HAMILTON ART SCHOOL.

A hand-book of information relating to the Hamilton Art School has been published by the authorities of that institution. The introductory chapter states that the object of the school is to provide facilities for the study of fine and technical art, to enable the students of Hamilton and its immediate vicinity to obtain instruction at least equal to that obtainable in any high class art school, and to charge for the same the lowest possible rate of fees thereby saving the expenditure of a large amount of money and possibly foreign residence as well also to provide technical instruction during the evening at an almost nominal fee for those whose trades prevent attendance at day classes. The premises were specially designed for art school work. The rooms are well heated and ventilated, lighted by electricity, and fully equipped with casts, models, copies and appliances for teaching every branch of drawing, painting (oil and water color), modelling, designing, carving, architecture, building and machine construction and the mathematics required for the same. Mr. S. John Ireland has been re-appointed principal of the school for a term of years.

Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

imperial Building.

MONTREAL, Sept. 10th, 1900.



<article title="Montreal" author="">The annual convention of the (Quebec Association of Architects was held in their rooms on Sept. 3rd and 4th, and although the attendance was small the meeting was one of considerable interest. A full report will be found in another page. Professor Capper in his presidential address dwelt upon the advantages to be gained by architects in having a university education, though only as part of the general system and not in any way to do away with the practical side of the work which can only be acquired properly in an architect's office and on the actual buildings in progress.



This is an important question and one that should be carefully studied in view of the younger generation about to enter the profession especially is this the case in the province of Quebec where the profession is now a close one.



In the university education the student has the advantages of masters who have studied more especially tile theoretical and artistic side of the profession and are no doubt in most cases more adapted to teaching, with all the necessary materials for so doing at their hands, than is a busy practising architect who can as a rule give only a few minutes each day to his pupils, and who have therefore of necessity to rely for their training in more or less a haphazard manner—the amount of their education relying considerably on their own anxiety to study or lack of same, and the good nature and willingness to teach on the part of the draughtsmen. For these reasons It 15 probably preferable for a student to receive an academic training for the first two years of his course dud for the following two years to work in a practising architects office. He will by this means enter an architect's office with sufficient knowledge of the rudiments of his profession to be able to grasp the meaning of the work that is going of around him and therefore to be able to take full advantage of the practical side of his profession. This manner of educating an architect is similar to that in vogue in the medical profession. First the theoretical academic course and then the practical hospital training. Surely if architects only looked more often at the higher phases of their work there would be less poorly designed detail, fewer badly proportioned columns and ill conceived carving to be seen on our streets. If architects would only remember that their work consists not only in making a pretty sketch, but also in carrying out the details in such) manner that every moulding and column shall be proportioned so as to be pleasing to the trained artistic eye, there would be less work that violated all the true canons of art. Erecting buildings with faulty detail similar to that which one expects from a "jerry builder" should be despised by members of the profession, and tile training of the younger men should be made with a view to obviate the possibility of such work and to train them so that inharmonious schemes of colour and ill-proportioned mouldings and other details is as objectionable to their trained artistic eye as a false note is to the ear of a musician. This, no doubt, should be unnecessary to state, but unfortunately our streets show us that the artistic sense of many of our architects is far from what it should be, and it is this very stigma on our calling that the better education of the younger members of the profession is expected to eradicate. No doubt the tendency is towards improvement, but there is still a vast deal to be learned by many of our

