	<doctype type="text">130	CANDIAN ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



<article title="Winnipeg" author="">WINNIPEG.

Expectations have not been quite realized as to the amount of building operations in progress up to the end of June, although the showing is satisfactory as far as it goes, evidencing the great faith of Eastern Canada and our own citizens in the stability and recuperating powers of this Great North West.

Building Inspector Rogers states in his report to June 25th that he has issued 239 permits representing $760,000 in value, an official declaration indicating thc true state of affairs in the building trades as against the loose newspaper compilations of previous years. Assessment Commissioner Harris will find the data secured on these permits of immense service to him in his department.



By the appointment of Mr. Cambridge as city electrician, and inspector, a degree of safety in wiring has been secured, insuring as it does by thorough inspection a compliance with the city bylaws, and a uniformity of workmanship wholly lacking previous to the formation of this important branch in civic service.



The work of the City Engineer's department has been increasing largely in recent years, miles upon miles of streets have been macadamized, experiments in asphalt pavements made, granolithic sidewalks laid down, and a new waterworks system, with buildings and machinery nearly ready for operation, all executed under the skilled direction of Lt. Col. Ruttan. A special article in this connection is being prepared for a future issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Another old landmark is gone. The old Merchants' Bank building has been torn down by Contractor E. Cass to make way for a handsome structure to be built from the designs of Messrs. Taylor & Gordon, of Montreal, with Frank Peters in local charge.

The superior nature of the work in the two banks now nearing completion on Main street—the Dominion Bank and the Bank of Commerce—is making itself felt in labor circles, as well as upon thc purses of owners who propose to build in their vicinity. First-class workmanship means money, and is the best kind of an investment after all, although the initial cost may be greater. The old Merchants' Bank was considered an ornament to the city, not so long ago either, a substantial building at that, but the progress inevitable to a flourishing financial institution demanded its destruction for a costly and more suitable up-to-date construction to take its Place.

Darling & Pearson, of Toronto, the architects of the Dominion Bank and the Bank of Commerce, have got good value for the money expended upon thc works, the latter presenting an artistically designed classic street elevation, one which will prove satisfactory even beside a building of greater height, so elegant are its proportions. The writer is an ardent Gothicist, but there are situations when admiration can bc extended to a rival style. The Toronto architects have not been so happy in the architectural treatment accorded to the Dominion Batik corner, although it is a fine edifice with much detail worked in red terra-cotta to thc street elevations. As this letter is but preliminary to further extended remarks on the more important buildings in the city and province, brief allusions must suffice for the present.

The walls of the Y. M. C. Association building, Geo. Browne, architect, are beginning to loom up on Portage avenue, and passers by are beginning to form some idea as to its size. Phil. Burnett is contractor for the masonwork, etc., John A. Girvin for the carpenter work and some other trades. Local brick and Indiana limestone are thc materials selected for front elevations.

Brickmaking in Manitoba is still in its infancy. It will hardly be believed that if architects specify a bevelled plinth, or splay brick, the work has to be done by hand. A beaded or molded brick seems to be an impossibility, and thc monotony in color is a great drawback to the artistic inspirations of the intelligent professional man who longs for what he cannot get. It is this desire for warmer tints on the part of owners and architects that has created so large an importation of bricks from the United States, and which has caused, what Ruskin hated intensely, the painting of so many buildings on our principal streets red. Not the Bacchus article, but prosaic every day paint. Eastern brickmakers, say in Ontario, could easily do a big business in this city and province provided they could induce the C. P. R. to lower their freights.



The partial failure of thc wheat crop owing to thc long continued drought has stopped some projected building enterprises, but the blessed rain has just come in time to relieve thc minds of chronic grumblers, and even a total failure could not hinder the progress of Manitoba, however much its rapidity of development might be temporarily checked. That thc local mer

chants and professional people of the province are full of faith is plainly evidenced by the numerous residences now in course of erection, particularly in Winnipeg, where almost every street with sewer and water connection shows more or less tasteful designs from thc studios of Walter Chesterton, Hugh McCowan, Geo. Browne, F. Peters, C. H. Wheeler, H. Griffiths, S. Russell, Jas. Chisholm, J. Greenfield, and others, together with Mr. Shillinglaw, of Brandon, and Mr. Silverthorne, of Portage la Piairie.

Owners and architects here as elsewhere owe much to the honesty of the builders who undertake the responsibilities of construction ; a straightforward contractor, one to be depended on, is a jewel of price. There are many such in this city, and the writer knows of a couple of dozen or so in the province whose word is their bond, and who can be trusted to do the right thing, even at a financial loss to themselves. These gentlemen arc entitled to as much consideration as the professional man, especially in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, whose aim it is to bind closer the friendly ties between the professional and non-professional elements in the building trades. Reference will be made to our leading builders in future issues, and those departments essential to an up to date edifice—plumbing, painting, heating, etc.—with the principal men engaged in the sections just named.



The ruins of thc Manitoba Hotel cast a dismal shadow over the trade prospects of South Main street which even the enlargement of that fine block known as the Hudson Bay stores cannot dispel. It is a dark cloud hanging around that end of the city with distastrous consequences to many of the stores in the immediate neighborhood.

North Main street, with its shacks and shanties waxed jubilant over t he announced commencement of the new C. P. R. hotel and station at the beginning of the season. The tenants on the purchased property had notice to clear out by May 1st, but they still hold their several forts or shacks, and the hotel scheme hangs fire. Considerable property changed hands, many sets of plans were drawn for new buildings, improvements were sketched out and were to have been promptly acted upon, when it gradually dawned upon the minds of the parties interested that nothing was apparently to be done this season, although it is not yet too late for the railway people to put in foundations.



By the time this correspondence gets into print His Excellency the Governor-General of Canada will have arrived in Winnipeg, the directors of the Winnipeg Industrial Exhibition having invited Her Majesty's representative to open the proceedings. He has graciously consented, and a very large influx of visitors is expected on Monday, July 23rd, to the end of the week The directors have created what is said to be the most commodious grand stand in Canada—size 150 feet long by 116 feet wide, with three 50-foot spans, and roof supported by Howe trusses, thus doing away with a multiplication of posts. Mr. Wheeler, architect Mr. S. B. Ritchie, builder.

The science building in connection with the University of Manitoba is rising rapidly. Mr. Browne, architect; Mr. E. Cass, the masonry, and Mr. Mitchell, the carpentry and some other trades.

Labor troubles, thanks to the good sense of both sides, have been few this year; in any event arbitration can always be resorted to without an undue prolongation of strife.

Who will get the contract for the St. Andrew Rapids improvement for which tenders are being asked? Kelly Bros., of this city, know thc ground well, and will doubtless stand a good chance to secure the plum. There is a revote of $125,000 for the work on account in the supplementary estimates at Ottawa.

Mr. Walter Chesterton is recounting a few reminiscences of his recent visit to London, England, and the great changes that have taken place in city and suburban architecture. He is particular in his admiration of the use of genuine stone and brick as against the stucco fronts which made so many residential streets hideously monotonous.

Mr. W. Brydon is one of the busiest men in the city. In addition to his own large building business he is official appraiser for the fire companies, and still finds time to act as chairman of the Works Committee of the Exhibition Board. Not by any means an ornamental position either.

CHAS. H. WHEELER.





The Art Museum of Toronto has been incorporated to promote the cultivation of fine and applied art. The following gentlemen compose the provisional Council Messrs. G. W. Allan, James Bain, jr., G. A. Cox, F. Darling, R. Y. Ellis, J. W. Flavelle, E.

W.	Gurney, S. H. Janes, E. F. B. Johnston, James Loudon, Charles D. Massey, Jas. Mayor, J. P. Murray, Frederic Nicholls, E. B. Osler, G. A. Reid, 13. E. Walker and D. R. Wilkie.

