



<doctype type="text">THE BOND OF BRICKWORK.

<article title="The Bond of Brickwork" author="">'Tis a matter of great importance to the brickmaker that bricks be well laid and well bonded, writes Mr. George F. Tiffany in The Clayworker. The bond premarily depends on the cohesive nature of lime mortar. If the bricks are not wet when laid on the mortar will adhere whether the bricks be smooth or rough. Masons generally are of the opinion that mortar will adhere better to a rough brick than a smooth one. This is probably owing to the fact that a rough brick can he rapped to place with less liability of breaking the bond of the mortar. A smooth dry brick allows but little movement and it must be quickly made, or the brick will slip on the mortar and must be relaid with fresh mortar. In rapping a rough surface brick to line the mortar moves with it, but this is no evidence that the mortar, when set, will adhere more strongly to the rough brick.

One would naturally think that the air confined in the interstices of a rough surfaced brick would in some degree prevent the adhesion of the mortar. This would undoubtedly be the effect if the brick were not porous, so that the air could not escape through the rough brick. But the tenacity with which mortar adheres to glass, a perfectly smooth and nonabsorbent body, is evidence that brick may also be smooth and nonabsorbent and make equally as good a wall as rough brick.

One need not be a very close observer to learn that in the taking down of brick walls some brick will lift easily from their places, leaving a smooth and perfect mold of the brick in the mortar, while others have to be struck with a force that frequently breaks them in pieces, and, if lifted without breaking, take a portion of the mortar with them covering the whole surface of the brick ; the separation being in the mortar and not between the mortar and the brick.

What makes this difference is a very important question. The defect has been attributed generally to the laying of dry brick. But the remedy has been known so long and is so simple that we are assured that other causes may produce this effect. Is not mortar oftentimes used in too new a state, that is, before the perfect working and mixing of the sand has been made? Is there not a giving off of gas from the mortar in the joint also a cause for this weakness ?

It is more important to lay a brick under such conditions that the mortar will make a good bond than to make a true, smooth wall. What matters it how well the wall may look, if, in a short time, the arches crack and the sections slip by each other, not only presenting a very unsightly appearance, but proclaiming that the structure is unsound from cellar to garret. It might he profitable to consider the question, can a good mortar bond be secured when bricks are laid hot and the mortar freezes soon after the brick are laid ? Is not the practice of building brick walls in the winter very objectionable?

If a brick wall is expected to withstand the ravages of fire the sand in the mortar must be a flint sand. A limestone sand will, of course, turn to lime and the slaking of the lime will break the mortar bond and disintegrate the mortar. Brickmakers who have unwittingly used lime sand in their clay for making brick will appreciate the importance of this warning. A sand that is affected by the action of acid will also be affected by the action of fire.

The steel structures in which the girders and posts are partially protected by fire-proofing have, in some

degree, disappointed expectations in regard to their fireproof qualities, although practical men could plainly foresee that, if there was enough combustion to heat the lower part of such a building to redness, the whole fabric would collapse. The steel cannot be considered as a bond to the brickwork, for the principal constructive element is steel, which, expanding and contracting, makes every change of temperature tend to disrupt the brickwork. The steel structures serve a useful purpose as office buildings, and the writer does not wish to speak disparagingly of them, but rather to emphasize the fact, which all experience affirms, that there is no better obstruction to the passage of fire than a heavy, well-bonded brick wall.

We were once very painfully impressed with the importance of such walls. It was in the year 1857 or

at a fire in Lake street, Chicago. A brick store was being burned out. Its east wall projected high above the roof of an adjacent frame building from which people were carrying out the goods.

We said to a gentleman near by, " If that wall stands the fire will go no further, and suggested that braces should be set against it from the roof of the frame building. But very soon the wall toppled over on the roof, carrying it down with the floors of the building and burying a dozen brave men beneath its ruins. If that wall had been one-half brick wider, or better bonded, it might, perhaps, have stood the trial. Why are men so economical of space and material when life is imperiled ?

me ! that land should be so dear,

And human life so cheap."



The word bond, in relation to brickwork, refers to the laying of brick across the wall, thus bonding two vertical courses too-ether The end of a brick, excepting on the corners of a wall, is unsightly. The English and the Flemish bonds secure much stronger walls than are generally found in the fronts of the buildings, but the long rows of headers in the one and the checker-board appearance of the other prevent their being much used for fronts. It is generally true in architecture and mechanics that the form which is most pleasing to the eye is also the simplest and best adapted in every way to the purpose for which the object was made. This does not appear to be true in brickwork. The vertical courses are very weak without headers to bind them together. The temptation to leave them out is too strong. Beauty and strength do not meet in harmony in a brick wall. Who has not been astonished at the lack of bond in a building that has been burned out, while looking at its shattered walls.

Often a chimney is seen standing erect and sound among the ruins, indicating so plainly if the walls had been as carefully built they might also be standing. There is no question that division walls should be made heavier, or at least have an occasional buttress, which would greatly increase their stability. Certainly they should be made so that they will stand when all combustible material in the structure has been consumed.

For the form of bond for such walls there is none better than the English bond. For store fronts and dwelling houses, for all walls having an exposed surface, and especially for all hollow walls of brick, we need a bond that does not require the cutting of brick to form the bond, that the wall will appear to be all stretchers, and that will cost no more to put in a bond course than a course all stretchers. The use of band

