	<doctype type="text">104	CANADIAN AR ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



stone vary between 140 and 450 tons per square foot, that of limestone about 500 tons per square foot, while that of granite or basalt is as high as 1,000 tons per square foot.

The intensity of the working pressure on a rock foundation should in no case exceed one-tenth of the pressure which would crush it. It is not often in practice, however, that the actual pressure on a rock, or indeed any foundation, approaches this limit. Speaking generally, the average pressure coming on a fairly good quality of rock is about to tons per square foot in work which has been executed and the architect might fix in his mind anything up to 20 tons as a sate rule to go upon. On weak sandstone, which is so soft that it crumbles in the hand, 2 tons is sufficient to allow.

having said so much on rock foundations I will pass on to the consideration of foundations laid on firm earth, under which head may be included hard clay, clean dry gravel, and clean sharp sand. For buildings resting on such foundations, it is desirable, in this country, that the foundations should be carried at least 3 feet below the surface of the ground for sand or gravel, and 4 feet for clay, in order that they may not be weakened by the disintegrating effects of frosts or other climatic conditions. In other countries where greater extremes of climate are experienced a greater depth is necessary. The practice in Germany, for example, I understand, is that for foundations of this kind the depth should be from to 5 feet, and in North America from 4 to 6 feet.

It is very desirable that surface water should be kept from such foundations by constructing suitable drains.

Different authorities vary very much in their estimates as to what working pressure it is desirable to place on this class of foundations. The German authorities recognize 2.5 tons per square foot as a suitable pressure. With good clay, however, sufficiently beneath the surface of the ground to be protected from atmospheric influences, much higher pressures can be safely applied. The main piers of the Tower Bridge in London rest on clay, on which they exert a pressure of 4 tons per square foot. At Openshaw, near Manchester, the massive steel pillars of Messrs. Sir W. G. Armstrong, Whitworth & Co.'s works, which are subject to vibratory loads from passing cranes, exert in some cases a pressure of as much as tons per square foot on the clay, and no settlement has been observed. In other buildings, no doubt, greater pressures exist but this is the limit so far as my experience goes. In the great majority of structures built on clay the pressure is much less. Thai of the Nelson Column, in Trafalgar Square, London, does not exceed 1.3 ton per square foot. This column rests on clay of great depth and compactness. In preparing this foundation an excavation of 60 feet square and 12 feet deep was made and filled up with concrete to a depth of 6 feet on this base a frustum of a pyramid 13 feet high was built in brickwork, on which the superstructure was erected. On a base 6o feet square, which may be taken as the real base of active support, the gross load amounts to 4,665 tons, equivalent to 1.3 tons per square foot, as already stated. I think I may say that three times this load could with safety be placed on this foundation.

Foundations in gravel and sand, under favorable circumstances, are capable of bearing heavy loads. The Campanile of Cremona, 395 feet high, standing on Pliocene gravel, bears with a pressure of 12 tons per square foot on its base.

It is not often that water is injurious to a gravel foundation, as it can percolate through freely but with sand the case is quite different, as water so alters this material as to make it quite useless for a foundation. The obvious tendency of sand saturated with water is to escape laterally wider pressure. If this tendency can he counteracted by any means it may be possible, though not desirable, to utilise a foundation of this description. Sheet piling driven around the foundation often answers the purpose. A case in point is supplied by the tower of Hamburg waterworks. This tower rises about 290 feet above the surface of the ground ; it is built of brickwork, and rests on a circular block of concrete 56 feet in diameter and 11 feet thick, This in its turn rests on quicksand enclosed by sheet piling driven below the line of saturation of the river Elh. The gross weight supported amounts to 5,310 tons, which gives a pressure of about 2 tons per square foot on the quicksand.

A foundation of unequal density or compressibility is one to be avoided. When of equal compressibility any subsidence which takes place is uniform all over the foundation, and the structure erected on it is not materially damaged but if one part of the foundation is more compressible than another, the structure has a tendency to be tilted out of the perpendicular, and cross-stresses are produced which may destroy its stability. in north Italy, as

is well known, a number of leaning towers erected as far back as the twelfth and thirteenth centuries exist, and the reason assigned in thc majority of cases for these being out of the perpendicular is the unequal compressibility of the foundations on which they arc erected. A noted example occurs in the Campanile or leaning tower of Pisa. This is a circular tower 178 feet high, weighing 11,800 tons, with a base 60 feet in diameter, which is equivalent to a pressure of more than 4 tons per square foot. The soil under the foundation is of unequal density, it being more compressible in the direction in which the tower leans. That the settlement took place during the progress of the work may be inferred from the presence of iron bars introduced to hold the building together.

When foundations are too soft for building upon, and when the depth is too great for excavating to a reliable material, special means must be adopted. One method is that to which I have referred in the tower of the Hamburg waterworks. Another method is to consolidate the ground by timber piles, which was the method adopted in the Park Row building at New York. These bearing piles act as pillars, each supporting its own weight of the building. They may either be driven through the soft stratum until they reach a firm stratum underneath and penetrate a short distance into it, or, if that be impracticable owing to the great depth of the soft stratum, they may be supported wholly by friction in the soft stratum. From practical examples, the safe working loads on these piles may be taken as follows

For piles driving until they reach the firm ground, 1,000 lb. per square inch of the area of the pile may be allowed.

For piles standing in soft ground, and supported wholly by friction, 200 lb. per square inch of pile section is sufficient.

The best material is elm. The point of the pile should be fitted with an iron shoe, especially if stones or other impediments are to be met with, and the head should have an iron band to prevent its being split by the blows of the ram. They may be driven by hand or steam power. For the piers of bridges and similar structures iron screw piles or cylinders may be used.

In ordinary steel or iron structures, the main pillars usually rest on concrete, brickwork, or stone, and some times on all three in combination. When laid in combination, a concrete block is first laid, upon which several courses of brickwork may be built, and lastly a stone slab placed on the top. It is not often, however, that all three materials are used together, one or two generally being found sufficient. The intensity of pressure on the ground underneath may be modified to the required extent by increasing the area of the concrete block, or by stepping out to the necessary extent the lower courses of brickwork.

It is of great importance that the architect should be conversant with the working loads allowable on these materials.

The working pressure allowed on concrete foundations of sufficient thickness varies considerably according to the quality and age of the concrete. Generally speaking, it may be taken as varying between 2 and 10 tons per square foot. It is not often, however, in work that has been executed that so high a pressure as the maximum mentioned exists, from to tons being most general. When pressures of tons and upwards are to be provided for, great care should be bestowed on the manufacture of the concrete. All the materials composing it should be of good quality. All earthy substance, ashes, soft broken bricks or greasy matter should be excluded; round smooth gravel or stone should be broken. The best Portland cement should be used it ought 10 have a cohesive strength of 400 lb. per square inch after seven days from mixing. The proportions of the different ingredients should be four parts of broken hard brick or stone, one of clean sand, and one of cement. The concrete should be turned over twice dry, and three times wet, and well rammed in 12-inch layers. It is not advisable to send the concrete down a shoot or drop it from a height, unless it is afterwards remixed, as the larger pieces fall to the ground first, the smaller pieces next, and last of all the cement. Whenever used under water, the water should be still a current will carry away the cement and leave only the ballast.

The crushing strength of bricks varies considerably. It may be as low as 60 lb. per square inch, and as high as 1,700 lb. per square inch. Best blue bricks show a strength of 1,200 lb., while Stourbridge fine bricks will stand 1,700 lb., or even more. When great pressures have to be borne, the latter, or others similar in strength, should be used. It is desirable in a brick foundation that not only should the quality of the bricks be good, but also that they should be properly laid in good cement. Each course as laid should be well rammed down and bedded, leaving the layer of cement. between each course as thin as possible. When

