<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	'37



foot of water at 2I2° F. weighs 6o lbs., it will hold 10,800 units of heat. Hence it would taise 3,272 cubic feet of air through 55° F. It has been estimated that the combustion of lb. of coal will produce 14,000 heat units, and if the combustion in an ordinary furnace amounts in loss to 3,200 units, or more than one-fifth, we find that lb. of coal will rake cubic foot of water from 32



to 212° F., or will heat 3,272 cubic feet of air. Or, roughly, 4 lbs. of coal will he sufficient to heat the 12,000 feet of air required to change the air of a room, 32 ft. X 25 ft. X 15 ft. in 7 ½ minutes.



It is apparent that the amount required will be the same whether thc method of heating be by hot water, steam or hot-air furnace, provided the combustion be equally good in all and the loss of heat the same, if the mechanism provided supplies the heat to the fresh air all at the same rate.



Taking warm weather with cold weather throughout the winter season in Ontario, this calculation would mean that, for a school building of four rooms of the above size and holding 200 pupils, from 25 to 30 tons of coal would supply an adequate amount of heat.



The illustration of principles thus given in some detail enables us in some degree to estimate the various factors entering into the problem of ventilation. Many simple methods are adopted for lessening the evils of over-crowding and air foulness in small buildings, but the scientific problem having had its practical solution in a large measure determined, it cow requires some







specific measures for its systematic application to schools and public buildings. As an illustration of modern systems in practical operation the following may be given. It is from the Massachusetts report for 1896.



The plans are simply to show how the heating and ventilation of a four-roomed school building may be simply arranged



The basement provides for the boiler-room with a 30 h. p. boiler, a cold-air room, the coal-room, the boy's and girls' playrooms, the w. c. and lavatories.

The ground floor has its hall-way, and 1st and 2nd schoolrooms, its inlets and outlets for fresh air, and its cloakrooms.



The first floor has the principal's room, and the 3rd and 4th rooms, similarly heated and ventilated



The third plan shows us in section the ducts and arrangements of cold-air rooms, and valves for regulating the temperature in the rooms, operated either by a chain or thermostat.



The areas of the ducts arc given, while the heating provides for steam coils in, three series so that 100, 120, 140, square feet of radiating surface for each room, may successively be turned on as the external cold increases. In some the heating and ventilating arrangements provide for part of the steam coils to be in the school-room, and these supply the extra heat in severe weather by direct radiation. The ventilation may similarly, and with advantage, bc supplied by a fan. One of 3 feet in diameter not exceeding 6oo revolutions per minute, will supply more than the calculated requirements of such a building.



It is apparent that with whatever system we may adopt there are many details in its practical operation which demand intelligent supervision if successful results are to be obtained. The questions of friction and thc size of fresh-air ventilating shafts,

the velocity of cross-currents of air at the entrance of the shaft for fresh air from the exterior, the variations in barometric press-are and in external air temperature, all demand an intelligent comprehension of such causes and their effects, and of means in the mechanism of ventilation of making compensation for such variations. From the standpoint of legislative enactment's to provide for the application of scientific means to secure a standard of ventilation in any public building and for supplying such system of expert officers for inspecting and regulating this work in public buildings in this Province, it would appear evident that at the present time there is no means similar to that for many years in operation in Massachusetts adequate for the work to bc (lone. Local Boards of Health have, under the general provisions for inspection of the Public Health Act, probably enough powers to correct any serious unsanitary condition, but the exact scientific knowledge requiring to be applied to any particular case demands some special scheme to be formulated, so that new buildings in all urban municipalities and all school buildings in rural districts should have their plans approved before construction and certainly proper provisions for ventilation, while definite powers to compel the adoption of adequate measures in old buildings should be put into systematic operation.



It will be, gentlemen, for you who are trained in thc exact sciences which relate to this important matter, to so influence those in the position of municipal officers and trustees of schools



to institute such improvements as will attain such desirable results as I have endeavoured to set forth.





<article title="Tests of Deal and Pine Doors" author="">TESTS OF DEAL AND PINE DOORS.

THE British Fire Prevention Committee report the results of a recent test of a fierce fire of one hour, gradually increasing to a temperature of 2,000 degrees Fahr. upon a 2 5/8 inch door of



archangel deal, constructed in three thicknesses, and a 2 5/8 inch door of Quebec pine, similarly constructed.

The doors were 7 feet high by 3 feet 7 inches

wide; they were constructed of three thicknesses of inch boards, the middle thickness being horizontal and the outer ones being vertical. All were tongued and grooved on the solid and nailed with 3 inch clasp nails clinched on the outside. The total thickness of the doors was 2 5/8 inches.

Each door had wrought iron strap hinges, one near the top and one near the bottom, 2 feet 6 inches long, 2 ¼ inches wide and inch iron bolts. The hinges turned on wrought iron pins, the ends of which were built into the walk. On each door were fixed two wrought iron latches,

one near the top and one near thc bottom, with wrought iron catches built into the walls.



The doors were hung in brick rebates and before they were put into position the rebates were screened with plaster mixed with lime mortar.



The doors fitted closely against the screeds, and the joint between the door and the brickwork was pointed on the outside immediately before the test.



The door openings were approximately 3 feet 3 inches by 6 feet 9 inches. The fire was applied from one side and the doors were to open inward onto the fire side. The fuel used was gas.



The results are summarized thus:



DEAL DOOR.--In 30 minutes flame appeared over the top intermittingly; in 42 minutes flame also appeared down west side about 12 inches ; in 55 minutes flame came continuously through the upper portion of door; in 65 minutes the upper portion of door was considerably burnt and flame was seen through several small holes burnt in the lower portion of the door.

PINE DOOR. --In 52 minutes no flame had come through the door or from the joints around same, although much smoke had come from the joints, and the wood around all the holts and nails was much scorched; in 60 minutes flame came over the top of door and also through its tipper part in several places,- in 70 minutes, after water had been applied, the two inner thicknesses of the door were found practically burnt away and the outer thickness (which was for the most part in position) much damaged.



Fawn color or antique oak woodwork may have dark dull drab walls with a frieze of Gobelin blue or red, dull drab, Gobelin blue or red cornice, light drab ceiling, with upholstering of drab, Gobelin blue and Gobelin red, and draperies of blue and Nile green.

