<doctype type="text">report from the Naval Constructor to the Secretary of the Navy' in March, 1899, he says, after testing for eight months: "That so far as is known there is no better process of fire-proofing wood in use than that now employed by the Electric Fire-proofing Company, and its continued use, for the present at least, is advised."

The science of fire-proofing has of late years been carried to a point not dreamt of ten years ago, and at last architects are beginning to understand that no structure should be called fire-proof unless it is so in every respect. It is almost as sensible for a farmer to build a fence and have the gate open as for a man to build a large building only partly fire-proof. Architects should be more careful of their reputation than to allow a building not completely fire-proofed to be designated a fire-proof structure. Only a small portion, the underside of a steel beam or a single column, unprotected, might cause serious loss to almost the whole building. This fire-proofed wood forms the last thing necessary in fire-proof materials, as there is brick and terra cotta for the walls, porous terra cotta and concrete for the floors and partitions, encasing steel if necessary, and now there is non-inflammable wood for doors, sashes, and fixtures. These materials if employed in a scientific manner, ought to make a completely fireproof structure, that is, one that is capable of standing a severe fire and water test.

<article title=" OBITUARY " author="">

OBITUARY.



One of the landmarks of the building industry in Montreal has recently been removed in the person of the late Mr. Charles Sheppard, whose portrait accompanying this article will be re-





































<article title=" THE LATE MR. CHAS. SHEPPARD " author="">

THE LATE MR. CHAS. SHEPPARD.





cognized by a wide circle of acquaintances. Mr. Sheppard came to Montreal in 1860 and entered into co-partnership with Mr. Henry Bulmer as manufacturers of building brick. They acquired large tracts of land in the east end of the city, and from a modest beginning their establishment grew to be the largest and most extensive of its kind in the Dominion. The firm of Bulmer & Sheppard continued until 1885, a period of twenty-five years, and then Mr. Charles Sheppard purchased Mr. Bulmer's interests, carrying on the business alone until failing health about three years ago decided him to retire from active pursuits. Since that time his two sons, George J. and Edmund, both well known to the community, have conducted and succeeded to the business. Mr. Sheppard passed away on the 12th of October, leaving a sorrowing widow (who had but a few short weeks before celebrated the anniversary of their golden wedding) and his two sons.

His death removed from amongst us one more of the staunch men of the old school—a man of honor and probity. One of the most touching tributes to his memory was a handsome pillow of flowers which his numerous employees placed upon his grave, bearing the inscription "Le Maitre." Mr. Sheppard was always ready, in an unassuming way, to assist the needy, and an appeal to him always met with a substantial response.



THE GRANBY ENAMELWARE Co.

<article title=" THE GRANBY ENAMELWARE Co." author="">

The popularity of porcelain enamel iron for all sanitary ware has tempted the Granby Enamel ware Company, of Granby, Que., to start manufacturing enamel baths and sinks. The first baths turned out were slightly defective, both in the flow of the enamel and also in the finish to the edge of the rim, but in the

baths now turned out these defects are being overcome. The market for these goods is very extensive In Canada, and we wish the company success in their venture, they being the first as far as we are aware in this line. We trust that the firm will bear in mind that it is indispensable to success that every detail should be carried out with the greatest care, and that no defect should be found in their first quality goods. It is often what may appear a trifling blemish that is the cause of dissatisfaction, and this soon ultimately turns what might have been success into failure.

<article title=" MINES OF THE PROVINCE " author="">

MINES OF THE PROVINCE.



The following is a summary statement of the yield of some the mines in the Province of Quebec for 1899, that may be of interest.



Nature of Material No, of Men Employed. Gross Value.

	Bog iron ore	800	$40,000

	Asbestos		581,667

	Asbestic	900	17,069

	State	75	30,119

	Flagstones	9	3,500

	Granite	60	14,780

	Cement	50	31,130

	Lime	250	140,000

	Bricks	1200	600,000*

	Building Stone	350	250,000*

Estimated.

The asbestos came chiefly from Megantic and Richmond Counties, the slate from New Rockland, (the quarry at that time was working), flagstones from Dudwell, granite from Stanstead, where there are three quarries, and from St. Philippe, where the Laurentian Granite Company's quarries are situated. There is also work started at Mount Johnson, in Iberville County, where a dark grey granite of good texture has been found. The cement came from Hull and Longque Pointe near Montreal, while the bricks came chiefly from Montreal, Laprairie and St. John Deschaillons.

THE P. Q. A. A.



The Province of Quebec Association of Architects will have a special general meeting on the 15th of January, 1901, in Montreal. Object Amendments to by-laws and election of an auditor to replace Mr. C. Dufort, who is now a member of the council. Members wishing to amend any article of the by-laws should send in their proposal of amendments to the secretary before the 15th of December next.

THE NELSON MONUMENT.

<article title=" THE NELSON MONUMENT " author="">

This monument, erected nearly a century ago to commemorate the battle of Trafalgar, has recently undergone repairs, under the direction of the Munisinatic and Antiguarian Society, and thus restored, was recently unveiled by Lord Strathcona.



NOTES.



Mr. James Ballantyne, the well-known plumber, has recently admitted to partnership Mr. R. F. Oilvy, under the firm name of Ballantyne & Co.



A memorandum recently found in the desk of ex-City Building Inspector Lacroix is said to prove that he retained over $7,000 in fees for building permits, which should have gone into the city





DECISION OF AN IMPORTANT COMPETITION.

Last year the corporation of the town of Levis, province of Quebec, advertised for competition plans to be submitted by civil engineers for the best system of "Waterworks," and "Sewerage" for the town of Levis, Recently the judgment has been given in an elaborate report which indicates a careful and conscientious study of the different plans submitted. The judges were, Charles Baillairge, ex-engineer for the city of Quebec; Chas. E. Gauvin, C.E., Quebec, and Jeremiah Gallagher, C. E., director of Water-works, city of Quebec, who have awarded the first prize of one thousand dollars to Robert Surtees, C. E., Ottawa, and the second prize of five hundred dollars to Messrs. Berlinguet and Lemay, architects and civil engineers, Quebec.





The parlor of a suburban house is hung with a pale green paper having conventional figures in pale ivory of flambeaux surrounded by garlands powdered regularly upon lt. The heavy curtains that separate this room from the hall are dark green velours, through which the dull red finish oft he plastered walls in the hall forms an agreeable color contrast. On the parlor floor is a heavy Wilton carpet of a floral pattern, roses on a green ground, while an Oriental rug is thrown on the polished floor in the hall. The furniture is of forest green oak in the quaint style, delicate in outline yet picturesque in form. The upright piano, in a case especially designed to correspond with the other furniture, is also forest green oak, In the hall, Flemish oak has been used for the chairs and the table and mirror frame, a pair of stag horns serving as a hat rack. A tall clock in one corner of the hall is cased in Flemish oak.

