



<doctype type="text">to have someone volunteer and get turned down ; that would be most unpleasant. It was more a matter for quiet investigation.

Mr. Gray regarded Mr. Gordon's idea as very practical. He thought the Council was almost unanimously in favor of reducing the expenditure along that line ; in fact, it must be done if they were to carry out the other ideas proposed ; otherwise they would fall behind.

Mr. Aylsworth said that he had made the proposition to pay $100 as salary, but after hearing the discussion he had altered his views to this extent, that the office should be honorary, with the understanding that the occupant of the position would be authorized to charge for clerical work he had to get done by anyone else as part of the working expenses.

Mr. Gray said, as he understood it, the Registrar at present did make charges of that character for clerical work, such as for having notices printed, etc., and in that way he reduced his clerical work to a minimum.

The President said there was a great deal of clerical work in addition to that.

Mr. Gordon then moved the following resolution ''That this Convention, while placing on record its high opinion of the services of our present Registrar, and its opinion that the present salary of $200 per year is very mode rate, in view of the quantity and quality of the service rendered, yet, in view of the present financial condition of the Association, and the idea of expending money to secure rooms an(l enlarge the scope of the Association, we recommend the Council, if practicable, to make the position of Registrar and Librarian honorary for at least one year, and that a liberal allowance be made for clerical work, etc."

Mr. Dick seconded the motion.

Mr. Gemmell suggested that instead of the words '' a liberal allowance " the sum of $100 be inserted. He thought that would be a better way.

Mr. Gordon did not receive with favor the idea of naming any fixed sum. The sum of $100 might prove to be a great deal too much, or it might not be sufficient. That was something for the Council to decide. With Mr. Dick's permission, however, he would change the resolution to read, " and that all necessary clerical work to lighten the labors of the office be paid by the Association."

Mr. Wickson was in favor of inserting the sum of $100, and if the Registrar could save some of that amount let him have the benefit of it.

Mr. Gordon replied that $200 was the lowest amount that could be offered any man for his services. He did not think $100 would be any inducement to such a young man as was necessary to fill the position ; it was not a man to whom the $100 would be an inducement that was wanted, but one whose inducement would be his enthusiasm for Architecture.

Mr. Gemmell still held to his opinion that $100, while it might not pay for the enthusiasm of the Registrar, would pretty nearly pay for all the clerical work required, and would be an inducement to an ambitious young man.

Mr. Darling, who had been absent from the room, asked what Mr. Gordon's motion was, and on learning expressed his entire agreement with it.

Mr. Pearson wanted to know if the Council could not get a man who would accept the office without remuneration. What was going to be done about the rooms? He thought something definite should be done. He did not think any man need be insulted by the offer of $100.

Mr. Darling said that the trouble about that was that it was tying the Council's hands. The Council had a perfect right to give $200, $100, $50, or any other sum they considered proper ; therefore, what was the use of mentioning any sum in this resolution, which was only a recommendation after all. If a man could not be got for $100 what would the Council do? They would have to exercise their judgment after all.

Mr. Gordon's motion was then read by the Chairman and put to the Convention, and carried.

The Registrar then read the following notices of motion

"By Mr. F. S. Baker: That there be a regular meeting of the

Association one evening in each month, except during the summer,  the purpose of reading and discussing papers, etc.

By Mr. F. S. Baker: That a suitable medal he provided out of the funds of the Association, to be given to the student standing highest in the final examination.

By Mr. W. A. Langton : That the Association establish a tariff of fees as a guide to members in making charges for professional services.

By Mr. S. I-I. Town send to the effect that every year the Association place a mark of distinction upon a certain number of houses approved for excellence."



As Mr. Baker was unavoidably absent from the Convention, he would move the resolutions appearing after his name on his behalf, as he knew Mr. Baker desired to have them brought before the meeting. He thought, however, that both of the motions might be referred to the committee appointed to confer with the 18 Club, because they would come within the scope of the programme that those committees were arranging. The committee appointed yesterday to confer with the 18 Club had reported, and its report was that a committee of three be appointed in place of the committee of six.

Mr. Darling then moved that the members of the committee be Messrs. Wickson Dick and the mover. He thought it was very much better to have a small committee.

The motion was seconded and carried.

Mr. Langton then moved, seconded by Mr. Wickson, that the first two motions be referred to the committee just appointed. The motion was carried.

Mr. Pearson inquired if the committee was to bring back its report to the Association? It so there would be none of these proposed meetings for another year.

Mr. Gray wanted to know if this was a sub-committee of the former committee, or what was it?

Mr. Darling explained that it was thought better to have a smaller committee to deal with the matter alone.

Mr. Denison asked when the committee had come to a conclusion as to what was best to whom would they report?

Mr. Langton said that the committee of three now appointed would report to the Council.

Mr. Langton then moved the resolution appearing after his name in the notice of motion, That the Association establish a tariff of fees as a guide to members in making charges for professional services." 1-le thought this tariff was very necessary as a guide to the Association and as their standard in court. If any one thought he ought to get more than the tariff rate for his services, or that he might accept less, that was a matter for special arrangement between him and his client; in the absence of such arrangement the tariff would be the standard.

Mr. Denison seconded the motion.

Mr. \V. R. Gregg produced copies of a tariff which he said were printed by the Architectural Guild of Toronto, of charges based upon those of the American Institute of Architects, and suggested that the members look over them and see if the tariff was in their view a reasonable one, in which case they might save time by adopting it.

Mr. Gordon said the tariff in question was not that published by the Guild, but was published considerably before the one issued by the Guild, published by an earlier Association. Then the Guild thought some amendments were desirable, and later on one was published by the Guild, copies of which some of the members had in their possession.

Mr. Denison said that while it was true an amended pamphlet was published by the Guild, he thought the changes made in it were not as good as the mules in the copy they now held in their hands. He thought it would be desirable for the Association, if possible, to have a tariff uniform will that of the American Institute in every way. He was strongly in favor of the adoption of something similar to that adopted by the American Association.

Mr. Darling said he thought one was practically the same as the other. This tariff only stated that it was based upon that of the American Institute, but as a matter of fact it went further. As far as the question of a tariff was concerned, he understood that this was only recommended as a guide by the Association. He

