<doctype type="text">

<article title=" METHOD OF CONSTRUCTING A WOODEN ELEVATOR " author="">

METHOD OF CONSTRUCTING A WOODEN ELEVATOR.

The erection of a modern elevator is a task of no little magnitude, and entails many different principles of construction.

Though the steel framed elevator is now commonly used and seems to the architect of other modern buildNo. i.—(A) CEMENT PIERS. (B) SIZED LUMBER PILES.





ings, to be perhaps the only correct method of construction for such enormous erections, yet some of the largest elevators in the Dominion and elsewhere embody largely the simplest and earliest methods of construction.

The accompanying illustrations show very clearly this method of building—substantially that of the settler of the primeval wilderness when he puts up his log cabin.

This is one of the largest sized elevators, yet its builders claim for it advantages which, on the whole,























No. 2.—Shows TRATELLING CRANES AND METHOD OF



Erecting TRUSSES.





cannot be surpassed by any other character of building. It is much cheaper than the steel building in material, and its cost in erection is far below that of the other. Its rigidity is remarkable, and the dangers from side thrusts are entirely obviated.

Grain in bulk, wheat particularly, asserts great side thrust, being in reality a semi-fluid, and acting similar to water. A glance at illustration No. 5 will show how entirely this force must be overcome, the building being so bound together by its own divisions and bins as to be incapable of crushing, and bulging being impossible.

The illustrations are from photographs of the work upon the new I.C.R. elevator in St. John, N. B., and show very clearly the character of construction, method of operation, and, by the dates in the corners, the progress upon the work. This building was erected by Mr. J. A. Jamieson, of Montreal, who is perhaps the best known elevator builder in Canada, and has the reputation of being a most up-to-date contractor and designer in this line.

While the foundation was being prepared a mill was being fitted up with machinery immediately adjoining for the cutting up of the lumber into the various sizes required. This work was completed and the lumber























No. 3.—SUB-TIMBERING COMPLETE—PLANKING JUST BEGUN.



(A) Mill belonging to the Works. (B) Sized Planking. (C) Lumber Slides—



fitted with Rolls





stacked in sized piles all ready for use before the construction began.

This method greatly facilitates matters, as the construction is proceeded with almost mechanically in its various stages.

No. illustration shows one of the 98 cement piers in the foundation. No. 2 shows the character of the timberwork (Georgia pine) resting upon these, and illustrates the methods and simplicity of its erection.

The trains of cars are run into this lower part of the completed structure, and it also contains much of the machinery requisite to the elevating. From here up





































No. 4.—ILLUSTRATING SUB-TIMBERING, PLANK MID-STRUCTURE,



TIMBERING OF SUPERSTRUCTURE.

<article title=" TIMBERING OF SUPERSTRUCTURE " author="">



to what might be termed the clerestory, the entire structure is of 2x7 spruce planking, laid on the flat and spiked every few feet alternately near the opposite edges with 5-inch wire nails.

No. 3 shows the first few courses of this planking laid, and shows the lumber carriers, made up of a series of horses fitted with rolls, which may be seen more clearly in No. 5. The lumber is elevated to these

