



<doctype type="text">Africa, says —" To see the elephant at home is a sight to remember. The stupendous awkwardness of the menagerie animal, as if so large a creature were quite a mistake, vanishes completely when you watch him in his native haunts. Here he is as nimble as a kitten, and you see how perfectly this moving mountain is adapted to its habitat—how such a ponderous monster, is as natural to these colossal grasses as a rabbit to an English park." Doubtless if we could always see in their own places the animals which we call ugly, we should choose another word to describe them or admit the beauty of ugliness in its right place. May we not also venture to assert the ugliness of beauty in the wrong place? A world all ugliness would be oppressive ; but would not a world all elegance be wearisome? We must have alteration like the discords in good music. If everything were as sweet as the rose we should die of it "in aromatic pain."

If ugliness in its right place ceases to be ugly and beauty in its wrong place ceases to be beautiful this is only to say that the perception of beauty or ugliness is but the perception of fitness or unfitness, and this is the test of beauty in architecture. What does it mean? What is this fitness which is beautiful ? There has been much said in abuse of what it is now-a-days the fashion to call Realism in architecture and it may be necessary to disclaim any connection with the Realism which consists in the painful exhibition of construction for the sake of exhibiting it or considering it necessary to proclaim on the outside all the uses of the interior. But that a building should appear to be what it is ; that it should appear to be what it is in this country, not in another country and in this century, not in another century ; in the material of which it is built, not in other material however much more splendid ; and, it the construction must be protected and must therefore be concealed, that the protecting material may appear to conceal construction, not to display it ; these are the realities which are involved in an appearance of fitness. It would be absurd to speak as if there were no advance in the agreeableness of the architecture of recent years, as well as in its importance ; or to overlook the remarkable development in constructional skill. But the habit of mind which makes a fitting design is not common. The designer is usually after something else than his real problem, which he either does not recognize at all as his problem, 'or frankly abandons as not practical politics. The result is only half a success. The tall buildings of New York are the great architectural creation of this century. The dark spire of Trinity church ensconced among a group of these white buildings is a study in the grand picturesque ; the skyline of the peninsula of New York would be a theme for Turner ; but closer inspection leaves one apathetic. There is not only not one throb of pleasure but a feeling very like contempt. The draughtsman who has been allowed to flounder over these surfaces has not had the pluck to see that in the truth was his effect that the mass was everything, and that the same straightforward method which he has applied so successfully in the shingled cottage, where he was not afraid nor misled by ambition, would serve his purpose far better than the silly simulations of construction and the undue ornament with which he has made these majestic fronts frivolous and unmeaning.

The key to the satisfactory solution of this problem is to face it. It is the key to the solution of al! architectural problems and to that fitting diversity between

buildings of different kinds which may be said to constitute the design of cities. The determination to make a good thing of the conditions of arrangement and construction before the designer, this is the sure road to character, which is the greater part of beauty in architecture as in everything else. The temptation to look outside of the problem for a motive ; to adopt motives from distinguished monuments of the past, because they are admirable in their own place, and work them into the design in hand, where they are not in place, and will not be admirable, is the temptation of imperfect training. A riper culture and skill will see in the problem in hand something to touch the imagination, and in the limiting conditions a clue to the design. Limitations accepted at first perhaps with pain, but at any rate accepted, will when grappled with, turn out to be the life of the design. It is an old story that the triumphs of art are but its difficulties overcome. The etcher who has but a line to represent nature (which has none) is forced to think ; he learns to abstract the essence of a scene —and men who love art love etchings. It is its limitation that makes the art. Even wool-work, within its limitations, is an art. It is barren labor to make one thing look like another when. the key to beauty is to make it look like itself. This is the really inspiring work, and it suggests a field of study abroad as well as at home. We go abroad to see great buildings and come home to scatter their details over buildings great and small; quite forgetting that at home, in their own place, they stood apart, central jewels in a setting of much plain work. This plain work we should study quite as much as the great monuments. There is much traditional good taste and suitability to be seen in it. To wander for a day in one of these towns is to receive an architectural impression, consciously or unconsciously, which is perhaps as great as that which we receive from the monumental work we go to see, and is worth our study also for the reason that we lack it at home.



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

An International Congress of Architects will be held in Paris from July 29th to August 4th. Among the questions which will be discussed during the Congress will be that of the "cheap dwelling house," which has been noted on the programme according to the request of the British architects.

x x x

The recent heavy fall of snow is said to have caused the collapse of a skating rink at Milton, a hardware store at Woodstock, and a livery stable at Paris. Fortunately no loss of life is recorded, which is due to good luck rather than good management. So long as rule of thumb methods continue to be so generally employed in construction work, we may expect to hear of failures of this kind with now and then a disaster involving loss of human lives.

x xx

Regarding the proposal to reduce the fee for a plumber's license from $10 to $I, it is to be hoped that the City Council of Toronto will decide to let well enough alone. The City Medical Health Officer and the Master Plumbers' Association have promptly protested against the proposed change on the ground that it would permit incompetent men to engage in the plumbing business and thus injuriously affect the sanitary condition of the city, which under the present regulations is in a tolerably satisfactory condition.

