











<doctype type="text">THE BUILDER



<article title="The Builder" author="">THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

<article title="Regarding Stairs" author="">REGARDING STAIRS.

A GOOD house," says Ware in his "Complete Body of Architecture," " should always have two staircases, one for show and the use of company, and the other for the domestics. This latter should be thrown behind, but the other is to be shown, and upon the proper placing of it depends in a great measure the judicious disposition of the rest of the house."

This quotation, of course, refers to houses of the better sort, and carries weight when so applied, but, unfortunately, our social conditions are so cast that the greater mass of humanity is compelled to live in houses where one flight of stairs has to perform the double service referred to above ; and this condition renders it necessary to make the single flight as efficient and easygoing as possible, and to this end the following suggestions are offered.

In planning a building it is usual to place the stairs as near the main entrance as may be, a practice that is not always to be recommended, as the domestics, who are obliged to use the stairs daily, are generally farther away from the main entrance than the family, and therefore compelled to perform a great deal of useless and wasteful labor, and the treads from frequent use, soon become shabby looking and care-worn, and if covered, the carpet soon exhibits signs of wearings and decay. For a private house where only one flight is indulged in, it should be placed somewhere near the centre of the building and be accessible from any part with the least outlay of travel. This may easily be accomplished, and the stairs may be constructed between two walls, thus saving hall room below, and, where possible, the entrance might be covered with a door, to prevent hear from escaping from below, thus economizing in fuel, a matter of considerable importance in this country.

Stairs of this sort may be very cheaply constructed, as they will be closed in on both sides, and only a single rail, void of balusters, will be required. Where it can be done, it will always be wise to break the stairs about half-way up, by placing a landing or " rest," at least three feet square—more if it can be done. When occasion requires, the stairs may start from this landing in any direction ; they may go forward, turn to the right or to the left, or return on the direction of the first flight. If the latter method is adopted, the landing must be at least twice the length of step, in order to accommodate the last step of the first flight, and the first step of the second flight.

These suggestions hold good for the back stairs when two or more flights rise from one floor, but in all cases care should be taken that the stairs intended for the domestics be easy to travel and as free from turns as possible, and sufficiently wide to allow of two persons passing each other without being cramped

or crushed. The custom of crowding the stairs into any out-of-the-way corner, and twisting them like a corkscrew, is wrong and inhuman, and has much to answer for.

With regard to the main stair in a fairly equipped house, the circular model should he avoided, for, while a grand stair or a circular or elliptical plan, is " a thing of beauty," when generously treated, it is sadly out of place when introduced in an entrance hall not more than six or eight feet wide. Winders are always objectionable on a small scale, and should never be employed where a landing or " fliers" can be substituted, though, of course, the writer is well aware that there are cases where winders are a necessity, but in a majority of cases they may be dispensed with.

A very important matter in designing stairs is their proportionate disposition, so as to obtain the utmost facility of access to the various storeys with which they communicate without a wasteful sacrifice of either space or material.

It may be well perhaps to notice two or three general considerations applying to all cases of good stairs and stairways. These are

First, that every stair should have sufficient headway to allow a tall man wearing a tall hat to pass easily, and this may be put down at about 7 ft. 6 in., between the trimmer at the well-hole and the head directly under it. If there is any difficulty about this, the trimmer should be made to suit.

Second, no stairs should be less that 2 ft. 6 in. wide, even back stairs from the kitchen should be at least 2 ft. 10 in. in width, and main hall stairs in private houses should measure not less than 3 ft. 4 in. from outside to outside of string. In public buildings, the least width permissible is 4 ft. 4 in.

The third element in the proper proportioning of stairs is the angle of ascent, which is necessarily dependent upon the dimensions of the rises and treads of the stairs. As this is a point of much importance in rendering a stairway easy of going, considerable attention has been given to it by practical stair-builders as well as by eminent architects, who together have evolved certain fixed rules from the relations subsisting between the height and width of steps. In this regard the same rules apply, with but little modification, to all stairs, of whatever material they may be made—wood, stone or iron.

It may be taken as a general maxim that the greater breadth allotted to the tread of the step the less should be the height of the riser ; and that this is a common-sense view is evident from the consideration that, in walking up inclines or hills, we find that the steeper the ascent the shorter are our steps, or vice versa. Experience has shown that a step having a tread 12 in.

