

<doctype type="text">business to assist a worthy object of this character, might nevertheless be willing to contribute of their means for such a purpose. And as a matter of fact, although the full amount required was not subscribed, a sufficient sum was promised to show that many of those to whom the request was preferred were fully in sympathy therewith and with the object sought to be attained.



Reference is made to the educational work on which the Association have decided to embark, and the conclusion is reached that "as the improvised professors were not selected, it is not likely the teaching will he started until an indefinite time elapses." The members of the Association, who have undertaken to give their time for the benefit of the students, do not regard themselves as professors, either improvised or otherwise.



The part taken in the convention by the Eighteen Club is not fairly stated. The Eighteen Club is not in any sense a rival of the Ontario Association of Architects, nor is it altogether antagonistic to the latter organization. While it has not been able to see eye to eye in some matters, it is nevertheless, to a large extent, in sympathy with the Association, and likely to join hands in carrying out. the undertakings, especially with regard to education, decided upon at the recent convention. The Ontario Association of Architects is not aping the older societies, as it has been accused of doing, but is seeking, as far as possible, under different circumstances and conditions, to profit by the experience of these societies.





The most striking feature of the article to which we have referred is the display of the purse-proud spirit and the lofty air of contempt assumed by the writer towards an institution which is striving under difficult circumstances to perform a useful work on behalf of architecture. It will be noticed that while the article bristles with criticism of a purely destructive character, it does not offer a word of sympathy or encouragement, or make a single suggestion for the improvement of the condition of affairs which it so severely condemns. From beginning to end it displays conspicuous lack of knowledge on the part of the author of the matters of which he writes so loftily. If the other articles appearing in this publication of sixty years' standing have no better foundation in fact, it will soon cease to carry any weight. We cannot help feeling surprised that a professional journal of the age and supposed standing of the London Architect should have condescended to the style of criticism contained in the article which we are discussing.



The sand blast, invented by C. B. Tilghman, of Philadelphia, and patented in October, 1870, has revolutionized the old methods of preparing stone and glass for the purposes of building and decoration. The engraving, cutting and boring of these materials, as well as of some metals, are accomplished by the percussive force of a rapid stream of sharp sand driven against the material by an apparatus operated by compressed air or a mechanical fan. A stencil is employed on the surface of the material to direct the action of the sand stream. By the use of a photographed coaling of gelatine upon glass, reproductions of line engravings are finely executed at a small cost. The patterns on the cheaper kinds of colored glass are performed by the sand blast, a stencil being used upon the colored panes and the blast operating to remove the color from the exposed parts.

<article title="The Beauty of Fitness" author="">THE BEAUTY OF FITNESS.

THERE is no surer sign of the innate provincialism of both ourselves and of our esteemed brothers of the United States than the inflated character of our architecture. There is too much architecture to the square toot, or it is of too high a class for the buildings. It may seem presumptuous to class with ourselves the travelled architects of New York ; to call them provincial who have seen the world ; but knowledge is not culture ; indeed knowledge acquired in haste for the sake of possession is apt to choke the growth of culture ; which is an emanation from within, a process of thought which has little foresight for the commercial value of knowledge, but appropriates what it wants for its present use and no more. This is a slow process and may, alas, take a generation or two in North America, In the old world, where a man cannot take a walk out of doors without running up against a standard example, he has a better chance, if be starts far, of understanding the true nature of architecture. He at least knows what much-praised architecture is like and will not be misled as we often are who derive our knowledge only from descriptions. Was not Ruskin the greatest of describers, and has not Mr. Howells said, in his Venetian Life, " I remember how, just after reading Mr. Ruskin's description of St. Mark's church, I, who had seen it every day for three years, began to have dreadful doubts of its existence These descriptions are a work of art in themselves, treating the building merely as a basis or an effort to arouse the imagination to feel what the writer feels about it after patient study ; and it is not to be wondered at if the inhabitant of the new world when he visits the old and finds himself at last before a great example, should feel inclined to exclaim with the poet on the seashore, "Is this the mighty ocean, is this all?" But he has made a great step towards true feeling for architecture when he got there. When we were young we imagined kings and queens to be much more accustomed to wearing their crowns than turns out to be the case, but they are on the whole more dignified without them, and dignity was all we wished to attribute to them. The person who figures to himself the highest state of society is apt to imagine brilliancy of wit and a graciousness of demeanour which would he rather uncomfortable to live with. He has lost nothing when he learns the greater grace of simplicity, although it's attainable by ordinary people. In the same way there is nothing lost but much gained to the provincial student of architecture when he finds out that architecture has its limitations ; that it is not always posing but often at its ease, and is then too usually most attractive ; that even when it has a representative function to bear and adopts the high manner it is most effective when most natural ; and where it is chiefly utilitarian it conies off with greatest dignity by being simple and straightforward.

The truth of the matter is that the ultimate test of architecture is fitness. The magnificent civic building, the solemn cathedral, the plain and substantial warehouse, the stately mansion and the snug cottage are all architecture and all works of art, provided only they keep each within its own limits. One is not as full of graces as another, but it would be hard to say that each in its way is not beautiful. In its own place whatever is right is pleasing. The elephant, for instance, is to us a lumbering monster whose proportions border on ludicrous. But Henry Drummond, in his Tropical

