<doctype type="text">THE BUILDER



THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



<article title="Gable Ornaments" author="">Gable Ornaments.

There are many very beautiful patterns of barge-boards and gable ornaments on old buildings both in England and

Germany, many of which are elaborately carved and cut into fantistic yet appropriate forms and fill their purpose to perfection. In this country we rather follow the Swiss and French methods of finishing our gables than the more solid and durable English and German, "more's the pity." The illustration shown herewith gives an open gable with a built-up barge-board. It is neat, quite effective, and not costly to make. The turned spindles add materially to the design and are neither difficult to make nor costly. The rosettes are also turned and are planted on. The method of construction, with the crown moulding, is shown at A. Gables of this kind are well adapted for frame buildings

mate can be made as to the time it may be required to do the work now in hand. The method as described is used in a good many shops with sometimes widely differing results as to the actual time required, sometimes being too low an estimate and quite often too



high to be in any way near correct. The way that is

most prevalent for sheet metal workers to bid on work is by lump figures, that is, the plans and specifications of certain works are submitted by the architect to the metal worker, and he gives a figure for whatever amount he is willing to do the job complete for, in a lump sum. It also sometimes occurs that a bid is asked for a cornice or other work by the running foot, or by the square foot for the work complete on the building. If the result has been obtained in a manner as shown by the " snap " rule, it is only necessary to divide the work on which the price is based into feet, and discover the price of this per foot, then multiply the number of feet of work to be done by the amount per foot cost of the work finished, which will give some idea of a correct estimate. This method, though well enough in the absence of a better one, is not to be commended, as it is a sort of hap-hazard way of arriving at a result which ought to be correct, but rarely is, as many a sheet metal worker has found to his cost.





<article title="Estimating Sheet Metal Work" author="">Estimating Sheet

Metal Work.

GABLE ORNAMENT.





where paint and color are important factors, but, for brick or stone buildings heavier and more substantial ones should be employed.





In making estimates for sheet metal work, it is necessary that persons estimating should have a proper knowledge of the method of reading and measuring plans, and this can only be acquired by cornice men after long, careful and close study and observation. The following hints will, in some measure, supply what some may lack in these important qualifications When the amount of sheet metal is determined that will be required to do a certain job of cornice work, the next question that presents itself is, how much time and labor will it take to do the work? There are almost as many ways employed to arrive at the result sought for as there are ways of doing the work itself. Some guess at the time, comparing the work under consideration to that of a similar character and design done before. Knowing, of course, the amount of time that it has taken to do the preceding work, a nearly correct esti



<article title="Correct Way of Estimating" author="">Correct Way of Estimating.

A reliable way to estimate is to figure up on the entire items of a cornice or other work separately, such as, 1st,

work in the shop on the cornice ; 2nd, transportation from shop to building when the work is to be put up 3rd, cost of scaffolding ; 4th, the cost of putting the work on the building ; 5th, cost of materials, including tinned nails, solder and sheet metal. In some large establishments the following plan is used to determine the cost of almost any member of a complete cornice We will take say a bracket, or any member of a cornice for that matter. The first step is to make a drawing of the desired shape full size, and cut out a pattern note the time very carefully, also note the general character of the design, size and shape, next the work done on the forming, bending, joining and soldering together of the various parts of the work. When the member is completed, the weight, including cuttings and waste, size, general description of the work, and the precise time it has taken to complete the work, future calculations for all similar work can safely be based on the results obtained. The same method is used to obtain the price of all the different parts of cornices or other works coming under the sheet metal workers' department, thus securing for all time a safe and reliable guide for future estimates and calculations. While the foregoing would hardly be applicable to small shops in

