	<doctype type="text">52	CANADIAN	AND BUILDER



Practice and experience will make a great difference if the author continue to show continued diligence.

It is a matter of surprise that no competitor adopted a style lower in character and with wide projecting eaves to the verandah so that occupants could sit near the parapet and still be in the shade.

(A.	F. WICKSON. Signed JOHN GEMMELL.



The authors of the designs which have been awarded first, second and third positions respectively are as follows '' Kenilworth," (Mr. Clarence Thetford, 237 Dufferin street, Toronto, Ont.); " Spes," (Mr. Willford Gagnon, 25 Melbourne ave., Westmount, Montreal)

Dinah," (Mr. Frederick C. French, 84 Wellesley street, Toronto.)

NOTES BY PROF. CAPPER.



"DINAH" -(Plan)—-Gymnasium on ground floor, with billiard room beneath it in the basement, dining rooms being on 1st floor. It is a serious defect in such a building as this to relegate the billiard room to so inconvenient and secondary a position; nor is this at all redeemed by a basement cafe alongside it (in unpleasant

proximity to a lavatory, which is none too well lighted.) The billiard room itself is awkward in shape, being spoilt to fit in the bowling alley. On ground floor the ladies' room (with lavatory off it) and the reception and smoking rooms arc well placed and the covered gallery is large—a good feature, both in plan and elevation. The gyrnnasium itself is well placed, with good locker accommodation off it. Baths are shown, but the w. c. accommodation is quite inadequate—a Single w. c. for this floor, and that entered from two sides—a quite impossible arrangement. The main staircase has a lavatory most conspicuously at the exact head of the stairs, as public as possible a little re-arrangement would have improved this and increased the size of upper hail. Kitchen is ingeniously arranged for service, but the little service room itself is inadequate; it is badly lighted and has three doors in its small space. On attic floor the caretaker's house is well separated, a good arrangement; but it has no bathroom accommodation. There are five bedrooms for the club, equally destitute of bathrooms. The service stair in this design is good, but it has no service entrance, which would half destroy its utility. The entrance to bicycle store in basement is rather awkwardly managed with its sharply curving steps. (Elevation)—The design is shewn in a perspective, in which the deep verandah or gallery is not very successfully indicated. Externally, the club house is simple, and tree from the terrible vice of pretentiousness. The entrance porch has too much the air of having been "stuck on"; otherwise the design is satisfactory, if slightly commonplace.

"FORGET-ME-NOT."-—-(Plan) --The general scheme of this plan is very good it is simple, and this very simplicity would increase its convenience in practice. Gymnasium and billiard room are both on the principal floor, the former with locker and toilet accommodation conveniently placed; as shewn, however, the latter is quite insufficient—no baths and only a single w. c. The bowling alley in the basement is well managed, there being more space for spectators arid loungers than in most of the other plans it is a defect, however, that the lavatory only enters off this. The bicycle store-room also is conveniently planned. The 1st floor on the other hand is less successful as planned, the service from the kitchen has perforce to cross the upper hall, which would be highly inconvenient the reading room also is only reached through the dining room. The absence of any communication (save by "dumb-waiter ") between kitchen and 1st floor and store-room in basement, is bad; all the service would necessarily invade the principal stair—a great inconvenience in a club. No ladies' accommodation is provided, but none was asked for in the program. In the entrance hall much greater interest could have been imparted by combining. the staircase with the hall; the two are shown unnecessarily separated and would be very commonplace in execution. There are outside galleries on three sides, an excellent feature; it is a question, however, if more might not have been made of these by carrying them continuously round the three sides of the house, although the lighting of billiard room might have been somewhat affected. (Elevation)—The elevations are regular and symmetrical, though more might have been made of them in the pen-and-ink rendering. The round-headed windows to reception room and the round-arched entrance door do not harmonize well with the rest of the design, introducing a rather jarring note.

KENILWORTH. '—(Plan) The radical defect of this plan is

the access to the gymnasium. Short of going outside altogether, the only way to reach it is by going downstairs through the bicycle store-room and along a passage (with borrowed light) between lockers and baths. Nothing can rectify this. And there is not even an entrance to the gallery of the gymnasium from the billiard room. On the ground floor dining room with service pantry and kitchen are well arranged, there being a separate service entrance, but there is a lack of store-room accommodation. Hall and staircase are really cramped to provide the "den," which may be a desirable feature, but certainly is not worth sacrificing convenience for. A lavatory should have been provided on this floor; it would be needed in connection with the billiard room. On 1st floor the card rooms are also interfered with owing to the "den" downstairs, which has probably been one of those preconceived notions so apt to lead a designer astray when persevered in too devotedly. (Elevation)—-Externally thc design is unpretentious and good rather timidly rendered.

" MARCUS '.—(Plan)—The planning of the principal floor is decidedly weak. A lavatory that can only be reached from the billiard room by going through a card room is very badly planned. Upstairs a similar arrangement for the ladies' room is, of course, quite suitable and convenient. The kitchen on attic floor would hardly be workable at all in practice; it is destitute of proper facilities for storage, etc., and, situated in the midst of the members' bedrooms, would be a perpetual nuisance. (Elevation)—The elevation again is much better than the plan. It has no special character of a club about it, but is nevertheless fairly pleasing. The verandah or gallery would have been better (both for the plan and the elevation) had it been carried round the building on two sides; as designed it is too small, In this scheme bicycle accommodation is kept entirely separate from the house, an arrangement for which a good deal may be said.

"MAYFLY ".—(Plan)-—This design has a very good plan indeed in many respects. On ground floor the entrance hall and staircase are better arranged than in any other; cloak room and lavatory are well placed, the office is convenient, and the dining room is quite satisfactorily arranged with the pantry and kitchen en suite, the service entrance and staircase being adjacent; the latter would, however, be rather dark. Both gymnasium and billiard room are very well placed, although the latter is much smaller than the requirements of the programme. On the basement floor bathrooms and lockers, etc., are reached by a separate stair from the gymnasium, and accommodation for bicycles is convenient. On 1st floor the caretaker's house is kept quite separate with its own access stair, In the club portion, the only accommodation for ladies is reached through the reading room and music room, an arrangement very fat' from satisfactory. This is certainly the chief defect of the design. (Elevation)—The elevations are only fairly good, the east side being sadly dull.

"SPES.,' -—-(Plan)—--In this design the gymnasium is on the top floor. In such an arrangement it was essential to provide good access to it, but precisely in this respect the planning is most faulty. To reach the gymnasium, members would have to go up the principal stairs to the 1st floor, then proceed along the passage straight towards the service stair, only to turn abruptly aside in search of the actual stars leading up to the floor above, which are anything hut suitably placed. As planned, the drawing room would surely be more suitable for the cafe than the room actually assigned to this, service to which would be very involved and awkward. Ladies' accommodation is provided, a separate billiard room being included for them, but there is no lavatory accommodation for them at all; and billiard room and reception room reserved for the ladies' use are very inconveniently separated. (Elevation)—The exterior is shown in a boldly drawn and pleasing perspective. The design is good, perhaps the most satisfactory of all sent in. The gallery is ample, so that the little extra verandah facing north (and commanded by the toilet room) might well have been omitted in plan.



"VADIS. "—(Plan)—--This design makes no provision for refreshments at all, and therefore fails to comply with the conditions of competition. The general scheme is naturally on a somewhat smaller scale, though accommodation is provided for ladies on the first floor. A caretaker's house is also provided; but the caretaker, to come inside the club house, has to go out of doors and ascend the verandah to the front door, a very circuitous route. The plan, however, contains one arrangement that is well worth noting. The bowling alley, a very noisy accompaniment to club life, is here relegated to a separate building, entered off the gymnasium. Covered accommodation for bicycles is much too limited for a club specially devoted to cycling. (Elevation)—The exterior is rather fussy in design, with a somewhat pretentious bay window but it has a certain character of its own suitable to  club and therefore satisfactory.

