<doctype type="text"> [THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT As HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

<article title="Quanity of Mortar Requires fo I. M. Bricks" author="">Quantity of Mortar

Required for

I M Bricks

THE amount of mortar required to lay 1000 bricks will vary with the size of the bricks used, and with the thickness

of the joints, With the standard size of bricks, which should he 814 in. x 4 in. x 2 1/4 in., a cubic yard of brickwork laid with half-inch joints will require from 0.35 to 0.40 cubic yard. If the joints are one-quarter to three-eighths thick, a cubic yard of brickwork will require from 0.25 to 0.30 cubic yards of mortar; or 1000 bricks will require from 4 to cubic feet of mortar. If the joints are one-eighth of an inch thick, as for pressed brickwork, 1000 bricks will require from one and one-half to two cubic feet of mortar. This being known, it should not be difficult for an estimator to be able to tell exactly the cost of the materials required to build up 1000 bricks in a wall, having the cost of bricks, sand and lime at hand, including hauling, with the above data before him. It is a little difficult to tell exactly how many bricks a man will lay in a day of ten hours, as conditions vary, and some men are much more expert than others ; but if well supplied with material, and no scaffolds to adjust. and a long wall to work at, from 15 to i6 hundred may be considered a pretty good day's work. If, however, there are many openings to fit around, or neat facing to do, from 1000 to 1200 will be a good average day's work. In good ordinary street fronts, from 800 to 1000 is a good day's work ; but in the finest front work, when there are numerous angles, doorways, belting courses or cornice work, from 200 to 400 is a fair day's work. In large works, such as factories, warehouses, or similar buildings, or where walls are very thick and the work coarse, a good man will lay from 1,700 to 2,000 bricks a day ; this, however, is rather the exception than the rule, and the lower figure is the safest to estimate upon. A good laboring man will mix mortar and carry it and bricks for three bricklayers, if mortar and bricks are not more than 25 feet from the building, and provided he does not have to carry water or climb a ladder. In all cases, however, the lime must have been slaked and is in a putty state, and this is an item the estimator must consider. To slake lime and run it off and have it ready for the laborer to make into mortar, as a matter of cost, depends on the quantity made at each slaking. As the brickwork of a building rises so also does the cost. Whatever may he the figures obtained as the cost of laying 1000 bricks for the first story, per cent. should be added to it for laying the bricks of the second story, and 12 1/2 per cent. for the third story, and a corresponding percentage for the work laid in higher stories. Getting the figures giving the cost in situ of brickwork, is one of the easiest problems in estimating, yet, how seldom two estimators give in figures alike?

<article title=" Measuring Plaster Cornices." author="">Measuring Plaster

Cornices.

IN making an estimate for a plaster cornice, several things are to be taken into consideration. (I) Measure the

whole length around the wall, and deduct one projection of the cornice each way for the main length. If the girt of the mouldings from the ceiling to the wall line is under six inches, take it by the foot running measure, but if more than six inches, charge by the foot superficial. When there are eaves to the cornice, charge then by the foot superficial, bending a tape-line round in the concave; count all angles and mitres above four, taking measurements on longest lines. When there are enrichments in connection with the cornice, other than running mouldings, such as lambrequins or set ornaments, charge them extra according to their value, at so much per running or superficial foot. All quirks, arises, heads or ovolos should be charged by the running foot. Pateras, which save mitring of enriched soffits are not to be taken unless in a frame or coffer; these must be charged under their own department. Plastering on brick walls to be measured from top of ground to lowest member of cornice, but where the walls are lathed, the whole height of wall must be measured. Stucco should be measured by the yard superficial, and charged according to the style and quality of the work.



<article title=" For Estimating Masons' Work." author="">THERE can be no set price given for stone-work that will suit all locations and all styles of work and qualities of

of materials. The estimator must ascertain for himself the prices current of labor and materials in his own neighborhood, for the style of work he is figuring on. The following will be useful rather as aids in obtaining the quantities and defining the style of work, than in giving him the price for it, but, after obtaining the quantities, and getting the local prices, the cost of work may be readily found. Walls made up of rubble stone are sometimes measured by the toise, (French), which contains 87. 16 cubic feet ; some measures only allow 84 feet. In Ontario it is chiefly measured by the cord of 100 feet in the wall or 128 feet in loose stone, a difference that should be noted. Sometimes stonework is measured by the perch, and again by the cubic foot or cubic yard. Walls measuring less than I foot 6 inches in thickness are always counted for the builder as 18 inches thick, but, the man furnishing the stone is entitled to the cubic feet only. Walls over

foot 6 inches thick and not over 2 feet 6 inches thick, are measured as 2 feet 6 inches in thickness. Footings are always measured extra according to their size. If very large stones are used, an extra charge is made per foot on them. Face work of a superior kind on rubble masonry is always measured separately, and

For Estimating

Masons' Work.

