<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	129



all branches of industry, such as is being organized in Germany. Its programme is interesting and seems somewhat drastic. It is intended that when labor troubles break out in any one branch, delegates from all the branches of the union shall meet to consider the question of joint action. A fund for the assistance of weak employers in cases of strikes or lockouts is to be created, and a register of workmen is to be drawn up with the view of preventing strikers from obtaining employment elsewhere, while the men who made themselves particularly obnoxious are not to be employed in any case. The union also intends to put up several candidates for the Reichstag at the next elections. The effect of a perfectly organized and determined opposition on the part of employers to the unreasonable demands of the unions is to be seen in the outcome of the recent engineers' strike in Great Britain. In that conflict unionism suffered a defeat from which it will never recover, and the employers regained control of the management of their own business which had to a large extent been usurped by the labor organizations. The conciliation Bill, introduced by the Postmaster General and which has just been adopted by the Dominion parliament is based upon the English act. It provides means for the settlement of disputes between employers and employees where both parties are willing to submit the matter to arbitration. The act is a purely permissive one, and differs in this respect from the New Zealand law.



IN view of the value which, has been

<article title="Tests of Canadian Timber" author="">Tests of Canadian

	Timber.	placed by the public upon the timber

		tests conducted by the Forestry Depart

ment of the American Government at Washington, the Government of Ontario has made a small grant to defray the cost of preliminary tests of Canadian pine. If the results of these preliminary tests shall be of a character to warrant further expenditure and investigation along this line the necessary funds for the purpose will no doubt be forthcoming. Up to the present time, the only tests made in Ontario of Canadian timbers have been conducted at the school of Practical Science, Toronto, with material obtained from the wholesale lumber yards. There was no data available to show where the timber was grown or the conditions of growth. It is now proposed to take a further step, by selecting the timber for the tests and carefully noting the conditions of growth. For this object, Mr. J. A. Duff, of the school of Practical Science, Toronto, will spend several months of the present summer in Algonquin Park, which, as our readers are aware, is a timber reserve under the control of the Provincial Government. Mr. Duff will make a selection of trees of various sizes and grown under varying conditions. These will be marked and the conditions of growth noted, so that when the tests are made not only the age and condition of the tree will be known, but also to what part of the tree the pieces tested belonged. It is hoped that tests made under these conditions will reveal such distinguishing characteristics of growth as will enable the architect, engineer, and builder to pronounce upon the qualities of timber which they are called upon to use. Whether or not this most valuable result will be achieved cannot be known until the tests shall have taken place.





Mr. Duff conducted a series of tests at the School of Science last winter to determine the strength of small

pieces of white pine. The object of using small pieces was to enable users of timber for constructional purposes to make their own tests without the use of testing appliances. One important result of these tests was the discovery that invariably the character of the fracture of a good piece of timber differed entirely from that of a poor piece, and that each quality always showed the same kind of fracture. The timber of good quality showed a "bushy" fracture, while the stick of poor quality broke straight across and showed a single large diagonal split. The pieces tested were about 4 feet in length and 2 1/2 X " in diameter. It is proposed to begin next winter the more important tests above referred to. They will be carried on in connection with the fourth year work of the students of the School of Practical Science, and the results will be looked for with much interest by architects, engineers, builders, and others interested in works of construction. A room is now being fitted up in the school in which to note the effects of dead loads upon various materials. These materials will be loaded to a point near to the breaking strain, and will then be allowed to stand thus loaded for a length of time in order that the effect be noted.





<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

SOME HOUSES IN TORONTO.—EDEN SMITH, ARCHITECT.



NURSE'S HOME, GENERAT HOSPITAL, MONTREAL.—ANDREW



T. TAYLOR, F.R.I.B.A., ARCHITECT.



NATIONAL TRUST COMPANY'S BUILDING, MAIN STREET, WINNIPEG, MAN.—GEO. W. GOUINLOCK, ARCHITECT.







<article title="Rating of Radiators and Heating Boilers" author="">RATING OF RADIATORS AND HEATING BOILERS.

Mr. P. M. Nesbitt, President of the Institution of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, in an address delivered to the members of that Society recently, said "I think that I cannot do better than mention to you some of what I believe are apparent defects, as I see them, in our profession. Let us take radiators. I am sure many members here will endorse my remarks when I state that a radiator, which is a first-class article for steam, is often a very bad one for hot water, and vice versa. I know a case in the north of England where an architect, a friend of mine, who has just erected a public building in which the contracting, heating, and ventilating engineer allowed 10 square feet of heating surface per 1,000 cubic feet of space, but he could not get the building warmed satisfactorily. I am satisfied the radiator in this job is unsuitable for hot water circulation.

Again, I think we shou1d insist upon manufacturers guaranteeing a certain amount of actual heating area in each section or loop, not merely mentioning a rating which is practically of no value to an engineer who has to give a guarantee to his client to perform certain work. This has been a vexed question for many years in the United States of America—the home of the "Radiator" trade—and many of the heating and ventilating engineers in that country have complained to me bitterly of the apparently false ratings of radiators in certain makers catalogues. I think also that all radiators should be tested by an independent authority—indeed, by a specialist—under fixed conditions; that his decision should be final, and the heating trade should reject any radiators that do not bear such test or "Hall" mark. It. is no more to ask for this test of radiators than it is to ask for a test with a girder, column, or high pressure boiler.

Similar remarks might be made about the various kinds of heating boilers that are placed before the engineering trades. Many of the boilers catalogued will not perform their duty up to anything like the figures which are stated."







It is proposed to reorganize with a competent staff of teachers, the art Students' League of Hamilton.

Mr. Duncan Ross, the well-known railway contractor, died a fortnight ago in the Western Hospital at Montreal as the result of an attack of pneumonia. The late Mr. Ross was a native of Nova Scotia and was 55 years of age.

