<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	219



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

<article title=" C A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITIONS " author="">

C A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITIONS.

The publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite architectural students and draughtsmen resident in Canada to submit drawings in the following

competitions:



<article title=" STUDENTS COMPETITION FOR A PORCH " author="">

STUDENTS COMPETITION FOR A PORCH.



A plan, section and perspective sketch are required.

Explanatory detail sketches of certain portions may also be included.

The subject is an entrance porch to a city house of 35 feet frontage facing south or east on a 50 ft. lot. The porch to be large enough for use as a verandah, and yet not to cover all the front windows, as it is desirable to have the sunshine enter the parlor by at least one window.

The porch may be of wood, brick or stone or combinations thereof and may have flat or sloping roof



STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR ENTRANCE DOOR, VESTIBULE AND VESTIBULE DOOR.

<article title=" STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR ENTRANCE DOOR, VESTIBULE AND VESTIBULE DOOR " author="">

A plan, and section are required and elevations of both doors.

Explanatory detail sketches of certain portions may also be included.

The subject is the entrance from the above mentioned porch. Light may be obtained for the vestibule from a window on one of the walls not occupied by the doors, or from the entrance door or wall in which the door is placed.

The vestibule must be large enough to accommodate a fair sized hat rack and an umbrella stand.

Drawings must be made with pen and perfectly black ink on white drawing paper or cardboard. No brush or color work will be allowed. Drawings should be so arranged as to admit of photographic reproduction in the illustration pages of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The size of each page is 7x10 inches. No set of drawings must occupy more than two pages.

Competitors must send in their drawings, prepaid, under motto marked "Students' Competition," and addressed to " the publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto," prior to 5 o'clock p.m. of the dates set for the competition, viz 1st competition, Thursday, 27th December, 1900; 2nd competition, Monday, January 28th, 1901. Each set of drawings must he accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing on the outside the author's motto and enclosing a card giving his full name and address.

The merits of the designs which may be submitted in these competitions will be judged by a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects, whose decision shall be final. For the benefit of competitors, the judges will be requested to give a detailed criticism of each design.

Three prizes are offered in each competition as follows To the winner of 1st position, $10; ; to the winner of 2nd position, $5 ; and to the winner of 3rd position, one year's subscription to the CANADIAN

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



The right is reserved to publish any or all of the drawings.

NOTE Competitors are required strictly to observe and comply with the above instructions and conditions.

EXHIBITION OF ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS. <article title=" EXHIBITION OF ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS " author="">

THE members of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club have made all arrangements to hold their first annual exhibition from January 26th to February 9th, 1901, at the galleries of the Ontario Society of Artists, King street west.

The above Club joined the Architectural League of America nearly two years ago and have been working on having an exhibition of American and Canadian drawings ever since. The success of the exhibition is assured ; not only has every American club promised to give every assistance, but also many of the leading architects and the following gentlemen have kindly consented to look after the Eighteen Club's interests in their various cities Adin B. Lacey, Philadelphia ; N. Max. Dunning, Chicago; Chas. D. Maginnis, Boston ; Edwin G. Gardin, St. Louis ; Gustave W. Drach, Cincinnati Julius F. Harder, New York; John T. Comes, Pittsburg ; Percy Ash, Washington; Prof. Newton A. Wells, Urbana.

Beside the various drawings which the Eighteen Club will receive from individual architects and draughtsmen from the United States and Canada, there will be an exhibit of circuit drawings of the Architectural League of America consisting of about one hundred and twenty-five of the best drawings made during the year. An illustrated catalogue will be issued and distributed free to Canadian architects, and it is the desire of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club, that every architect in Canada will send in his name and address to Ernest R. Rolph, secretary, Bank of Commerce Building, King st. Toronto, as it is only through the medium of this publication that they can be reached, and tor that purpose have inserted an advertisement on page vii.

The above Club is issuing a special circular with all information re this exhibition, along with invitations to all Canadian architects and draughtsmen to contribute drawings, and it is hoped there will be brought together the best collection of Canadian work ever seen.



THE TORONTO HOTEL. <article title=" THE TORONTO HOTEL " author="">

THE announcement is made that the financial arrangements necessary to insure the erection of the proposed Toronto Hotel, have been completed, and that contracts for the construction of the building have been awarded. The plans for this important building have been prepared by Mr. Henry Ives Cohb, or Washington. The building will front on King, Victoria and Colborne streets, the main entrance being off King street. There will also be a second entrance off Victoria street. These entrances open into a rotunda 80 x 90 feet. The remaining frontage on both these streets will be fitted up as shops. The general dining room, banquet hall, assembly room and state apartments will occupy the first floor. On the succeeding five stories will be sixty bed-rooms with forty-two bath-rooms. The total cost of the land, building and furniture is placed at $1,500,000. Aside from the public need which this building will supply it promises to form an important addition to the architectural features of the city, and a help in maintaining values of business property east of Yonge Street.



J.	C. Killam & Co., of Moncton, N. B., who have secured the contract of strengthening, readjusting and covering the Memrancook bridge are now at work upon it. This firm makes a specialty of bridge building and have built quite a number in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. They built the Long Creek bridge in Queens County, N. B., last summer.

