<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	vii.



<article title="A Novel Chimney" author="">A NOVEL CHIMNEY.

a chimney involving some features of construction which are rather novel, at least in this country, says Carpentry and Building, is the one which has been erected in connection with the new power plant of the Joseph Dixon Crucible Company, at Jersey City, N. J. The chimney is built of radially moulded bricks perforated in such a way as to insure regularity of draft by preventing radiation through the walls and thus diminishing the susceptibility to atmospheric changes. The bricks are moulded in sizes and shapes of sufficient number tor the construction of a chimney ot any diameter, and of conforming decreasing radius to the progress of the structural elevation. The perforations are intended not only to form dead air spaces, but also to give a better hold to the mortar, and, it is said, to increase the joint adhesion.

According to tests made, the crushing resistance of perforated brick and unperforated brick, of the same material, was 5,035 and 3,978 pounds per square inch, respectively. Furthermore, as the perforated bricks are much larger than the common form, there are fewer joints.



The builder is nothing if not conservative. A firm in the North which is supplying a customer with bricks, recently overheard the following conversation on the carman coming into the yard. "Are you still carting common bricks from Mr. Blank ?" 'No ! They had no common bricks in stock, so we are fetching best for the insides arid coming here for commons to face them with !'—British Clayworker.



Owing to the high prices of ebony, manufacturers have been searching for a long time for a substitute with a grain close enough to take the necessary polish. At last it was found that American "dogwood" could be stained, oiled, and polished until it equalled ebony both in appearance arid utility. The wood, which comes in all sizes, is sawn into strips i inch square and 8 tO 20 inches long. The strips are piled up out of doors, where they remain until thoroughly seasoned.,



CANADA FOUNDRY COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO



J. F. PEASE FURNACE COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO, ONTARIO