<doctype type="text">	98	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



its rooms, its furnishings and size, to the habits and customs of the family for which it is built. Yet, how seldom we find this to be the case; and it can be truly said that beauty is incomplete where the purpose is not faithfully served. Just as surely as one person differs from another person in character and individuality, so does one family differ from another family, and so should one house differ from another in character and individuality. But if you stop to enquire, you will find that many people build houses, not with the expectation of living in them all the remaining days of their lives, or with the idea of establishing a homestead for succeeding generations, but rather with the fear that they may not be able to occupy it very long, and may have to sell it off some day, and consequently they build a house which, as the expression goes, would suit some one else that may want to buy

it.	Thus passeth individuality and true art.



The other requisite of beauty in a home is that it should express ease, that is to say, it should be manifestly suited to its purpose and should evidence freedom from care for the housekeeper. It should avoid awkward and useless corners, fussy and finniky detail, cumbersome drapery and other senseless features that serve no better purpose than that of gathering dust and affording lodgings for disease germs. The true artist remembers all this and provides a home that brings rest with good cheer to the weary soul.

So when 1 stepped into the studio of this firm of decorators, I was pleased to see the tasteful simplicity that gave character to the work, and to find that it was this point that secured them the contract—quite a large one too at that—in direct competition with other firms. Here was another triumph of art. It was the most artistic production that was wanted; price cut no figure.

Now let us for a moment follow the result of the award. The first thing shown me was a magnificent rug, an oriental make of rare colors ; and I learned that the manufacturers (an East India concern) had capable representatives, who spend three months of every year in traveling about the cities ot all countries studying the tastes and demands of the market, then they take this knowledge home to India and produce rugs that bring a large price, and why? Because they are artistic ; and as a result, foreign commerce is stimulated—-transportation companies prosper, hut only after the home people have all enjoyed their share of the good fortune in the many branch industries that are dependent upon the success of the manufacturer.

The same point applies naturally to the furniture, wall paper, goods and everything that was employed in the scheme.

But there will be many to answer that this is not what is commonly meant by the term art. But why not ? There is art in everything ; and art is the expression of beauty—beauty being perfection. But if such persons are not satisfied with these examples, let us see how the painter and sculptor help in the universal work. We wilt assume, for the sake of the argument, that most easel paintings are luxuries. But this is a mere relative term and not very definite.

The greatest of modern painters are commissioned at enormous prices to decorate the interiors of our public buildings. This requires the aid of many assistants and gives employment to mechanics and tradesmen of various classes. Sculptors of renown are employed in connection with our buildings and monuments; and their work also calls for the expenditure of large sums of money that are disseminated far and wide.

I have no intention of burdening you with further detailed analyses. Of cases too numerable for the occasion. But I do want to emphasize the great fact that Art is a living force that it enters into, and penetrates the utmost depths of our daily life, and is in touch with our every thought and deed. It is the secret source from which springs all that is high and noble in the human breast, and bears testimony to man s divinity, for it is founded on the laws of proportion in form, and harmony in color—all revealed to us in the great and marvelous works of nature.

The rude savage decks his person with ornaments, and fastens his weapons and implements on lines of beauty. The commonest and most ignorant laborer rejoices in the attractive show bills and is happy if he can but secure some little colored picture to tack upon the cold bare walls of big haunt, and so testifies to the universality of the artistic faculty. Every mother will strain a point to make her child look pretty and dress her in dainty clothes. Whatsoever we buy, which in its nature is intended to have some definite color or form, appeals to our inborn love of the beautiful, and we will choose this article in place of that one, because we think it more artistic. The dry goods merchant, the milliner, the

jeweler, the bric-a-brac dealer, the gas fixture man, the one that deals in carpets, hangings, wall papers, furniture, pottery, earthenware, china and glassware, also the florist, the book dealer. and many others, too numerous to mention, that supply our personal wants, all appeal to our artistic faculty.

The same holds true in other lines of trade. Manufacturers of machinery, especially engines, as well as of cars, vehicles, tools and implements, and similar products, pride themselves on the beautiful lines upon which the models are built.

Then too we find a most direct application of art in its purest form to the modern methods of advertising. Fortunes are spent in producing catalogues, which, in many cases, rank high as artistic productions, not only of the designer's genius, but also that of the printer and binder. Our magazines too are filled with evidences of this branch of art, and we have not far to look and we are shown valuable collections of marvelous poster designs, which really call into service the skill of the cleverest artist. Take a peep at our great lithographing establishments, where tons and tons of fine work are turned out to attract the public gaze, with elaborate announcements, all worked after smart watercolor sketches. There is no end of industries purely mercantile and manufacturing in character that pay tribute to art.

There is still another department which must not be overlooked. 'When a stranger comes to town, what is it that influences him chiefly? Is he impressed with the people—with our municipal government, or perhaps our police, or our street car system, or our granite and asphalt pavements? Perhaps so! But in all probability, the first question that he will hear would be: How do you like our city? He may be kind, and say it is beautiful, thinking it is really horrid; or he may be frank and say that St. Louis or some other city is away ahead of us, but that there is no place like New York or if he has ever been abroad, he will say like Paris. There, he will say, is the wonderful Champs Elysees and all the other beautiful avenues radiating from the wonderful Arc de Triomphe—then there is the Place de Ia Concorde and endless buildings each more beautiful than the other. He will tell you how Baron Hansmann tore down blocks and blocks of old ugly houses to widen the streets, so that the Grand Opera and other palaces could be seen to advantage, arid the city beautified, so that all the nations would come to her feet to do her homage. Paris with her architecture that astonishes the world, her parks that are marvels of beauty, her galleries that are perpetual sources of inspiration, and her shops that are the admiration and envy of all; Paris the home and temple of beauty and culture, and Paris with her unbounded wealth, teaches the great lesson of art teaches that art is sublime, that it lifts up a nation, and that it pays all round, pays handsomely as a business investment. The French, and latterly the Germans too, put an artistic touch to everything, absolutely everything that they produce. Nothing is too mean to be slighted. And if we ourselves would take this lesson home with us and conscientiously strive to cultivate a similar spirit, and couple with it the determination requisite to apply it to our own case, perhaps we too before long might be a Paris, not only so-called, but in fact the real Paris of America.



<article title="American Architectural League" author="">AMERICAN ARCHITECTURAL LEAGUE.

The second annual convention of the Architectural League of America is announced to take place at the Art Institute in Chicago, commencing June 7th. This league is composed of the principal architectural clubs of the United States and Canatla, and its object is the promotion of American architecture and allied fine arts. The coming convention promises to be as interesting as any in the past.



The directors of the Hamilton Art School have decided to hold the annual meeting of the school on May 28th.

Mr. A. F. Byers, of Gananoque, Ont., is said to have secured a prize, offered by a firm of bridge builders in Kansas City, for the best design in bridge work.

The Atlantic Granite Company has been organized at Kittery, Maine, for the purpose of acquiring the Atlantic stone quarries at Lower Cove, Cumberland County, N. S. The capital of the company is $100,000, and Mr. George W. Davis, of Cranston, R. I., is president.

The new quarters of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers have been almost completed. They are located at 859 Porchester street, Montreal, a private residence having been remodeled by Messrs. Cox & Amos, architects, to meet the require-merits of the society. A formal opening will take place some time during the summer.

