<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 	BUILDER	7



to present thc different trades, was taken up, approved of, and since acted upon. Sub-committees were formed from the following different trades, viz. Masons, iron and steel construct ion, carpenters, lumber, plasterers, painters and decorators.

A matter of great importance was discussed by the meeting on 27th June, in regard to certain grievances which existed that were detrimental to the building trades. In order to have some of these adjusted, the secretary placed himself in communication on three different occasions with the secretary of the council of architects, who promised to take action on the request made by us for a conference but so tar, not withstanding our strenuous efforts, we have been unable to secure any result from our overtures. Your board of directors would recommend to the incoming board that they seriously consider the questions relative to existing grievances, and the advisability of bringing the same to the attention of the committees of the Board of Trade and Chambre de Commerce with a view to their adjustment.

"Your board has given most careful attention to the proposed amended building by-law, and instructed the secretary to draft a letter to our city council, urging that it be pushed through as expeditiously as possible.



<article title="Tests of Concrete Flooring" author="">TESTS OF CONCRETE FLOORING.



The Montreal Gazette recently published particulars of a test of concrete flooring constructed by the Roeblings Co. in the Foley Apartment House Building, corner of Metcalf street and Dominion Square. The test took place in the presence of thc architects of the building, Messrs Saxe & Archibald Mr. Alex. Peterson, Chief Engineer of the C.P.R.; Mr. St. George, City Surveyor; Prof. Capper, President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects Mr. Lacroix, City Building Inspector Mr. A. L. A. Himmelwright, the manager of the Roeblings Construction Co.; Mr. E. D. Hofeller, of Buffalo, who represents them for western New York and Canada; E. F. Dartnell, their Montreal agent and others.

"The test arch was constructed and concreted on the 14th of October, and the requirements were that the arch was to be capable of sustaining a superimposed load of 275 pounds per square foot without cracking or failure, the deflection of this load not to crack the plaster. The floor is of concrete construction, the ingredients being one part Dyckerhoff cement, two and a half parts sand, and Six parts unscreened steam ashes. A section of flooring fifty-three inches wide and sixteen feet long, between supports, was cut free from the rest of the flooring with cold chisels. Wood boxes without bottoms and with sides twelve inches high, fifty inches by sixteen feet, were superimposed over the section rested to retain the sand with which the arch was loaded. The test was begun at 11 a.m., when two cubic feet of sand were weighed and averaged ninety pounds in weight. A layer of sand one foot deep was placed in the box over the arch, arid the deflection was found to be one-eighth inch, when a similar load of 220 lbs. per square foot was placed, the deflection was found to be three-sixteenth inch, and when 180 lbs. per square foot was placed on the arch, thc deflection was quarter in. This load was allowed to remain on the arch one hour (until 12.30 p.m.) when, the deflection having remained the same, the load was increased to 275 lbs. per square foot, which was the total load required, making a total of 17,250 lbs. for the portion tested.

"Although the Roebling Company offered to increase the load until the arch broke, the strength developed was sufficient to meet the requirements, and the breaking down of the arch was deemed unnecessary. At the request of the parties for whom this lest was made, the load was allowed to remain on the arch until this morning." On the following day, Nov. 30th a further test was made by concentrating 10,170 pounds on the centre of the arch equal to a strain of about 500 pounds to the square foot.



NOT E S



Dr. Laberge, city medical health officer, attended the recent Sanitary Convention at Minneapolis.



An exhibit of the work of thc pupils of the Industrial Classes conducted by the Council of Arts arid Manufactures of the Province of Quebec, will be sent to the Paris Exhibition.



A deputation, representing the Master Plumbers Association, have requested the municipal authorities to appoint a practical plumber as one of the sanitary inspectors under the new building by-law.

A stained glass window will shortly be placed in St. Paul's Presbyterian church as a memorial to the late Mr. John Hope. Its dimensions will be 28 feet by 17 feet. The window will be divided by five stone mullions. The design will be in the Gothic

style. The work is being carried out by Messrs. Ballantyne & Gardner, of Edinburgh, under the supervision of Mr. Eric Mann, architect, of this city.

Mr. W. E. Doran, a prominent architect of this city, was in the field as a candidate for the mayoralty, in response to the request of a large number of the ratepayers. Mr. Doran is the nominee of the Irish Catholic electors.

A large deputation of citizens recently waited upon Mr. William McNally, of the firm of William McNally & Company, to request him to allow himself to be put in nomination for the mayoralty of Montreal. After due consideration, Mr. McNally declined to become a candidate.

St. George's church, one of the historic ecclesiastical edifices of this city, has recently received two valuable donations, viz., a tower clock and chime of bells similar to those recently placed in thc Royal Exchange in London, by Mr. A. F. Gault, and a salo and echo organ by Mr. James Crathern.

An error crept into thc item published in this correspondence last month referring to the election of officers of the Montreal Builders' Exchange, wherein it was stated that Mr. J. W. Hughes was elected vice-president and honorary secretary treasurer. Mr. Hughes is vice-president only, Mr. George J. Sheppard being, as heretofore, the honorary secretary-treasurer.

	A correspondent in the Monetary Times refers to the	 excellent

business qualifications of the nuns who manage the affairs of the Mother House of the Providence Nuns on Fullum street, corner St. Catharine street, Montreal. The institution is presided over by Sisters Charles and Maximillien, whose signatures are required to all documents such as notes, cheques, contracts, etc. The building occupied by the nuns consists of two wings each 400 feet in length, with twelve separate three storey pavillions, chapel and power house, the outlying parts of the premises being connected by an electric car service. It is proposed to also erect isolated cottages. M. Hypolite Bergeron has for twenty-five years been connected as architect with the institution.





<article title="Impact Tests" author="">IMPACT TESTS.



The Report of the American sect ion of the international Association for Testing Materials, presented at the second annual meeting, Aug. 15th and 16th last, contained the following with regard to impact tests "It is particularly gratifying to note that in America impact machines have been constructed, or are in process of construction, at the laboratories of the U. S. Arsenal at Watertown, Mass., Lehigh University, Purdue. University, the

Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and McGill University.		These

machines are intended for scientific research which will have to be devoted primarily to obtaining the requisite fundamental data for placing impact testing on a more definite basis. Studies in tension and bending, and compression tests on steel, iron, cement, and stone are contemplated. One of the most important questions connected with impact testing is: To what extent is the resilience under slow tension a measure of the resilience under shock? To answer this question, comparative tests under many varying conditions, as to material, dimensions and form of specimen, temperature, etc., will have to be made under such conditions that the work preformed in deforming the specimen can be measured within reasonable limits of accuracy. Since this work is the product of force by deformation, any incidental deformation of the apparatus will be at the expense of the energy of the blow. The work of deforming the specimen is necessarily less, in all cases, than the total energy expended by the hammer. There is no great difficulty, however, in getting a closely approximate measure of the work performed upon the apparatus. The necessity of rigidity in the apparatus has been insisted upon in recent discussions, and this matter has doubtless received due consideration in the later machines. The practical difficulties of impact tests in tension are sufficiently evident. In compression, there is the advantage that the entire volume of the metal is more uniformly deformed, whereas in tension the specimen does not deform uniformly as a whole, but has a partly elastic and partly plastic deformation irregularly distributed.'



Mr. Robert Barber, Inspector of Factories for Ontario, states that there was a large increase in the number of elevator accidents during 1899. He favors the appointment of a city inspector of elevators, as a means for the prevention of such accidents. Under the present municipal law, the provincial inspectors are not authorized to examine elevators in buildings other than factories.

