<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	35



—perhaps because our best reproductions of them are of this hue

—yet you know the Elgin marbles which formed the Typanum of the Parthenon's pediment are of that ivory yellow which white marble takes on by lapse of time, and the whole building was no doubt of the same material. Wander among the ruins of that centre of the worlds civilization, the Forum of ancient Rome, and we can no longer speak of them as cold grey stones. If I remember rightly the pavements, steps, pedestals and bases were of white marble, and by the remains of broken shaft, Capitals and cornice the superstructures had been of the many colored marbles of Italy. Recalling your knowledge of Roman costume—the togas of red purple and fine linen—you must imagine a much more glowing picture of ancient Rome than its distance from us is apt to call up. May we not then from the fragments left us conclude that the ancient classic art so true and beautiful in form, believed that this form was best displayed by materials of lightest shade of color. This, if true then, is true to-day. Perhaps Paris the beautiful is so more from the use of the light Caen stone than from its architecture, which is somewhat flat, and certainly monotonously alike.

There is one little town that lives in my memory—often called up, though I never knew its name—but which I think was an object lesson in color. My train stopped for about five minutes on the Italian side of the Alps about half a mile from the tracks there lay a lovely placid blue lake; on the other side of this, with its reflection in the water, built up the mountain side, appeared a small town, the walls of yellowed white stucco, projecting eaves of the roofs, deeply revelled windows, open inviting galleries and many a natural addition of gable and lean-to; all the walls were one color—all the roofs of low Italian pilch and red tiled with that half round tile that makes so exceptionally fine finish at the eaves; the spaces were made up either by the grey tone of the roadways or the green of the vines or trees. Illumined by the morning sun of a spring day one could trace the soft green foliage up the mountain till it merged into the glittering white and blue peaks of eternal snow which crested the scene, against the deepest of blue sky.

I cannot help thinking how much of the brilliancy the whole would have lost if the houses of that mountain village had had walls of dark brick and its roofs had been dark slate. In passing. is it not aggravating that so complete light and durable a roof as our Canadian slate, gives so little satisfaction in point of color with its staring unchanging black.

Getting nearer home in this matter of color in architecture, some of us remember the advent of red brick inculcated by the lectures of Oscar Wilde and the example of our continental neighbors, who more than once have had a malign influence on our tasks when we were following the traditions of the old country— our legitimate inheritance—leading us astray into abominable practices of galvanized iron, clapboard and the like, and later the worship of the prison-like Romanesque, a style which can only now be admired in a few of the works of the leader of that movement and these more as the energetic struggles of a vigorous mind shaking itself free from a very chaos of debased architecture.

But I am degressing, The red brick period came and to a large extent is with us yet. It was nailed as a Renaissance in our architecture, and we out-Heroded Herod, making our walls a mass of red with no evidence of construction, obliterating the mortar joint, which is not honest. Properly laid walls with mortar joint large enough to bed and point the brickwork properly, result in a very different tone of color in mass.

Has then color to be entirely eschewed on the exterior of buildings? No, but I hold that color is somewhat as Tallyrand said of speech, that it was a gift given to enable man to conceal his thoughts. In true architecture the massing and outline should attract, but also its details should hold and give study to the eye. Now is it not true that in a building of dark stone or brick one is conscious of its color above everything else? Has it not about the same relation compared to a light building that a silhouette holds to a portrait—striking outline at the expense of expression and detail?

This use of dark colors for building allows no field for that mellowing and blending effect of time to do its best work. Look at the stone work of St. Andrew's Church or that of the University, and you will see what is meant, and I think you will also he convinced that these effects are never produced with a groundwork of dark stone; and the same can be said of the inferior material, brick. I believe from the weathering qualities of some examples of our old Yorkville white brick, that had we been less of faddists and persistently improved our architecture in that material, we would now be further advanced in the direction of good architecture in individual buildings, and the general effect immensely better.

I have frequently noticed the east end of Holy Trinity Church—it is a delightful specimen of old white brickwork which time has only ripened and not much injured. The firm of Darling & Curry some time ago erected a school house to this church, and wrongly, I think, following the fashion of the times, it is of red brick. I would like you to compare the two, and without saying anything in disparagement of its architecture, I believe we would all agree that there is no hope that the school house walls will ever acquire the interest of those of the older building.

With the glamour of red pressed brick, brown stone, brilliant stained glass and the like, we will never gain the repose and dignity of great or even good architecture. Color does to a certain extent attract the senses, but in the artificial surroundings of the interior of buildings will be found its more congenial sphere. On the exterior it is more a substitute for than an essential in architecture—whereby we can say "be ye warmed and filled," and yet refrain from giving thought research and patient working up of details necessary to give permanent interest to any building.

Is it then my contention that the buildings of a city should be one uniform color ? Perhaps this would flavour too much of dogma to suit the artistic mind, yet worse things could happen. I have instanced Paris and Washington and might refer to the clean light granite cities of the north of Scotland—Aberdeen and its neighborhood—as being peculiarly satisfactory to all who have visited them, and certainly much more satisfactory in point of general effect to, say, that dreary monotony of red brick to be seen in a Philadelphia street.

I would remind you that Nature never indulges in chequer-board work. Broadly speaking, varying greens for the earth, grey for her cliffs and rocks, blue for water and sky—her efforts are gained by infinite gradations of these, with the aid of sunshine and shade, but how seldom and in what small quantities are the bits of color the artist speaks introduced, like accents in music. What extenuation, then, have streets to be seen whose buildings alternate in color like Joseph's coat?

There is none of you now would revive that style of building which, from its regular disposition of red brick and white stone, gained the cognomen of streaky bacon, and you are right in this, for nothing more certainly destroys the unity of a design than separating the cornice from its frieze, the architrave from its pillars, and otherwise breaking into fragments, by strong contrasts of color, that which should be viewed as a whole. Now, if the separate building has gained by this grasp of the necessity of unity in a building before it is to be considered worthy of criticism, why not apply the principle to the whole street or the whole city? To me it seems if this could be accomplished, there would be enough of color element introduced by the discolorations of time, by minor bits of detail, and the drapings of windows, which would suggest to the outside the warmth and hospitality of the interior.

As a last illustration to enforce the argument that materials of light shades of neutral color are best adapted for the building of an ideal city, I would ask you to look at the picture of old Venice on the wall to your left. Let us imagine that the government of that sea-girt city, attracted by the fame of a certain architect— one Signor Waite, of Palermo—they had on his advice at great expense changed the material of that beautiful church across the Lagoon, "St. Maria del Salute," and it was constructed of a sombre brown stone. Do you not think as you look at the picture that this would have been a frightful mistake, and the artistic sense of the Venetians would have been bitterly regretting it these many centuries?





The formation of a local Master Plumbers' Association at Victoria, B.C., reported. Messrs. Barr and Rose, of Vancouver, assisted in its organization.

The creation of a prestige in business is sometimes the result of small things. We know of a plumber who distanced all his rivals by furnishing his workmen every morning when they went out of his store with clean overalls and jumpers He provided these himself and kept them clean and he found it to be the cheapest and most effective advertising, because all the housewives appreciated it so much that they told all their friends, and everybody in their immediate neighborhood sent for this particular plumber when they needed a plumber.—Advertising Experience.

