<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	241



BUILDING MATTERS IN PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

BY A TRAVELLING CORRESPONDENT

<article title=" BUILDING MATTERS IN PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND " author="">

In the last year building operations have been a good average in Prince Edward Island, though at the beginning of the year the prospects seemed very poor. A very good class of larger buildings has been erected, including a number of churches and other public buildings.

There are a few fairly important works now in process of completion, and large buildings will be proceeded with next year.

Business in most other lines has been prosperous and trade have been brisk. On the western end of the Island the construction of the new railroad, which is to extend eastward across the river from Charlottetown, involving a large expenditure for a bridge, which is over a mile in length, will mean a great outlay in money on the Island, and must surely for tell much building construction apart from the railway. Tenders for this railway work have already been clored, and spring will see construction begin.

An Engineer has for some time been engaged inspecting quarries located along the Nothumberland Straits between here and Newcastle, N.B., in the interests of M. J. Haney of Toronto, contractor for the sub-structure of the Hillsboro Railway Bridge near Charlottetown. The stone may be purchased from some quarry, a quarry may be bought out, or if a suitable location be found, a new one may be established about 60,000 yards of stone may be required. The contractor is now getting his materials on the ground, and construction will begin as soon as navigation opens. The bridge and approaches is 4500 feet over all, having 13 piers and abutments, the 14 spans being 210 feet each. The depth varies to 6o feet, piers resting on piles or caissons. The bridge will be 25 feet above water. The substructure is to be completed in two years. Mr. Haney is of Toronto, and was one of the firm of Hugh Ryan & Co., who built the Sault St. Marie canal.

The Roman Catholic Church at Souris now under construction by contractors Duffy & McEachern, under W. C. Harris, architect, is of stone and will cost about $30,000. Souris stone is being used, which is of a reddish brown color. The walls are now raising and the building is 10 be completed next October.

Few residences were erected in Charlottetown this year. All were of wood and were not expensive. Of public buildings in the city, some in particular should be noted.

The Prince of Wales College from plans by C. B. Chappell is of brick arid stone from the Stevenson quarry in Wallace, N.S., with slate roof, size 132 x 80 with full basement and of two stories. The structure cost about $40,000.

The Prince Edward Island Hospital, recently completed under the same architect is of brick and stone, size 125 X 40 with a number of small ells. The main building is of three stories. There are 25 beds, public wards and 10 private rooms. The cost was

$20,000.



The Brown dock built last year under C. B. Chappell is of brick with stone front. Size 80 x 70, 3 stories and Cost $15,000.

The new Christian Church just completed by H. & S. Lowe, contractors, is of brick and stone, is not very large and cost about $5,000. It's erection was begun in the summer under W. C. Harris, architect.

An addition to the Hotel Davis. size 6ox4o, five stories cost $10,000, This was done last summer, C. B. Chappell, architect.

The addition of a large brick and stone wing to the Lunatic Asylum in Charlottetown is still being proceeded with, but is nearly finished. This wing is of size 200 x 4o, three stories and basement, and is from plans by C. B. Chappell, architect. Wallace finestone was used. The cost is about $35,000.

The only large building, the erection of which is settled upon for the spring in Charlottetown seems to be die Derbrisay Co. block on Queen and Grafton streets. This is to be of stone and brick, size 40 x 60, and of three stories, to cost $10,000. W. C. Harris, architect H. & S. Lowe, contractors, will start the job at once and proceed through the winter.

The new Sinclair and Stewart departmental store being constructed in Summerside by Messrs. Sherman & Lefurgy of that town, from plans and under supervision of C. 13. Chappel, Architect, is taking shape as one of the finest structures on the Island. It is brick with front of brick and stone. Size 106 x 46, with a vault and elevator addition at the back of 10 fee depth. It is three stories in height with a large basement. The building compares most favorably with the big Holman departmental store block beside which it stands. It is to be finished early in the spring.

Messrs. Schurman, Lafurgy & Co., an old firm located in Summerside do a large business, and have a large plant in operation  that town. Recently they have taken many large contracts in Sydney, C. B., and now have quite a plant established there.

The Mechanics' Manufacturing Co., general contractors and builders, are doing a large portion of the Island trade now. The firm was organized and began business in Summerside four years ago. They have now large factory buildings, comprising a main shop of two stories, 60 x 50 with one ell of 25x30, and another of 35x30, in addition to large dry kilns, furnace and engine rooms, etc. The firm imports lumber, including all that they require for their own use, and now they have some $8,ooo worth of stock on hand. The past season has been a busy one with them. Among other buildings erected this year by them, are: St. John's Anglican Church in Milton, and the Indian River Roman Catholic Church, which are not yet finished. The latter is of wood, size 117x65, and will cost from $12,000 10 $15,000.



C.	B. Chappell, architect, of Charlottetown, made the plans and supervised the large new Halifax Herald building now being erected. His plans for the Sydney Academy in Cape Breton, made in competition, were accepted and the building was begun last August. It's size is 106 x 75, two stories and basement. Messrs. Schurman & Lefurgy, of Summerside, have the contract at $30,000. The building, which is of brick and stone, will probably cost about $40,000.



Mr. XV. C. Harris, architect, for many years in Charlottetown, is now located at Halifax. Besides the church at Souris, he made the plans of several wooden Roman Catholic Churches now being erected on the Island.





Since its organization only eighteen months age the British Fire Prevention Committee has made sixty-three tests of materials as follows Fire-resisting floors, twelve ceilings, two fire-resisting partitions, nine; different forms of wood and iron doors, twenty-three; various forms of glazing, eight. Besides this there have been several odd tests with treated wood, fire curtains, fire blinds, girder coverings and safes.



THE IMPERIAL VARNISH & COLOR COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO