<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	239



block into the gain in the inclined piece, first laying off the edges as they are to be sawn. It will be noticed in the accompanying sketches of work that the edges are all simply gauged an equal distance from the back. This, however, can be varied sometimes with good effect. The skilful operator will evolve many designs of ornament not even suggested in this brief description when he becomes accustomed to the method of working the attachment.

dotted is drawn. The inside line is also drawn when the paper or board on which the lines are drawn, are removed and the curver transferred to the plank to be cut. The plank is then cut by the band-saw or the scroll saw, while the plank is set up on a rake which is the pitch of the stairs. By this method the proper curve and



Cutting Circular Rail With Bawl-saw.

To make a hand-rail for a circular stairway has always been considered quite an achievement for the ordinary

joiner to perform, though the expert finds no trouble in laying out and completing the work. The device shown at Fig. 4 was invented so that the process of forming such a rail might be simplified. This device as here presented was patented in the United States many years ago, but it seems never to have come into general use for some reason or another. The plank from which







FIG. 7.—ARRANGING SAW GAUGE.





the correct bevels are obtained ; two very important

items in hand-rail construction.

<article title=" Some Kinks in Circular Saw Work " author="">

THE form of outline of the slot or

Some Kinks in Circular Saw Work. groove made by a circular saw not

only depends on the size and the position it occupies on the saw arbor, but on the direction the material being worked is also moving. If we take a block of wood and move it across the bench lengthwise, the saw will simply cut a slot the width equal to the set, and the depth depending on the height of the table above the saw arbor. If we drive a block at right angles, or square across the saw table, a groove will be formed, having a cross section in the shape of a segment of a circle ; any other direction will give a similar part of an ellipse. In Fig. 6 is shown a variety of work cut out on this principle. No. is a









FIG. 6.—SAWING Coves.





the rail is to be made is set up to the pitch of the stair, and the marker 0 which slides up and down the standard K makes the lines where the plank is to be cut for the rail. The pencil or scribe is fastened in a socket at A, the socket being moveable on the arm so as to be available at any point within the limit of the arm. The principle is an old one, in fact, as old as the works of Langley, Paine or Moxon. Another device for laying out a rail is shown at Fig. which may be attached to a band-saw or to scroll saw. This machine is much simpler than the previous one. It may all be made of wood by any skilful mechanic. A shows the bace of the machine, B, an inclined board which may be hinged to the base plank. A, C, is a standard with a cap through which a rod G is fixed. The standard C carries a moveable arm D, which has a slider carrying a pencil attached. This pencil-holder slides along the arm D, in order to suit the diameter wanted. When a pattern for the raij is to be made the hinged board B is raised to the pitch of the stairs, and the pencil point is moved until the proper diameter is reached, when a line like the one

FIG. 8.—SAWING GROOVES AND DOVETAILS.







block cut out for lagging a pulley, or similar work the other figures show various patterns, all of which may be cut out with a circular saw. When it is required to cut a circular groove of a given size at a saw bench, the table can be raised and the saw gauge set to the proper angle by means of the diagram shown in Fig. 7. If it is required to groove out the

