<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Design for a Planning Mill" author="">DESIGN FOR A PLANING MILL.

A CORRESPONDENT of Carpentry and Building sends the accompanying drawings of a planing mill, concerning which he says

As being of interest to the correspondent in question, and possibly to other readers of the paper, I send floor plans and elevations of a mill that I prepared about three years ago for a person who contemplated erecting a new mill near Philadelphia, In the present instance it will be seen that I have tried to arrange the machinery in the mill in such a way as to be most convenient.

machine with 7-inch cutter, No. 13 a rip saw and No. 14 a swing cut-off saw.

On the second floor, 13 B, etc., are work benches. No. 15 is a light mortise machine, No. 15 a rip saw, No. 17 a sash and shutter clamp, No. 18 a tenoning machine, No. 19 a horizontal boring machine, No. 20 a sand papering machine, No. 21 a molding machine, No. 22 a blind slat tenoning machine, No. 23 a jig saw, No. 24 a light band saw, No. 25 a cylinder sand papering machine, No. 26 a single surface planer, No. 27 a boring machine, No. 28 a jointer with i6-inch cutter,



DESIGN FOR A PLANING MILL SIDE (RIGHT) ELEVATION.

Scale, 3-64 Inch to the Foot.

DESIGN FOR A PLANING MILL.—SIDE (LEFT) ELEVATION.

Scale, 3.64 Inch to the Foot.



DESIGN FOR A PLANING MILL.—FRONT ELEVATION.



Referring to the floor plans, it will be seen that the machines are numbered, as they can be more readily indicated in this manner, and by less confusion than by writing the name of each one on the drawing.

In connection with the first floor plan, A A, etc., are work benches. No. I is a pulley stile mortiser, No. 2 a jointer with 14-inch cutter, No. 3 a Universal saw bench, No. 4 a molding machine with 6-inch cutter, No. a rip saw, No. 6 a heavy band saw, No. 7 a molding machine with 10-inch cutter, No. 8 a swing cut-off saw, No. 9 a large rip saw, No. 10 a double surface planer, No. 11 a rip saw, No. 12 a molding

No. 29 a Universal saw bench, No. 30 a tenoning machine, No. 31 a mortising machine, No. 32 a door clamp and No. 33 a turning lathe.

The engine, it will be noticed, is placed in the basement in order to get it as near as possible to the center of its work. There is also a machine shop in the basement, as it is supposed that the engineer will have time to repair the machines, make bits and sharpen the knives. He has all his work in the basement, and is able to watch his engine at the same time. The floor of the boiler room is level with the floor of the basement, so as to make it convenient to the engine. It

