<doctype type="text;plate">	78	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND 



Queenston, Ont.—Sketched by A. A. Martin.



<article title="Code Governing Competitions in Design" author="">CODE GOVERNING COMPETITIONS IN

DESIGN.

COMPETITIONS, with their invariable unsatisfactory results, have ever been a vexation to architects, who, strange to say, have taken little if any concerted action to rectify the evil, which undoubtedly is their business, it a satisfactory solution of the question is ever to be reached.

The New York Architectural League, the Chicago Architectural Club, and the Philadelphia Square Club, as well as the National Sculpture Society and the Mural Painters of New York, have approved of a code for governing competitions in design, which was brought before the Convention of the Architectural League of America last June by Mr. J. F. Harder, of the New York Architectural League, in a paper explaining its aims and urging its adoption by all architectural clubs, and concluding with the following reasons for its acceptance

1.	It enters upon the road to reform by taking the first step which must be taken to accomplish anything.

2.	It commits the profession to a recognition of certain uniform principles of ethics relating to the subject.

3.	It can be immediately applied to such competitions, both private and public, over which clubs have control, and in some cases where the executive of clubs is officially consulted.

4.	It establishes a standard by comparing which with an issued program, professional men will be able to decide whether it is advisable to enter or desist from a proposed competition, and provides the reason therefor.

5.	It places a club in a position to announce to its members or publicly state whether it approves or disapproves of the terms and conditions of a proposed competition and to state reason therefor.

The Convention adopted a resolution recommending all the clubs there represented to adopt the code and urge its adoption by all other architectural organizations, so that by concerted action a uniform code would be insisted upon by the profession and acknowledged by the public.

The code is given below that the profession may familiarize themselves with it and consider its adoption by their local organizations:

1. DEFINITIONS.



i.	A competition in design is the process by which, on the basis of merit, from two or more designs proposed, one or more arc selected.



2.	Competitions may be either "open" or "limited."

3.	An "open" competition is one in which any person may a competitor.

4.	A "limited competition is one in which each competitor is especially invited.

5.	A competition of either class may be either

(A)	" Premialed "—In which remuneration is provided only for those to whom an award is made.

(B)	" Paid in which remuneration is provided for each competition 

6.	The promoter is the party who undertakes responsibility for fulfillment of the competition according to its terms, and shall provide for proper and substantial remuneration to each competitor to whom an award is made.

7.	The programme is the offer made by the promoter and in chides the written or printed statement of the terms of a competition on the basis of which proposals are to be made.

8.	A competitor is one who in acceptance of such offer submits a proposal in accord with the terms of the programme

II--THE PROGRAMME.



9.	The programme is an agreement, the terms of which must be carried out in good faith by all parties.

10.	The terms of the programme are to be concisely stated and must be mandatory.

i.	The programme shall

(A)	Be headed substantially as follows: "Under the general code governing competitions in design of the Architectural League of New York, of which a copy is subjoined.





(Name of promoter.)

invites competitive proposals upon the following programme.

(B)	Contain a definite statement as to proposed cost.

(c)	Contain a definite provision as to anonymity.



(D)	Name the jury, which must include experts upon the subject under consideration.

(E)	Fix uniform requirements for drawings, models or other forms of proposals.

(F)	Fix a definite time arid place for receipt of drawings, models or other forms of proposals.

(G)	Fix the nature or amount of the awards or prizes.

(H)	Fix the period of time within which decision will be rendered.

111.—DRAWINGS OR MODELS.



12.	The requirements for drawings, models or other means adopted for illustrating or describing the proposals must be clearly defined in the programme, including, namely that they be uniform as to character of rendering, scale, number and size of separate sheets or pieces, and such other detail as may be necessary in the peculiar circumstances of each case.

13.	The requirements for drawings, models, etc., must be of the simplest nature, adequate clearly to explain the design, thus reducing to a minimum the labor and materials necessary in their preparation.

IV.——THE JURY.



14.	All competitions are adjudicated by the vote of the jury, including disinterested experts. the subject of the competition be such that its execution requires special expert knowledge, then, if permitted by the programme, the jury may call in additional disinterested experts arid also the promoter, to advise with them.

15.	The order of procedure of the jury shall be as follows:

(A)	Reading the programme.

(B)	Passing upon the question of calling in expert adviser or the promoter.

(C)	Passing upon the work submitted, with reference to conformance with the conditions of the programme. The jury must exclude from consideration proposals violating the conditions of the programme.

(D)	Passing upon the manner of arriving at the verdict.

(E)	Deciding upon the verdict.

(F)	Writing and signing the verdict.

16.	The jury may decide whether the prime object of the coin-petition is to select a design, or whether it is a means of test, having for its object the selection of an artist.

17.	The jury must make the awards to the competitors as stipulated in the programme.



18.	The drawings, models, etc., are not to be placed on exhibition before the verdict of the jury is rendered, and except when otherwise provided in the programme shall remain the properly of their proposers.

19.	Voting must be by ballot, but procedure otherwise shall be as agreed upon by the jury.

20.	The action of the jury shall be final.

V—. BY-LAWS.



21.	Any subscribing society may prescribe such by-laws additional to this general Code of Competition and not in conflict therewith as it may see fit; but such by-laws are to be included under a separate head, and indicated as being the by-laws of the particular society prescribing them, and the other subscribing societies shall be served with an official copy of such by-laws.

