

<doctype type="text">tions, in contracts and plans, which will be valued in proportion to the additional time and service employed.

7.	Necessary travelling expenses to be paid by the client.



8.	Time spent by the architect in visiting for professional consultation, and in the accompanying travel, whether by day or night, will be charged for whether or not any commission, either for office work or supervising work, given.



9.	The architect's payments are successively due as his work is completed, in the order of the above classifications.



10.	Until an actual estimate is received, the charges are based on the proposed cost of the works, and the payments are received as installments of the entire fee, which is based upon the actual Cost.

11.	The architect bases his professional charge upon the entire cost to the owner of the building, when completed, including all the fixtures necessary to render it fit for occupation, and is entitled to extra compensation for furniture or other articles designed or purchased by the architect.



12.	If any material or work used in the construction of the building be already upon the ground, or conic into the possession of the owner without expense to him, the value of said material or work is to be added to the sum actually expended upon the building before the architect's commission is computed.



SUPERVISION OF WORKS.



13.	The supervision or superintendence of an architect (as distinguished from thc continuous personal superintendence which may he secured by the employment of a clerk of the works) means such inspection by the architect or his deputy of a building or other work in process of erection, completion or alteration as he finds necessary to ascertain whether it is being executed in conformity with his designs and specifications or directions, and to enable him to decide when the successive installments or payments provided for in the contract or agreement are due or payable. He is to determine in constructive emergencies to order necessary changes, and to define the true intent and meaning of the drawings and specifications, and he has authority to stop the progress of the work and order its removal when not in accordance with them.



CLERK OF THE WORKS.



14.	On buildings where it is deemed necessary to employ a clerk of the works, the remuneration of said clerk is to be paid by the owner or owners, in addition to any commission or fees due the architect. The selection or dismissal of the clerk of the works is to be subject to the approval of the architect.



EXTRA SERVICES.



15.	Consultation fees for professional advice are to be paid in proportion to the questions involved, at thc discretion of the architect.



16.	None of the charges above enumerated cover professional or legal services connected with negotiations for site, disputed party wails, right of light, measurement of work, or services incidental to arrangements consequent upon the failure of contractors during the performance of ·the work. When such services become necessary, they shall be charged for according to the time arid trouble involved.



DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.



17.	Drawings and specifications, as instruments of service, are the property of the architect.



APPOINTMENT OF AN ARCHITECT.



18.	The Ontario Association of Architects is of the opinion that a better result is always obtained by the direct appointment of an architect for any given work than by the selection of an architect by the process of competition.



SOLICITING PATRONAGE.



19.	The attempt to secure work by offering to prepare sketches or preliminary drawings, or to render full professional services at a less rate of compensation than another architect, is unprofessional conduct.





REMOVAL NOTICE.

On May 1st next the Montreal office of The CANADIAN

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be removed from the New

York Life Building to the Imperial Building, corner St. James

Street and Place d'Armes Hill.



Messrs. Darling & Pearson, architects, Toronto, have removed new offices in the Imperial Bank Building Leader Lane,

<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE FOR MISS M. A. WALLACE, HAMILTON, ONT.



WILLIAM & WALTER STEWART, ARCHITECTS.



SOME OF THE FURNITURE OF THE NIAGARA NAVIGATION COMPANY'S STEAMER "TORONTO" (SELECTED BY THE



ARCHITECTS EIGHTEEN CLUB, TORONTO)--BOND



& SMITH, ARCHITECTS



EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR VIEWS, UNION HANK BUILDING,



TORONTO. —BOND & SMITH, ARCHITECTS.



The building was almost an entire reconstruction, only a portion of a wing of the original building being left at the rear. The work was carried out under unusual conditions, the new building being erected while the bank continued its usual business in the rear, and also a firm of lawyers occupied offices above the hank. Temporary entrances had to be arranged and shifted from place to place as the work progressed. It is satisfactory to note that no accident occurred. Another feature of the bank is that the banking room space is unbroken by columns or supports of any kind, the two floors and roof above being carried by a plate girder across a span of 45 feet. The ceiling of the banking room is suspended from this girder by rods. The front is designed in the style of modern French Renaissance, carried out in light buff terra cotta, pressed brick and Indiana limestone. The banking room is finished in quarter cut oak and antique bronze grilles.





<article title="Scientific Photography" author="">SCIENTIFIC PHOTOGRAPHY.

PHOTOGRAPHIC researches which are now well known have revealed much as to the structure of metals and alloys, but a still further insight as to structure in relation to behaviour has been obtained by Messrs. Ewing and Rosenhain, whose results are embodied in a paper recently communicated to the Royal Society. Most metals, when polished and afterwards slightly etched, reveal a structure, showing that the metal consists mainly of irregular grains, which ordinarily have well-defined boundaries, and these grains, by suitable lighting, can be seen as nodules, with well-marked crystalline facets. The grains are, it would appear, actual crystals, which are deformed by the crowding and crushing together of the various crystal growths. To observe and record the effect of strain on the crystalline grains several methods were adopted, the most usual course being to mount strips of polished and grained metal on the stage of a microscope having photographic attachments, the metal being then strained by the steady and controlled pull of a miniature testing machine. In other cases larger bars were strained by means of a fifty-ton testing machine, the microscope being mounted on the bar itself. The chief results, as shown by the photograph, taken at frequent stages, are as follows When iron or other metal showing the ordinary granular structure is stretched beyond the limit of elasticity, sharp black lines appear on the crystalline nodules, these lines being substantially straight and parallel on each nodule, but the direction is not the same on all nodules. At first, however, the lines are, for the most part, transverse to the direction of the pull, but as the stretch becomes considerable the more oblique systems of lines develop. If a piece of metal is very considerably strained, a second system of bands appears on stone of the nodules, and sometimes a third system. The authors regard the bands as being due to slips occurring in the various cleavage systems of the crystals. The slip bands can be seen quite well if polished, but unetched metal is strained, and although at the outset the nodular structure is not traceable, this structure becomes obvious when the straining proceeds, as the slip bands themselves map out the positions of the nodules. The microscopic slip bands can be developed by straining iron, copper, silver, gold, nickel, bismuth, tin, or brass, a ready means being by pinching a bright button of silver or copper in a vice,

