

<doctype type="text;plate">THE GRANGE, TORONTO.

<article title="The Grange, Toronto" author="">The confidence with which the early settlers in Ontario built for the establishment of a family surprises us later inhabitants who have seen the constant change that is going on in the character both of towns themselves and of the localities within towns. In England, from which most of these early Canadians came, the uncertainty of site had not then become recognized. Provincial towns had hardly begun to spoil the country surrounding them, and London had not yet drawn to itself the people of leisure in the county—the junior members and spinsters of the county families who used to live in those simple but dignified residences which we see, now too often in a state of reduced respectability, in the county towns of England. The family residence, occupied from generation to generation, was a familiar idea

to which allusion has just been made. It was the first brick house built in its neighborhood, and its cost, $4,000, must have been unusually great. The bricks were made on the spot. One of the moulds was preserved until it was destroyed by mistake a few years ago.

The main part of the house was first built. The first wing was added soon afterwards. The wing to the extreme left was originally a grapery, but was converted, not many years ago, into a library by Professor Goldwin Smith, the present occupant. The ground floor is now given up to living rooms with the exception of a couple of service rooms to the north ; but it is likely there were two or perhaps three bedrooms on this floor at first. There was originally a room where the stair case now stands and the stair ; a narrow circular stair, such as



THE GRANGE, TORONTO—WINTER VIEW.



in England ; and when young Englishmen of family came to Canada to establish themselves they took it as a matter of course that in founding a family they should also build a home.

Among residence in Ontario built with this idea the most fortunate is The Grange, Toronto. Its neighborhood is still a good residential quarter of Toronto; it is still surrounded by ample grounds, and is still kept up in perfect order as a residence in the estate of the family for which it was built.

The Grange was built in 1817 by D'Arcy Boulton, eldest son of the Hon. D'Arcy Boulton, at one time Solicitor General of Canada and after wards Justice of the King's Bench, who was the original Englishman in this case. Judge Boulton himself lived in the house and it is most likely from the style of the building that he had a good deal to say about its design.

The house is said to have been named after a family estate in England. The model was evidently one of those Georgian residences of the English county towns,

was common at the time when the house was built, was advanced to the line of the central passage and must have been lighted only from the hall door lights. The beauty of the present hall is due to the Hon. William Cayley, who planned it. The hall is carried through the house and lighted over the stair by a large north window filled with stained glass. The stair is massive and dignified in detail ; the color of the stairs, doors and other wood work is black—the beautiful warm black of black walnut, supported by several black walnut cabinets and contrasted by white fluted columns which divide the stair case hall from the front hall.

It is worthy of note that the service department remains in its original position in the basement. It is no doubt to this that is to be attributed the entire freedom from damp and decay which makes the Grange as fresh and as fit to live in now as when it was first inhabited. There is no doubt that a return to the basement kitchen would not only free house planning from much embarrassment and afford commodious service rooms at little

