



<doctype type="text">THE BUILDER

THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



<article title="Some Uses of Portland Cement" author="">Some Uses of

Portland Cement.

THE uses to which Portland cement can be applied are various and manifold, and a few hints on its uses and application and defects may not be inopportune. When used for foundations in concrete it should be remembered that the best made and best laid concrete will subside and crack unless the bottom be firm and the foundation sound. Upon soft ground where it is necessary to dig down a considerable depth in order to secure a hard bottom for foundations, a great saving of concrete may be effected by forming concrete piers beneath the points of the greatest weight, placed at distances from one another not exceeding eight feet. Concrete lintels should then be placed across the spaces between the tops of the piers. These lintels should have widths equal to the width of the ordinary foundation under footings, the depths varying with the weight to be carried. The insertion of small steel or iron joists within the lintels adds very considerably to their strength. The concrete should be composed of one measure of Portland cement to six measures of ballast. Any settlement of the bottom or any subsidence, contraction or expansion of a concrete foundation must be allowed for. Fine concrete is more liable to contraction or expansion than rough concrete, but is not so liable to subsidence. It will, however, take longer in setting than rough concrete. When laying concrete in a trench it is always best to stretch a line from one end to the other and drive stakes into the ground, allowing them to project sufficiently to permit the concrete to be levelled to them; this will save material and labor. A concrete footing is just as good as brickwork or the best masonry to bring the work up to the surface under ordinary circumstances, but in the case of piers subject to vibration, brickwork is decidedly preferable. Foundations of concrete intended to be covered with paving should never be less than six inches thick. For concrete walls the mixture should consist ot two parts of sand, three parts of ballast which has passed through a round mesh 1 1/2 inches in diameter, and one part of Portland cement. When concrete is placed on a timber frame the latter should be made strong and rigid to prevent sagging. If the wall is to have an external face, the boarding used as molds must be planed smooth, but if the wall is to be afterwards rendered this provision may not be necessary. Courses of concrete should not be laid less than six inches or more than 12 inches at a time, the upper surface of each course being left rough to form a key for the succeeding course. A 12 inch concrete wall is of equal strength to a 1 1/2 brick wall, though some municipal regulations require the concrete wall to be of the same thickness as the wall above. A concrete wall will conduct sound readily. Where concrete covers timber the latter

<article title="Concrete Roofs" author="">Concrete Roofs.

should be well welted before being covered with the mass.



When a good base is provided, there are few roofs that can be made more

effective and durable than a good concrete one, finished off with a layer of fine Portland cement and sand, though care must be taken when the concrete is first laid that the sun's rays be kept off the work for several days ; indeed, the whole work should be kept damp and as cool as possible for a time, and this can well be done by covering it two or three inches deep with sand and wetting the sand from time to time with water from a spray hose or from an ordinary watering can. Cracks in concrete roofs are frequently caused by the settling of the buildings, either from natural shrinkage or from defects in the foundation. When cracks do appear, they should be filled with a fine mixture of Portland cement and sand. To counteract the expansion in roofs of this kind, compressible linings of wood strips should be used around the works where the flashings are usually placed, and a cement skirting or flashing 6 inches high and inch thick should be well keyed into the walls with all concrete roofs, and this can well be done by raking Out the mortar joints of the brickwork that is to be covered and wetting the whole before the cement is applied. No other flashing will he required. Where a concrete roof is laid on between the rafters, the timber work should be made strong, and there should be ample wood fillets well nailed to the lower edge of the rafters to hold the cross boarding on which the concrete is laid. When desired, slates or tiles may be either nailed to the concrete or bedded into it while yet in a damp state. The pitch most suitable for a concrete roof is about 3/8 of an inch to the foot. This is ample to carry off the water and not too much to effect the cement while being laid. Once a concrete root is properly finished and all settling ceased the roof becomes almost everlasting, or at least t will last as long as the base on which it is constructed.



<article title="Concrete Floors, Ceilings, Stairs, etc." author="">CONCRETE floors may be laid in one mass, or may be laid in sections ; or a first layer of coarse concrete may be

laid down and a finishing layer in sections put on the top. Square slabs of concrete are much stronger than oblong ones. Slab floors being homogeneous throughout, the whole weight is a dead weight, and consequently there is no thrust on the walls. Joist concrete floors do not require much skilled labor in laying. The concrete is laid between, over and under the iron joists, which are fixed from 3 feet to 5 feet apart, according to

Concrete Floors, Ceilings, Stairs, Etc.

