<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER   12



of bringing it intelligently before the public and showing them to some extent what Architecture means.

A point the Committee would make against the Association is that nothing has been done since the organization of the Association some ten years ago to improve the attitude of the architect and the public to each other. Surely with such an Association and in that number of years a better feeling should prevail. In the case of competitions alone the efforts of the Association have been to a great extent useless and undignified. After the Association in a number of cases protesting against the conditions of competitions, it has been found that even members of the Council have entered such competitions. Practice such as this tends to lessen the respect of the public for the architect, and from that point of view alone it would be better that the Association did not exist. It would seem to the Committee far preferable that the Association, for some years to come, should be much more exclusive in its membership, rather than to have such loose ways of carrying on its business.

The suggestions which will follow are based upon the supposition that for some years the Association be composed to a large extent of the reputable architects of  Toronto and the other large cities and towns of Ontario. It is hardly likely that the rank and file of Ontario would immediately step into any well regulated organization as far as architectural education and practices are concerned, but it is this Committees feeling that if the smaller organization, as suggested, would work for some years and create a standard, the of her men would gradually fall into line, and after a few more years the legislation which is now being asked for would come as a matter of course if it were really needed. As it is now, it seems to this Committee the height of presumption to ask for legislation restricting the use of the word "architect," when the whole Association has been conducted upon such an unbusinesslike basis.

The Committee would suggest that the energy of the Association be devoted for the present almost entirely to education, as it feels that only by starting at the fundamental basis can any permanent improvement or success be gained. They' would also suggest that in lieu of asking fur any close legislation at present, the few really earnest and sincere members, who may stay in this smaller association proposed, will agree to only take pupils in their respective offices who will bind themselves to take the course of education laid down by the Association, and go through its examinations to enable them ultimately to become members. If this is done for some years and more members are added to the Association as before suggested, the Association would then with some degree of confidence, ask the government for close legislation if they wish to. There would then he at least a nucleus of well educated men to leaven the whole when the rank and tile of the profession would have to be taken into the Association.



In regard to the educational methods of the Association the committee feels that theoretical education along with consequent examinations is not adequate to an architectural training. It thinks that some system of atelier work, in addition to office work, should be incorporated in the scheme. There are several reasons why some such work should be insisted on with office work. One of the strongest is that all pupils do not get in equally good officer, and the less fortunate ones would not have the same chance of personal instruction and design as those in better offices. Then again in a bus)' office a student cannot and does not get the close personal criticism which lie might do under the atelier system. The committee can see difficulties in the way of carrying this out, for some students would live outside the city, but as lawyers and doctors are obliged to come to the city arid spend the greater part of the year for some years, we see no reason why embryo architects should riot spend a month or so each year in the city. However, this would not be a very serious consideration at the outset, as it is fully expected the sphere of influence for sometime would not extend much further than the city. The proposition is that the strident should spend say' a couple of months every year, possibly in December and January, at some large room either rented or loaned to tile Association, possibly for the present a room in the School of Science building, and there work in a similar manner to the student at the Ecole Des Beaux Arts in Paris—under patrons, these patrons to be here, as in Paris, five or six of the best known and most respected architects of the city, who would probably only have to spend about an hour a week each to do their share of the work. The Committee has looked into this matter very closely, and feel it is practicable and could be carried out. The great advantage of this system must be obvious to any one, for in addition to this, of course, there should be a course of lectures and examinations to test the student's theoretical knowledge. Then in the atelier the student has a chance to apply this theoretical knowledge in connection with design under the direct criticism of men who have actually practiced and have been successful, not under mere professors. The promotion and progress of the students could be arranged somewhat similarly to the Paris school, details of which need not be gone into here. Much valuable information could be obtained on this point from Mr. Ernest Flagg, of New York, Mr. Thos. Hastings and several others, who the Committee feel quite sure would be only' too willing to assist in this manner. The two architects mentioned above have started ateliers of their own iii New York arid to the knowledge of the Committee the influence they have bad, with young men entering them, has been really remarkable. The commit tee make a very strong point of this work, as it feels that ordinary architectural methods have such a very great weakness in this respect. The cry has always been that design cannot be taught arid nothing can be (lone in that direction. The committee differs from this iii at least the fact that it considers something can be done, and a

great deal, if only done in a practical way. The Committee thinks it would be no great hardship to any' young man who wished to become a properly educated architect, to spend two or three months in the city' every year for possibly three years, and that if the standard were only created in tile city', the ambitious students would be brought in a very' few years.

There has been some talk of the Association starting a travelling scholarship, giving medals etc., but surely' this would only be adding to the facial side of the Association to do so before providing any means of education. The Committee would suggest that everything of this kind should be left fur three or four years after some logical scheme of education has been started.

Although this report is somewhat general in its remarks, the Committee hasonly written it after carefully discussing every detail, and feels sure that if a committee looks into the matter, they will find these suggest ions practical and to the point.



Mr. Darling said he thought they ought all to feel thankful to Mr. Smith for getting up and reading the paper the)' had just heard. It was full of valuable suggestions, and if they would all work together on the general lines indicated it might result in a great deal of good. Of course he was only speaking as an individual, not as a member of the Association at all. He thought the suggestions as to classes was extremely valuable. He suggested that there did seem to be a certain amount of jealousy at times among architects ; he could not see why it should be so. For his part he was quite prepared to go back and start the whole thing de novo, because all he was interested in was the advancement of Architecture, and willing to adopt any procedure that promised to bring about this result. He strongly urged the abandoning of anything that divided architects, and that all should work together cordially and heartily for the advancement of good architecture. (Applause). He would once more remind them that they would not again have so good an opportunity as was now presented for discussing these very important matters.

Mr. Smith disclaimed any feeling of jealousy so far as the members of the Eighteen Club was concerned. He would like to say that that Club consisted of a few of the younger members of the profession in the city who met down town during the luncheon hour and who thought it would be a good idea also to meet one evening in the week to discuss Architecture. Their indifference to the Association, lie thought, arose from their belief that the Association had identified itself more with the effort to close the profession than with any other subject. They did not think it advisable to close the profession until the public had attained some idea of what a good architect should be.

Mr. Gordon said that in this matter, as in everything else, destructive criticism resulted only in friction, whereas constructive criticism, such as that contained in the latter part of the paper read by Mr. Smith, was always fruitful in bringing men together. He therefore thought it would he well to put aside the question of whether we belonged to this or that organization, and seek for unity upon the lines of constructive criticism, such as formed so valuable a part of the paper read. He thought all would agree that much of the action suggested would be very valuable if it could he put in operation. To do that, it seemed to him, it would be necessary to have a head-quarters of some kind for the architects of the city and province, and he felt assured, from what had been said, that if they had the rooms which were in contemplation the members of the Eighteen Club would be very glad to associate themselves with the Ontario Association, as individual architects, in seeking to advance that which was so dear to them, namely, the higher education of architects and architectural students. He felt that all were agreed on the advisability of the general plan ; the only question was as to the feasibility of carrying out certain parts of the scheme. He was very glad to have the report of the committee of the Eighteen Club read, although, speaking personally, he thought it would have been in better taste had some of the earlier portion of it been somewhat modified. But, putting all that aside, he was very pleased to have heard the report, and to think the gentlemen of that Club were present, and he hoped some good would result from it.

Mr. D. B. Dick thought the subject tinder consideration was one requiring the very fullest discussion, and

