<doctype type="text;ad">viii.	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Useful Hints" author="">USEFUL HINTS.

When an ornament falls on a ground which is in direct harmony with it, it must bc outlined with a lighter tint of its own color thus, when a red ornament falls on a green ground, the ornament must be outlined with a lighter red.



To remove spots caused by water in ceilings or walls, take unslaked white lime, dilute with alcohol, and paint the spots over with this mixture. When dry, which ensues very quickly, as the alcohol evaporates, the lime forms an isolating layer the ceilings or walls may be sized and



painted in any way, and thc spots will not

show again.

The colors fit to color a room with one flat tint, says William Morrice, the celebrated English decorator, are not many. These are my thoughts about them—first, a solid red, describable as a deep pink, but toned both with yellow and blue;

second, very rarely, a light orange pink; also, very rarely to be used, a pale golden tint, that is, yellowish brown fourth, tints of green from pure and pale to deepish and gray, always remembering that the purer and paler and deeper, the grayer ; fifth, tints of pure pale blue, from a greenish one, the color of a starling's egg, to a grayish ultramarine, hard to use because so full of color, carefully avoiding the point at which the red overcomes the blue.

Fireproof construction, and the materials required for it, are nowadays largely engaging the attention of New York architects. The result is that many new private residences will be of the fireresisting type. In recently built house of this class, concrete arches between steel beams. with cinder concrete filling on top, compose the floors, In the bash

rooms, the concrete filling is covered with a waterproof course of burlap and hot asphalt, flushed six inches high on all the

walls and protected with a two-inch layer of concrete, in which the floor tiles are laid. The water pipes are bricked in and covered with roofing slates, arid over these has been lapped burlap swabbed with hot asphalt, covered with an upper layer of concrete. In this way the pipes are permanently inclosed, and a kind of trough is made, pitched to one end, so as to carry off leakage or waste water.



CANADIAN OFFICE & SCHOOL FURNITURE COMPANY, LIMITED

PRESTON, ONTARIO



THE GLOBE FURNITURE COMPANY, LIMITED

WALKERVILLE, ONTARIO



THE PEDLAR PEOPLE—PLASTER ON STEEL LATH

OSHAWA, ONTARIO 