<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



in the whole working of the Association and if there was any opposition it should be heard.

Mr. W. R. Gregg said he was quite in favor of carrying the scheme through if at all practicable. The only question was as to the advisability of committing themselves to a three years lease at $150 per year. In addition to that there would be the cost of furnishing and light. The furnishing would require $100 so that the first year the expense would be $250 plus cost of lighting, and the other two years $150 a year and cost of lighting.

Mr. Dick said that the committee by whom the report was drawn up had no doubt had in view the possibility of deriving a rental from the large hall by occasionally renting it for meetings to other societies of a similar character, which would reduce the expenditure.

Mr. Gordon said, as bearing on the question of the expenditure, that by a reference to the 11th clause of the report members would see that it was proposed to make the office of Registrar honorary. This would put the Association in funds to a certain extent, which would be applicable to the project tinder discussion.

Mr. Aylsworth thought before the adoption of the resolution there ought to be the very fullest discussion. Would any benefit be derived from taking the rooms? Would the architects avail themselves of the use of them ? Certainly they would be useful for monthly meetings of the Association, and, then, there must be a home for the library. It seemed to him that they were embarking upon a very radical change of policy. In the first place they were undertaking a liability of, at least, $150 per year for these rooms, which might or might not be useful. It seemed to him that a more practical plan would be to continue somewhat as at present, with a Registrar and librarian, and a room such as the one they were in, and used in the same way ; to pay the Registrar and librarian for his services and the use of the room. He did not know of any room better for the purpose than the present one.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, said it was of the greatest importance for the Association to have some kind of rooms which the members could call their own, a place in which they could accumulate things and have some sort of a home, and a rendezvous to bring them together. The rooms proposed were very convenient, consisting of the large meeting room and the smaller room for the library. There were many other things to he done. There had been many criticisms of the Association. It had been complained that they had not instituted classes for instruction within the Association, sketch clubs and similar sub-organizations. The proposed rooms would render possible the branching out into these matters, which was imperative if they were to become a live voluntary Association. He thought the large meeting room might be rented, as had been stated by Mr. Dick, enough times in the year to materially reduce the expenditure for rent.

Mr. Darting did not think it made much difference with regard to the principle ; the main question was whether they would take these rooms. They would have to be in a position to tell the engineers what they were going to do. It was probable they would have to lease the rooms in question for five years.

Mr. W. R. Gregg said that, not having yet decided to make the position of Registrar honorary, in the meantime the only thing they had to go on was their surplus. Were they warranted in renting these rooms for five years ? Mr. Gordon's motion was merely postponing the discussion. For the purpose of bringing the matter to a focus, he would move, subject to the action of the engineers, that the rooms be taken for three years, the minor arrangements to be made by the Committee.

Mr. Gordon said that was exactly what his motion was. As a point of order, he would say it was quite impossible to have an amendment to a motion which was merely a repetition of the motion.

Mr. Gray proposed that Mr. Eden Smith should be heard in regard to the matter.

The Registrar said that Mr. Smith was present, not only as a member of the Association, but as a representative of the 18 Club. lie thought Mr. Smith might now be heard, not only as to the matter immediately under discussion, but also as to the views of the i8 Club in general.

Mr. Eden Smith, representing the is Club, said he had not contemplated coming before the Association. Mr. Wickson had asked them to meet a committee of the Association to discuss a few matters which came out, he thought, in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT. That was Just before Christmas, and, owing to the holidays, they had had no meeting, but had talked the matter over casually, and had considered a scheme for Mr. Wickson to put before the Committee, but not for submission to the Convention, because it had been very roughly drawn up, and not in proper form to lay before the Association. As to the rooms, he thought the Association ought to get rooms, but at as low a rent as possible. He thought the rent of the rooms proposed was a little high.

Mr. Darling reminded Mr. Smith that they were all met together as architects interested in the advancement of their profession. There was no need for an elaborate formal report ; what was wanted was a good frank talk together, and among them they should be able to evolve something which should mark a new era in the history of the Association. In the old days, it seemed to him, the students seemed to have more go about them than now. They had a room in which they had classes and sketch clubs, and they made things hum. He had no doubt that many who had been successful could trace no small degree of that success to these agencies. He did not think they would ever have a better opportunity than the present to discuss these matters, and he felt sure that something of value would result from a full and free talk on what was best for architecture.

Mr. Acton Bond, also of the 18 Club, said that, falling in with Mr. Darling's suggestion, he would ask Mr. Smith to read the rough draft that had been prepared.

Mr. Smith then read the report of the Committee of the 18 Club, as follows

REPORT BY COMMITTEE OF THE TORONTO ARCHITECTS'

EIGHTEEN CLUB.



Before making any suggestions, causes of the Association's failure to accomplish any good results must be first mentioned. It seems to this committee that thc Association started with entirely wrong principles. It apparently started for the purpose of doing good to architects rather than to Architecture. If instead of using every effort to make the profession a close corporation, the same energy had been applied towards making the profession better, more results would have been obtained, and in the end architects would have felt the benefit themselves. It is true that a more or less elaborate system of examinations was instituted but these examinations without any means being given to the student of obtaining the necessary education to pass them have proved somewhat of a farce, and necessarily so. The charter as I at present stands is really more of a hindrance to the Association than a help, and if it cannot bc amended in some form, should be thrown aside as a useless clog on the efforts of the more intelligent architects of the province to do something for architecture. A great deal of energy has been expended by the members preparing papers and talks to deliver before the Association at various limes. Much of this energy was puerile and wasteful. If the Association only employed those to give lectures who are fully competent to do so, even if this meant only one lecture per year—this one thing would place the Association on a better footing, and instead of the annual meeting of die Association being devoted almost entirely 10 papers, it would seem more logical and sensible to have not more than one really good paper, and devote the rest of the time to discussing the work of the Association, and going thoroughly into all possible means of doing something for Architecture. The Arts and Crafts Exhibition, which the Ontario Society of Artists is now getting up is one glaring instance of where the Association has failed. There can be no question but what such an exhibition should have been stared and gotten up by the architects and of course by the Association. In other cities where there exhibitions have been started the architects have almost always been the prime movers, and naturally so. It has remained for the Ontario Association of Architects to remain quiet and let the artists do this work for them.

It seems o this Committee that such work as this might easily be thrashed Out at the annual conventions, rather than, as before stated, listening to amateurs and useless papers. Also, if the Association were in touch with what is going on in the architectural world long before this it would have made some steps to obtain for Toronto the circulating exhibition of' the American Architectural League rather than leave it solely to the committee of a small club of young architects. These are simply suggestions as to what might be done to benefit Architecture in the way

