

<doctype type="text">Working Ashley Masonry.

charged according to style of finish and character of work. Quoin stones, made from picked quarried stones and hammered or dressed, are counted as on other dressed work of a similar kind. A good way is to charge the wall right up as so many cords, at so much per cord, and then add cost of picking and dressing the stone afterwards. Walling of block stones is charged up at so much per cubic foot, according to description, similar to ashore prepared and set, including all beds and joints, but the face is charged extra at per foot superficial, according to the way it may be dressed.





<article title="Working Ashley Masonry" author="">In ashler work, where it is plain and of an even surface produced without sinking more than is necessary to remove the mere irregularities of the stone, the price will be regulated according to the quality of the stone and the amount of labor bestowed upon it. For limestone or easily washed sandstones, the prices will not be hard to determine, but with granites and other hard stones the cost of working can only be got at by experience and a knowledge of local conditions. All sunk work in ashler, is the cutting or chiseling below the plain surface, as in rebating, or the weatherings of string courses, copings or cornices. The width, depth, shape of the face of cutting and hardness of stone must all be considered when making an estimate of this work. It is always best to estimate by the superficial foot on this work, for most of it will vary in width and depth, with the exception, perhaps, of weatherings and string-coursing. Circular work, so-called, will include all work having convex or concave surfaces, such as the shafts of columns, arch stones, circular curbs, circular or elliptical stair work, groins, tower work, or other similar work, and the estimator will require to be generous with himself in figuring up this description of work, both as regards labor and material, and ample allowance must be made for unforeseen contingencies. It is always a dangerous method, or rather want of method, to "lump" this kind of work, there are so many opportunities for leakage. The cost of moulds and models must be counted on, extra wastage of material must be considered, and the labor required to do the work will be of the most expensive kind, all of which tend to swell the bill of cost. Circle on circle work, such as arch work in a tower, or the forming of a spherical niche head in a circular wall, always means a great waste of material, and the employment of the most skilled labor obtainable, factors that must be considered when - making an estimate of this kind of work. The better way to estimate circle on circle work in stone, for amount of material required, is to make a cube covering the whole dimensions of the similar work both in elevation and plan, and then add 25 per cent, to the contents which will give just about the amount of materials required to complete the work. Straight moulded work, such as cornices, running mouldings, and similar work, may be counted by the running foot, and the cost determined by the girt and the number of members in the cornice Circular moulded work, such as the mouldings around the necks of columns, cornices around towers, or circular oriels, may be charged by the running foot, and the price per foot determined by the girt of the moulding and the number of members in it. Circular work of all kinds costs from two to three times as much as straight work of the same face, and work having a double curvature or circle on circle work, costs from three to five

times that of straight work having the same face. The correctness of an estimate for this kind of work will depend largely on the skill and experience of the estimator, who is supposed to have a thorough knowledge of the character of the work he is figuring on It is not safe for any young contractor to make an estimate on work of this kind if he has had no experience in this department, and he is advised to consult some person of experience, some old builder, or better still, some city architect, who is not interested in the work, and who is known to have erected stone work of the kind under discussion. The cost will be but little, and it may help to prevent serious disappointment and loss. In stone buildings of the better class, the simple walls, not including windows, doors, cornices or other embellishments, may be rated at the cubic foot where the work is of one kind, and when the work or material differs from the front wall, rate it at per cubic foot at a greater or lesser rate as the case may demand. Ascertain the full cost of one window and opening, then rate all similar windows likewise, the same with doors and openings. The total cost of a single column multiplied by the number of columns, gives the figures required. The cost of one foot of cornice or belting course or running moulding, obtained, multiplied by length of work, gives the whole cost. Carvings and other sculptured work should always be estimated by the piece.





<article title="Ashesiveness of Glue" author="">ADHESIVENESS OF GLUE.

A WRITER in one of our foreign exchanges says that the adhesiveness of glue under favorable circumstances is equal to a force of at least 715 pounds per square inch. In an experiment performed, a force of 1,260 pounds, applied gradually, was found necessary to separate two cylinders of dry ash wood, the ends of which presented a surface equal to 1.76 square inches, and which were glued together end to end and allowed 24 hours to set. Even this weight was sustained for two or three minutes before the joint gave way, and it was found, on examining the separated surfaces, that the glue was very thin and had not entirely covered the surface. The cohesive strength of glue appears, therefore, in this experiment to have been rather more than 715 pounds per square inch, while the cohesive strength of the wood thus united in a lateral direction was found to be only 562 pounds, thus showing that if the joint had been between the sides instead of the ends of the pieces of wood the wood would have given way before the glue. In this case, however, the glue was newly made and the season very dry, while in some former experiments made in the winter season with glue which had been frequently made, with occasional additions of glue and water, the cohesive force indicated was only 350 to 500 pounds per square inch.





The body color of a recently repainted house is a light shade of French gray, made from white lead, raw umber and a little lampblack the trimmings are ivory white, and the blinds are a dark

green, having an olive cast. The same color, but a trifle darker, has been used for the sash and also for the front door. Thc rough cast stone base is a dark olive, while the floor of the piazza is just a trifle darker than the body color. The house is set among large trees, and thc general effect of the whole is specially pleasing. On the opposite side of the street another house has been painted a rich cream color, the trimmings being a lighter shade of the same, and thc blinds and the sash bronze green. The brick base is a warm reddish brown, just a trifle too strong to be agreeable.

