<doctype type="text">

<article title=" A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE SCHOOL OF PRACTICAL SCIENCE " author="Galbraith">

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE SCHOOL OF PRACTICAL SCIENCE.

THE banquet to be tendered on the 21st inst. to Professor Gaibraith, principal of the School of Practical Science, Toronto, by the faculty, graduates, and undergraduates, has naturally carried the thoughts of many back to the early days of the school, as almost since its inception the name of Professor Gaibraith has been regarded as synonymous with the success of the school. Established in a modest way to meet the demands for technical and scientific education, the growth of the institution has been almost phenomenal, until the increased accommodation provided from time to time is now entirely inadequate.

The present School of Practical Science is the successor of the College of Technology, an institution which was practically an evening technical school for artisans and others, and which occupied the building of the present public library, at Church and Adelaide streets. The origin of the present school dates from January 30, 1877. when the Legislative Assembly, in accordance with the recommendations of a report to the Hon. Adam Crooks, Minister of Education, by Professor James Lou-don, sanctioned the proposal for the permanent establishment of a School of Science, and authorized the erection o[ a new building upon a site in proximity to the University of Toronto. The character of the institution was greatly changed, and under the new arrangement the chief object of the school became the teaching of engineering and applied chemistry. It was decided by an arrangement with the Council of University College, to utilize the teaching power of that college which already existed for the like objects in four departments and could be made applicable to the wants of the School of Science, and in addition thereto to appoint a professor of engineering and such assistants as might be found necessary. This arrangement continued until the end of 1879, when the departments of science were transferred from University College to the University of Toronto, under the operation of the University Federation Act. That the students might continue to receive instruction in the above departments in the same manner, the School of Science was affiliated with the University of Toronto.

The building erected at that time forms the north wing of the present school. Besides being the home of the engineering classes, it furnished accommodation for the departments of biology, chemistry, and mineralogy of the University, the engineering department having but one floor.

The first calendar of the School of Practical Science is denoted as the session of 1878-79, and the faculty consisted of H. H. Croft, D.C.L., professor of chemistry ; E. J. Chapman, Ph.D., L.L.D., professor of mineralogy and geology ; James Loudon, M.A., professor of mathematics and natural philosophy ; R.

Ramsay Wright, M.A., B.Sc., professor of biology ; J. Galbraith, M.A., Assoc. Inst. C.E., professor of engineering ; W. H. Ellis, M.A.,M.B., assistant professor of chemistry. The attendance at the school in this year was six students.

From the calendar we notice that there were three courses, namely (I) engineering ; (2) assaying and mining geology ; (3) analytical and applied chemistry. Regarding the engineering course, it is stated that in the absence of a machine shop visits to workshops and excursions during the long vacation will be taken advantage of.

An important event in the history of the school occurred on November 6th, 1889, when Professor Galbraith was appointed principal and the management of the school entrusted to a council composed of the principal as chairman and the professors, lecturers, and demonstrators appointed on the teaching faculty of the school. Recognizing the necessity of embracing every branch of applied science, the principal decided to extend the curriculum of the school so as to embrace five regular departments of instruction, in each of which diplomas would be granted, namely, (1) civil engineering (including mining engineering); (2) mechanical engineering (including electrical engineering); (3) architecture ; (4) analytical and applied chemistry; (5) assaying and mining geology.

In 1889-90 the management of the school was entrusted to a council of five, consisting of Professors Galbraith and Ellis, and Messrs. C. H. C. Wright, B.A Sc., lecturer in architecture ; T.

R.	Rosebrugh, M.A., demonstrator in engineering ; and L. D. Stewart, O.L.S., D.T.S., lecturer in surveying, with Professor Gaibraith as principal. These live are still members of the council which has been enlarged to include A. P. Coleman, M.A.,P.h.D., professor of assaying and metallurgy ; J.A. Duff, B.A., lecturer in applied mechanics ; G. R. Mickle, B.A., lecturer in mining, R. W. Angus, B.A.Sc., lecturer in mechanical engineering ; A. T. Laing, B.A.Sc., demonstrator in surveying ; and J. W. Bain, B.A.Sc., demonstrator in analytical chemistry. In addition six Fellows have been appointed from among the late graduates.

As early as 1888 the necessity of providing increased accommodation was recognized by the Government, and an appropriation made for the erection of a large addition to the building. This addition was completed in 1891, the equipment and the laboratory plant installed being of the best then procurable. The building as now occupied represents a floor space of nearly 60,000 square feet, but, notwithstanding, the accommodation is overtaxed, and the work of the teachers made laborious by the necessity of repeating lectures and laboratory experiments three or four times in order that all students may receive the instruction. It has also been found necessary, from the same cause, to abandon certain experimental and research work.

That the School of Practical Science is meeting the

PROF. GALBRRAITH,

Principal School of Practical Science, Toronto.

