	<doctype type="text">226	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" Students' and Draughtsmen's Competitions " author="">

Students' and Draughtsmen's Competitions.

readers, and that, as a result, a larger number of subscribers will be secured.

The publication of the journal in two editions will begin with the January number.

A series of valuable articles has been secured for publication next year, which includes the following "The Best Means of Reducing the Fire Loss in Buildings," by Edmund Burke, architect, Toronto; "Landscape Architecture," by Frederick G. Todd, Landscape Architect, Westmount, Montreal ; "Planning," by S. H. Townsend, architect, Toronto ; "Electrical Work as Applied to Buildings," by R. A. L. Gray, Electrical Engineer, Toronto ; "Architectural Education for Canadian Students of Architecture," by Professor S. H. Capper, of the Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal ; "Design," by J. C. B. Horwood, architect, Toronto; "Decoration and Furnishing," by W. H. Elliott, Toronto.

The authors of this series of articles have been selected with a view to their special knowledge of the subjects on which they will write. The subjects have also been carefully chosen with the object of furnishing a variety of matter calculated to interest and instruct all classes of our readers.

Other valuable articles will be published throughout the year, and every effort will be made to enhance the value of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER to its readers.



THE attention of Canadian architectural students is again directed to the Students' and Draughtmen's competitions, particulars of which are printed in the Students' Department of this issue. These competitions are organized for the purpose of developing students' and draughtmen's knowledge of drawing and design, thus fitting them for the successful practice of their profession in years to come. It is earnestly hoped that students will show their appreciation of the object of these competitions, and encourage their continuance by participating in them to a larger extent than heretofore. Architects are requested to bring the competitions to the notice of their students and draughtsmen and encourage them to enter.



REFERENCE has been made on more than one occasion to the opposition manifested by the Trades and

Labor Council of Toronto to the introduction of manual training in the public schools. We have never been able to understand why the representatives of skilled labor should oppose a movement which is so manifestly calculated to confer benefit upon their children. It is perhaps fair to assume that in the majority of cases the ranks of mechanics are replenished by the children of mechanics. How can it be an injury to the parents of these children that their offspring should have the opportunity in the public schools to obtain a knowledge of the use of tools and the theory of mechanics? If there is any benefit whatever to be gained from educating the eye and hand of the child, surely it is the working class who will receive the larger advantage. There has been a well founded objection made that the course of education in the public schools of Canada in the past was calculated to develop clerks and professional men rather than mechanics. Now, when a well thought out plan of manual training in the schools is put in operation through the

Manual Training

philanthropy of Mr. W. C. McDonald, we have the spectacle of the Trades and Labor Council resolving to establish a labor paper with the principal object of opposing the progress of the movement. Could anything be more shortsighted and inconsistent ?

<article title=" Manual Training " author="">



THE devastation wrought at Galveston, Texas, by a cyclonic storm, affords opportunity for investigation of the

character of construction best adapted to withstand extreme wind pressures. It is understood that some buildings withstood the storm. Thus the means of enquiry is at hand, and it is to be hoped that some data on this important subject will be recorded. In Canada we have had no storms approaching in velocity the one in Galveston, but of late years, as the protection afforded by the forests has gradually been diminished, our buildings have been subjected to greater wind pressures than before. Within the last month we have experienced storms in which the wind travelled at the rate of 50 miles per hour. It is proof of the substantial construction of our buildings that so few chimneys and other projecting features were dislocated. The subject of wind pressure, however, is one which should receive greater attention in the future.



REFERRING to the article and correspondence which appeared in our last issue on this subject, the objection has

been made that an arch would not constitute a fitting memorial. The argument is advanced that an arch is an emblem of victory and hence is not suitable for the purpose of a memorial. This objection, which comes from a source entitling it to consideration, appears to be well taken. Probably a group of statuary would best meet the requirements. Apart from the objection which has been mentioned, a permanent arch, if executed in a creditable manner, would probably cost a larger sum than could be raised by public subscription. Owing to the absence of public squares in the heart of the city, and the arrangement of the streets at right angles to each other, if would be difficult to obtain an entirely suitable site for an arch. It the city council had purchased and fitted up as a public square the piece of land opposite the new municipal buildings, as suggested two or three years ago, this would have afforded a suitable location, We do not know whether the land is still available, but unfortunately there appears to be no disposition on the part of the city council to make the purchase. When considering the question of cost and the probable amount which could be raised for a memorial, we are reminded of the difficulties experienced by those who have in the past undertaken to raise funds for a like purpose. It is not altogether surprising that in a new country such as Canada, large subscriptions should not be forthcoming, when even a wealthy nation like the United States will not contribute largely for such an object. The failure to obtain the necessary funds for the proposed Dewey arch is a case in point. Seemingly the only means by which a really creditable memorial can be erected is by Government funds. It would be a perfectly proper thing for the Dominion Government to make an appropriation for a National memorial to be erected at Ottawa, and for the Provincial Governments to appropriate money which might be added to by public subscription for suitable memorials for the various

Effect of Storms on Building Construction.

<article title=" Effect of Storms on Building Construction " author="">























































Canadian Soldiers'

Memorials.

