<doctype type="text">236		THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



posterous that a large corporation like the C.P.R. should be too, shall we politely say, economical, to provide a few blue prints of the plans of the hotel as it now stands. If the competition is seriously meant it should be seriously constituted, with proper instructions drawn up with the assistance of a qualified assessor, to whom the designs should be submitted for criticism and comparison. Competitions have fallen to so low an ebb that it is well nigh hopeless for any one not having a "pull" to enter with any chance of success on merits; indeed, architects submit to "conditions" under which no self respecting association of builders would consent to furnish a single render, and the architects have only themselves to blame if the building public accepts them at their own valuation.

<article title=" THE PRACTICAL EDUCATION OF THE ARCHITECT " author="Batchelor, Frederick">

THE PRACTICAL EDUCATION OF THE ARCHITECT.*

By FREDERICK BATCHELOR, F.R.I.B.A.



The advantages of general education and culture are called in question only by those who are wanting in them, but their influence on professional success is not perhaps so universally or so fully appreciated as one could wish.

The advantages of a general education to an architect are intensified by two things namely, the more technical character that is gradually being given to it, and the catholicity of an architect's profession.

Wherever civilized man is found be he "Christian, Jew, Turk, Infidel or Heretick,' he loves to make his homes, institutions, palaces and Lemples, not only cunning in contrivance, but each in its own way a little world of his aims and aspirations, a very Walhalla of all that is precious in art past and present, and to have impressed on each, and by a master hand, those individual, tribal and national characteristics which find more lasting if less vivid expression in architecture than thc other fine arts. The designer has simultaneously to contrive, adorn and to find material expression in his work for the innermost habits and needs of every kind of client. The past may perhaps be peerless in monumental art, but I venture to think that nowhere has the range of a designer's sympathy had to be more catholic and encyclopedic than in the beautiful and loving domestic work which has marked this half-century's renaissance of architecture and its allied arts and crafts. When the tendency 10 the introduction of hand-and-eye training into most schemes of general education since the principles of Froebel and Slojd have been abroad is considered, it will be abundantly evident that not only has the architect's need for general education and culture advanced, but that the theory of the latter has developed on lines perhaps more akin to the calling of the architect than any other, except those of the sculptor and painter.

There can be no doubt that a sound course of general education must precede any special departure, but how soon that departure is to be introduced into the home, school or university is a misleading question. It assumes that there is but one answer, whereas there are as many answers as there are characters and callings. The Association has already done much, but I propose, with your help to organize in the coming session a regular series of technical demonstrations, both at works in progress and also in the workshop. A pupil may know the four volumes of Rivington's "Building Construction" by heart, and have visited all the works on which thc staff in his office arc engaged, and yet be unfit to supervise, for three reasons Firstly, that every class of work does not necessarily find a place in the practice of even a very busy architect during the pupil's quinquennium secondly, that a set of contractors has occasionally been known to do such good work as to deprive the pupils of their legitimate experience through rejection and, thirdly, that visits to workshops and manufactories are quite as important as those to works in progress. I propose to meet the first want by arrangements such as have already been made with various architects and, occasionally, engineers to visit works in progress under their supervision. I do not anticipate insuperable difficulty in meeting the second want, but what we have yet to provide is a systematic series of demonstrations of good and bad materials and workmanship, and the means of distinguishing and appraising them, at sight and by applied test, taken, say, in the usual order of a specification. To



*	From inaugural address delivered before the Architectural Association of Ireland, on October 9th, 1900.

meet the third want I look for thc co-operation of the master craftsmen, merchants and manufacturers in the neighbourhood of Dublin.

The timber trades alone will entail several pilgrimages. I question whether the most didactic among us would care to speak ex cathedra on the article itself. The stereotyed specification founded on the relations at one time rife between qualities, uses, ports of shipment, and market forms and marks is out of date, and the dearth of the dry red deals which stocked Dublin sheds in the good old days has not only introduced a new cult—that of the American baulk—but largely increased the demand for second  Quebecs; whilst departures such as Kauri, and Oregon pines, sequoia, canary, maple, and cypress are courting attention and making new demands on technical demonstration. From the timber yards we might perhaps turn to thc creosting works, and fill a few pages with notes on the process, the pounds percubic foot injected for various uses, the pressures applied, and the depths of penetration. A visit like this, where we could handle the stuff, compare a few sawn sections, and pump the showman for all we were worth, would teach us more than a dozen text-book descriptions. After such a pleasant diversion our attention should be ripe for the saw mills and the carpentry and joinery shops.

Thc variety of sawn scantling now imported, especially from the Baltic, renders the appreciation of market forms in the importer's yard less problematical than when I was more confined to the log and the baulk, but it is in the saw mill perhaps that we have most to learn from technical demonstration. I imagine that one of thc chief advantages of technical demonstration in the joinery shops to a Science and Art "pass' man would be the dispelling of his little illusions in regard to the present use of framed floors arid tongued and grooved back-linings in cased frames. 'What a shock to discover that the girder and the binder have been ousted by the steel section, that the insinuating steel nail makes a better edged-joint than the time-honored tongue; that the tenacious tusk—tenon, the darling of his prettily— shaded isometrical details, is practically confined to trimming; and that so great a man as Viollet-le-Duc would drive it even from that refuge. What is even more wanted, because of its corn parative neglect in this branch of technical education, is a similar demonstration in the shop-fitting and cabinet-making crafts; crafts whose niceties are only worked out by the specialist who can get a fair price and escape the demoralization of the cut-throat competition now being fostered by government departments. I would conclude the series by an examination of some of the best examples of genuine old joinery and fittings in the last-century houses of Dublin, such as still linger in Henrietta Street, Rutland Square, Sackville Street, Kildare Street, or Ely Place and of the old furniture in the Science and Art Museum, much of which might bc measured and drawn with advantage. Few technical studies are so refining in their influence upon the design of architectural joinery as that of the good old furniture of the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, and there can be little doubt that the coarseness of the Gothic revival was largely due to its neglect. Another series of demonstrations which would very materially increase our stock of practical knowledge may possibly be arranged in connection with stonemason's work, In these yards the various building stones in common use for constructional purposes, and also those employed in decoration and in sculpture, could be exhibited, arid I hope, a number of valuable hints obtained from the master masons ripe experience as to what quarries have produced the stones best able to resist the disintegrating effects of our Irish climate. We would expect, too, that the flaws and defects peculiar to each description of stone would be pointed out. The methods of setting out the work and the subsequent operations of sawing, dressing, carving and polishing the stones would be demonstrated. Then again we have in Dublin quite exceptional opportunities for seeing in well-equipped workshops art metal work, constructional steelwork and foundry work in all stages of production. I venture to think that if the young architect would avail himself of the opportunities now held out to him to increase his stock of practical knowledge, that knowledge would react most beneficially, not only on the morality of the master smith, but on thc pocket of his clients. He would no longer create designs, presumably for wrought-iron, which could be produced only at excessive cost in that material, or else in the form of a malicable casting which might deceive both architect and client alike.

In thc details of plumber's work the average architectural student or assistant is lamentably ignorant. He is probably

