<doctype type="text">Schoolroom Decoration in Ontario.

old lights in a way that might be beneficial alike to the owner of the dominant light and to the person erecting his new building. Too often such a state of things leads to what is nothing less than levying blackmail on the building owner, who must pay what is demanded or abandon his scheme. A resolution was adopted that the Council of the Institute should seek the co-operation of the Surveyors' Association for the purpose of securing, if possible, needed amendments to the law.



<article title="Schoolroom Decoration in Ontario" author="">Under this title a pamphlet has recently been published by J. George Hodgins, M.A., L.L.D., Librarian and Historiographer of the Education Department of Ontario, with the sanction of the Minister of Education and the Premier of Ontario. The pamphlet is somewhat disappointing, consisting as it does chiefly of extracts on the subject of school room decoration and art in the school room from various writers and publications. The original matter comprises an introductory chapter in which the author states his belief that the exodus of boys from the country to the cities and towns is largely due to the tact there is so little that is attractive in rural schools and homes. The American practice of decorating school rooms with lithographs, prints, and photographs designed to emphasize momentous and memorable events in National history, is referred to and recommended for adoption in Canada, and the suggestion is made that the Historical Societies should interest themselves in this work. It is also pointed out that the placing of good pictures on the walls of school rooms must have an educative and beneficial effect upon the homes of the pupils. The pamphlet contains a number of illustrations of historical scenes and personages, public monuments, etc., in Canada. The book does not treat of decoration apart from pictures, and, strange to say, makes no mention of the work of the School Art Leagues, of which a score or more exist in the city of Toronto alone, and which seem destined to be organized and perform a useful work throughout the province.



<article title="School of Practical Science" author="">School of Practical Science.

The building occupied by the School of Practical Science, Toronto, has become too small to meet the requirements of this growing institution. Every room in the building, even the storerooms, has been brought into requisition within the last two or three years, and the limit has now been reached. It has been necessary to use the hallways as draughting-rooms, and to divide up classes, thus occupying the time of two or three instructors when one would be sufficient were class rooms of proper size available. It has been suggested that, inasmuch as the Department of Applied Science and Mineralogy is complete in itself, having its own staff, suitable accommodation should be provided for it in a new building. The space which would then become available for the other departments in the present building would properly fulfil all requirements for the next twelve or fifteen years. In connection with the proposed new building, accommodation should be provided for instruction in geology of students taking the Arts Course at the University. The proposal has been made that a portion of the ground and first floors in the front of this new building should be fitted up in a manner suitable for a Museum to receive the mineral exhibits which are now distributed between the School of Practical. The Evils of Unionism.Science, the University and the Parliament Buildings. On account of the manner in which these exhibits are now divided up, they are of little service to the public. In all probability, when the Technical School Board shall have decided upon a new location, the building now occupied by the School will be taken down and a new structure erected suited to the above mentioned purposes.

<article title="The Evils of Unionism" author="">THE benefits which should have accrued to all classes of the community from the return of commercial prosperity,

have been greatly restricted by numerous strikes, consequent upon the unreasonable demands

of the labor unions. As usual the building industry has been a severe sufferer from these disputes. Every year the demands of the unions are becoming more excessive and tyrannical and a more alarming cause of uncertainty and disturbance to trade conditions. A constant effort is being made to reduce the hours of labor and raise the standard of wages. The greatest pay for the least work, seems to be the object aimed at. To the employer this means a constant increase in cost of production, without any compensating advantage in the way of improved workmanship, for no attempt whatever is made to establish a standard of quality for union labor. Any workman who has the wherewithal to pay his fee is admitted to membership. No proof of his ability as a workman is demanded. Unionism seeks to place all workmen irrespective of ability on the same level, by demanding that all shall be paid the same rate of wages. No incentive is given members of the union to become superior workmen, but on the contrary the system tends to discourage ambition. The leaders of organized labor are apparently too busily employed in exercising their power in municipal, provincial and federal politics, to give attention to what should be one of the most important functions of such an organization — the elevation of the standard of workmanship. The evils of the union system have reached an acute stage, and the commercial world is looking about for a remedy. Legislation has been enacted in New Zealand which forbids under penalty strikes and lockouts pending the settlement of disputes. The Minister for Labor and Industry is given power to enquire into the cause of any dispute between an employer and his workmen, or between different bodies of workmen, and to endeavor to effect an amicable settlement of the differences, failing which he may direct a public enquiry by a judge of the Supreme or District Court, or by the president of the Land Court, who has power to enter upon the premises and inspect everything calculated to throw light upon the cause of the dispute except books or statements of account. On the application of both parties to the dispute an arbitrator may be appointed, and on the application of the parties a conciliator. No power is given for the enforcement it of any decision arrived at. During the five years which have passed since this legislation was put into operation. New Zealand is said to have been free from strikes and lockouts with their attendant injury to commerce. The time has come when steps should be taken by means of legislation or otherwise to put a stop to the interference to trade and national prosperity as well as the hardships imposed upon individuals and families by labor strikes. If relief cannot be had in the form of legislation, then the evils of unionism must be brought to an end by a general union of employers to embrace

