



<doctype type="text;plate">ANNUAL CONVENTION OF MASTER

<article title="Annual Convention of Master Plumbers and Steam Fitters" author="">PLUMBERS AND STEAM FITTERS.

The National Association of Master Plumbers and Steam Fitters of Canada assembled in annual convention in Montreal, on June 25th. The sessions of the convention were held in St. Joseph's Hall on St. Catharine street. Mr. J. W. Harris, president of the Association, presided, and welcomed the delegates from outside places. In the absence of the vice-president, Mr. Mansell, Mr. W. H. Meredith, of Toronto, was requested to fulfil the duties of the office. The following officers and delegates were present President, J. W. Harris, Montreal ; vice-president, (pro tem.) W. H. Meredith, Toronto ; secretary, P. C. Ogilvie, Montreal; treasurer, W. H. Meredith, Toronto ; vice-president of Ontario, H. A. Knox, Ottawa; vice-president of Quebec, John Watson, Montreal ; vice-president of Manitoba, R. Ross, Toronto ; vice-president of British Columbia, Joseph Wright, Toronto; vice-president of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, Frank Powers, Lunenburg, N. S. ; Toronto, W. J. McGuire; Ottawa,

J.	McKinley, F. G. Johnston and H. Normand; Montreal, James A. Giroux, G. C. Denman, J. A. Sadler,



































MR. W. H. MEREDITH,

President National Association of Master Plumbers.





Joseph Gibeau, Thos. Moll, J. W. Hughes and Joseph

Lamarche; Windsor, P. C. Ogilvie; Halifax, Frank S.

Powers and John McFatridge.

The president in his annual report stated that most of the local associations were in a prosperous condition. He suggested that a conference be held with the jobbers and manufacturers for the purpose of inducing them to sell to members of the Association only, and in return the members would agree to purchase only Canadian goods. In order to distinguish Canadian goods it was suggested that manufacturers should place a trade-mark on their material. It was announced that the association of boiler manufacturers had declined to deal with the Association, and immediate action with regard to this matter was recommended. During the year an association had been formed in Hamilton, in which was included all but one of the master plumbers of that city. Rules and regulations had been submitted by the journeymen's association for the approval of the master plumbers' association, and conference committees had been formed to consider questions affecting both associations. The enactment by the Dominion Parliament of a federal law regulating plumbing throughout the Dominion was advocated.

The president appointed as a committee on resolutions, Messrs. Jos. Wright, Jos. Giroux and Frank Power.

The report of the sanitary committee, presented by Mr. J. W. Hughes, showed that an increasing interest is being shown in sanitary matters and that the public are demanding a better class of goods and workmanship, which demand the manufacturers are meeting in a satisfactory manner. Regret was expressed that in some of the older cities no steps had yet been taken to adopt modern plumbing regulations, and it was suggested that the Dominion Parliament should pass a general law on the subject.

Reference was made in the discussion following the report to the opinion of the city solicitor of Ottawa that municipal councils have only the power to pass regulations to prevent unqualified persons from performing plumbing work, but have no authority to pass by-laws regulating the construction of buildings, or to compel drain layers to take out licenses. The president stated that the provincial government of Quebec had given municipalities power to pass by-laws regulating building construction and plumbing in general. He suggested that while the Dominion Parliament could not be asked to pass a by-law it could pass a law dealing with public health.

The report of the vice-president for Nova Scotia and New Brunswick stated that last year had been a prosperous one in the lower provinces, and that plumbers were beginning to feel the benefit of being connected with the Association. There had been some difficulty with the journeymen but an amicable settlement was looked for. A new regulation had been passed by the Halifax Board of Health compelling all master plumbers to pass a qualifying examination as journeymen plumbers. It was suggested that the Association should endeavor to have this regulation apply to the whole Dominion. It was urged that steps should be taken to devise means to avoid the difficulties and losses entailed by want of a proper system of estimating.

The report of the vice-president for Quebec recommended that an effort should be made to revive publication of the Association Bulletin, and that the constitution be so amended as to provide that the secretary of the National Association must be notified of changes made from time to time in the officers of the local associations.

Mr. H. A. Knox, vice-president for Ontario, in his report, expressed regret that the plumbers of that province were not as sympathetically united as they should be. It was suggested that other towns should follow the example of Ottawa, Brockville, and Smith'st Falls, by affiliating with the Association.

The report of the Executive committee stated that certain difficulties had arisen between the Hamilton association and the wholesale dealers, the adjustment of which it was hoped would soon be accomplished. Publication of The Bulletin had been suspended owing to lack of support. The appointment of a paid secretary was recommended.

The report of the secretary, Mr. P. C. Ogilvie, stated that the following are the local associations that are affiliated with the National Association Montreal, 52 members; Toronto, 21 members; Halifax, 22 members; St. John, N. B., Stratford, St. Thomas, Hamilton, Ottawa, II members; London, Windsor, 8 members; Quebec, Kingston, Winnipeg, St. Catharines.

The committee on resolutions recommended the

