	<doctype type="text">THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



With two bends one foot high, it will require a head of over two feet to force water through, air being allowed to remain or gather in the coil. For this reason perpendicular kinks or bends in

horizontal flow or return pipes to a radiator whose height would



equal the diameter only of the pipes, would almost, if not quite, close the circulation to that radiator. Since this imperfection would be noted, the chief danger lies in those bends or kinks that may close off only a smaller per cent. of the efficiency of the radiator. Lack of heat in the room will likely be blamed by the fitter on anything but his own bad workmanship or design. Where bends or drops in a pipe are unavoidable, the air traps thus caused can be relieved, and the pipe restored to its full circulating value by the running of air vents to above the water level or connecting to expansion Lank, etc., as the requirement of thc particular case may demand. This same principle applies to the circulation or flow of water in other pipes, such for instance as that unfortunate piece of engineering illustrated in the laying of the Toronto waterworks pipe across the bay, which, owing to the irregular shape of the bottom of the bay is not likely to be laid perpendicularly in line There is another difficulty here, namely, that every entrapped cubic foot of air, when under water, has a lifting power of about 62 1/2 lbs. Now by relieving these traps of upper bend', (which must necessarily be in thc shallower water) by some efficient device or plan so that air cannot, to any serious extent, collect or gather in the pipe. the flow of the pipe will be restored to its normal capacity (which the mere holding of the pipe down by a weight of cribbing stone or sand will not accomplish) and the desire of an iron pipe to tear itself apart in order to take a swim on the surface of the water will be over come.

In further support of this theory, allow me to point Out First, that air or gases did accumulate in the water works pipe, since by no other possibility could it, an iron pipe, float, and the fact of now holding it down by cribbing etc., indicates that further accumulations of air are expected to re-occur and probably already exist. Secondly, that when a pipe contains air it cannot contain water to its full capacity, and as previously noted, it matters not where the impediment to the first possible circulation occurs hence it follows that the capacity of the pipe as a whole to convey water is reduced to the full extent or proportion of the air accumulation at any one point. Thirdly, a large accumulation of sand or other set thing was found in pot lions of this pipe. The presence of settlings in any portion of a pipe denotes that such pipe has not sufficient current passing through, or sufficient drainage or head to prevent settlings from accumulating, and this condition can be brought about in the first place by an accumulation of air as refer red to, reducing the cur rent or flow of water through the pipe, the more open parts of which then assume the duty of settling basins in the pipe itself. It should be the duty of the engineer in charge to examine the portions carefully to discover if it is not possible to not only restore the flow if impeded, but also to increase it in other ays. This might avoid the present necessity of the expensive tunnel proposed by Mansergh, and still give the increased capacity claimed to be required. It is not my wish that these remarks he taken as claiming to locate by one example the source from which all the difficulties occur, since there are other phases to this question of doubtful reputation, leaving considerable choice in the matter, but I have referred to this as being akin to my subject, which I have desired to make as widely interesting as possible. It has thus been shown that though the boiler in a system may be correctly designed and efficient under one system of radiation, it may entirely fail to accomplish the work expected of it in another, and that from no fault in the boiler itself Also, that radiators may fail to heat the space assigned to them from defects in the boiler or in some other part of the system, as for instance the size or arrangement of the connecting piping as will be afterwards described.

Thus it will be seen that n seeking to determine the efficiency of a hot water boiler or radiator, or in fact any of the units of a system as a whole, the individual unit in question must be treated apart from other units of the system Further. in reference to the connecting pipes between boiler and radiator, it is important that they he correctly proportioned in size or area to the various parts of the radiation they have to supply. Since the motive power of the circulation is due in part to the height of the driving columns multiplied by their areas, it follows that on the different floors different proportions in the area of the connecting pipes are required, so as to distribute to the radiators on the different floors their proper area of circulating power. By estimating the average height of floors one above the other at even distances we are at least within the mark in stating that in a

house with basement, the effective proportional area of connecting pipes per square foot of radiation should run so as to give an excess or proportional area, etc., for the lower floor, of three to one of the upper floor. This may be put in snore practical shape by proposing to determine from best general practice a common unit of proportional area per square foot of radiation, which may be used when once obtained in all cases for determining, according to thc nature of the work, whether or not sufficient circulating area is provided in the boiler itself, or ;n the radiators themselves, or in the connecting pipes individually. This unit will be used as follows Radiators having been selected and placed for the different floors, the sizes of the pipes individually required will he determined by multiplying the square feet of radiating surface in the radiators by the unit, and then by three for thc radiators on the ground floor, by two for thc radiators on thc middle floor, and by one for the radiators on the upper story. These sizes or areas will determine by examination of the design if the individual radiators have sufficient water way in themselves, and the sum total of these areas will determine if there is sufficient water way in the boiler itself.

I will note here that since a pipe of 4 square inches area will convey more than double the water of a pipe of 2 square inches area, this difference should be taken into account, and may be found tabulated in books of reference. I will also note that it is important that the boiler be placed so that it may give an effective height to the circulating pipes in the basement equal to the average stories in the house. A boiler where the return pipes fall completely to the floor and begin to heat immediately on rising therefrom, will thereby utilize the full height of the basement for enforcing circulation, and its waterway will be of more proportional value than in one less effectively placed, for which due allowance must proportionately be made. In cases where the basement lacks sufficient height, the ground floor radiators are the ones most unfavorably affected. A lack of circulating force to a radiator can be improved by piping to the top of a radiator as in No. I, instead of to the bottom as in No. 2, and may help in some instances to acquire the necessary amount.

I will close this portion of my subject by a few deduct ions that may bc arrived at from the reasoning that has preceded. In competitive boiler tests in which it has been attempted to make all conditions except the boilers the same, the most efficient boiler may show the lowest average temperature at the point where the circulation leaves, and not thc highest, as has been ignorantly supposed must always be the case. Boilers that compel the water to follow a tortuous course in order to keep the same water as long as possible in contact with the heating surfaces, destroy the heat absorbing efficiency of those surfaces, impede the circulation and are therefore of inferior and ignorant design. Radiators that compel the water to follow a tortuous course, so that it may travel through all of thc loops in order to be as fully cooled as possible, (though the effect may bc to show the hottest water entering the radiator and the coldest when leaving it, as compared with other radiators) are wrong and inefficient in design, inasmuch as it has been shown that that system, as a whole, may he the most efficient where flow and return, or in fact all parts of the system, are nearest to the same temperature. Such a radiator was attempted to bc put on the market at a recent date, but failed I believe in accomplishing its object.

The desired efficiency of a hot water heating plant, as a whole, cannot be insured simply by the purchase of a boiler or radiators of good design, which may be guaranteed of high efficiency when correctly installed. The correct installing of a hot water, or in fact any heating plant, involves engineering questions about which, as a rule, the average man calling himself a steam fitter or pipe fitter knows very little. The employment of such a man in an engineering capacity is the direct cause of so many failures in such plants to do the duty expected of them It is criminal economy to use too small connecting pipes to save first cost of apparatus. Also in using less 'cads than the boiler is designed to supply and plugging or reducing the unused holes intended for circulation.

Under some conditions it may he necessary to increase the area of circulation provided for general purpose or discard the boiler if this is not possible. It is necessary for the man who takes up this work expecting to succeed (unless by accident) to acquaint himself with such principles as in pan have been enumerated, but which owing to the limited scope of this paper cannot bc further enlarged upon

Having shown that in criticising the efficiency of a hot water circulating plant as a whole, it is necessary to independently handle the different units therein, we will now proceed to the

