<doctype type="text">	210	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER



submit designs (with specifications as to cost). These designs to be placed on exhibition and competent judges appointed—judges above approach and reproach—to select the best and most suitable one. Then a fund might be started by the citizens to defray expenses.

Yours truly,

MCGILLIVRAY KNOWLES, R.C.A.



DEAR SIR,—I regret that owing to press of business I have been unable to answer earlier your letter of 8th inst. I sincerely hope that an enduring monument of some character in honor of the work of the Canadian Contingent in South Africa will be erected, but I should regret if it took the form of an arch unless a large sum of money, somewhere between $25 and $50,000 could be raised, which I think is out of the question. In any event I do not think that an arch at the entrance to the avenue in question would be desirable. A bronze statue in the uniform worn by the Canadian Soldiers in South Africa would in my opinion, be much more readily accomplished in view of its cost.

Yours truly,

B.	E. WALKER.



TORONTO, November 17th, 1900.



Dear Sir,—I am much obliged for your letter of the 8th, instant with accompanying proof of the article which is to appear in the November number of the "Canadian Architect and Builder. I am quite in accord with the suggestion made therein and am glad to observe that a movement is already on foot in Halifax for the perpetuation of the memory of our soldiers who fell in South Africa, by some fitting memorial.

Yours very truly,

F.	W. BORDEN.



Ottawa, 19th November, 1900.

<article title=" ARCHITECTS' AND ENGINEERS' NEW ROOMS " author="">

ARCHITECTS' AND ENGINEERS' NEW ROOMS.



The Ontario Association of Architects from date of 15th Nov., are going to have a local habitation, in pursuance of plans laid before and endorsed by the last convention. The second floor of Nos. and 96 King street west have been rebuilt by Messrs. Darling & Pearson, and adapted to the requirements of architects' and engineers' association rooms-—to be used for the furtherance of the interest they have at heart—the personal intercourse, interchange of ideas, and criticism of methods, which makes for that atmosphere in relation to these matters which mark the larger centres, which broadens and refines as opposed to narrowing isolation.

The entrance from the street is not all that was promised. Existing leases prevented the carrying out of the terra cotta front for the present, but passing through a massive oak door and ascending an oak stairway, at the landing is entered the lobby, or ante room, common to both engineers and architects. This is an effective square hail, twenty feet wide with unique prismatic ceiling light. The woodwork, including impost of large cove to ceiling, is all white, excepting a tint on the cove, a strikingly effective wall paper in green and blue, yellow, and red mahogany doors, with old brass furniture, From this ante room (which is to be furnished as a comfortable common meeting ground or 20 x 40 feet; architects' room, 20 x 20 feet; Engineers' room, 20 x 19, all members) are five doors, giving access to assembly room, a lavatory filled up in marble; a cloak room with sink and gas range, and large enough on occasions for serving luncheon or dinners. The assembly room will seat 125, is finished in white enamel, except high dado of sheeting covered with crimson burlap for tacking up drawings on exhibition. A raised dais and blackboard marks the speakers' end. The ceiling is a segment of a circle supported by heavy cambered beams.

The architects' special room has three windows looking on to King street; it has a great mantel, a book case with leaded glass doors, a fixed seat and desk, shelf and picture mould carried entirely around the room, giving continuity to the whole effect. The finish of woodwork is an antique green stain, harmonizing with reddish brown wall paper of bold pattern. Massive oak table and chairs, chosen for comfort most of all, black iron dogs set in brown tile hearth, with Turkish rug on the floor and warm curtains on the windows, completes the furnishing of the room.

The lighting of the entire floor is by electricity and is made very effective, especially in common lobby with its eight ceiling drops.

The members are earnestly urged to make use of the rooms on all possible occasions. The furnishings are not yet complete, but it is the intention that their homelike character will make the rooms a congenial place of meeting—to have on their tables and shelves such periodicals and books as will illustrate the world's architecture and art, and keep the members in touch with it.

Branch Office of the	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



Imperial Building.



MONTREAL, November 16th, 1900.

<article title=" CANADIAN SLATE " author="">

CANADIAN SLATE.



Since 1893 the production of slate in Canada has gradually been decreasing, and one by one the different quarries have closed down until now there is not a slate turned out in the whole Dominion. This regrettable state of affairs was brought to a climax last May when the quarries of the "New Rockland Slate Co." were shut down. Their quarries have been the only ones working for the past two years, and as the slate turned out has almost invariably been of a uniform good quality, it is with regret that we draw the attention of our readers to the fact, and trust that soon we may hear of their starting work once again. These quarries arc situated in that portion of the Province of Quebec commonly called the Eastern Townships, and have given employment to over 8o hands almost continuously since their first opening in 1864. In 1882 the company re-formed under new management, and in 1886 constructed a tramway to connect the quarries with the Grand Trunk Railway, a distance of over four miles.

The United States has recently opened up quite an extensive export trade both with Great Britain and Australia, and it is a great pity if this field for slate cannot be held in the near future by Canada.

The United States in 1898 produced for home consumption slate valued at $2,353,465, and exported $1,370,075 worth, of which $1,213,377 went to great Britain. Surely this market is worth gaining.

There have been some improvements in slate quarrying of recent years, chief and foremost being the use of the channeler, a machine which takes the place of blasting—a process which has always been more or less objectional as it shatters and wastes a good deal of otherwise good slate. The slates from the Rockland quarries have always worn well and have proved of superior quality, and compare most favorably with the best Welsh and Pennsylvania slates. The chemical composition is as follows:

	Silica S1 O2	65.39

	Alumina	15.97

	Ferrous Oxide	4.66

	Lime and Magnesia	3.66

	Potash and Soda	6.93

	Maryonous Oxide	0.39

	Loss by Ignition	3.26

	100.26.



This analysis shows at a glance how rich the Rockland slate is in the valuable constituents of a slate, viz., the silicates of iron and alumina, and if sufficient slate of the highest grade can be found, we can see no reason why an export trade could not be obtained both with Great Britain and Australia, and also probably South Africa.

FIRE-PROOFED WOOD.

<article title=" FIRE-PROOFED WOOD " author="">

The Electric Fire-proofing Company are at thc present time erecting buildings near Montreal in which wood is to undergo a process whereby it will become non-inflammable. The result is obtained by forcing sulphate and phosphate of ammonia into the wood by hydraulic pressure, and has been found very satisfactory in so far that the wood only carbonizes and fails entirely to ignite. This non-inflammable wood has been used to a large extent on nearly all the more modern U. S. warships, and in a

