



<doctype type="text">our country towns, still it is to be recommended to the careful and prudent working man to keep a close record of all the work he does for future reference. For those Who have not had a great deal of experience in this most important branch of the cornice business, the great number of catalogues sent out by wholesale houses who sell to the trade, the illustrated price lists, etc., will prove of great value to the beginner, insomuch as he will find therein the prices charged to the trade for almost every conceivable shape or pattern of cornice or other work he may require, and as these lists are subject to a trade discount, the country metal worker will generally find it to his interest to purchase the work ready to put up from the wholesale dealer.

breaks in the brick or stone work, which may prove a very serious matter. Uniformity of foundation and resistance to compression is of the utmost importance for the purpose of securing the requisite stability, and great care should, therefore, be bestowed upon the examination of the trenches so as to see that a uniform hardness be obtained. There should, in all cases where possible, be a good system of drainage around the bottom of the foundation, in order to keep the whole of the walls perfectly dry. Weeping tiles should also be laid in the cellar and connected with the drains outside of walls. These will tend to keep the walls dry on both sides and make the cellar more healthy. Ordinary field tiles make very good weeping tiles.



<article title="Notes on Foundations" author="">Notes on Foundations.

A few accepted conditions required for good foundations are herewith presented If for a frame building, footings two feet wide will answer in almost any solid ground. 1!, however, the ground he soft or boggy and wet, a good plank bottom four or five feet wide may be necessary. The planks should be in several layers and crossed. Good stone footings may be placed on the top tier of planks ; much will depend upon local conditions of the soil. For a brick or stone building, wide footings must be employed, and these should always be below the frost line. A cellar floor should never be below the top surface of the footing stones, and, it the foundation is built on sand, the cellar, or other excavations, must not be carried below the footings or serious results may follow. The depth of a foundation will depend on several conditions the nature of the soil, the purposes for which the building is intended, the weight of the walls, etc., etc., and can only be properly determined by local knowledge. Rock, if not sea my generally provides a good foundation. The surface should be levelled off, and all loose and decomposed stones removed, when all hollows and cracks should be filled up solid with a fine grained concrete. Sand or gravel, when not water-soaked, make good foundations, and are quite healthy to live over, but clays, barns, marl, and alluvial soils are naturally damp and unwholesome. Gravel makes a good solid foundation; it may be levelled easily and will stand any amount of pressure. Sand forms a good bed for footings if dry, and if not allowed to escape laterally will bear great weight. Made ground of any kind is not to be trusted. When this occurs, the trenches should be dug down to the original ground, or else piles driven through the made ground until they reach the original bed. If there are layers of hard and soft ground, the foundation should be laid on the hard layer, and the footings should he wider than usual in order to get a greater bearing area. Soft places or pockets in the trenches should be tramped down, or piles should be driven in them, or they should be filled with concrete and relieving arches thrown over them to prevent uneven settlement of the walls. If the ground under a building he of a soft nature, it will of necessity yield or compress beneath the weight placed upon it. If any part of a building he loftier and more weighty than the other portions of it, as in the case of a tower or steeple, the soil beneath the extra weight will be more compressed than the other parts of the site, and will, therefore, require a broader foundation than the other walls, or that portion of the building will settle lower, and thus tear away from the lighter wall, leaving ugly cracks and

<article title="Trimming for a Fireplace and Hearth" author="">Trimming for a Fireplace and Hearth.

The ordinary method of putting in trimmers around a stair, well-holes and around fire-places by cutting in pieces

of joists and spiking them to the bearing joists is all wrong. The bearing joists should always be an inch or so thicker than the common joists and should be morticed to receive a tenon or tenons on the ends of the trimmer, as shown in the diagram. In this case, the bearers B B run across the building, having their ends resting on the projecting stone foundation wall, and the trimmer A is tenoned through them, and keyed snug to the bearers as shown. The common joists may either butt against the trimmer and be spiked, or, better still, tenoned into the trimmer. The springing fillet is intended to carry one side of a flat arch, which should be carried over to the protection on the stone wall. This arch is intended to carry the hearth, which is to be either finished in cement, or laid with tiles, ornamental or otherwise as may be decided on.





The works of the Georgian Bay Portland Cemedt Company at Owen Sound, Ont., are being extended by the erection of a storehouse 260 X 40 feet in size.



"I heard we were on 'shtrike,'" said Mike to his friend Pat. "I was that," answered Pat. " A strike for what, Pat?" "For shorter hours, Mike !" "An' did you get them?" "Sure we did, Mike, It's not working at all I am now

