

<doctype type="text">any coins or curiosities found on the premises or during excavations are to belong. If the contractor has done any work previous to signing the contract, then embody this work in the contract, otherwise an extra may be claimed for some small items which at the time of signing the contract were understood to be included in the contract amount.



EXCAVATOR.



Where the foundations in a length of walling are not all one level, require the excavation to be in steps and not on the rake. Stipulate that there should be no excavations for ballast or sand unless necessary for the actual excavations, as this may affect the stability of the building. Specify that brick rubbish be put under surface concrete which receives wood block flooring or paving. There will be less liability of damp coming through. In clay soils require the foundations to be taken down below the action of the weather. This may necessitate the foundations being taken down some four feet, five feet or six feet below an otherwise good bottom. Specify a proportion of coke breeze, slag or gypsum in concrete fireproof construction. It will the better resist the action of fire. State that all foul earth and cesspools are to be removed and the excavation filled up with clean rubbish or concrete. Encase new drain pipes in concrete ; if a slight settlement occurs they will the better hang together. Half channels in manholes are better formed in cement than with half-pipes. A cleaner flow of sewage can thereby be obtained. Then as to the items under bricklayer. Do not forget to mention these points To tie the walls in ; build external walls hollow, if possible, but in damp situations certainly; and specify the lead covering over the heads of the doors, windows or arches coming within the hollow space. This will prevent the wet being communicated to the inner thickness of the hollow walls. Describe a weather joint externally to brick walls. Build the brickwork up in even heights and fill up all the joints. Let the sand be tree from dirt and the water clean. Sea water or sea sand may be used where dryness is not essential. Build chimney stacks, where they appear above the roofs, either partly down from the top or else wholly, in cement, preferably the latter. Build all parapet walls and the brickwork immediately under the eaves a certain distance down in cement, and a second damp course here and to chimney stacks will not be amiss. Half-brick walls should, of course, be built in cement. Boundary fence walling should have a damp course, and preferably be built in cement. In retaining walls against earth do not omit the weeping drains or other device for taking off the accumulating water at the back. Smoke flues should not be too large nine by nine inches is sufficient for most fireplaces ; and gather the brickwork quickly over the fireplace openings. Build all stoves around solid, and fill up the boxing to chimney pieces. Fires have often occurred through neglect of this precaution. Do not put too long a description to terra cotta work because it may be the custom. Put a straight joint between connecting walls and a heavy tower, and do not attach a large chimney shaft to the main structure.



MASON.



Stone templates should be of considerable area and tooled and not left rough. In fact, any stone upon which work is built should be tooled as a least labor on

it.	Do riot forget the cement packing between the

rivet heads on top of flange girders and the cover

stones. Stone hanging steps are almost better placed in position and pinned in after the building is up, sand courses being left in the brickwork for the purpose. In stone columns or pilasters the apophyges should be worked on the shafts. The effect is better. Portland cement will stain delicate marbles and some limestones.

CARPENTER AND JOINER.



When possible employ wood block flooring on the lowermost floors next the ground. The ordinary joists and flooring for this position are more liable to decay. In this latter case let the joists and plates be of oak. Put cast iron shoes on stone bases to all solid door frames. Bed window sills on to the stone sills in white lead, and do not omit the iron tongue. The cleats to roof trusses and horns on solid door frames are sometimes forgotten. Snow boards to roof gutters will often prevent wet penetrating when snow melts. Open casement windows outwards if you want to be perfectly sure of keeping out the wet. The ends of timbers, where bedded in walls, should have circulation of air around them. A little sap on the edges of timber exposed to the air will not be any very great sourch of weakness, and will not be likely to affect the rest of the timber. All gutters should be wide enough to walk along. Small angle fillets at the junction of horizontal and vertical planes of a roof flat will make better work than if the lead work be turned up sharply. This remark will also apply to lead gutters. In some cases it is almost preferable to put a p. c. amount for the ironmongery to each door, window or other fitment and select the class of ironmongery afterwards.

SLATER AND TILER.



Tiles and slates without boarding under should be torched.

SMITH AND FOUNDER.



Let rain water pipes stand out one inch clear of the walls.

PLASTER.



Timbers over three inches wide should have the arises taken off before the lathing is nailed on; this will enable the plastering to get a better key. The walls at the back of skirtings, or any other woodwork, should be plastered over to prevent vermin harboring. The outside of all flues between timbers, floors, and where in the root should be roughly rendered over. This will be a preventative against fire. Shingle laths should not be lapped at the joints, as is often done.

PLUMBER AND GASFITTER.



Do not omit the exhaust pipe to hot water circulation or to the heating arrangements. Keep all hot and cold water pipes well away from each other and from the action of frost. All pipes, whether gas or water, should be readily accessible and, if possible, on the face of the walls. The furring up of hot water pipes is chiefly found between the boiler and the circulating cylinder or tank This portion of the piping should be easily accessible for cleansing. All horizontal gas pipe should be laid with a fall to prevent any condensed liquid remaining in any part of the pipes, and thereby affecting the efficiency of the gas supply. It is a good plan to fix all internal pipes about three-fourths of an inch clear of walls, especially hot water pipes. Do not work the hot water supply and heating arrangements from the same boiler. Failure is almost certain.

GLAZIER.



All glass subject to jars should be bedded in wash-leather or India rubber, as well as in putty. I might

