



<doctype type="text">the depth to which frost penetrates. Rock generally provides a good foundation, particularly when the stratum is more or less level. The surface should be levelled, and all broken or decomposed fragments cleared away; any large hollows should be filled up with good concrete. If the rock is sloping, it may be stepped in order to get level hearings for foundation walls. Gravel forms a good foundation, being easily levelled, and not affected by the frost. Sand is a good foundation if dry, and if not liable to escape laterally, or to be washed away by water. Sand or gravel, when overlying clay on a slope, require to have a large drain therein next that side of the building which adjoins the highest grounds, so that the flow of water to the building will be intercepted. Clay, when hard and dry, is usually satisfactory ; if on a slope, it is likely to prove treacherous. Hard ground overlying soft ground may frequently be built on, if the pressure is well distributed, and the surface sunk into as little as possible ; but when soft ground overlying hard ground is met with, the foundation should be carried down to the hard ground, if not more than twelve or fifteen feet deep. If the soft ground is below that depth, say from twenty to thirty-five feet down, and the building is a heavy one, then piles should be driven into the sort earth, in sufficient numbers to resist the pressure. Made ground is never to be trusted, even though many years have elapsed since its formation. Proper drainage and protection from water is of very great advantage in connection with the strength and durability of any foundation or structure, and this is particularly so in soft soils. On the other hand, water is the main support of a building, and to drain it away is then a grave error. Uniformity of foundation and resistance to compression is of the utmost importance for the purpose of securing the requisite stability, and great care should therefore he bestowed upon the examination or the trenches cut for the foundation walls. All soft places should be excavated and, when possible, filled up with concrete, or else gravel should be dumped in and well tamped down before the footings are laid on. If there should be a soft pocket in the foundation grounds, and the other parts are good and sound, a brick arch may be thrown over it, or, if dry, a steel or concrete lintel may bridge the span, making sure the ends of the lintel rest on ample footings. Always allow the trench one foot wider than the footings, so as to give the mason a good opportunity to get his footings in properly. The ground that is filled in to level up to top of footings should he well tamped, and if weeping tiles are laid along the side of the footings, the earth should he packed around them firmly, having a care that tiles are not broken by the tamping.



<article title="For the Bricklayer" author="">BRICKS should he well drenched with water before using, to prevent them absorbing the moisture from the mortar, and to wash the particles of dust and dirt off them. In the summer the bricks should be soaked with water before using, and in winter it is a good plan to have each brick dipped in a pail of warm water. This will tend to keep the mortar from freezing and prevent the water in the mortar from being absorbed. The whole of the walling should be carried up simultaneously when possible. If it is necessary to carry up one part of the wall before the other, the end of the first portion should be " racked back," that is, left in steps, each course projecting more than the one above it, but the

For the Bricklayer

sum total of the heights of one part above the other should not exceed three feet, or it may be difficult to make the joints " line up." When the ends of timbers such as joists, tie-beams, bressummers or other similar pieces are built in brick walls, they should rest in recesses formed by galvanized iron shoes, so that a circulation or air may have due play round the timbers. Wooden strips for nailing the strapping or furring to are preferable to scantling ; they should be cut to the thickness of a certain joint, and should not be less than three and a half inches wide, and the bark edge should be well flushed in with mortar. In laying brick copings, the hardest and least porous bricks should be used, and laid on edge, set and pointed in cement. In corbelling, the projections of the courses should never be more than one quarter of a brick, so that each back joint may be kept well within the last course. A less projection is advisable when great strength is required, hut in no case where much weight is to be carried is it advisable that the projection of each brick should be more than one-third on the course below. It is a mistake to suppose that semi-circular arches have no thrust. When any arches occur near the end of a wall provision must be made for the thrust. The flatter the arch the greater the thrust. New work should butt against old, either with a visible joint, or let into a chase cut for the purpose, if necessary, to bind them together. If required to be bonded at every alternate course, the new work should be built in a quick setting cement, and each part allowed to harden before being weighted. It is bad construction to use bond timbers for nailing on the strapping, and when it can he avoided it is better to use thin strips between the joints in the brickwork or to employ wooden plugs ; the latter is the better method, but is too costly for general purposes. Struck, or bevelled joints, are the best for general work, and they last. longer without being impaired they are formed by pressing back the upper portion of the joint while the mortar is moist, thus forming a sloping surface, which throws off the rain. The lower side is cut off to a straight edge. Joints struck the other way up are common, but should not be allowed, as they leave a resting place for water. Joints should not exceed three-eighths of an inch in thickness in good work, but in common work, where the bricks are rough and unequal, a thicker joint is permissible ; in rough work, the mortar should be quite stiff. Flat or flush joints are formed by pressing the mortar flat, so that the surface of the joint is flush with the face of the wall. In tuck pointing the joints are raked out, and " stopped," that is, filled up flush with mortar, which is colored and rubbed with a soft brick of the same color. A narrow groove is then cut in the centre, and the mortar is allowed to set ; then pure white lime putty is filled into the groove, with a slight projection beyond the face of the wall, find a width of about one-eighth of an inch. The thickness of brickwork should be measured one brick for every twenty feet in height. The bond generally in use in the Dominion for ordinary brickwork, is one course of headers to every five courses of stretchers this makes a pretty solid wall. Drains should be kept as far away as possible from walls that are likely to settle. Four-inch drains are generally large enough to branch into a main drain, for ordinary houses. Hotels, factories, schools and other places where a number of people congregate, require larger branch drains, but the least possible size necessary should he used, as being more self-cleansing than larger pipes. Tile-piping is preferred to iron by many even for fixing inside a house, although it is impossible to find a drain of this material of any great length, that has been used for years, that is not defective in some particular. Iron pipes can be made perfectly watertight, and they have sufficient resisting power to prevent their disruption under ordinary strains.

