	<doctype type="text">222	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



THE PROTECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS FROM LIGHTNING. <article title=" THE PROTECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS FROM LIGHTNING " author="Hedges">

MR. KILLINGWORTH HEDGES, who has been advising on the re-arrangement of the lightning conductors on St. Paul's Cathedral, recently read a paper on the above subject before the Royal Institute of British Architects. He quoted from a paper read before the same Institute by Col. the Hon. Arthur Parnell in 1884, in which an analysis of a number of disasters to buildings fitted with lightning rods showed that there were 828 separate instances of mechanical force, as against only 228 of heat, exercised on various substances by lightning. Mr. Hedges also repeated Dr. Lodge's statement that the problem does not end with the actual rod, owing to the large difference of potential existing between the conductor and earth, however well the two are connected. He expressed himself in agreement with Dr. Lodge as to the oscillatory nature of the discharge, and expressed the view that the side flash was the result of self-induction in the conductor. On one matter, however, Mr. Hedges' theory was somewhat remarkable. He considered that when a discharge occurred at one point between the thundercloud and earth, a corresponding discharge occurred in the reverse direction at another point of the cloud. He referred to these as the "downward" and "upward" discharges, and stated that he had frequently seen in Colorado "upward" flashes arising from the ground In connection with available reports and statistics of lightning accidents, Mr. Hedges regretted that no official reports of this nature had been published since that of the Lightning Rod Conference in 1882.

Not the least interesting part of Mr. Hedges' paper was a description of the lightning conductors attached to several important buildings abroad. On the Notre Dame Cathedral, in Paris, the main conductors are three in number, each of the two on the towers commencing at a massive wrought-iron terminal rod about 20 ft. high and 4 in. square at the base. To this a wrought solid iron rod about 1 in. square is secured by straps, and run in lengths, jointed at intervals, over the root and outside the tower to the ground. This rod is supported about 7 in, from the lead roof and stonework by stanchions insulated by half-round stone or porcelain insulators secured by shackles. At a later period a copper strip had been connected to each of the conductors at the roof and run independently to the ground below. The spire has an elaborate finial with numerous points and this appears to be connected to earth in a similar manner, and also to the crest running along the ridge of the roof. The speaker considered this method of protection to be a source of danger at present. The flash received by one of the main rods had two paths open, one by the old iron conductors and a second by the new copper band. The current could be prevented from dispersing over the lead roof by the insulators of the conductors, and owing to the resistance of the joint would consequently jump from the central rod to the small copper one.

On the Cologne Cathedral he considered the protection far more advanced than that of Notre Dame. Stranded copper cables are used, run through galvanised iron stanchions with flat feet by which they are bolted to the stonework. To avoid galvanic action, the eyes of these supports are bushed with lead. They keep the conductor about 7 in. away from the structure so that the cable can be stretched tight by tightening screws and not run round projections. A somewhat similar arrangement is used for the horizontal conductors which run each side of the roof and are kept away from it. The terminals of the lightning rods, Mr. Hedges continued were almost always plain spikes without branches, but German buildings had many of these both on the highest portions and along either the tops of the walls or ridge of the roof, the whole being connected together by a horizontal conductor run in the method described. A timber shed near Frankfort had these vertical rods about 15 ft. apart and a petroleum storage tank at intervals all round its circumference.

The lightning conductor of the Palais de Justice of Brussels is very similar to that of the Hotel de Ville, which has been described in text-books. It is on the Melsen system, and consists of a network of metal rods connected together at the top and furnished with an aigrette or bundle of eight 4 mm. copper rods spread cut like a feather, so that, after passing over the roof, the terminal points project so little that they can hardly be seen from below, yet they break up the area of the buildings and leave little space unprotected. The conductors are of copper, but where they descend a special iron box is employed in which they are embedded in zinc, and from this the down rods can be continued in iron and also connected to the rain-water pipes and other ironwork of the building. The Palais de Justice was struck soon after the lightning conductor was completed, but no more damage was done than the partial fusion of some of the points of the aigrette which received the flash.

French architects, Mr. Hedges said, seem to prefer the long single point. The standard rod or tige is 6 metres high and about 6 cm. diameter at the base, tapering to nothing at the top. The rod is firmly connected to the woodwork of the roof, and the copper or iron conductor is fixed at the base by means of a shackle. The conductor is usually kept away from the bulding by supports, and is carefully led into moist earth—or, in the case of rock foundations, it is connected to a network of wires running for a considerable distance under the surface. Where a well can be used, the earth connection is prepared by plaiting up galvanised iron strips to form a basket, which contains a sort of grapnel, the latter being attached to the conductor and the basket being filled with coke and lowered into the water.

The method adopted in most American cities at present, the speaker continued, is the employment of a round iron rod about half-an-inch in diameter, extend











THE SOLAR PRISM COMPANY 

CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.

THE N T. LYON GLASS COMPANY, LIMITED--AGENTS FOR CANADA

TORONTO