



<doctype type="text">high view is always fine, the most charming view over water is the low view over the surface.

There must be trees at the rear to screen the back premises and to shade the ice house, and a tree or so in front gives composition to the view. The fringe of bushes that is so apt to grow along the edge of the water, makes a natural screen for the bathing places. It is impossible not to regret the growing tendency to fit summer houses with bath rooms. A kitchen sink is both a necessary convenience and is no drawback, for it is easily drained over the surface at a sufficient distance from the house. If necessary it may by a simple contrivance discharge over a different surface for every day in the week, so as to secure complete purification of each day's discharge. Bath rooms are, however, a paltry luxury compared to the perfection of a morning's bath in the lake from a sunny spot. Those who must have a warm bath in the morning, can use a moveable tub, and have the contents discharged, with the other household wastes, over the drainage area in the woods. As for water closets, they are an abomination. A body of property owners, such as the Muskoka Lakes Association, ought not, and perhaps does not, allow them and detached island holders in larger are as, if they have any real appreciation of the true charm of this way of life, which is its absolute purity, will abhor them as defiling both the water and the house in which, if they do not exist, it is possible for a few months in the year to live in the certainty that the air of one's room is pure. The ordinary country privy is safe, and need not be very far from the house to be no annoyance. As to the question of privacy, if one is approached by way of the boat house, or men's quarters, and the other is approached by way of the kitchen, or women's quarters, and it both are in the woods, there is nothing left to be desired. Remoteness from the house is of course no drawback in a house for summer occupation only, and rain is as a matter of fact not a feature worth considering in connection with outside privies. It is essential that there should he a quiet place for boats. Some favoured places have a channel or cove near the house, which is quiet in every wind, but a south side is quiet enough at all times for a boat house landing.

All these arrangements presuppose an island or point of some size. The picturesque establishments that one sometimes sees, perched upon a little island, must have many practical inconveniences, and none more than the inability of people to get away from one another. The condition of constant association in idleness is trying, and requires occasional relief to keep it from becoming wearisome or worse.



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

JUDGING by a recent conversation with a well-known firm of decorators the lot of the painter contractor is not an enviable one. The firm to which the gentleman belongs had not for several years submitted a tender for painting, but recently, at the solicitation of a friend who was building, consented to do so. Their figure proved to be more than one hundred dollars higher than that of the next highest tenderer, who is a reputable contractor. Below these two were a number of tenders of less responsible firms, grading down to very low figures. An insight into the means by which prices have been reduced to such a low level was recently given by the representative of a painters' supply house, who was offering for sale a very cheap paint mixture. Enquiry

elicited from him the fact that the chief ingredient was water, which the salesman gravely asserted was being used by many painters as a substitute for white lead, and was said to answer the purpose very well.

x x x

I WOULD like to hear from somebody who can get better value for his money than an architect of my acquaintance who recently designed and supervised the erection of a small country house. The house included a living room 18 x 20 feet, a parlor and three bedrooms each 12 X 12 feet, a cellar full size of house, having stone walls. The roof and outer walls of the house are shingled, exposed boarding being left unplaned. Window frames, doors and door frames were purchased from the mill and painted. The entire cost, inclusive of architect's fees was $650. The entire work was done by a local builder.

x x x

A GENTLEMAN who recently returned from Sault Ste. Marie has told me something about the wonderful progress which that town is making, and which is in a large measure due to the ability and enterprise of Mr. Clergue, manager of the great pulp mills. This gentleman who, by the way, is a bacheior, lives in a house of the block house type, and on the site where a blockhouse once stood. The first story of the building is constructed of local red sandstone, and the upper stories of logs or square timbers. Another peculiarity of this residence is that the heating, lighting and cooking are all done by electricity. The proprietor being also the owner of the electrical plant from which the streets and industries of the town are lighted, and of the immense water power by which the electricity is generated, is in a position to adopt this method of heating, the expense of which would be prohibitive in the case of persons less fortunately circumstanced. Speaking of power I am reminded that Mr. Clergue is now developing by means of canals on the Canadian side 80,000 horse power, and on the American side 100,000 horse power.

)< )< X



BRET Harte tells the following anecdote, illustrative of the "Child-like and Bland" characteristics of the average Chinaman: "In a certain portion of New Zealand, so runs the story in question, the population is composed mainly of Scotsmen and Celestials. All the members of the Municipal Council, however, belong to the former race, and, as a natural consequence, are in the habit of giving their own country-men the preference wherever opportunity arises. Such a one occurred the other day, when tenders were locally invited to take up a contract for road-making. The work being of a highly remunerative nature a large number of applications for it were received from the Caledonian community. At the meeting of the Municipal Committee appointed to decide the matter it was officially announced, amid loud applause, that the accepted tender was that of one Sandy McPherson, who was thereupon instructed to come forward and sign the necessary documents. To the consternation of the worthy chairman. the individual presenting himself before the committee for that purpose was seen to be a pig-tailed and almond-eyed inhabitant of the flowery land.



PERSONAL.

Mr. Frederick G. Todd, who was formerly with Olmsted Brothers, the noted Landscape Architects of Boston, opened an office in Montreal last January, and the remarkable success which has since attended his profession shows that the Canadian people are not behind those of other countries in their appreciation of that which is beautiful. Mr. Todd is a strong advocate of the natural and picturesque style in treating a place except where the house demands a more formal treatment in the shape of architectural gardens or terraces. As the arrangement of the grounds is studied with regard to its effect on the architectural features of the house as well as to obtain a good effect from the house, Mr. Todd is receiving the steady support of many of the best architects in Montreal.

