<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="New Fire By-laws at Ottawa" author="">NEW FIRE BY-LAWS AT OTTAWA.



The City Council of Ottawa have adopted a new fire by-law, which provides that buildings within lire limits A and B shall be covered with shingles, whether laid with or without mortar, but the roofs of all buildings within the said area shall he externally finished with tin, iron, zinc, copper, slate, tile, felt and gravel, or some other material of an incombustible nature, and any buildings or structures erected within said fire limits shall be placed on stone, brick or concrete foundations. Not more than half a million feet of lumber shall be piled or stored in any lumber yard or by any person or firm within the area of fire limit A, as defined and described in the said by-law. Where any quantity of lumber not exceeding half a million feet is piled or stored in any part of the said city of Ottawa, the same shall be so piled or stored as to leave a vacant space on all

sides of the said lumber of not less than ten feet between the same and any property.

No greater quantity of lumber than half a million feet shall he piled or stored in any lumber yard or by any person or firm anywhere outside area A unless so piled as to provide a vacant space on all sides of the said lumber between the same and any property of not less than sixty feet.





The aging of timber, which formerly required long storage, is now completed by electricity in a few hours. In the Nodon-Bretonneau process the timber is piled on a lead frame in a large wooden vat, is nearly immersed in a chemical preparation, and is covered over by shallow vessels of water having porous bottoms of felt and linen. The positive pole of a dynamo is connected to the lead frame

and the negative pole to the water vessels. On the passage of the current, the sap is driven to one side of the wood and expelled, and the chemical liquid enters the pores and takes its place. After drying the wood is ready for use.





A WELL KNOWN AND THOROUGHLY

 competent man is opera to engagement as Builder's

Manager, Building Superintendent or similar position.

Exact measurer and figurer for all trades, and has had

20 year's experience in office arid on works in England

and America, Used to control large bodies of men, &c.

Apply "H," Room 38, Imperial Building, Montreal.



THE PEDLAR PEOPLE—PLASTER ON STEEL LATH

OSHAWA, ONTARIO



THE CANADA PAINT COMPANY, LIMITED

MONTREAL-TORONTO