<doctype type="text">

<article title=" SELF CONTAINED HOUSES " author="">

SELF CONTAINED HOUSES.

A WALK through the streets of a French or Italian town interests the imagination more than a similar excursion among the rows of houses in an English or American city where ground is precious. Everything is to the front with us. We live on the street, and even in our detached houses there is little in the block plan of the house which is of interest to the dwellers in the house which is not also in evidence to the passer-by. It is different in the southern countries of Europe. Here the highest ideal in domestic architecture is that a house should be self-contained. The more pretentious the dwelling the more it turns its back upon the street and





















expands towards internal courts and gardens, free from observation, free from noise, dust and glare; and, though in the south of Europe they are apt to court shade, the same mode of planning can which interests us most— be made to invite the sun by avoiding a look-out to the north.

The interest of the streets is increased rather than lessened by this method of building, for there is still a facade in most cases ; only, instead of a flight of steps there is an archway, of which the gate usually stands open, affording glimpses of interior courts which appeal not only to the imagination but to the eye, as picturesquely diversifying the monotony of street scenery.

Verona is peculiarly rich in the variety of prospect thus afforded as one walks the streets. The first six plans here shown were hasty sketches made to note merely variety of entrances in that city ; but there are added notes of such other keys to the plan as were























apparent to an unobtrusive observer, and the general scheme of the house is fairly clear.

No. 1 is obviously an interesting peep to the passerby, as seen through the 8 or 10 foot archway. There is room for much perspective effect in the three lines of arcading hacked by the open court beyond. '[he variety is enhanced by the fact that the driveway slopes and that the steps underneath the arches differ in number The stair is seen through an open archway beyond. There is usually no door to such a stairway ; indeed there is no object in having a door for the porter is on guard, there is no exposure to the weather, and in winter the temperature out of doors is milder than that in the house. In an inn die formality of a door 'even at the top of a stair is often dispensed with ; every man's

room door is in direct communication with the street. By dint of an open fire place or a cement stove he maintains a little fortress of warmth against the cold world without, and his boots which have lain the night in the icy corridor outside are cold indeed when he takes them in again in the morning. This plan is one of the simpler arrangements ; the house surrounds the Court yard only on three sides, and there is no exit but the entrance, so that carriages must turn in the court and come out as they went in. The resident of a house of this description would be surprised it asked to step feet across the sidewalk to his carriage, and no doubt would be astounded if he saw some of our good houses where the extent of slat walk to be traversed to get to a carriage on a rainy night is nearer 50 feet than 5.

No. II shows a larger plan in which the house surrounds the court and there is an exit to a side street.

Indeed self-contained houses are usually to be found upon a corner lot where they get the advantage of a side street for the second entrance. It would perhaps be better to call this a second exit, for it is usually kept closed except on occasions when there is a procession







































of carriages. Tradesmen evidently use it also in this case, as the kitchen entrance is at that point.

No. III appears to be the entrance of a very handsome house which has not only the second front and exit, but gets light for the hall and staircase by a return on the main front. The hail with plants in tubs makes a beautiful approach to the stairway. There is recorded in the sketch book from which these plans are taken a note upon the effect of trees or shrubs set out in a court yard with the gloom of an arcaded recess behind them. The view from the street through the hall to the staircase is probably intentional as the door to the hail from the vestibule is much larger than is necessary to mate the second door leading to the staircase, but its size just suits the needs of the raking view. The three steps at the staircase door are well placed to add interest to the vista.

No. IV is chiefly interesting as a variety of plan in which the driveway runs through the block. The distance from front to rear, measured approximately by pacing, was 130 feet. The wall on the right gives in plan a long drawn out appearance to the driveway which does not appear in execution, when the archway in the rear is seen as a distant object separated from the first archway by a field of light. The archway is 12 feet wide and the facade about 65 feet.

