<doctype type="text;ad;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	V.



<article title="Legal" author="">LEGAL.



An interesting case was recently decided in England, involving the question of the validity of a contract consisting simply of an offer and its acceptance. A certain owner wished to make additions to his house, and had plans and specifications drawn up, and invited certain builders to bid on them. One of the firms of thc builders, after examining the plans and specifications, sent to the owner the following letter "Our estimate to carry out the sundry alterations to the above premises according to the drawings and specifications amounts to the sum of L1,230. The day after receiving this letter, t lie owners wrote to the builders. saying that lie accepted their "offer to execute for the sum of L1,230" the work specified. After a time, he received another letter from the builders, saying they had made a mistake in their figures, and withdrew their estimate. The owner then bad the work carried out by another builder, at a higher price, and subsequently sued the first contractors for the difference between their estimate and what lie had actually been obliged to pay, as damages for breach of contract. The builders fought hard, and the case was finally decided in the Queens Bench Division of he High Court of Justice. Of course, the effort of thie defendants was to show that the estimate and its acceptance did not form a binding contract, and that they were therefore not liable for damages for withdrawing from it. They brought several builders, who testified that it was a custom of the trade to give estimates in the form which was used in the present case merely as a sort of expression of opinion, while a definite proposal would have been made in such words as '' we offer to execute the work and they further contended that, as the clause in the specification stipulating the time within which the additions should be completed was left blank, the owner could not have understood that he was making the final bargain for the work. The court, however, reject ed both these contentions. In regard to the omission of any stipulation as to the time of completion, it said that this simply left it to be implied that the work should be finished within a reasonable time and as to the claim that the estimate of the defendants was, in accordance with a custom of the trade, merely an expression of opinion, and

not a definite offer, it said that there was no such custom, and that if there were any it was contrary to the law. The question was not one of customs, but of what each party intended that the other should understand by his letter. In the opinion of the court, there was no doubt that the builders intended the owner to understand their letter as an offer to do the work for the sum mentioned and that the owner intended his letter to be taken as a definite acceptance of a definite proposition. These two things were all that was necessary in law to form a complete contract, to which either party could hold the other, and if the builders bad made a mistake in their figures they must abide by the consequences and judgment was accordingly given in favor of the plaintiff for two hundred amid fifty pounds, and the costs of the suit.—American Architect and Building News.







The Blacksmith and Wheel Wright, of New York, celebrated its 20th anniversary by the publication of a special number of more than 70 pages, filled with interesting matter and illustrations pertaining to the amount craft.







INTERIOR.

DECORATION 