<doctype type="text;ad;plate">will be noticed that there is a dry-kiln on one side of the main building opening into the main floor at one end, while the other end opens to the railroad track at the side. The room is laid with pipe on the floor, and heated by the exhaust steam from the engine. The room over the dry kiln, opening on the second floor, is used for glueing purposes, and is fitted with glue pans and pots. There is a coil pipe for heating veneers, also a veneer press and a large door clamp.

The building is arranged for the frame makers to

and materials, but discovered that the property had been heavily mortgaged, and that his lien would probably bring him no return. Under these circumstances, acting, it is said, on the advice of counsel, he took a rather heroic resolution, and making his appearance on the ground one evening, with a building mover and sixty men carrying suitable implements, he had the house lifted from its foundations and rolled away to another lot in the neighborhood. When the other party to the contract arrived on the scene, he was, to say the



work on the first floor in the " L" of the building, and for the heavy machine work, such as cutting out, planing and working moldings, to be done in the main part of the building. On the second floor of the "

are made the sash, outside blinds and shutters, and here also are the inside blind makers, the work of the different divisions extending into the main building. The balance of the space on the second floor is intended to be occupied by door makers, stair workers, bulks, etc. An inspection of the second floor plan shows that there is an office for the foremen and his draftsmen, which is to be enclosed by sash, so that observation can be made of what is going on in the mill. At the left of the main building are the offices and warerooms, which are built two stories high to correspond with the other structures.

To run a mill of this size to its full capacity would require a bookkeeper, a man to estimate, one to make out orders and make measurements, a main foreman and his assistant, an engineer, a teamster, and 35 mechanics, both bench and machine hands. I trust that what I have given may be of some benefit to the readers of the paper, and I would be glad to hear from any of them on this topic through the columns of the paper.



<article title="Collection of Builders' Accounts" author="">COLLECTION OF BUILDERS' ACCOUNTS.

A MASSACHUSETTS builder has applied a novel remedy for the collection of debts due him. Not long ago a contractor agreed to build a wooden house on a lot in the village of Norfolk Downs. When the house was ready for plastering he applied to the owner for a payment on account. Receiving no satisfactory answer, he concluded to put a lien on the estate for his work

least, displeased, and proceeded to enter complaint against the builder for larceny of the house, under a provision of the statutes, which applies to the purloining of real estate the same penalties as those which attach to the stealing of personal property. The contractor and the building mover have been notified to appear for trial, and the case promises to he an interesting one.

DESIGN FOR A PLANING MILL.—GROUND FLOOR.

Obviously, the important point involved is whether the house, which, although technically attached to the real estate, has been paid for by the contractor, was the property of' the owner of' the lot in such a sense as would make it larceny to carry it away; and a good deal of argument can be expended on this question.







Solar Prism Company of Cleveland, Ohio., U.S.A.