<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER   41



brackets are used) to receive the bracket it becomes a simple matter, one in fact of a very few minutes work to cut or drill a hole for the purpose, thereafter filling the same with a wooden plug or wedge prior to driving the bracket home or, of course, for greater security in the case of heavier stands, the ends of the bracket bars entering the walls could be fish-tailed into an inextricable "lewis" by being driven in (as with a " lewis " for suspending a heavy stone) against a previously introduced iron wedge to cause the fish tail to open or expand.

C.	BAILLAIRGE,



Architect and Engineer.

QUEBEC, January 29, 1900.





<article title="Correspondence – Laying Cement Walks" author="">LAYING CEMENT WALKS.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER;



SIR,—In your January issue I read the account of what a gentleman had to say about putting down cement sidewalks in frosty weather, and I thought I would give your subscriber my own little experience along that line.

A gentleman came to me knowing that I had put down a few cement cellar floors, and asked me if I would put down two flights of cement steps, of about five steps each, in front of a pair of houses that he had built. This was about the latter part of October. Being afraid of frost I told him I would not on that account, guarantee a good job. however, the gentleman said that he could not wait till spring to have the work done, but told me to go ahead and he would run chances of the frost coming before the work was finished. So I went to work at it, the weather being quite open when I started to dig out and get my rock foundation

in. Just as I was about to finish it commenced to rain and get quite cold. 1 got some carpets, canvas, etc., and covered the work for the night, not letting any of the covering touch, as the cement was soft, and there being such a bulk of concrete together it would be slow to set. About midnight it stopped raining, and by morning quite a frost came as I had feared. When I went to see my work I found that the rain had dripped through my covering, had formed quite a frozen skin, and had lifted the top dressing of cement, that I knew if I left it untouched would heel off when dry. I began to think that my job was spoiled after

all the pains I had taken with it, and decided whatever was to be done must be done quickly as the bottom layer of concrete would soon set. I took off the covers and let the sun take out the frost, and then took my trowel and gave the work a thorough good hard trowelling, making it smooth. Fortunately the weather kept favorable till all danger of frost was past. I have seen the steps after two hard winters and they are all right. I had this bit of experience in a town about seventy miles north of Toronto.

In building the steps r put in a good rock foundation and shaped the steps roughly with coarse concrete, 6 to 1, then put on 34" coat over same to the exact shape of steps with crushed granite and sand, 2 to of cement, finishing same with a sprinkling of fine sharp sand and cement mixed ½ and ½ and trowelled to smooth finish, which dried out nice and white like free stone. I used best Portland.

I have seen very bad effects from building steps by forming them in brick and then facing over same with say about 3/8 cement finish. The dampness and frost will be almost sure to peel off the cement. If it does not peel off it will be sure to crack, which is alone enough to condemn it.

I might here mention for the benefit of interested subscribers that a gentleman of my acquaintance thought he could improve the tar and gravel walk in front of his premises by a surface layer

cement. He asked the council to furnish the labor for putting of

it down and he would furnish the material. The council consented and the work was done under the supervision of a civil engineer. I was not asked my opinion about it although I felt interested. r went around and watched results. The experiment was a perfect failure. In the spring following the fall when the work was done I found nearly every bit of it had lifted. I think they put too thin a coat on, also that the lack of suction in thc old walk prevented a solid job, and the unevenness of the old walk made the top layer thin in some places and thick in others

Referring back to the article in your November, 1899, issue, in which the suggestion is made to keep all cement walks damp for two weeks after being laid, this is a good idea for warm weather, but rather risky in frosty weather, as the moisture and coldness of thc atmosphere causes the cement to set more slowly, which I think would be equal to putting on wet sand or other means of dampening. I would use covering all the same. I cannot under

stand why the cement walk your correspondent spoke of was so soft after being thrown open for traffic, because about three days in summer and say about four days in the fall is enough to keep traffic off if good cement is used and mixed in proper proportions. Your correspondent says that it was after the rain came that the walk was soft and showed foot prints. The only way I can account for this is that one may chance upon a bad barrel of cement or that loam sand may have been used near the surface which would check setting; also too much water mixed with cement will kill the quick setting of it. That has been my experience with cement.

 Subscriber



<article title="Correspondence – Bay and Oriel Windows" author="">

"BAY" AND ' ORIEL" WINDOWS.

QUEBEC, January 29th, T900.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR,—There is an article in your last issue explanatory of the difference between a "bay" and a "how" window. Will you please state in your next what the difference is, if any between a " bay window" and an "oriel ?'—the former, as I understand it, originating at or from below level of public highway or so low as to prevent the possibility of passing beneath it while an oriel is at such a height (say at level of second or third storey) as to offer no impediment to pedestrian or vehicular traffic of any kind.

The law reads that there are to be no projections on ("sur' in the French) any street beyond the line of frontage of the property. Now that this cannot mean over (audessus) seems evident from thc fact that if it did, then would it be also illegal to have any eaves or other cornice or even a cornice or entablature or projecting pediment over any door or window; which no one has ever thought of objecting to.

An oriel to be sure may or might be objected to by a neighbor whose unobstructed view of the street or sidewalk it would interfere with, but so might the projecting eaves of a one or two storey house intercept the view from a window on the same or at a higher level.

Oriels are certainly or can be made very ornamental features by breaking the monotony of an otherwise plain and straight row of buildings and it would be a pity to suppress them. Are you then of opinion that such a salient feature as an oriel can be objected to by the general public or the municipality when it does not trench upon or on the public highway and is at such a height as to offer no impediment to traffic.

In other words can the expression on be construed at the same time to mean "over" or should there not be the same distinction as there is in the French version between the words sur and audessus ?

This has been a much mooted question of late years in Quebec where oriels are getting into favor and the legal aspect of the question is becoming very pertinent.

CHAS. BAILLAIRGE,

Architect and Engineer.



ANSWER.—--Authorities differ as to what is a bay window and what is an one window. Gwilt intimates they are one and the same thing If they have right lines on their sectional plans. If circular, semi-circular or elliptical on their plans they may be called bow-windows or oriels. Newlands, who is pretty good authority, says, "A bay-window is a projecting window from the ground or basement on a semi-octagonal or some other polygonal plan, but generally understood to be straight-sided. When a projecting window is circular in its plan, it is a bow-window; when it is supported on a bracket or corbel, and is circular or polygonal, it is an oriel. These distinctions are too little attended to in practice, the terms being often used synonymously."

Describing an oriel the same authority says, ' An oriel window is a large bay or recessed window in a hall, chapel, or other apartment. It usually projects from the outer face of tile wall, either in a semi-octagonal or semi-square plan, and is of various kinds and sizes. When not on the ground floor it is supported on brackets or corbels. Some writers restrict the term oriel window to such as project from the outer face of the wall and are supported on corbels, and apply the term bay-window to such as rise from the ground."

Nicholson gives nearly the same definition of the term.

Garnsey, in his American glossary of architectural terms, says, "An oriel is a projecting or overhanging architectural structure of any external form divided into several window openings." Garnsey is not to be relied upon as an authority, as he simply reproduced what had gone before. The Century Dictionary, which was compiled by the best authorities attainable, says of the oriel, " It projects from the outer face of the wall, being in plan

