



<doctype type="text">SOME ESSENTIALS TO HEALTH AND THE

<article title="Some Essentials to Health and the Duty of Architects" author="Lander, H.C.">DUTY OF ARCHITECTS.

By H. C. LANDER.



THE medical profession has done noble service in discovering and emphasizing the real safeguards against disease which are summed up in the word " cleanliness clean air, clean water, clean food, clean bodies, clean houses, clean habits and in showing that a due allowance of sunshine and light arid of all the other gifts of Nature are absolutely necessary for the proper development of human life and the prevention of disease. I have referred to what I may call this pioneer work of the doctors because I think there is an opening for similar work in the architectural profession.

The architect's influence may be felt in either or both of the two ways ; first, in the particular buildings he erects and in his personal contact with his client ; and, second, in a wider sense, in his power as a specialist to educate public opinion. The public are much more ready to accept a statement upon any subject made by a specialist than by anyone else. If any particular conclusion upon some point in relation to healthy dwellings was arrived at and insisted upon by any considerable number of architects, such opinion would carry very great weight.

But to return to his first sphere of influence. The architect has it in his power, either by bad planning and ignorance of sound principle in sanitation, or, on the other hand, by knowledge and skill in design, to influence very directly for good or evil the lives and the health of those who live or work in the buildings which he erects. The effects of bad planning are felt in the want of light and air and sunshine into living-rooms, schools and workshops ; want of proper ventilation in dampness arising from the ground ; in placing the rooms with the wrong aspect ; in dangers arising from the undesirable position of the sanitary fittings, as well as from the fittings themselves and the drains, together with the absorbent or otherwise insanitary nature of the materials of which the building is composed.

The great bulk of our lives is spent within doors far too much time if health were the only point to be considered. We are born, bred and educated within doors, we eat and sleep and to a great extent earn our living and take our recreation within doors. The nature of the buildings in which we spend such a large proportion of our lives must have a very distinct influence upon the public health. Insanitary buildings—that is, those which by their construction or fittings in any way interfere with the needs of a natural and healthy life— are a source of public danger, and must be dealt with accordingly, whether they be public buildings or private houses. There are none better qualified than architects themselves to undertake this aggressive sanitary reform as applied to buildings, as doctors have undertaken similar work in the sphere of medicine.

The architect's duty does not consist merely in supplying the demands of the public or of commercial or other requirements ; such a conception is degrading and narrow, and, if followed, would convert the architect into an ordinary commission agent. The architect is the professional adviser of his client, but he is something more even than that, or should he, as the medical man has a duty beyond merely attending to the needs of his own little circle of patients. Every true doctor has

*	Abstract from a paper read before the Discussion Section of the Architectural Association, May 18th, 1900.

 the public health at heart and the alleviation of the pain and suffering of humanity, and every true architect should have an interest in the public health outside and beyond the interest he takes in providing his own particular client with a healthy home or a well-ventilated church. The forward movement in the prevention of disease was not in answer to any public demand, but was undertaken upon their own initiation by the medical profession, and, in one sense, against their own private interests, since doctors live by curing disease, not by preventing it, and if architects are to take their share in assisting the movement, the initiative must come from within ; at all events I think we shall agree that this would be the more dignified course rather than to wait until such reforms in building regulations and customs as are necessary are demanded by the public or thrust upon us from without.

It is the right and the duty of the architect to use his influence by every means in his power to promote the public health in all those matters which come within the knowledge and scope of his work. If public prejudice is against him, he must. seek to educate public opinion ; if by-laws or other restrictions act prejudicially in the interest of the public health, or if they need amending or abolishing, he must agitate and bring pressure to bear upon the proper authorities until such enactments are repealed, amended, or remodelled ; and if private profit stand in the way of reform, he must uphold the principle that the greatest good to the individual is attained only through the well-being of the many, and that the maintenance of a high standard of public health is the best, and indeed the only, protection for the individual.

If we as architects were as much in earnest about raising the standard of public health as are the members of the sister profession of medicine, the progress made would be much more rapid than it is, and the influence of the architect would be much greater, both as adviser to the client in each particular case, and as an advocate for improvement in all sanitary legislation.

In these days when so many things are said and done in the name of patriotism which had better have been left undone and unsaid, we need not remind ourselves that true prosperity comes only through the dignity and happiness of the lives of the people, and that those conditions which promote the fullest and most vigorous life amongst the greatest possible number are the only true bulwarks of a country's greatness, and that any ideas of power founded upon a basis which places the life or health of its citizens in a position of secondary importance is a standing danger to any country far greater than any possible combination of external forces.

In lowering the death rate and in raising the standard of health and physique, of manliness and endurance, amongst the sons of the nation, we are doing no mean service, and yet these things are to a great extent possible only under conditions which come within the scope of an architect's work and knowledge, and upon which the should, therefore, surely have something to

say.	___________ ________







<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.

Mr. Wm. Rae, architect, of Toronto, was united in marriage last month to Miss Georgina Leaycroft, of Quebec. The ceremony took place in the chapel of St. John's Church, Toronto. Following the wedding reception Mr. Rac and his bride crossed to Niagara en route to the United States, where the honeymoon was spent.

