



<doctype type="text">shade. Anything approaching the sharpness of stone or plaster is foreign to the natural conditions of the material.

There is a peculiarity of all stock designs for metallic walls and ceilings which seems to be not only not necessary but injurious, producing a monotonous effect; this is the system of interlocking joints concealed by making them part of the pattern. It would probably be an improvement if the joints were recognizable as joints. Joints are no injury to tiled surfaces but rather an improvement, even when there is a pattern extending through several tiles. In fact this is a commonplace of decoration that construction lines are not a hindrance but a help. Why then not recognize this in the application of sheet metal by taking no pains to conceal the joints, hut on the other hand, making something of them by fastening up the sheets of metal with nails having large or ornamental heads. We know that metal must be handled in small sheets and the mind is satisfied as well as the eye by a manner of applying that admits this fact. The standard size, 2X4 feet, either as it comes or cut into two pieces, should be about right for most purposes, and a single embossed form in the centre of each piece would be sufficient decoration. Enough variety of pattern could be obtained from manufacturers to relieve monotony. It will be noticed that, in the illustration given of a door from the Palazzo Vecchio at Florence, there are only two patterns but there is no appearance of monotony. These forms, though not done by machinery, are evidently made mechanically, and are so much the more an example that resembles work done under our own conditions.

If the embossed design extends beyond the area of a single plate it ought to be pleasanter to let the pattern extend itself without regard to the jointing, and the jointing attend to business without regard to the pattern. But it is not necessary to always have an embossed design. Plain or severe work will be all the better for having merely the metal surface well knobbed by the fastening nails. Why should there not be a coloured stencil applied upon the metal ground? Or one metal cut upon another? Or a metal surface combined with plastic details ?

There is more likely to be development in the direction of variety if there is recognition and enjoyment of the characteristics of the material, when it looks like itself, than if it is chiefly valued for the facility with which it can be machine worked or built up to look like something else. There is no real variety in the various forms in which (to turn for a moment to external applications) sheet metal is made to appear. The representations of brick surface, rock faced stone surface, tiles, (to speak only of surfaces) have an unfailing bond of union in the inextinguishable and ever distinguishable appearance of being sheet metal and nothing else. There is no disguising it, and to try and do so only produces ugliness where there might he all the beauty of suitability and something more perhaps, if the designer is determined to regard his material as something to be made the best of on its own conditions.

The architectural possibilities of sheet steel as 'an exterior sheathing are not very promising, yet the plain tin roof of a plain stone house in Quebec has a genuinely architectural quality. We also recognize both ancient lead roofs and modern copper roofs as right and proper, however plain and straightforward;

and copper is used thankfully by architects as a sheathing for oriel windows and other small vertical surfaces. There is evidently nothing wrong with metal, as metal, for covering external surfaces within limits. The real trouble with sheet steel for exterior as for interior work, is that its '' patina " is neither ornamental nor preservative, In the latter condition is, in this case especially, the refuge ; for, inasmuch as the sheathing cannot be put upon the market without some kind of protective coating, there is a possibility of giving, by means of the coating, an architectonic colour and tone that are lacking to the natural surface. If the manufacturers of sheet steel sheathing would divert ingenuity and expense from the endeavour to imitate constructive materials to experiment in search of a good plain or metallic lacquer they would, it seems likely, be doing the best thing to push their material to the full extent of its proper limit in architecture.

W.	A. LANGTON 





<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

Conspicuously posted on the front of a new residence in course of construction in one of the principal thoroughfares of Toronto, is a board on which is painted in bold letters the name of the architect. The public are privileged to regard the placard as a straight out advertisement on the part of the architect, or an intimation that he thinks his work has sufficient merit to warrant him in thus publicly claiming credit for its authorship. In either event I think straightforward procedure of this character is preferable to the round about methods adopted by some architects to secure public advertisement.

x x x

Few people have any idea when they sign themselves ''yours sincerely," that this phrase has any connection whatever with the building trade, says Brick, In the days when Rome was mistress of the world, marble and alabaster were extensively used for building purposes, and the value of a marble block was in proportion to its freedom from flaws and chips. The jerrybuilders of those days (by-the-by they did not die childless) used up the defective blocks in erecting residences to sell at reduce rates and covered up the defects with a cement, of which white wax formed the chief ingredient. They looked just as stately as the others till an exceptionally hot sun melted the wax and revealed the fraud. hence a perfect building was said to be "sine cera," or without wax," and a friendship perfected by the trial of the fire of adversity was said to be " without wax." The signature " sine sera" as a symbol of genuine affection and probity has been used ever since, and many perpetuate it without knowing its origin and its import.



<article title="The Ontario Asssociation of Architects" author="">THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

The Council of the Ontario Association of Architects has passed the following resolution "Whereas the Association is endeavoring, during the current year, to establish conditions of new activity and usefulness, and certain architects are in consequence desirous of becoming members of the Association without passing the examinations prescribed for students, be it therefore resolved that Architects who have not registered, nor passed the examinations prescribed by the Association, but who otherwise satisfy the requirements of the ''Ontario Architects' Act," and who apply before December 31st, 1900, may be admitted without passing the examinations prescribed for students, if the Council after taking such steps as may be necessary to satisfy themselves of the qualifications of applicants, are agreed as to their fitness."

