<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	171

On the authority of these tests, showing more waste in the screenings lb. for lb. than in hard coal, a correspondingly additional amount of screenings were purchased for the experimental stoker fires, which remaining unused at the end of the first season it was judged that the extra ease in regulating the stoker fires which has already been referred to, produced an economy that balanced the loss of efficiency in soft coal screenings, and automatic stokers as compared with best hard coal, hand fired.

In order better to prevent smoke in burning the soft coal screenings higher stacks (60 feet) have been built, and other changes experimentally made. In fact I am unable to report at the present time that these experiments are hilly complete, so final results cannot be given.

Though advising and afterwards designing and installing automatic stokers at Brampton the writer was aware that there were other methods in use for burning the cheaper grades of fuel, but we must always have in view the economy of the plant and the saving of labor. As regards the former, the stokers were found capable of giving with such fuel an evaporative efficiency that would pay a high rate of interest on their cost of installment that they burned the fuel cleaner; and that they gave greater ease in regulating the fires. This latter is specially noticeable in the stoker action, fires being brought from a banked condition to almost maximum efficiency in five minutes, and let down in a proportionately short space of time. With proportionate reduced area of grate surface and depth of fuel, there is probably not 25% n weight of the quantity of fuel under combustion, that there would be in hand firing. When the fires are lighted, the gases from the screenings burn in a fierce flame near the entrance of the furnace, and cease burning immediately the automatic feed is stopped, thus reducing to the minimum the heat in reservoir already referred to as effecting economical results.

The regulation of the fires can be automatically controlled by the steam pressure. Ease of attendance is further provided for in the Brampton plant, by the automatic conveyance of the coal to the stokers, as their requirements call for, from bins in the room overhead, holding a day or more supply, so that no coal appears in the boiler room or has to be shovelled into the stokers. The filling of the overhead bins is accomplished by machinery, which removes the coal from any part of the storage shed desired, and deposits it, evenly spread, in the bins referred to. The same machinery is arranged to receive coal dumped into a hopper from the wagons entering the yard, and deposit it at any part of the storage shed referred to, which is made large enough to hold a season's supply, thus enabling the grower to purchase and obtain delivery of his fuel to the best advantage in regard to price and time. The same machinery also receives the ashes from the boiler room, and elevates, carries and deposits the same in a wagon or sleigh ready for further removal. Thus great economy in labor and ease, and convenience in manipulation, have been accomplished from the time the coal enters the premises, until the removal of the ashes produced by its combustion. Ventilating shafts arc also provided every 12 feet distance throughout the storage shed to prevent spontaneous combustion of the coal.
Having thus far considered as of first importance, the economical production of heat, the grower must see to it that it is economically employed. Pipes passing through spaces not requiring their heat, must be wrapped by heat non-conducting material in some efficient manner. The radiating pipes must be so arranged in the houses, and provided with shut-off valves, that any pipe, or number of pipes, can be put in or out of action to maintain exactly the heat desired, which should be regulated within a margin of a few degrees. Any over-heating causes waste at the ventilators, that if automatic, will immediately open. If the ventilators are not automatic, the stock may be seriously injured and the heat worse. than wasted. The houses must be well built as regards being air tight, and the presence of outside walls which require extra heating, should be as much as possible avoided. The practice now coming largely into use, of putting as much space as possible under one roof, is favorable to the best economy in the use of heat, division may be made in this space by introducing light or glass partitions where required, which do not increase the area of the outside walls.
Some reference should be made to the laying of radiating pipes. Since it will be impossible to embrace all the systems employed, we will consider mainly the requirements for laying steam radiation on the gravity arid return heating plans recommended above.

As a precaution against fire, the main steam pipes should not be hung overhead in a shed above the boilers, since a fire in the shed might cause them to fall and so disable thc heating plant.
In such a position they are, moreover, unsightly and in the way. They should rather be placed under the floor level of the houses in a trench made to receive them, and they should be supported in such a way that though the shed might burn down, the pipes would remain intact, and the whole heating plant in working order.
For a site having a slight fall only, as advised by Mr. Dale, the requirements of this system would be best served by selecting the highest point for the boilers, and then sinking the boiler cellar deep enough to give ample drainage from the lowest heating pipe 10 high water line of boiler, equal to at least one half inch in every ten feet of heating pipes going and returning, with an extra foot Or two to spare.
The main steam pipe from above the boilers, commencing large enough to allow for possible extensions, should be carried across the house, reducing its diameter proportionately as the different houses are supplied, and may be carried after leaving the boiler in a trench made to receive it at its upper level. This pipe should fall from the highest point above the boilers, and be relieved of condensation at its far end by a return pipe running under it at the bottom part of trench, and direct to the water space of boiler, avoiding the return heater. From this main steam pipe are taken the feeds to the headers of the coils of heating pipes in the houses, on the basis of say a 2 inch pipe to supply 1000 feet of 11/4 inch pipe, as given by Mr. Dale. A single 11/4 inch pipe may run 400 feet, enabling houses to be built to this length when using this size for radiating pipes, or to a length of 200 feet when using radiating pipes of one inch internal diameter. Or houses may be double this length by having the main across the centre, instead of the ends of houses, the pipes and houses falling away from both sides. A greenhouse is now being built at Brampton in this way, 830 feet long, using 11/4 inch steam heating pipes. With a large main the feeds to coils may he tapped direct into the pipe at any points desired.
It is preferable in the return heating plan, to run the radiating pipes to fall all the way from the highest point where start is made, so as to carry the condensation with the steam and discharge it at the far ends of the houses. Some ingenuity may here be employed to abstract the heat in the water of condensation before returning it to the reheaters.
In short houses, the returns for each house may be gathered in one or two pipes and returned inside their houses to enter a special main return pipe in the cross trench before mentioned, arid then pass to the return heater, but in long houses it would necessitate possibly a deep trench being made to receive it in each house. To meet this objection the following method, as one of others that may be devised, is submitted. in carrying steam 400 feet in an 11/4 inch pipe, it will be found a certain pressure is required at its entrance end to force steam of no pressure to its further end. The exact amount the writer has not determined, but as the temperature of steam falls with its pressure, it follows that there must he some falling off of heat at the further end of a long house so heated. Now this may be counteracted by leading the return pipe of each coil, in a single loop, back part way up the house, returning again and joining with a main return pipe running across the houses at their lower ends. This main return pipe will then, by one trench only, length ways of houses, conduct all cold returns to the reheater. By following some such plan as this, the extra cost or trouble involved will be well repaid where the return heating system is in use, by the saving in fuel thereby, as illustrated In a previous part of this paper.
VENTILATION

In regard to ventilation the requirements for greenhouse work should be understood better by the glower than by the engineer. It is the latter's duty only to incorporate into his machine if automatic, such action under varying conditions as the grower may dictate. If his machine is not automatic he has simply to construct such a mechanism as will the most easily, with due regard to the expense of installing it, open amid close the shutters at the will and by the effort of an operator.
When undertaking to construct an automatic ventilating apparatus for greenhouse work it was given to the writer that the requirements of the grower were a more even regulation of the ventilating shutters at all times, than could be obtained by human attendance, the machines required to be capable of adjustment to maintain any desired temperature within a variation of not more than about 4 of heat and to give also a graded movement while acting in the limit referred to. For instance, should the temperature rise say 1° causing the machine to operate, the shutters must open steadily that proportion only, namely one-fourth of their

