



<doctype type="text;plate">REASONS IN FAVOUR OF THE AWARDING

OF CONTRACTS ON THE SCHEDULE

<article title="Reasons in Favour of the Awarding of Contracts on the Schedule Principle" author="Fraser, W.">PRINCIPLE.

By W. FRASER.



This system does not interfere with the letting of all departments to one individual or firm, nor with the letting of the several departments to separate contractors. It serves its purpose in either case.

In the primitive mode of tendering and accepting tenders the plans and specifications are the only two writ-







































MR. M. J. BARR,

President Vancouver, B.C., Master Plumbers' Association.





ten witnesses to the contract. If a case of litigation occurs it generally becomes very complicated, and seldom will either judge or jury decide without an expensive and lengthy arbitration.

The schedule of quantities becomes a third witness to the contract and the most powerful of the three. Indeed it being so demonstrative, it has the effect of deterring men from entering into litigation. The chief object in the business of quantity surveying is the drawing of such an instrument as will produce such favourable results. The system commends itself to business men in the same manner as does receiving of a consignment of goods conforming to an itemized invoice instead of the advice of the cost by simply a knowledge of the lump sum.

There are three parties connected with the building contract, viz., the owner, the architect and the contractor. The architect employs the quantity surveyor for the owner and he becomes their assistant. Of the three parties interested in the contract, it must be allowed that the interest of the owner is the most deserving of protection because he is the money sprit of the enterprise, and this principle does protect him in many ways; particularly it insures him against having to pay for more value than he actually receives, and that at itemized prices established previous to his entering the contract. To detail the amount of assistance given the architect would he lengthy, but in particular the schedule gives him the knowledge (which is his right to have) of the expense of the different component parts of the building which he has designed. It enables him with little trouble to accurately ascertain the progress values of a contract from time to time as the work proceeds. It also relieves him of much unpleasantness in adjusting accounts, which business, in duty to his client, sometimes becomes very disagreeable. It commends itself

especially to the junior architect, because it provides him with a school of experience in a short period of time, that following the primitive mode, takes half a life time to acquire.

It may be said that the schedule principle operates more in favor of the owner than in that of the contractor, but it commends itself forcibly to the straightforward man, because it protects his just rights throughout the progress of the contract. It saves his time and fatigue of mind in tendering, and removes any doubts he may have in getting his prices down to the lowest basis. Also it inspires a feeling of confidence in the parties all round, hence gives rise to the production of a better class of work.

There are two classes of contractors who look rather askance at the schedule system. The first is the man of the old school. He clings to the non-exposure of his prices pro rata with a tenacity sufficient to render his motives questionable. It would seem that in the course of his experience in business he had run up against some man whom he thought had done him an injustice at settlement, and therefore he is desirous to keep himself in future prepared for a like emergency, forgetting that in such a case the schedule is his stubborn friend. The other man is the extras grabber, the man who intentionally tenders at under value, in the first instance, with a view to exercising his policy during the progress of the work. Of course he has no use for the schedule, and he has good reasons, because it shuts out his policy.

The practice of this system in England for so many years is the strongest proof of its utility and its sound principle in the matter of fair dealing. Not only has it been practiced in the large cities, but it has gradually branched out into the provincial towns and still continues to enlarge its sphere.

The man who taught the writer the general and vital principles of the business of quantity surveyor branched out from the city of Glasgow to a small town in the





































MR. M. S. ROSE,

Secretary Vancouver, B.C., Master Plumbers' Association.





north of Scotland in which there were four architects. Of these four only one readily adopted the system in its entirety. This architect was the junior both in years and business. His career, well known to the writer, gives an example of success. He was a man who saw his opportunities, employed all the assistance (quantity surveyor, engineer, clerk of works, etc.) necessary to enable him to prosecute his profession while he

