



<doctype type="text">Fire Tests with

Partitions.

and stone carving, silversmiths' and other metal work, leaded glass, leather, wall paper, wall hangings, and painted decorations—in all alike appears this rudimentary vermiform weed. Something of the same kind is the characteristic form appearing in the carving of all primitive peoples, and it has made its appearance again, we can only suppose. according to a natural law of the human mind, in this nascent work of the young English school, indicating how far they have gone back to the beginning of art in shaking off the degeneracy of its late developments. We may assume that it indicates also that there is a great deal of development yet to come to the English work before it (still in obedience to law) degenerates. In the meantime, some of the exhibitors in the Ontario Society's exhibition have thought fit to adopt the peculiarities of the English Arts and Crafts Society's work with the same seriousness with which they would set up an Order. But there are many good things in the exhibition ; enough to show that we have designers and that the exhibition has been worth while to hold. If there is to be another in prospect at some fixed time in the future—say a year hence—this example will cause the future exhibition to be borne in mind during the year, and we may expect good results.



<article title="Fire Tests with Partitions" author="">THE British Fire Prevention Committee have recently published an account of two fire tests which are of general interest as giving some reliable evidence as to the fire resisting quality of partitions, both economical and occupying but little space. The partitions tested were an ordinary stud partition packed with what they call silicate cotton" or "slag wool (evidently the same thing as our " mineral wool "), and a partition of wire lathing plastered three coats on each side, the whole resulting thickness being but 2 1/2' inches. The testing chamber in each case was the same, a brick hut measuring 10 feet by 10 feet with a 7 foot to inch ceiling. There was a doorway at one end of the hut and the partitions were built about two feet in from this, so as to leave a passage in which the observers could stand to watch the effect of the fire upon this side of the partition. The fire was applied on the other side, which was closed except for draft holes and holes through which observation could be made and the water introduced to play for a couple of minutes upon the heated material as the final condition of the test. The fuel used was gas, and the supply was regulated by valves and dampers. There were instruments for recording the temperature at different points both within the fire chamber and on the protected side of the partitions. Both partitions were made thoroughly tight at walls, floor and ceiling with precautions unnecessary to mention, as forming part of that particular situation only. The plaster partition was laid on wire lathing of 3/4 in. mesh, 19 gauge galvanized iron wire protected at the junction of the vertical and horizontal wires by 1/4-in. terra cotta connections burnt on to the junctions. On this was plastered three coats, the first consisting of x lime to 4 sand, and four pounds of hair to each cubic yard, and also of lime and "burnt ballast,,, in the proportion of I lime to 2 burnt ballast. These materials were incorporated in equal proportions, and plaster of Paris was added in the proportion of I part to 3 of the incorporated stuff. The second coat was of the same materials. The third consisted of 2 lime to I plaster of Paris, In 4 minutes after the heat was turned

on there were hair cracks on the passage side of the partition, which increased by degrees, and after a time steam came through the cracks. The partition itself became too hot to bear the hand, the heat beginning at the top and extending gradually downwards ; but until the time the test closed—25 minutes—-it was never possible to ignite a vesta by contact with the surface. The thermometer in the passage rose from 38.5 Fahr. to 100° The water turned on for two minutes on the inside of the partition at a pressure of 20 lbs. washed off some of the two upper coats of plaster, at the point where it struck. The maximum heat was 2,000 Fahr. The wooden partition was built of 2 X 4 in. "yellow scantling," 14 1/2 in. on centres, covered with galvanized iron wire netting fastened to the studs with galvanized iron staples. The space between the studs was then packed tight with "slag wool" and the partition covered with 3/4 inch tongued and grooved sheathing. The test lasted 45 minutes, the maximum heat was 1800 degrees Fahr. Within 5 minutes after heat was turned on the inside sheathing was all on fire. It soon fell off and the studs flamed freely. After a time the slag wool appeared to be incandescent all over. The effect, as seen after the fire was turned off, was that the wire netting was sound arid good, the studs burnt, but not tar enough in to set the staples free, the slag wool was fused all over the inner face about inch deep and blackened next to the studs for about an inch inwards. The surface of the slag wool was slightly pitted by the action of the water. The slag wool behind the fused face was as good as when put in. The whole of the boarding on the passage side of the partition was clean, white and sound. There was no effect perceivable in the passage except that immediately before the heat was turned off the two top boards of the sheathing were just warm to the touch in the centre. The thermometer in the passage which stood at 54 degrees Fahr. when the test began was still 54 degrees halt an hour afterwards. The thermometer hung against the boards of the partition midway up.





<article title="Decorating Toronto City Hall" author="">A COMMITTEE of the Toronto Guild of

Civic Art waited upon the Property

Committee of the Toronto City Council last week to present a memorial proposing that, it the City Council would provide $1,000 a year for a few years, the Guild would undertake to oversee the decoration of the walls of the entrance hail on the ground floor, at the rate of a couple of panels a year, according to a scheme of subject matter set forth in the memorial. It was proposed that the theme of the Pioneers, begun in the six panels presented by Mr. Reid last year, should be continued in the fourteen other panels that remain. Subjects suggested are Early Cultivation, Clearing the Land, Felling the Forest, Building a Log Cabin, Treaty with Indians, Hunters' Camp, Long Portage (extending over three panels), Early Missionaries. The arguments are obvious, both that the work of decorating should be continued and that the oversight and change should be committed to a body of cultivated and public spirited men like the Guild of Civic Art. The finished appearance and agreeable tone of the hail at the point where Mr. Reid's decorations are in place is in marked contrast to the crudeness of the remaining portion which is not decorated. Decoration of some kind is needed that the hall itself may have justice done to it. Rut subject decoration by means of oil painting

Decorating Toronto

City Hall.

