	<doctype type="text">100	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



the span and strength of the joists. Tiles or fine finish in cement may complete the surface, according to the quality of the work desired. A combined floor and panelled ceiling may also be formed in concrete, with the surface finished in fibrous concrete or cement. Damp or dry rot is an objection to concrete floors finished with flooring boards, and special care should be taken to prevent this. A good way to avoid this is to lay felt or mineral wool on the concrete from one half to one inch thick, before the boards are laid ; this will also act as a non-conductor of sound. Greater lightness may be obtained in concrete floors by the use of concrete tubes. half-circle pipes laid on their side edges may be used to save concrete and prevent over-loading the floors. If underneath the joists is to be finished in plaster, some provision must be made for holding the necessary metal lath. If homogeneity in a floor is required without flaws or cracks, the floor must he completed at one operation and without cessation, or flaws will surely follow. In forming concrete steps or stairs, the foundation or base should be made good and strong, and iron pipes or T pieces may be placed in the concrete at suitable points to give strength to the steps or the strings. '[hey also help to carry the dead weight until the mass is thoroughly set, and also prevent risk of sudden defection. When enriched finish is desired, fibrous plaster is well adapted for concrete surfaces. The soffits and strings by this method can be panelled or enriched with medallions or foliage as required. The operations necessary in the construction of concrete stairs are (I) Setting out the stairs and landings (2) preparing the wood skeletons and fixing it in place; (3) gauging the materials and filling in (4) removing the framing when the work has set ; (5) cleaning up and finishing treads, risers and strings (6) striking the soffit and centering and finishing the soffits ; (7) protecting and wetting the work until it is set and hard. Sometimes stairs are built with the steps cast separately and then built in, in the same manner as in stone. Stairs should be built spacious, light, and easy of ascent. A 12-inch tread and a 5 1/2-inch rise make a most convenient and comfortable stair to mount. No tread should be less than 8 inches or more than 16 inches wide, and no rise less than 4'2 or more than 7 inches in height. In order to obviate slippery steps, the surface should be indented with a concrete roller, or three or tour sunk V-shaped grooves from 1 to 2 inches apart should be made in the treads while the concrete is moist. To make the nosings and mitres sharp and true on the ends of the treads, and set the soffits of the stairs and landings properly, and form a true arris at the stringing, the plasterer's skill and training is indispensable ; without it the work will he uneven, rough and unworkmanlike, In the handling of Portland cements, in any form. it pays best to employ skilled labor. Results are always more satisfactory, and these are achieved with a minimum of material.



A local company has been formed, under the name of the Union Mining Company, for the purpose of engaging in the manufacture of cement at Miami Man. It is said that satisfactory tests of the material in the district have been made by several experts.



The bricklayers in Vancouver, B.C., struck for an eight hour day on April 1st The employers agreed to give an eight hour day conditionally, but the men refused to accept the conditions. A few days later the stone-cutters struck in sympathy with the bricklayers. The wages of painters in the same city has been advanced to $3 per day.

<article title="Code of Rules for Tendering" author="">CODE OF RULES FOR TENDERING.

Following is a code of rules regulating the practice of estimating and contracting recently adopted by the Vancouver Builders' Exchange, to which reference is made elsewhere in this paper

On and after April 10th 1900, unless special permission is given by the Exchange, its members shall not tender or contract for work unless the following conditions are complied with



1.	Tenders may be submitted separately for the work in the different trades, or in bulk, but not for both. When whole and separate tenders are asked for the same work no bids shall bc given.



DRAWINGS.



2.	Drawings prepared for final or competitive estimates must be sufficient in number and character to represent the proposed work clearly, and shall he to a scale of not less than one-eighth of an inch to the foot (except block plans), and be rendered in ink, or some permanent process, arid be either coloured, figured or otherwise marked in such a manner as to clearly show all kinds of material to be used, thickness of walls, grades and position and depth of city drains and sewers.

SPECIFICATION.



3.	Specifications must be printed, written or typewritten in ink. They shall definitely describe work not clearly shown by drawings. Every distinctive class of work to be included in the contract must be mentioned and placed under its appropriate heading, as indicated by Outline for Specification attached.

NOTICE FOR OPENING BIDS.



4. Before opening bids, the bidders shall be notified of the time when, and the place where the bids will bc opened, and they shall be opened in the presence of the attending bidders. If so required by an architect, when calling for them, tenders must be accompanied by a marked cheque equal to 5 per cent. of the amount of tender, cheques to bc returned when bids arc opened, excepting the lowest three; these to be returned when contract. is let.



PERCENTAGE ON SUB-CONTRACTS.

5. Contractors shall be allowed a compensation of five per cent. on all sub-contracts which at the time of estimating are "reserved" or not called for but which may be assumed by them by request of the owner of architect, after building contract is let.

AWARD.



6.	When work is to be let for which estimates have been solicited, the lowest invited bidder shall be entitled to thc contract, and all changes amounting to less than 20 per cent, of the amount of his tender shall be agreed upon with him, provided his prices are equitable and his references prove suitable. Should the prices for changes made by the lowest bidder not he deemed equitable, they shall be settled by arbitrators, one of whom shall be appointed by the owner and the other by the bidder, the arbitrators to appoint a third if necessary, and the majority decision shall be final.

If changes are made amounting to 2017254f the amount of the tender the whole competition may be re-opened.

Bidders must not be allowed to amend their estimates after the bids have been opened and before the award.



7. Bids shall be binding upon the bidders or owners for not more than ten days.



8. No payments on contracts shall be less than 8057216710f thc value of the work done, and 50the value of materials delivered and accepted by the architect ; the remaining 20to be paid within thirty-three (33) days after the completion of the contract.



Sureties will be furnished by the contractors if so required by the owner and in such case the payments shall be 904575200f the value the work done.





Tests were recently made by thc city authorities at Vancouver, B. C., of samples of foreign and local cement. The results are reported to have proven that the local production was equal in quality to the imported cement.



Mr. Joseph Bourque, contractor, of Hull, is reported to have entered an action against the Catholic Corporation of Ottawa to recover the sum of $4,200 which he claims is due him for extra work performed on St. Patrick's church. The courch authorities, it is stated, ask indemnity for thc work not being completed in the specified time.

