<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER  			243



<article title=" BUILDING MATTERS IN VANCOUVER " author="">

BUILDING MATTERS IN VANCOUVER.

The annual election of officers of the Vancouver Builders' Exchange was held recently. Only two changes were made in the personnel of the Board of Directors. Mr. W. Hepburn, succeeded Mr. C. T. Shindler as Vice-President and Mr. D. M. Fraser is replaced by Mr. R. P. Forshaw.

The Exchange cannot be said to have prospered during the year to the extent which was anticipated. In the opinion of some of the older members, a mistake was made when the annual fee was reduced to

$25.



The change resulted in bringing in a member of new members, many of whom appear to have looked only for immediate personal benefits in return for their investment, forgetting the advantage which must accrue to all if by united effort trade abuses can be remedied and the business of the builder placed on a more equitable and profitable footing. The proposition has been made to raise the membership tee, and profiting by past experience it is hoped that the affairs of the Exchange may in future be managed in such a way as to ensure a larger measure of success.

The effort to induce the architects to organize and work in harmony with the Exchange tailed, as did also the movement to secure the adoption of a uniform contract.

The rainy season has set in and in consequence building operations will be conducted on a smaller scale until spring.

<article title=" BUILDING AT OTTAWA " author="">

BUILDING AT OTTAWA.

The following statistics show the character and extent of building operations in Ottawa during the building season which is about to close:

The number of solid brick or stone buildings or what may be termed first-class structures, erected during the year is 94, the estimate total cost being $391,600, of these only 10 are below $1,000, and but ten of $10,000 and over, the highest being $50,000. The great bulk, or 74 of the buildings, range from $2,000 up to $6,000 in cost.

Of second class buildings known as brick veneered structures there have been erected 187 at a total cost of $280,450. Of these 27 are placed below $1,000, and SIX at over $3,000, being in all cases blocks of several houses or stores, leaving 154 buildings erected at an average of $2,000 each.

The local architects state that very little work has come to them as the result of the great fire which destroyed a large portion of the city early in the year. The burned district did not include the business section of the city. The buildings destroyed were principally wooden houses of a cheap character. These have been replaced by structures of a little better description, but such as only called for the services of the local builder.



The Danish Elevator and Hoist Regulations provide, among other things, that the car must be suspended by at least two ropes or Chains each of which must alone be strong enough to carry ten times the weight of the car fully loaded.



METALLIC ROOFING COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO, CANADA

