



<doctype type="text">Students'

Competition.





<article title="Students Competition" author="">Building in 1899.

of the Toronto Railway Co. to weld together the ends of the rails throughout their entire system, should greatly lessen the escape to earth of return currents and the destructive effects of the same. Engineering suggests that a remedy may also be found in the use of aluminum conductors, but of this we are not sanguine, as aluminum is not well adapted for use in cities, where the injury from earth currents is greatest.



ARCHITECTS are requested to direct the attention of their students to the competition, particulars of which are given

in the Students' Department of this number. It is hoped that there will be manifested such an interest by the students in this competition as that we shall feel encouraged to provide for others of a similar character. Architects who feel an interest in the advancement of their students, should direct their attention to this competition and urge them to enter. The subject should be a particularly interesting one to young men, most of whom will no doubt be quite familiar with the requirements. Let none be deterred from engaging in the competition by what may appear to them to be the difficulty of the problem. Whether they should chance to win or fail, they will greatly profit by the time and study which they will have devoted to the subject.



<article title="Building in 1899" author="">PRESSURE upon our space prevents the publication of a detailed statement of building operations in Canada during

1899. The reports to hand, however, show that great activity prevailed and that in the cities and more important towns improvement was the order of the day. This is a natural result of the prevailing commercial prosperity. The extent of building improvements was considerably reduced, however, by the impossibility of securing necessary supplies of structural steel. The unprecedented rise in price of certain lines of staple materials, the increased rate of wages and reduction of hours demanded by artisans, made it difficult for contractors to obtain a fair margin of profit on their undertakings. As an offset the unusual mildness of the weather has permitted operations to be continued almost without interruption until the present, and there can be but a short gap between the seasons. The outlook appears to be very satisfactory.



<article title="Ontario Association of Architects" author="">THE convention of the Ontario Association of Architects held in Toronto last week, the full proceedings of which will

be found in this number, was one of the most important in its history. It was realized that the time had come when radical changes in the policy and plans of the Association were required. Several recommendations of the Consulting Committee were in line with suggestions presented of late in these columns. The Association also received with courtesy and consideration the opinions and suggestions of the 18 Club, and the members of that organization were cordially invited to join hands with the Association in carrying into effect the necessary reforms. There was a general agreement of opinion that a system of education for students should be an important feature of the future work of the Association, and that it be made a condition of studentship that students shall pursue the course of study and pass the qualifying examinations prescribed by the Association. This policy, if strictly adhered to, must result in

The Ontario Association of Architects.

great advantage to the students and the cause of Architecture. The proposal to adopt the atelier method o instruction for students is a valuable and perfectly feasible one. The decision to have as the headquarters o the Association suitable rooms in the central part of the city is a necessary feature of the educational scheme and should bring into closer relationship the member and students. If as Mr. Hynes stated, one of the exhibitions under the direction of the Architectural League of America can be brought to Toronto next year no time should be lost in arranging the matter. The holding o such an exhibition in Toronto would awaken in the profession, the students and the public, an interest and enthusiasm in Architecture which must conduce to progress and the welfare of the Association. This important matter should not he lost sight of, nor should actor with regard to it be delayed, lest the opportunity be lost. It is to be hoped that the joint committee of the Association and the 18 Club, appointed to consider in detail what should be the plan of action for the future will get to work immediately and be able to see eye t eye, and that in consequence all the members of the Club will shortly connect themselves with the Association and assist in its upbuilding and the advancement o Architecture in Canada. If this course be taken, the future is full of promise.



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

THE project for the erection of a palace hotel in Toronto seems to have dropped out of sight. In view of the recent advance in the rate of interest it would seem that the promoters of this enterprise have lost for a time their opportunity.

xx x



IN the construction of modern tall buildings in which stone and brick are employed as covering for the steel skeleton, it has become the practice in Pittsburgh and New York to carry forward the brickwork of the upper stories simultaneously with the masonry on the lower stories. By this method a large saving in time is affected.

x x x



THE Mayor and City Commissioner of Baltimore have recently defined the difference between a bow and bay window. Bow windows are defined as those use by merchants in displaying their goods, and bay windows are those placed on private dwellings for purposes of adornment or comfort. An annual rental, ac cording to locality, will be imposed on the former. while the latter must be paid for outright.

xx x



A NEW method of employing Portland cement is in connection with the rehabilitation of dilapidated frame buildings, the foundations of which are good. The modus operandi consists of refinishing the walls in wood and then covering the entire outside of the building except door and window openings with expanded metal, on top of which is laid a coat of Portland cement mortar, finished in any suitable manner. This method of reconstructing old buildings has been employed for a number of years in San Francisco and of late has been adopted in Chicago.



Thc governments of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island, are considering the establishment of a School of Technology at some convenient point in the Maritime provinces.

