<doctype type="text">THE BUILDER

 THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

<article title="Preparing Kalsomine" author="">Preparing Kalsomine.

THE writer has often been asked to give a formula for preparing reliable kalsomine in plain white and in colors

or tints. Experience has shown the following compound to be durable and strong in covering qualities:

Soak one pound of white glue overnight in about a quart of clean soft water ; then dissolve in boiling water, and add twenty pounds of Paris-white, diluting with water until the mixture is of the consistency of rich milk. This, laid on with a soft brush, gives a fine marble finish to a wall, and will not peel off if the wall is clean and free from any greasy matters before the kalsomine is applied. To give this wash the following tints or colors, add, for lilac, two parts of Prussian blue, and one part of vermilion. Mix thoroughly in a separate vessel, and incorporate with the white kalsomine until the desired tint is obtained. For buff, mix two parts spruce or Indian yellow and one part of burnt sienna. Proceed as before until the right tint is obtained. For a rose-color, take three parts of vermillion and one of red lead ; add to the kalsomine in very small quantities until the desired shade is produced. For gray, use raw umber, with a very small amount of lamp-black added, mixing carefully and thoroughly, as greys are difficult to produce. For a fine straw color, mix chrome yellow with a touch of Spanish brown ; a pleasing tint will be the result. To make a lavender tint, take a small quantity of Russian blue, mix until a light tint is produced, then add sufficient quantity of vermilion to give it the proper lavender color. The pigments used in these combinations will not fade or change color, and a wall or ceiling finished in any of these tints will have a very pleasing effect.





<article title="Finishing Redwood" author="">ALONG the Pacific coast, and, indeed, Finishing Redwood. in many of the inland towns and cities,

redwood and Douglas fir are made much use of in house finishing-, and it is well to know how these woods may be finished in order to give them a good appearance when left in their natural state. Both woods may he made to compare favorably with some of the more aristocratic hardwoods when properly handled. For finishing redwood, first make a mixture of one quart of spirits of turpentine, one pound of corn starch, a quarter of a pound of burnt sienna, one table spoonfull of raw linseed oil, to which add a tablespoon-full of brown Japan. Mix thoroughly, apply with a brush, let the work stand for about fifteen minutes then rub off with excelsior, fine shavings, or a clean soft rag. After this, the work should stand at least twenty-four hours, that it may sink into the wood and become hard, a process which also hardens the fibres of the wood. After the whole is perfectly dry and hard apply

Something on Foundations.

two coats of white shellac, then rub down with fine glass paper until the whole is perfectly smooth ; then put on a couple of good coats of herb polishing varnish ; when hard and dry rub down with clean water and finely pulverized pumice-stone ; let stand a day or two, then clean down with chamois, and rub with a little olive oil and rotten stone until perfectly dry, and it the work has been well done the whole will have a piano finish, and the grain of the wood will show up handsomely. The same mode of finishing may be followed on Douglas fir, only, when the natural wood color is desired, all coloring matter must be kept out of the mixture. If, however, it is desired to stain the fir a cherry color, the following mixture may be used in conjunction with the filler or the formula given above. Mix together, by stirring, one quart of spirits of turpentine, one pint varnish, one pound of burnt sienna mix with equal quantity of the first receipt, and apply and treat in like manner as described for finishing redwood.





<article title="Something on Foundations" author="">THE foundation of a building should be of such a nature that it will bear the weight laid upon it without. compression or flinching. It the soil be of a soft nature, it will of necessity yield or compress beneath the weight placed upon it. If any part of a building he loftier and more weighty than the other portions of it, as in the case of a church tower or steeple, the soil beneath the extra weight will be more compressed than the other parts of the site ; hence all that portion of the building will sink somewhat into the ground, and in thus sinking, the heavy part of the building will break away from the adjoining work which will not settle in the same manner. Under such conditions, extra precautions must he taken to prepare the foundations under the tower in such a manner that the settlement, if there be any, shall be equal along the whole line of footings. In proportion as the ground is of a soft and yielding nature, the footings of the building should spread ; for if a square yard of ground will bear a ton weight with a certain degree of compression, two separate square yards will bear two tons' weight with the same degree of compression, or they will bear one ton weight with only half the degree of compression, and perhaps less. For ordinary foundations, where the buildings are to be of brick or stone, the footings may be from two to three feet wide and from six to eight inches thick, and laid on solid ground that has been well tamped ; but in larger or heavier buildings the footings should be placed on a bed of concrete ; the thickness and breadth of concrete must be determined by local features, such as the nature of the soil, weight of the building, and

