



<doctype type="text;ad">A NEW FIRE PROOF MATERIAL

<article title="A New Fire Proof Material" author="">A new fire proof substance, called gypsine, has recently been officially tested in England with remarkable results, according to reports from that country. Its composition is plastic hydraulic lime, coke or sand and asbestos, compressed into bricks. To test its fire resisting properties a partition 10 feet long by 7 feet 9 inches wide was built of gypsine bricks laid in hydraulic mortar, with joints 1/4 inch thick. The side of this partition, which was erected in the test hut, after having been coated with a thin layer of fire clay, was exposed to the action of fire for the space of one hour, during which time the temperature rose to 2,050 degrees F. This tremendous heat was powerless against the gypsine bricks, and all through the test the temperature of the outer surface of the partition was never once so high as to cause a match to ignite upon it.



<article title="New Building Material" author="">NEW BUILDING MATERIAL.

An asphalted pasteboard from Norway and a wood and paper board from Sweden are new building materials of great probable usefulness. The first is made by compressing together several layers of heavy paper and asphaltum, the product being a smooth, solid plate, which is as strong as wood, and cheaper, which will not crack or rot and which is adapted for walls and ceiling, for panels and for many other purposes. The second material is a board having a central layer

closely fitted bits of wood, with a layer of cement and an outer layer of paper on each side. The p

has been compressed and made waterproof. The boards are made 4 feet wide and 8 to 18 long, and are adapted not only for the interior lining of houses, but for making trunks, boxes, tables, and other light articles. The boards can be polished or painted. Improvement Bulletin.



<article title="Foreshortening in Drawing" author="">FORESHORTENING IN

DRAWING.

As perspective has been defined to be the art of foreshortening objects, foreshortening may be explained as linear perspective applied to the human figure, this being the principal case which admits of striking perspective effect in such objects, because when, as for the most part happens, the limbs are beheld in their full, or nearly their full, extent, let the attitude be what it may, the outline is little affected by mere perspective ; consequently, except in ceiling-pieces, where the figures are supposed to be above the spectator and seen from below the plane on which they stand, fore-

shortening—at least any considerable degree of it is rarely required in delineating the human figure while on the other hand it occurs more or less in almost all those of animals, their forms being more compounded and their bodies placed horizontally. An example of foreshortening may therefore at any time be obtained by standing either in front of or behind a horse, when the hind or fore-legs, as the case may be, will be nearly concealed by those towards the eye, and the back of the animal or its length be no longer visible. In sculpture, unless it be in reliefs, the foreshortening of the limbs depends entirely upon the station chosen by the spectator himself, whereas in painting it depends upon that chosen by the painter for him.





J. H. MORRISON—FIRE CLAY CHIMNEY TOP

TORONTO



CANADIAN OFFICE & SCHOOL FURNITURE COMPANY, LIMITED

PRESON, ONTARIO



THE VOKES HARDWARE COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO



THE CANADA PAINT COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO AND MONTREAL





