<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



adoption of the President's report and the appointment of a committee to wait on the boiler manufacturers and ascertain what grievances, if any, they entertain against the Association ; the adoption of the reports of the secretary and vice-presidents of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island, also the reports of the Sanitary and Executive committees. The Association was advised to endeavor to secure Dominion legislation on the lines suggested in the report of the vice-president for Nova Scotia. The hope was expressed that it might be found possible to continue the publication of The Bulletin.

The reports of the sanitary and executive committees were adopted.

A committee was appointed to report on the advisability of reviving the publication of The Bulletin.

Messrs. John McKinley, Ottawa; W. J. McGuire, Toronto ; R. Ross. Toronto ; J. XV. Harris, Montreal and J. A. Sadler, Montreal, were appointed a committee to confer with the representatives of the manufacturers and of the wholesale supply firms.

The question of the desirability of organizing provincial associations was left over until the next meeting.

Messrs. John Watson, John McKinley, Jos. Wright, Frank Power, Jos. A. Giroux were appointed a nominating committee, and Messrs. H.A. Knox, J. A. Sadler, and F. F. Power an auditing committee.

Mr. Frank Power, of Lunenburg, N. S., extended a cordial invitation to the Association to hold its next meeting in Halifax. The question of place of next meeting was, after some discussion, put to a vote, and it was found that the majority of the members were in favor of the convention being held in Toronto, and it so was decided.

A deputation representing the manufacturers and wholesale supply houses was introduced, when Messrs.

J.	W. Harris, J. W. Hughes, and Aid. Jos. Lamarche were appointed a committee to confer with them regarding any grievances or matters in dispute.

SECOND DAY.



On business being resumed on Friday morning, Mr. Joseph Wright reported on behalf of the committee appointed the previous day, that the wholesale supply trade did not care to advertise in The Bulletin, and recommended that for the present year no attempt be made to revive its publication. The report was adopted.

The report of the treasurer, Mr. W. H. Meredith, showed receipts of $609.50 during the year, which, with $170.44 carried over from the previous year, made a total of $779.94. The expenditure was $458.52, leaving a balance of $321.42. Mr. Meredith estimated that the surplus would probably be reduced to $200 after the official report of the proceedings had been printed.

The report was referred to the auditing committee, which certified to its correctness, and on motion it was adopted.

Mr. Frank Powers of Lunenbnrg, N. S., was appointed organizer for the Maritime provinces, and a grant of $25 was made to him for expenses.

The convention then proceeded to the election of officers, with the following result

Past President—J. W. Harris, Montreal.

President W. H. Meredith, Toronto.

Vice-President John McKinley, Ottawa.

Secretary—W. Mansell, Toronto.

Treasurer—Aid. Jos. Lamarche, Montreal.

Vice-President for Ontario W. Pennington, Windsor, Ont.

Vice-President for Quebec—T. Thibeault, Montreal.

Vice-President for Manitoba -J. H. Wilson, Toronto.

Vice-President for Nova Scotia Frank Power, Lunenberg, N. S.

Vice-President for British Columbia—Joseph Wright, Toronto.

Chairmen of Committees Apprenticeship, T. G. Johnston, Ottawa ; Legislative, J.W. Harris, Montreal Sanitary, Frank S. Power, Halifax; Essay, E. C. Mount, Montreal.

Each chairman selected his own committee, and before the convention adjourned the following had reported:

Sanitary---F. S. Power (chairman), G. A. Perrier, Geo. Kinsman, James Farquhar, all of Halifax, and Frank Dexter, Truro, N. S.

Apprenticeship F. G. Johnston (chairman), John Hyman, H. A. Knox, H. Normand, E. B. Butterworth, all of Ottawa.

Essay- E. C. Mount (chairman). John Watson, Joseph A. Giroux, Joseph Gibeau, and P. J. Carroll, all of Montreal.

On motion of Ald. Larnarche, seconded by Mr. F. S. Power, a hearty vote of thanks was tendered to the retiring officers.

In accordance with the suggestion of the vice-president for New Brunswick a committee was appointed consisting of Messrs. Frank S. Power and John McFatridge to compile an estimate and price book to be sold to the members.

Mr. Knox stated that the plumbers' association of Ottawa, had notified the architects of that city that they would only submit tenders direct to the proprietors, and it had been found to work well. Mr. Wright stated that an effort in the same direction was being made in Toronto.

SOCIAL FEATURES.



The social features of the convention included a banquet at the Windsor Hotel, which was attended not only by the plumbers, but also by a large number o the manufacturers and wholesale supply firms, among whom were noticed Messrs. John M. Taylor, manager of the Dominion Radiator Co., Toronto; H. W. Anthes, of The Toronto Foundry Co.; Alex. Robertson, of The James Robertson Co., Limited Geo. Moffat, of Robert Mitchell & Co.; H. R. Ives and E. Hehert, of H. R. Ives & Co.; H. McLaren and McAvity Stewart, of McAvity & Co.; Mr. Ramsay, of The Pedlar Roofing Co.; Mr. Moore, of The Paul Heating System Co., Boston ; J. H. Garth and J. A. Meadowcroft, of Garth & Co. In addition to the usual patriotic toasts was one to the "National Association of Canada," proposed by Mr. Frank Powers and responded to by past president Harris ; "The Corporation of Montreal," responded to by Ald. Lamarche ; 'Our Guests," proposed by the new president, Mr. Meredith, and responded to by Messrs. H. W. Anthes, H. R. Ives, Alex. Robertson, John M. Taylor, Mr. Stewart and Mr. Ramsay; "The Montreal Association," responded to by Mr. Giroux. The success of the banquet was largely due to the efforts of the committee, Messrs. Giroux, Meadow-croft and Sadler.

On Thursday afternoon the delegates were taken for a carriage drive to the top of the mountain where luncheon was served. On Friday afternoon they were given a street car ride through the city to Lachine and from thence made the trip down the Lachine rapids.

