<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Ontario Association of Architects" author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS



PROCEEDINGS OF TWELFTH ANNUAL CONVENTION.





THE annual convention of the Ontario Association of

Architects was held on Tuesday and Wednesday, the

16th and 17th inst., at the rooms of the Registrar, Mr.

W.	A. Langton, in the Canada Life Building, King

street west, Toronto.

The following members were present Messrs. J. E.

L3elcher (President in the chair), A. Frank Wickson,

Grant Helliwell, D. B. Dick, W. A. Langton, J. Wilson

Gray, M. B. Aylsworth, John A. Pearson, H. B. Gordon,

W.	R. Strickland, A. E. Paull, John Gemmell, John

Kay, Frank Darling, W. R. Gregg, L. Munro, H. F.

Duck, members of the Association, and Messrs. Eden

Smith, C. Acton Bond, C. D. Lennox, C. E. Langley,

H.	Sproatt, E. R. Rolph, J. C. B. Horwood, W. Rae,

members of the Eighteen Club.

The proceedings opened at 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday, the President, Mr. J. E. Belcher, M.R.S.C.E., in the chair.

The minutes of the last meeting were read, and on motion by Mr. A. F. Wickson, seconded by Mr. G. Helliwell, were confirmed and signed.

The President then read his annual address, which was received with much approval, as follows

PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.



GENTLEMEN,—Permit me at this my first opportunity to thank you most heartily as a member of the profession practising in one of the towns of the province for the honor you have done me in electing me to the Presidency of this Association. Not having the advantage of city practice, we of the country have not the opportunities enjoyed by our more fortunate city confreres, hence the occasional recognition of the outside members of the profession tends greatly to enhance the feeling of esprit de corps existing among the members of the Association as a body. This feeling of kinship with our city brethren will no doubt inspire the members of the profession in the smaller places with a desire to keep abreast of the advance of architectural effort and to withstand the temptation to sink into the commonplace of the country town, where one is more or less cut off from intercourse with fellow members of the profession and from the advantages, culture and inspiration of more immediate contact.

At the close of my year of office I desire to lay before you one or two things pertaining to the work and scope of our Association which have occurred to me. and which have been gathered more particularly from the proceedings of the last year's committee meetings. With reference to the suggestion made at the conference of the Council and Consulting Committee—a report of which, dated April 1st, 1899, will be laid before you that some means be adopted to improve the condition of the Association, it seems to me that it would be well for us to adopt what I may term a progressive policy and yet whilst we truly feel in matters of art it is our duty to lead the people up to an appreciation of art in architecture, we must nevertheless so conform our policy of progress to the circumstances surrounding us as to make that policy feasible.

1.	First all it is necessary to consider the facilities afforded by the Association for the education of the younger members. The suggestion has been made that lectures in design should be given to students. Can such lectures be instituted as part of the Association work in the new rooms?

2.	The desirability of having central down-town rooms with a library attached, as mentioned in the report, is beyond doubt. Facilities for reading, meeting and discussion are a necessary supplement to the lectures in design.

3.	As to the question of membership for practising architects— not now members of our Association—it is to be hoped that the better times in view, and the advantages offered of down-town rooms, library, etc., will prove sufficient inducement to at least

the city architects to become members, and when the government decides to recognize the Association in proper form, the practising architects in the towns will then no doubt appreciate the advantages to he derived from membership also, but apart from these advantages I should think there ought to be the higher desire to bind ourselves together in a guild for mutual improve-merit and establish that esprit de corps which should been endured in all who love their art, especially those whose experience, derived from the practice of it, justifies its being called a delightful profession.

4.	A course for students with proper preliminary examinations is obviously necessary, and has been referred to in a pointed manner by the late Sir Gilbert Scott, who speaks as follows

"Architects had admitted pupils who had riot only evinced 110 creative art powers, but who had been by reason of serving their pupilage, allowed to go at large and practice as architects, although they were destroyers of art, and a disgrace to the age. He did not know how this evil had to be met. He saw no way to get over it unless they (the architects) were to bind themselves never to receive a pupil unless he had shown some qualification by passing some sort of examination, by a committee appointed by the R. I. B.A. who would certify if he has the right stuff in him— five out of six of the pupils sent to architects were worthless as regarded their aptitude for the profession, and yet on completing their articles, they had as good and sometimes better opportunities of getting on than the best of their contemporaries they perhaps had a large circle of friends, and possibly a fair amount of practical knowledge but these things did riot constitute an architect," arid finally wound up by saying that pupils of ability would become better architects and practical men if they were to spend more time actually in the midst of works in course of execution, but above all, all architects should combine to reject all pupils but those who may prove to have some aptitude to the work of tire profession."

These few suggestions strike me as comprising some of the elements of our requirements. If they can be carried out we should them be able to take our position with the other recognized professions of tire province.

It was found impossible to secure the necessary funds for time Travelling Studentship proposed at our last Convention, although sortie of the gentlemen appealed to very kindly offered subscriptions of the amount apportioned to them.

I would add that in the matter of public competitions members of this Association should strictly adhere to the resolution formerly adopted, wherein the desirability is set out of their being a properly constituted Board of Architects to whom competitive plans should be referred for selection and award. Although this question is perhaps to some degree an open one, and is doubtless also difficult to educate the public up to such a standard, yet

and persuaded that this standard is in no small degree essential to the well being of the profession.

It strikes me then that some such defined schemes as those above mentioned are more desirable than straining after tire doubtful possibilities of the Travelling Studentship, medals, &c., of the established R.I.B.A., since an Association such as ours in its infancy while desiring adequate protection, and fitness for its members, must aim at what is readily within its reach.



The Treasurer's report was then submitted by the Treasurer, Mr. G. Helliwell, as below

TREASURER'S REPORT.



Financial statement for tire year ending Dec. 31st 1899.



RECEIPTS.

Balance from 1898	$1,082.46

Members' annual fees	$179.00

Students' registration fees	6.00

Students' examination fees	11.00

Sale of examination papers	.25

Interest on batik account	34.40

	230.65

	$1,313.11

	                   EXPENDITURE.

W.	A. Langton, Registrar, salary for yea	$200.00

W.	A. Langton, general disbursements     

Printing reports, circulars, etc		36.85

Convention lunch		22.50

C.	H. Mortimer, CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

  BUILDER for 1899		22.00

Books added to library		9.75

Engrossing minutes		6.00

W.	J. Graham, attendance on Convention. . . .

	Total disbursements	317.86

	Balance on hand	995.25

	$1,313.11



We have examined the books, vouchers, etc., of tile Association, amid certify that the above is a correct statement thereof,

	HENRY LANGLEY	Auditors.

WM. R. GREGG 



All outstanding accounts have been paid. The expenditure ($317.86) is approximately the same as that for 1898. The receipts ($230.65) are $144.75 less than for the preceding year. This falling off in receipts is in the payment of fees in arrears, which in m898 amounted to $233, while in 1899 they amounted to only $93. The fees amount to $86 for 1899, the same amounted as for the preceding year. Tire number of members who have paid

