	<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANDIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

Copyright 1899, by Pan-American Exposition Co.





<article title="Color in Architecture" author="Gemmell, John">COLOR IN ARCHITECTURE.

By JOHN GEMMELL.



When our Registrar suggested that I should give a paper on color in building materials at this Convention, there ran through my mind some random readings I had done in chromatics. My first thought was to attempt with the aid of books learned inquiry into the theory of light and color, and the laws which produce harmony or the reverse, and applying these to the prevalent building materials, get some idea which to combine and what to reject. On second thoughts, however, it seemed to me that an architect was more in the position of' ·an artist, with perhaps his pigments more limited.



Much as the world owes to the patient labors of' science, it may well be doubted if these are of help in the domain of' art which has to do with the external appearance of things earthly.



Great artists were great colorists from intimate study of nature seen by the naked eye. Indeed, is it not probable that the artistic sense of form may be coarsened by the deeper insight of the anatomist about the framework on which is hung the beauty of a "Venus' or an "Apollo"? I can well believe that Raphael knew less anatomy than Michael Angelo.



Beauty of form in objects, blending and contrasting of color in an autumn landscape or the glory of a setting sun, are appreciated by the artistic temperament perhaps much more intensely than by the learned philosopher discoursing by his side on the complete mathematical precision and proportion of' the wave theory of' color. It is not to belittle this trend of' our time to attain to the Genesis of' all things, but to make the claim that the highest skill in arrangement and disposition of' color in art is quite possible with no other guides than observation and God-given instincts, which are above rule, and that appreciation of color may in no way be enhanced by a knowledge of the laws of chromatics. If the artist is faithful to catch the changing face of his mistress, Nature, this will be to him a royal road to perspective, color and other sciences.



But what, say you, has the architect to do In common with the landscape painter? Are not his aspirations very much curbed by



e limitations of' his materials? True! yet is it not most essential that he should have as much as possible of the artist's eye for the beauty in nature, that his work may not prove the discordant note in its surroundings? He it is who rears that which marks the advent of the living and receptive soul on the scene, and it surely were a great pity if his building became a blot and excrescence—spoiling a spot that it may be dear to many—when by more feeling for and study of his site, it might have become the one thing that was necessary. How often have we seen vulgar ostentation think it has achieved fame by painting a whole house in colors that nature uses for her smallest flowers !—brilliant red brick, lilacs olives, blues and yellows ! You remember how the Americans were emulated in their use, speaking of the Canada drab with much scorn. Which of you now, granting your house were good architecturally, would not rather paint it drab than say, pea green? For country house, therefore, where the beauties of Nature are the chief attraction, and means very rarely forthcoming to build a stone or marble mansion to dominate the scene, the best solution of' the color problem is to make the house subordinate and a complement to the landscape. If brick is used, let the mortar joint be honest and very perceptible to tone down the color in mass. But perhaps the best mode of construction for such a building is the entirely shingled house, the



·	Paper presented at the annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects Toronto, January, 1900

staining of' which affords facility n carrying out color schemes that with difficulty can be made vulgar.



It is in the cities and towns, however, that unbridled liberty in the use of various colored building material and coloring of buildings is likely to render any broad and harmonious whole impossible. What should be the prevailing color of a city seen as whole approached from the water front or from points of vantage in the surrounding landscape and which architects should, by their individual efforts, endeavor to control?



I may as well here state that in my opinion the palette prescribed by good taste, at least for the exterior of buildings is extremely limited, and that the' building material used on this continent has been generally of too positive a color, and it would have been vastly better if no material darker than Ohio stone (which is about the darkest of natural stones) had been used. I think I am justified in saying this, as it is now being found out that the varieties of' brown stones are or perhaps should be soiled and spoiled, products of nature, taking their color from oxidation of iron, and this oxidation going on more rapidly when exposed to the air, destroys the stone in less than generation. There is now arisen a craft in New York depending on its skill in restoring lost angles, moldings, etc., to brown stone buildings not thirty years old yet, in a state of decay.



Architecture is a plastic art, concerning itself with outline, light and shade more than color, is akin to sculpture more than painting. Now just think how all the beauty of a piece of' marble sculpture would be lost if reproduced in commercial brown stone. If Lily Langtry or others of the world's beauties, with all their perfection of feature, were of' Ethiopian complexion, would we still see their loveliness?



Does not nature suggest in the large and clumsily modeled features of the negro that the material was unpromising and fitted for nothing better than a charcoal sketch of humanity? The only virtue I could see lately in the once vaunted brown stone fronts of New York was that this color to a large extent obscures the wretched bad detail of their period, and now when great deal of their architecture is following better and purer models, New York has for building materials pinned its faith to Bedford limestone, a light grey Buff brick and a brick almost white with a black speck running through it, giving texture. As a result I assure you that city has taken on a smiling look which was not there a few years ago, even from the harbor, but especially in the direction of' the river drive, which is the hope of New York, where is to be seen their best in architecture —Columbia College, St. Luke's Hospital and other buildings whose authors with their increased knowledge of true architecture seem to believe also that this is best embodied in materials of light color. In Washington, viewed as a whole, we have perhaps the best example of a beautiful city on this continent and the only one I know of that has just arrangement of buildings in order of their importance. The capital on bill dominates the whole, the minor buildings of government surrounding, and all built with some dignity, and best of all, none of the dwellings or mercantile buildings are of that exceeding size which renders a harmonious whole impossible in other American cities, and makes all attempt at temple or public monument futile The capital library, Washington monument, and the city generally is of light colored material with more than one dome in gold.



To uphold my contention that good architecture should never be clothed in dark materials perhaps it is better to go back to the ancients for the color as we had to for the forms. I do not think they used dark stone. When we conjure up the classic buildings of Greece and Rome, it is I think, of' a gray hue we imagine them

