<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	215

designed and constructed for the purpose of carrying on to completion the construction and finishing of the tower. I merely mention the fact to show that the weight of the large bell is not to be feared in connection with the hoisting, but the great difficulty is in having to undertake the hoisting of such a weight as this with appliances and tackling that can only be temporarily erected for the purpose. After a good deal of consultation between the clock and bell contractor's foreman, and sub-contractor, who has undertaken the contract to hoist the bells, and myself, the following plan has been decided upon:

At the top of the tower opposite the south dial will be erected a shear-legged derrick firmly planted on heavy timber base, on projecting ledge of tower, and anchored in at foot so that it will not shear out, but so formed that it will not retard the inward movement of the derrick. The head of the derrick will hang out from the face of the tower far enough to allow the bell to be hoisted clear of all projections. At the head of the derrick will be fastened the hoisting sheave rigged up with two 5/8-steel wire cables, each capable of sustaining 10 tons. These cables will extend from the top of the bell while on the ground, up to the hoisting sheave and down to the drum of the hoisting engine which will take in the slack. The top of the derrick will be anchored back at head to keep it in its outward hanging position. To the head of the hoisting derrick will be fastened another steel

In conclusion, I might say that every precaution is to be taken; the scheme has been carefully thought Out, and I have no reason to think other than that the bells will be carefully landed and swung safe and sound into their position without accident.



Yours sincerely,

E.	J. LENNOX, Architect.



<article title=" ENGINEERS' CLUB OF TORONTO " author="">

ENGINEERS' CLUB OF TORONTO.

The meeting of the Engineers' Club for November was held at the new club rooms which have recently been fitted up at 94-96 King street west. About thirty members were present, Reports of several committees were received.

Mr. T. B. Speight tendered his resignation as treasurer, owing to























































wire cable brought back into tower through sheaves and clown to a crabwinch this cable will be used for drawing in the head of tile derrick. At a few feet below the level of the height that the bells are to be hoisted up to, before they are hauled into the tower, will be a strongly constructed, projecting platform erected to receive the bells. The platform will be anchored back into tower, projecting just far enough so that the bell when being hoisted will pass quite close to tile edge of same. There will also be properly rigged-up on the inside at the top of the tower a hauling in hemp cable, capable of sustaining at least a weight of 10 tons. On tile ground at the foot of the tower will be erected a steam hoisting engine and drums.

The process of taking up each bell will be, that it will be hooked on to the hoisting sheave at end of cable hanging down derrick and steadily and carefully hauled tip by the hoisting engine until it reaches a height of several feet above the level of the projecting platform. Then the head of the derrick will be hauled in until the bell hangs over the platform, when it will be gently lowered down on to rolling skids, and pinched into the required position.



The bells having reached this position it will be an easy job to lower them down into their place with overhead tackling hung from beams in tile top part of the tower; they will then be blocked up into position until they are bolted up to the heavy framework of steel beams, when blocking will be removed and they will hang clear fastened to beams.

the fact that he expected to be absent from the city for several months. Mr. Canniff was appointed as his successor.

Tile following committees were appointed



Finance Committee—Messrs. H. F. Duck, Jas. McDougall and A. F. MeCallum.

House Committee—.Major Gray, R. J. Parke, and A. B. Lambe.



Library Committee—Messrs. W. T. Jennings, W. H. Patton, and W. A. Clement.



A resolution of thanks was voted to the proprietors of the Rossin House for providing a room for meetings of the Club during the past year.

Notice was also given of several proposed amendments to the Constitution which will come op for discussion at the next regular meeting.





The Catlada Asphalt Paving Company has been incorporated, with headquarters at Montreal. The capital stock of the company will be $50,000. The incorporators are Messrs. R. L. Dillon, J. St. G. Dillon and A. P. Dillon of Montreal, and James A. Pearson, A. W. Godson and J. H. Denton of Toronto.

