<doctype type="text">	208	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

















































ARCH OF TRIUMPH, PARIS.



<article title=" CANADIAN SOLDIERS' MEMORIALS " author="Gurney, Ed">

CANADIAN SOLDIERS' MEMORIALS.

BY request a number of gentlemen prominent in artistic, military and business circles have kindly sent us a brief expression of their views in regard to the desirability of immediate action being taken to erect suitable memorials to the memory of the Canadian soldiers who fell in defence of the Empire in South Africa. These opinions are appended as follows:

GENTLEMEN,—I have your valued favor of Nov. 8th and have read the accompanying proof of the proposed article in relation to a Memorial of the participation of Toronto in the South African War, and in reply have to say that I think it is desirable that while the public is alive to the question, some means of recognition should be adopted. Your article doubtless will provoke discussion, and enable those interested to form a better opinion than could be done off hand without greater consideration than I have been able to give to the question.

It has occurred to me that the men who sacrificed their lives in this War, should especially have recognition, and whether the Arch is erected or not, the portraits of these men who went from Ontario, should be placed in the Parliament Buildings.

I know that in some cities of the United States, the representatives who perished in the War of the Rebellion, have been honored in the way which I have indicated—thus, in Harvard College there is a Memorial Hall devoted entirely to this purpose.

Yours very truly,

EDWARD GURNEY.





SIR,—Replying to yours of yesterday's date, I quite approve of the "Soldiers' Memorial" exactly on the lines that you suggest. I think it is the duty of the citizens of Toronto to in some satisfactory manner permanently commemorate the men who went to South Africa, and I think no better form could this memorial take than a permanent archway where the temporary one was erected at the end of Queen Street Avenue. Appreciating the honor you do me in asking my opinion, believe me,

Yours truly,

JOHN I. DAVIDVON.



Toronto Nov. 10, 1900.



DEAR SIR,—I was very pleased to receive a few minutes ago, your circular letter respecting a permanent arch to be erected in Toronto as a fitting recognition of the services that Canada's sons have rendered to the Empire. I would suggest, however, that a better and safer location than the one you mention would be at the College street end of the avenue. Queen street being such a thoroughfare, I fear the same difficulty in preserving it

would occur as what happened to the fence around Osgoode Hall, where every corner of the stone pillars was broken off by hoodlums loitering around in that vicinity. I think the arch should be of substantial stonework, and as it would be at the very entrance of Queen's Park, that a statue of Her Most Gracious Majesty, the Queen, should adorn the top of the arch. I am quite sure if the ladies of Toronto would take this matter up, they would carry it through to a successful issue, as they have never yet failed in any undertaking of a loyal and patriotic nature. Wishing you every success and assuring you of any assistance I can possibly afford,

Yours faithfully,

J.	M. DELAMERE,



Lieut.-Col. Coin. Q.O.R. of Canada.



GENTLEMEN,—Replying to your letter of the 8th inst., enclosing copy of article referring to a suitable memorial for our Canadian boys who have died for the Flag in Africa, I would say that I am in sympathy with the idea, and think that some recognition should be made in the shape of a memorial in the Queen's Park. They certainly have done their duty well and faithfully, and we are under a deep debt of gratitude to them.

Yours faithfully,

A.	E. KEMP.



DEAR SIR,—I am heartily in accord with the proposition to erect a memorial to those Canadians who gave their lives for the cause of freedom in South Africa, and as a Canadian artist I am jealous that the memorial shall be a fitting tribute in its aspect as a work of art. I approve of obtaining designs through competition, but only on condition that a competent jury is appointed to decide on the merits of the designs. The Toronto Guild of Civic Art is organized for the purpose of arranging such matters, both as to how designs should be submitted and the appointment of fit persons to pass judgment upon them, and I hope the arrangement of the purely artistic portion of the work will be entrusted to that body. I would suggest, as a practical step to take, that the Guild be asked to look into the matter, and prepare several alternative schemes with the approximate cost of each. Speaking as a member of the Guild I believe immediate action on their part would result from such an invitation from the Red Cross Society, who have initiated the idea.

Sincerely yours,

G.	A. REID.



INDIAN ROAD, TORONTO, Nov. 13TH, 1900.



DEAR SIR,—I wish to assure you of my sympathy with your proposal to erect a memorial to members of the Canadian Contingent who fell in South Africa. Some memorial should be

