	<doctype type="text;plate">26	ARCHITECT 



expense, but would greatly improve sanitary conditions of the dwelling.

The excellence of the external design is no doubt to be accounted for by the fashion of the times, which made a knowledge of architecture as it was practised then a



THE GRANGE, TORONTO—AUTUMN VIEW.



usual accomplishment for a gentleman. The design is simple enough—a well spread front with a symmetrical and even arrangement of window openings and wall surface ; a hipped roof brought to the front in a wide pediment of a Greek pitch, relieved from dullness and combined with the lower part

of the front by a circular window in the centre ; and all adornment content rated at the middle of the front in a grey stone portico which, though not very well planned itself, is as a mass well proportioned to the front. The portico was originally of wood but Mr. Goldwin Smith has had it taken down and replaced by an exact copy in stone. The satisfaction conveyed by the presence of stone, where stone ought to be, is great. The stone portico is reinforced by stone steps flanked by large stone flower pots. These steps both give emphasis to the terrace, on which the house stands, and connect it with the level of the lawn.

It is this lawn with its trees which is the great glory of the Grange. By good fortune or

good management the grounds about the house have not been cut down too much in the process of trimming the estate as the city grew round it. When the house was built the estate was a farm property extending from Queen street, which was the main east and west high road, half way to Bloor street.

The entrance was on Queen street near McCaul. From this a drive swept up to the house. Stories that have been handed down—of an English officer who lost his way in the Grange woods ; of an Indian appearing suddenly in Mr. D'Arcy Boulton's room

of a bear being driven off the pasture near the house by Judge Boulton's pair of carriage horses striking at it with their fore feet—all indicate a state of wildness far removed from the cultivated beauty of the present lawn. Yet this lawn must have been planted long ago to judge from the size of the elms. The largest is eleven feet in circumference. The present arrangement of the grounds in front must have been made some time before 1844, when the land for Saint George's Church, just outside the gate, was given by Mr. D'Arcy Boulton. The grounds were no doubt laid out under the direction of Mr. Cayley who is known to have planted the elms. The gates are directly in front of the entrance and

are connected with it by a wide gravel walk, 300 feet long. The carriage drive approaches the entrance by a circular sweep of a diameter the same length as the walk. Outside the circular drive and its connections with the rear are

plantations along the boundary fences on the East and



THE GRANGE, TORONTO—SERVANTS' COTTAGES.

West. The plantations have the effect of a screen but the trees are set very open, so that grass grows underneath. The area bounded by the drives is kept in turf. There is ample room for tennis lawns in the segments between the straight walk and the circular drive. The elms give shade without being an obstruction. They

