

<doctype type="text;plate">THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH <article title="The Builder" author="">INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]

Finishing Eyebrow

Windows.

IN our November issue we showed several examples of eyebrow windows, and in Figs. 1 and 2—(the latter by the

way, having been set by the printer—upside down), we showed how the window should be laid out in order to get the best results. The whole ground, however, was not covered, and we purpose discussing the subject a

showing any line of division. The dotted lines show where the centres are from which the curves are described. This style of eyebrow is always effective. Fig. 2 shows how the frame-work for the window may be made, the ends of the curving ribs are seen in section. Unusually the sashes of an eyebrow window are hinged below, if they are intended to be opened at alt, and the sweep of this one may be seen by the curved dotted lines. Drawn to a larger scale, is the working sectional drawing at Fig. 3, where the window-frame,































FIG. I ---EVEBROW WINDOW.





little more. The eyebrow window, when properly proportioned, and the work neatly performed, always produces a good effect, but when constructed as ordinarily done, it makes an ugly feature on a roof, and is sure to have a bad effect on the onlooker, often, without his being able to explain thc reason why. There should



FIG. 3. SECTION THROUGH FRAME.





sash, and other finish are shown in place. The method of hinging, and scheme for preventing water from finding its way, inside, are shown. It will be seen that a metal flashing is placed on the roof under the frame, and extends from F to C as denoted by the arrows, which precludes the possibility of any leakage. All the illustrations shown in connection with the eyebrow window, in these columns, show square-cut glass and ordinary sash, but, in many places where this window is adopted, the sash would have a much better appearance if it was leaded and filled with white glass.



FIG. 2—SECTION THROUGH ROOF.





not be too much height in the middle, and the reverse curve should die into the body of the roof without being noticed. A very good example is shown at Fig. I, when it will be noticed the central height is quite small, and the shingles weave over the whole window without

Curved Verandah

Roofs.

WORKMEN often find it difficult to get the proper curves and lengths for veranda or other roof hips, and jack

rafters where such roofs turn at an angle, and to aid them in overcoming this difficulty, the following diagrams and descriptions are presented Let a b (Fig. 4) be the seat of the common rafter, and c b the curve or profile, which in this case is an ogee ; now draw the

