

<doctype type="text">

<article title="the Color of Stone and Architecture" author="">THE COLOR OF STONE AND

ARCHITECTURE.

The magazine called Stone, prints the papers on the above subject read by Messrs. H. B. Gordon and John Gemmell at the last convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, and comments thereon as follows

"Messrs. Gordon and Gemmell are men of wide experience and of excellent reputation in their professions. What they have to say must carry weight. But architecture is not a matter for hard and fast rules, like all of the fine arts, its development comes from the expression of individuality. Every architect insensibly leans toward some individual mode of expression and try as he may to modify his style to suit various purposes, the personal element is, of course, always to be found in his work. Mr. Gordon, among the suggestions that he presented, said "The colors of building material, if there is any variation in tone, should be darker at the base of a building and lighter as they ascend. No one will dispute this as a general proposition and one that is safe to be followed in most structures, and yet the genius of an architect may produce a most admirable and beautiful effect by the exact reversal of this rule. A striking illustration of this fact is given by one of the latest works of H. H. Richardson, whose death was the greatest loss American architecture has sustained. Few finer buildings arose under the inspiration of his genius than the City Hall, at Albany, N. V. The building itself occupies a commanding site and yet one that is especially trying to any building. It is at one side of a large open square with a park at each end. Directly opposite is the towering granite pile of the State Capitol. At one side is the white marble State House of severely classical design. Diagonally across the square is the Albany Academy, a beautiful structure of brownstone in the Renaissance style, a fine example of the architecture of the early part of the century. Mr. Richardson, in his design for the City Hall, followed out his characteristic style, but introduced a daring innovation as pleasing as it was unexpected. The lower part of the building and all of the main walls are of light colored stone, while the trim and the entire upper portion of the beautiful campanile tower are of dark brown sand stone. One has only to look at such a building to see how impossible it is to fix hard and fast rules such as Mr. Gordon gives. To a genius like Richardson, ordinary rules were playthings.

Mr. Gemmell' s paper is worthy of every consideration and yet the final word with regard to it can only be that it is merely an expression of his own personal preferences. Perhaps every one will agree that the architecture of our cities in the years gone by was depressing, from its lack of variety in the materials employed. The long rows of brownstone houses, about which he complains, can find few defenders not because the brownstone was an unsuitable material or lacked in beauty, but wholly because there was nothing to relieve the monotony of block after block of such buildings. The same may be said of different blocks of red brick buildings. We doubt if any stone ever quarried is beautiful enough to be used exclusively, without trying the eye and displeasing the aesthetic sense. The argument from the classical cities of antiquity in favor of nothing but light colored building material, counts for little in view of the entirely different conditions of modern life and architecture. In proof that a dark colored stone produces a

beautiful effect when properly used with due regard to the style of the building and the surroundings, one has only to point to Trinity Church, New York. Few would have the hardihood to claim that Old Trinity would be improved if a light colored stone were used instead of the dark one that was employed, or that the edifice will not, at the very least, bear comparison with Grace Church or St. Patrick' s Cathedral, in New York.

At present everything is in a transitional state and no one believes that the final word as to city architecture has yet been spoken. The finest effects in the future we firmly believe will be produced by skilful massing of different colors in stone and brick work, with an idea to general effect as well as to the effect in the individual buildings. The rich warm tone of some of the sandstones will produce beautiful harmonies when offset by the granites, marbles and limestones and we shall welcome the time when they are all freely used in the large business and public structures of a city. As an illustration of what may be accomplished by the skilful use of color in building material, we wish to quote the experience of a very successful builder and contractor in one of the large cities of this country. This man has built row after row of stone dwellings and apartment houses and he has had unusual success in selling them all rapidly and at satisfactory prices, lie attributes his success to the fact that he has confined himself to no one building material but has made tree use of every suitable stone. He does not build an entire block of brick, or limestone, or marble, or granite, or sandstone, but employs them all freely. He does not alternate them with checker-board effect, but masses the color so that each house shows to the best advantage and acts as a foil to its neighbor. When all of our builders and architects learn this lesson American architecture will take on a new meaning and importance. At the present time, when a great office building is erected of a certain stone and the effect presented is pleasing, the owner of the adjacent block is apt to erect a building of the same material, with the result that each mars the beauty of the other. If contrast instead of similarity were attempted, the beauty and consequent value of each structure might be enhanced. "



<article title="Questions and Answers" author="">QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

BUILDER, Ont., writes Would you kindly answer the following questions I. how is mason-work measured, as regards openings? Is it lawful to deduct all openings from the solid work? 2. When brick is laid at so much per M. to be measured in wall, on kiln count, does the builder lose all openings?

Answer.—Replying to the above, we may say that the first question is generally a matter of agreement be-tore the work begins. If arrangements have not been made, then local custom rules, whatever that may be. If the bricklayer furnishes the bricks, he should have half the openings to cover waste and extra cutting. If the owner furnishes bricks and mortar, then the bricklayer only measures the solid wall, but should charge enough per M., to cover extra work about openings. Answering the second question Bricks laid by the thousand, should be paid for by the thousand only, regardless of openings. This of course would be kiln count. Where a bricklayer contracts to lay bricks by the M., he is supposed to make his estimate big enough to cover any extra work on openings, cornices or string courses.

