<doctype type="text">

<article title=" NOTES ON THE FIRE AT PARIS, ONT." author="">

NOTES ON THE FIRE AT PARIS, ONT.

IN answer to enquiry, Mr. John Kay, architect, of Paris, Ont., has kindly supplied the following notes on the recent destructive fire in that town

''As to our big fire on the 12th inst., it started in Mr. Meidrum's flour mill, a frame building 150 feet long by 45

great that the water thrown with 80 lbs. per sq. inch seemed to go up in steam before it had a chance to put the fire out.

The town by-law forbids the rebuilding of such a structure as this mill. Brick and stone can only be used in walls. Paris previous to 1832 was called the Forks of the Grand River, since then it has been Paris. The mill in question was built in 1842 about 10 years before the railway reached the place. I am safe in saying that every building burnt on the 12th of September has been erected since the mill was built.

Paris has had fires in stores but the firemen managed to keep the fire within the walls where it started. In Randal's block there were three different fires without much damage to brickwork. This time, however, the lintels are so burned that the whole front will require to be taken down and rebuilt on new timbers.

Find enclosed a sketch showing position of burnt buildings. Already men are at work clearing out the cellars. Brick walls will take the place of lath















































SKETCH SHOWING BURNED DISTRICT AT PARIS, ONT.



feet wide, posts 30 feet high; posts 8 feet apart, 12 X 12 beams and posts in centre, 12 X 12 ; joists, 4 x 10 shingled roof with a cupola, 10' X 14', 6' high On top of ridge, with louvres which acted as a chimney. This caught fire, and in a short time the flames were everywhere—first breaking the glass and leaping up the clapboards. I never saw a better constructed fire with a gale from the west estimated at a 50 mile gait.

The fire blew across the street and the plate glass melted and ran like molasses. The stores along the east side of Grand River street were first class— some roofed with slates, but mostly metal (Garry iron) laid on tarred felt ; plate glass windows. Patton's hardware store was next the mill on the north side. Kegs of nails were fused into one solid mass. The embers flew across the Grand River, and set on fire the dwellings on the opposite side of river. The floor of William street iron bridge 130 yards long was on fire in many places; a bucket brigade managed to save it. The mill in question was built 50 years ago and the building sites are few (the lower town where the fire occurred being in a hollow with hills around three sides and the river on the east,) and buildings were close up to the mill in front and on each side. The heat was so

and plaster partitions. Although lumber and hardware is dearer, money is cheaper.. On the whole I am of opinion the fire was a blessing in disguise. A fine new Post Office, Custom House and Inland Revenue Building will occupy the site of the old mill. Pressed brick fronts with stained mortar will supersede the Princeton bricks. More vaults will be built—the contents of some of the so-called fireproof safes were worthless. Prism glass will be used to throw the light to the rear of the stores. The new buildings will have a proper grade corresponding with the centre of Grand River street. Before the fire the sidewalk would be level with the door sill of one building while next door the sill would be 8 inches above the sidewalk, and so on, giving the streets a very unseemly appearance.



PERSONAL.

The sympathy of a wide circle of friends is extended to Mr. John H. Tilden, president of die Gurziey-Tilden Co., of Hamilton, who has recently been bereaved of his wife.

Mr. P. W. St. George, city surveyor of Montreal, has tendered his resignation on the ground that he can no longer put up with the interference and discourtesy of the Road Committee. Mr. St. George has been in the employ of the City of Montreal as deputy city surveyor and city surveyor for a quarter of a century.

