<doctype type="text">

in the crude form characteristic of the genuine Indian drawing. Miss McClung's display of pyrography included a fine cedar chest and a number of smaller trifles in which were displayed taste and ingenuity.

Messrs. Henry Bloomfield & Sons had a fine exhibit of leaded glass and painted glass in which native flora appear frequently as the decorative motif, a step quite in the right direction. Some of the work, all of which is designed and executed entirely by members of the firm, was genuine leaded glass, that is to say, it was wholly dependent upon the utilizing of the lead lines for its drawing and to stained glass for its color, in contradistinction to painted glass, which is a picture painted upon a transparent ground.

In embroidery Mrs. Balfour Ker fully maintained her reputation. We regret to hear that Mrs. Balfour Ker intends to devote herself entirely to painting in the future. We trust this intention will not be adhered to as this lady's skill in the applied art quite exceeds her success as a pictorial artist.

When it is considered that the number of architects practising in British Columbia probably is nearly half a hundred it is surprising to find but three of that number exhibiting on the walls of the association. The disregard, not to say ignorant neglect, of the art of architecture by the public is not at all surprising. If the practice of the first and highest of the arts lie with men who are themselves so little appreciative of the real position of architecture in the world of art, or so little desirous of impressing upon the public the high nature of their vocation, what can be expected from that same public but a continued attitude of indifference? In this province an architect is so seldom believed to be an artist that if one does happen to dabble, say in water color sketching in a slight and amateurish manner, folks agree that "he is quite artistic" as though it were possible for a man to be worthy of the name of architect without being an artist, and. as though there were so little scope for the exercise of artistic taste and knowledge in the vast field of unlimited opportunity to be found in decorative composition alone that the quite artistic one should be compelled to turn to trifling with pictorial art to there find scope for his artistic aspirations, restrained and cramped as they must be by the narrow limits of architecture ! This is, no doubt, somewhat of a digression, but, really, an Arts and Crafts Association with scarcely a sign of the architectonic foundation upon which such associations must of necessity rest is a noteworthy curiosity. Beyond a sketch of the C.P.R. station at Vancouver by W. j. S. Parr and a neat pencil drawing of an everyday "alteration and addition" by W. Eveleigh, the only architectural drawings are by the President, whose large brown ink perspective of the Provincial Home at Kamloops was illustrated some four years ago in this magazine, as was also a design for a church in New Zealand. Among others we noticed a "rejected address" in the form of a design for a public school which was probably quite beyond the understanding of the school trustees, sketches for furniture, mantels, a chancel screen, all fully illustrated by details, and strongly drawn in brown ink and sepia after the president's characteristic method.

Mrs. Taylor exhibited a collection of photographs showing artistic perception in pose; all were soft in tone yet rather lacking in detail, probably the result of incorrect focussing of the subject to obtain the pleasing

'so like a black and white, you know" effect. Messrs. Wadds Bros. also had an interesting show of photographs, one of which, a little child's head, is unaffectedly pretty and noticeably true as a photograph. But the photograph par excellence of the exhibition is a Rembrandtesque head by W. Eveleigh. Here we find all the extraordinary detail and sharpness of genuine photography, coupled with excellent pose and light, and beautiful printing. two very large bromide enlargements by Miss Edwards must have been made from a remarkable negative, there being scarcely a defect in the enlargements.

Though mention is made last of the painted china shown by various members of the association, it must be frankly admitted that it was one of the decided successes of the exhibition. Miss Cohen, of Toronto, was represented by several pieces of decorated ware, beautifully painted and rich in tone. Among the pieces by Mrs. R. B. Ellis, a charming little jewel box and a fine punch bowl deserve more than passing attention, though all of this member's work is good. Miss McClung had some excellent work on the same tables, a pair of placques being particularly nice in color. Miss Drainie also contributed an interesting collection of examples of her skill and taste. Upon the whole, the china, as stated,, was really good, showing clear painting and burning, but the natural forms so well reproduced were not always as decorative in their application and composition as they should be, and the conventional form was scarcely used Mrs. Ellis' jewel box, decorated with a form of Persian arabesque, being the noticeable successful exception. No doubt difficulties present themselves when the decorative motif is a conventional treatment of a natural form, that do not appear where the natural form is merely copied more or less faithfully. and is really only a little picture of fruit or flowers painted on china, but the triumph of success is altogether disproportionately greater when the conventional treatment is happily brought about.

The association owes a large measure of the success of this, its first annual exhibition, to the energy of its zealous young secretary, W. C. Bloomfield; indeed, all the officers have worked earnestly to place the association upon a firm footing, and the promising nature of the exhibition just recorded, should encourage them to persevere in their good work. We had almost for gotten to make mention of the school competitions, open to children of various ages, not exceeding 16. Some 6o entries were adjudicated upon, some of them showing quite a little originality and care. It is to be hoped that the trustees of the public schools will in their turn do something to encourage and to develop a little artistic feeling and knowledge among the rising generations.

The building operations of the year must be considered in another letter, but mention must be made of a competition instituted by the C.P.R. for alterations and additions to the company's hotel at Vancouver. It appears that the building is to be almost entirely rebuilt, and several of the local architects have been invited to submit plans in the competition. The instructions (sic) are embodied in a chat with the manager, and competitors are expected to make their own surveys of the existing structure, a task of no small magnitude, if it is seriously intended to utilize it (the existing structure) to any considerable extent. It seems pre

