

<doctype type="text;plate">iron for binding the face course to the wall of a hollow wall is not in keeping with the stable character of brickwork. We present to the architects BUILDER to the practical judgment of masons and brickmakers a form of bond which we believe meets all requirements.

A split brick is a standard form of fire brick and should also be of common brick. It is the principal form in the bond shown above. Whenever we wish to use a bonding course we use a split brick, as a stretcher on the face of the wall, which covers the ends of the bricks laid across the wall.

Fig. I represents a solid one and one-half brick wall.





























It is faced alike on both sides, with all stretchers. Notice that this is done with a saving of face brick, as each split brick takes the place on the surface of the wall of two face brick used as headers. There is nothing so nice for a courtyard wall or for a brick and one-half wall in any place where even one side is exposed.

Fig. 2 is a brick and one-quarter hollow wall. All



























stretchers on the face having a hollow space of one-quarter of a brick in width.

Fig. 3 is a one and three-quarter brick hollow wall,























all stretchers on the face, and having a space of one-quarter of a brick in width.

It will be seen that heavier walls, varying in width by a half brick, either hollow or solid, or with both, by one-quarter of a brick may be made.



MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

<article title="Slag Cement" author="">SLAG CEMENT.

THE manufacture of cement from iron slag has become quite an important industry in Germany and Belgium. The cement when mixed with three parts of sand is said to have an average tensile strength of more than 350 pounds to the square inch after 28 days, and more than 600 pounds at the end of a year. The product of the mills in Belgium and Germany is said to be sold months in advance of its manufacture. It is not a competitor of Portland cement for the finer kind of work, owing to its unfavorable color, due to the presence of oxide-of-iron, but is used for the rougher purposes such as foundations for buildings and streets. 'The rapid growth of iron manufacturing in Canada will probably in time lead to the manufacture here of this kind of cement. Some of the American iron manufacturing companies are said to be now giving attention to the subject.





<article title="English Cement Combination" author="">ENGLISH CEMENT COMBINATION.

THERE has been considerable talk and speculation about the proposed combination of the Portland cement producers of Great Britain. Particulars are now at hand, and it is said that the new trust will control about 8o per cent. of the output of the United Kingdom.

The share capital is £5,000,000, divided into 250,000 7 1/2 per cent preference shares of F10 each 250,000 ordinary shares of £10 each, while the company is authorized to issue £3,000,000 first mortgage 4 1/2 per cent. debenture stock.

The association was formed for the purpose of purchasing the undertakings of concerns engaged in the manufacture of Portland cement. With the exception of three, all the works are situated on the Thames and Medway. It is believed that upwards of 8o per cent. of the entire output of Portland cement in the United Kingdom is produced on the Thames and Medway. The total production of cement on these rivers in 1899 has been estimated at 1,700,000 tons, whereas the estimate of production in 1895 was only 1,350,000 tons. This difference is due to the largely increasing demand for Portland cement. The production of the firms taken over by the association was, in 1897, 1,222.240 tons in 1898, 1,337,268 tons, and in 1899, 1,404,569 tons, while their capacity now is about 1,570,000 tons. The profits are said to have shown a satisfactory and progressive increase. Notwithstanding, cable advices state that the offering. of stock was not a success.





MANUFACTURING NOTES.

THE Boston Lumber and Brick Co. has been incorporated with a capital of $40,000 and headquarters at Sault Ste. Marie.

THE Canada Paint Co., of Montreal have been awarded a medal for their exhibit at the Paris Exhibition of mineral pigments mined in Canada. The exhibit is instructive, representing the minerals in their various stages of manufacture—first, as mined; second, as prepared for the oil in varnishes and colors; third, as made and applied.

A GREAT honor has been conferred on the Canadian Office & School Furniture Co., Preston, Ont., by the award at the Paris Exposition of a Silver Medal for school desks. The exhibit was made at the instance of the Government to supplement the educational display. The silver medal is the highest award which could be given by the judges, and the fact that a Canadian firm secured it is a matter of congratulation. The desks shown by the firm have attracted general attention, and in consequence, a

