<doctype type="text">	188	CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

THE management of the celebrated Carnegie Public Library at Pittsburg, Pa., the design of which was selected by competition a few years ago, propose to remove the building to another site 4,000 feet distant, with the object of preserving its appearance from injury from changes which are now taking place around it. The building is 150 X 400 feet in size, having a skeleton of steel cased with stone. Its estimated weight is 58,000 pounds. Means must be found of transporting it across a ravine 200 feet wide and 100 feet deep.

X xx



THE somewhat surprising statement is made that it is the intention of the Pennsylvania Railway Company to supersede the iron bridge across the Susquehanna river at Rockville, near Harrisburg, by one of masonry. The structure about to be removed consists of twenty-three spans of about 160 feet each. The masonry bridge will have forty-eight spans of 70 feet each, and including piers and approaches the total length will be 3,820 feet, or nearly three-quarters of a mile. Masonry is considered to have advantages over steel in endurance and economy of repairs.

x xx



IN Montreal and several of the smaller cities and towns organizations of public spirited citizens have been formed to promote and protect the interests of the residents and property owners. These organizations will make suggestions with regard to the manner of carrying out public improvements, and exert an influence in behalf of the selection of a proper class of men to compose the municipal council. The latest town to join this movement is North Toronto, and I observe that in the fore front of the movement is Mr.

W.	R. Gregg, the Registrar of the Ontario Association of Architects.

x x x



THE relative merits of the various methods of heating were under discussion, when a well-known Toronto steam fitter told how he once lost an important contract. He had submitted a tender for installing a steam heating plant in a court house in a certain town in Ontario, and in common with other bidders, was asked to attend a meeting of the council for the purpose of fully explaining his system. At the conclusion of his remarks, the representative of a firm of manufacturers of hot air apparatus got up and addressed the assembled councillors, the majority of whom were farmers, somewhat as follows " Gentlemen,-- you all know what happens when a steam thresher explodes or gets in too close contact with the barn. how would

you like to sit here knowing that beneath you was a steam boiler liable to explode at any moment?" In vain the steam fitter explained that no damage could occur from a boiler operating with but five pounds pressure—the hot air man's ruse succeeded, and he was given the contract. The apparatus which he installed has since been replaced by steam.

xxx



THE locality in which the town of Midland, Ont., is situated abounds in springs of water. So strong is the flow from these springs, that by placing a small water wheel in his cellar the proprietor of one of the hotels forces the water into an elevated tank, from which it is drawn as required through pipes and taps. The device has been in successful operation for a number of years. It is proposed to construct next year a water works system which will be supplied from springs situated about a mile distant from the town. Midland is said to be very prosperous, there being at present under construction about 275 dwellings, ranging in cost as high as $15,000.







<article title="The Octagon" author="">THE OCTAGON.

THE American Institute of Architects opened rooms last year as headquarters in Octagon House, Eighteenth street and New York avenue, Washington, D. C. The secretary, Mr. Glen Brown, here preserves all literature which is received in exchange for the Institute's Proceedings and in other ways, and classifies it in the most careful manner. The Institute now receives publications from more than forty-three foreign societies, forty American societies and institutions, and fifty-nine publications on architecture and allied subjects.

A card catalogue is kept, and a quarterly bulletin is issued by the Institute, in which is given an index of all publications received and another index of the literature contained in them classified under subject headings, as, for instance, acoustics, banks, biographical, brickwork, cement, colonial, construction, French school, etc. This bulletin is sent to the Ontario Association of Architects, and will be kept in the new rooms, 96 King street west, Toronto, and will be found valuable for reference.

Mr. S. Okamato, an architect from Tokio, Japan, lately called at the Octagon, and left a gift of one hundred sets of drawings of tea houses made with a brush with as true and neatly drawn lines as if done by a pen. These drawings are folded on a plan so that when the sides, partitions, &c., are raised a paper model is formed showing both exterior and interior of the house. Mr. Okamato says that the Society of Japanese Architects has sixty full members who are educated in the modern sense, and over 700 sub-members forming a distinct class, and including anyone connected with buildings, contractors, uneducated architects, superintendents and foremen.

W.	R. GREGG, Registrar O.A.A.



A resolution recently passed by the Dominion Trades Council recites the fact that a great cause of disease is insanitary plumbing, and favors application to the various governments for Legisla tion to compel all municipalities using water works and sewerage systems to appoint a permanent plumbing inspector. There are yet a number of cities in Canada which have no plumbing inspect

or.	These should be compelled to appoint one. In the case of towns the expense would be too great, unless there could be combined with the position other duties.

