

<doctype type="text;plate">Cottage at Weston, Ont. Sketched by A. H. Howard.



<article title="The School Art League Movement" author="">THE SCHOOL ART LEAGUE MOVEMENT.

The Art League movement in Toronto really started with the opening of the Rosedale school in 1896. Mr. Hughes spoke at the time of the art influence in decoration, and referred to the organization in other countries devoted to the improvement of school room decoration. The need of this work being so apparent, the ladies of the district organized a league for the purpose of carrying out this object in the Rosedale school. Money was raised for the scheme by concerts, lectures, etc.

After much active work the members of the league realized that expert advice would be necessary in order to judiciously spend the money which had been collected. With that in view a deputation of the Rosedale League waited on the Ontario Society of Artists, and requested it to co-operate with them in the matter. The result of this meeting was that in December, T898, an Advisory Board was appointed, consisting of four architects, four artists and four lay members, an equal number of each elected by the Ontario Society of Artists and the Toronto Guild of Civic Art. In addition to these active members, four ex-officio members were appointed—the Mayor of Toronto, the Minister of Education, the Chairman of the Public School Board and the Inspector of Public Schools.

At the first meeting of the Board, held in the Education Department early in January, 1899, when Honourable G. W. Ross, then Minister of Education, was present, Mr. J. L. Hughes, Inspector, was elected Chairman and Mr. C. H. Acton Bond was elected Secretary. The Superintendent of Public School Buildings was added as an ex-officio member, and the Woman's Art Association of Canada was asked to appoint three active members. At this meeting the Honourable G. W. Ross offered to have printed and distributed to every school in the province, at the cost of the Government, a pamphlet setting forth the objects of the art leagues, their methods of working, and a suitable list of reproductions of the great pictures of the world, architectural photographs and good plaster casts. This pamphlet the Advisory Board has since prepared and it has been printed and distributed. Other work which the Advisory Board has already done is the preparation of a scheme for the redecoration of the kindergarten room at Rosedale school and supervising its execution. At present the Board is engaged in preparing schemes for decoration of the new rooms which will be added to various schools throughout the city this year, and also is preparing a report to present to the Minister of Education on the teaching of drawing in the public schools. This gives an idea of what the work of the Board is, and what the Board is prepared to do, and the advisory relationship it bears towards the art leagues in general.

When more leagues have been formed, it is proposed

that a central league shall be organized, governing, to some extent, all the branch leagues. This will in no way interfere with the work of the Advisory Board, which has nothing at all to do with the governing of the leagues.

It will be seen that by this organization economy of effort and quick results will be gained, as each school getting advice from a board of experts which is continually accumulating experience in this particular branch of work, must be greatly benefitted, and the work of the art leagues will be done more economically, more thoroughly, and the ultimate results more quickly gained.

The following is a list of the present Board Exofficio members: The Minister of Education, the Mayor of Toronto, the Chairman of the Public School Board, the Superintendent of School Buildings, the Inspector of Public Schools. Representatives appointed by the Art Organizations :—Toronto Guild of Civic Art—A. J. Sommerville, E. F. B. Johnston, E. Wyly Grier, F. S. Challener, Frank Darling, W. A. Langton. Ontario Society of Artists—R. Y. Ellis, Arthur Cox, Eden Smith, C. H. Acton Bond, Gustave Hahn, G. A. Reid. Woman's Art Association of Canada—Mrs. Dignam, Miss Laura Muntz, Mrs. Hemsted.





<article title="Notes on Metals" author="Gardner, J. Rawson">NOTES ON METALS.

By J. Rawson GARDNER.



IN view of the general interest now being taken in Canadian mines and in the development of the mineral resources of this country, the following notes on some well known metals will no doubt be of value. It. is well at times to compare what is being done in Canada with the work that is going on in other countries, and with this object in view certain statistical tables will be quoted—by this means the reader will be able to see at a glance where Canadians stand in comparison with other nations, and thereby gain a truer and more correct idea of the situation.

Let us take, then, for our subject the following five metals : Iron, copper, lead, zinc and tin.



I.—IRON.



This constitutes in its various forms of cast and wrought iron and steel one of the most important materials from an engineer's or architect's point of view. The ore is well distributed and is generally found as red or brown heamatite, magnetite or carbonate, the red haematite variety being mostly mined. The production of iron ore in the United States under these headings for the years 1889, 1893 and 1897 were as follows

	Red	Brown

	Year	Haetuatite.	Haematite. Magnetite.	Carbonate.

	1889	9,056,288	2,523,087	2,506,415	432,251 tons

	1893	8,272,637	1,849,272	1,330,886	134,834

	1897	14,413,318	1,961,954	1,059,479	83,295



The chief producing states in 1897 were

	Michigan      6,087,463 long tons

	Minnesota	5,601,429

	Alabama	2,098,621	"

	All others	3,730,533	"



17,51 8,046





This iron ore was converted into pig iron and steel chiefly in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Alabama. In the last 20 years the world's production of pig iron has increased from slightly over 14 million tons to nearly 33 million tons, while the steel production has increased even more rapidly, only 3 million tons being produced in 1878,

