<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	121



lender, but no warranty of accuracy or practicability was plied. The cases seemed to indicate that some amendment of the law was necessary, and that meanwhile contracts must be very carefully drawn. The best way was, the author held, to make quantities the basis of the contracts, the contractor then being liable only to do work for which he had tendered a price, and the owner only entitled to receive value for which he had agreed to pay. A contract For a complete work included everything necessary to the completion thereof, it being immaterial that such works were omitted from the drawings or specifications, or that certain things were impracticable, or understated or miscalculated, In the case of impracticable plans, where quantities were not part of the contract, authority given to the architect to order extras did not empower him to order work necessary to make plans practicable. Should he order as an extra anything indispensably necessary to the contract, unless his certificate was a final and conclusive one, neither he nor the employer was liable to the builder, who was held to know that the matter was necessary to the completion of the contract. If a contractor had no confidence in an architect, he should avoid a contract which gave the architect sole power to interpret the meaning of all points under the same, for in case of impracticability there might be a difference as to the mode of completion. If the contract contained an arbitration clause, it would bc a matter For reference whether the proposed mode of completion came within the contract. An architect, if not generally empowered to order extras, must obtain the employer's instructions If the contract demanded his written order, he must be careful not to certify for anything done without such order. If quantities did not form part of the contract he must riot order a' extras, or certify for as extras, anything indispensably necessary to completion. There was apparently no implied authority to an architect to order extras. He must be expressly authorized, and the question of his authority was one for a jury. It was, however, the custom to regard the architect as the employers agent in the fullest sense of the word. Although a con tract required writ ten orders for extras, a final and conclusive certificate including amounts in respect of extras would render the employer liable. A verbal promise to pay for extras was valueless. All orders should be transmitted to the builder through the architect in every case. It had been decided that even where interim certificates described and included additional work such certificates did not dispense with the necessity for written orders. It was to be noted that the measuring surveyor had no authority with respect to performance under the contract. He had to deal with facts and matters placed before him by the architect. The granting of a final certificate required great care. If the architect certified as to extra work which had not been done, or was indispensable, the employer must pay unless he could prove negligence, or fraud, or collusion. The case of " Rogers v. James was quoted in this connection, as well as that of " Tullis v. Jackson. To come under the heading of extras, additional work must be done under orders issued during the execution of the contract, all subsequent orders coming as a matter of fresh transaction, In the case of considerable variations during the execution of the contract, the work must be considered "extra," provided there was evidence that the parties agreed to its being subject to contract terms Where departure from plans involved a fresh class of work or material, such extra work was beyond the contract altogether. It was, however, customary to stipulate that no variations should vitiate the contract but that all authorized extras and omissions should be measured and valued. An architect had no power to substitute one class of work or materials for another without adjustment in the final settlement. All dealings between builder and employer should, as he had said, bc conducted through the medium of the architect. If, from any cause, it were necessary to substitute other material or work for those specified, the architect must be apprised of any extra cost, and sanction must be obtained in the manner provided in the contract. If, however, the contract were one involving a necessity to complete, within a definite time, for a certain sum of' money, it would be at the contractors expense that other materials or work were substituted, subject to the sanction of the architect. If the cost to the contractor were less, the employer could not claim a reduction. The architect should have full power to reasonably extend the time for carrying out a contract if the delay were due to extras ordered. The important case of " Dodd v. Churton," decided, with reference to the case of liquidated damages for failing to complete within a certain time, that if the delay were consequent on orders for additional work, the contractor was exonerated from payment of damages, unless there were an express agreement to the contrary. Great difficulty frequently arose from the adoption of old forms of contract with added clauses which overlapped the main clauses, especially in the clause referring all matters in dispute to an arbitrator, and the clauses making the architect's decision final. Thc author, in conclusion, dealt with the adjustment of accounts, which he said was generally left to the surveyor who prepared the quantities, who had a priced copy of the bill of quantities deposited with him at the beginning of the contract, The question of incorporating the quantities as part of the contract must be determined by the circumstances in each case, and thc decision in " Priestly v. Stone should be carefully considered as governing the law at present under the particular conditions obtaining in that case. Above all, fairness to all parties was the essence of a sound contract. No enmity should be allowed to influence the dealings between contractors and employers, and the proper duty of the surveyor was to eliminate as far as possible all uncertainties and points of dispute before the signing of the contract.





<article title="Prizes for Essays" author="">PRIZES FOR ESSAYS.

The National Educational Association of the United States offer the following prizes :—For the best essay submitted on each of the following topics The seating, the lighting, the heating, and the ventilating of school buildings, $200.

For the second best essay submitted on each topic, $100

Each essay shall be limited to 10,000 words and shall he submitted in printed or typewritten COPY without signature, but with name of author enclosed with it in sealed envelope and addressed to the chairman of the committee at Emporia, Kansas. Three copies of each essay shall be submitted. They must be mailed not later than February I, 1901. The essays and envelopes will be properly numbered for identification and the former forwarded to three experts to be hereafter appointed by this committee. Each expert will be ignorant of the appointment of time others and their combined judgment shall determine award. Should no essay on any topic be found worthy of an award and publication, the committee reserve the right to withhold t he same.

The council reserve the exclusive right for the National Educational Association to copyright the prize essays and to publish the same for general distribution.

The essay on ventilation should include full suggestions concerning the use of disinfectants.

Should the awards on two or more essays be made to the same person, he will be permitted to revise and unify the manuscript before publication by the committee.





<article title="Building Conditions" author="">BUILDING CONDITIONS.

The unusually high price of most classes of building materials, more particularly lumber and metal goods, coupled with the demands of workmen for increased wages, is affecting unfavorably building enterprise. At Ottawa, where in consequence of the recent fire a large volume of building was in prospect, there has been a deadlock resulting from the demand of the builders and laborers for a substantial increase in wages, but the difficulty is now at an end. The season is advancing and unless labor troubles are speedily adjusted and prices of materials shall rule lower than at present, there will be much less building done than was anticipated.



Mr. M. J. Hynes is said to have sold to the Perth Amboy Terra Cotta Co. his patent kiln for the burning of terra cotta. Thc special feature of this kiln is that thc fire, after passing up through the walls to the top of the kiln, is brought down again through the centre, thus heating the kiln more uniformly throughout.

A new Plumbing Board has been appointed at Ottawa, of which the City Engineer, Mr. John Gait, is chairman. The other members of the Board are Dr. Robillard. Wm. McKinley, plumber, and E. L. Horwood, architect. The Board have carefully revised the local plumbing by-law and submitted same for the approval of the council.

The American Institute of Architects have begun the publication of a quarterly Bulletin, the first number of which is before us. It comprises fifty pages, 7 x 9 1/2 inches in size, devoted to chapter notes, a list of competitions for government buildings, a list of publications received during the quarter, and an index of literature from the publications of Architectural Societies and Periodicals on Architecture and allied subjects which are sent in exchange to the Institute. The Bulletin is edited and compiled by the secretary of the Institute, Mr. Glenn Brown.

