<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN k ARCHITECT AND 



of the building full size through thc roof, carrying them to a sufficient height to he well above adjacent windows, then there will be a natural circulation of air through the entire system of both public and private sewers, and the outlet from the sewers which is acknowledged to he a necessity, will he above the general line of the house tops and not at the street level as is thc case when the intercepting trap is adopted. The higher temperature of the pipes passing through thc building, especially in the cold season, will insure this circulation at he time when it is most required. Of course there arc exceptions to all rules, and there are no doubt in all cities Certain places where the local conditions would call for the placing of a trap in thc private sewer; such cases call for the exercise of the skill and experience of thc practical plumber and sanitary engineer. It is no more possible to lay down a rule covering every possible contingency called for in scientific plumbing and ventilating, than it is to apply fixed rules to the practice of medicine. If it were there would be little need of skilled and experienced physicians. The principles of scientific medicine and plumbing are fixed, but the application of these principles calls for the intelligence acquired by education and developed by practice.



Much injury has been done by attempting to frame plumbing by-laws that would apply to every case. 'The conditions vary in almost every building, and to adapt the principles to the special requirements requires not only practical but scientific knowledge. If the American Public Health Association should make a study of thc general principles covering this question and embody them in a code having its endorsation, leaving the practical application of these principles to those whose special duty it is to apply them, much good would result. In conclusion, conditions exist in northern climates during that portion of the year when snow is on the ground that completely neutralize the effect of the perforated man hole covers over the street sewers, and during such time. in cities where the intercepting trap is in general use, the main sewers are without ventilation, and a serious condition of affairs exists, as the buildings being heated to a greater degree than the outer air has a cupping action, and draws the air from the sewers into them, beneath the frozen and almost impervious top soil and paved roadways where the soil is porous. This is sure to occur, even when the buildings are situated a considerable distance away from the main sewers.

Sewers breathe ! Under certain conditions the air will rush into them, again it is being expelled with considerable force. Atmospheric conditions partly account for this, hut the varying quantities of solid and liquid matter constantly entering and leaving them has an important hearing on the question. Such being the case proper breathing places must be provided, and any attempt to bottle up the sewer air will end in failure, and what place so suitable as above the roofs of the buildings, where the wind will disperse the foul gases and the light and air disinfect them.





<article title="Legal" author="">LEGAL.

THE ASBESTOS AND THE ASBESTIC COMPANY vs. THE W. SCLATER Co., LIMITED.-- -The petitioner alleged that it acquired from the Danville Asbestos and Slate Company, and are owners of, asbestos mines, situate in the township of Shipton that on the 5th July, 1899, the company transferred and assigned to the

petitioners a trade mark obtained by the former and registered on the 3rd February, 1896 which trade mark has the words Asbestic Wall Plaster surmounting a trowel, on which was inscribed the letter A that the respondents have been, and are, in violation of law, using the words of the trade mark, and are selling what purports to be an asbestic wall plaster stamped and labelled as such that respondents thereby induce the public to believe that they are buying a product of the petitioners that petitioners have extensively advertised their product and have established a large and lucrative business in selling asbestic wall plaster and have acquired a right of property in said words. The petitioners prayed for an injunction to rest rain the respondents, and their

agents from further selling any goods or materials under the name of asbestos wall plaster, and that the respondents he condemned to pay $1,000 damages. The plea was to the effect that the petitioners, could not by the said alleged trade mark, obtain the use of the works asbestic wall plaster, and the Government of Canada could not give petitioners the sole right to use said words ; that respondents had sold asbestic wall Plaster long previous to the 3rd February. 1896, and since, and have the right to make use of the works '' asbestic wall plaster,' the word asbestic being merely an indication and description of the article

sold by respondents. The plea was maintained anti the action dismissed by the Superior Court of Montreal.

KELLY vs. SUTHERLAND.—The plaintiff brought action in the courts at Montreal, for $910 balance alleged to be due for work done by the plaintiff for defendant in connection with the construction and alteration of a building upon a property belonging to the latter, under a contract of date 8th October, 1897, which work the plaintiff alleged was completed and accepted on the 20th December', 1897, at which date there was due to him a balance of $1,000 for which sum he, on the 15th January, 1898, registered, with defendant's consent, a builder's privilege upon the property whereon the building was erected, viz., on the northeast portion of lot 791, St. Lawrence ward. The plaintiff in consequence, besides praying for a personal condemnation against the defendant, concluded hypothecarily for the abandonment of the property. The defendant pleaded denying his alleged ownership of the property in question, or possession of it as owner, denying, further, that plaintiff finished t he work under the contract alleged, or that the defendant at any time owed him anything, and alleging that under the contract the plaintiff was paid from time to time as the work progressed ; that tip to the 20th December, 1897, he had been paid $925, and up to the 15th January, 1898, $1,300.39, which sums much exceeded the value of the work clone tip to that date that the privilege alleged was registered with defendant's consent, but merely as a means of enabling him to borrow money, he at the t time owing the plaintiff nothing ; t hat about the t St Ii April, 1898, the plaintiff baying then done work under the contract not exceeding in value $1,250, and having received $1,590.69 in cash, besides $132.62 in goods, making in all $1,723.31, refused to proceed with and complete the work thereunder, and the defendant was compelled to complete it himself at a cost of $515.96 making a total expenditure by the defendant over and above the contract

price of $289.27 ; that, moreover, any claim that plaintiff could have was compensated by the sum of $132.62 due by him to the defendant for goods sold ; that plaintiff's work was not acceptable, but done in an unskillful and unworkmanlike manner, and would as to a large part, have to he renewed at great expense, for which the defendant reserved his recourse. To this plea the plaintiff answered, denying its allegations, and alleging that he only abandoned the works in question because the defendant, though duly

protested, refused to pay him in accordance with the contract; that any goods he ever bought, he bought not from the defendant, hut from A. Sutherland & Co., and paid for them in cash that when plaintiff abandoned the work, it was in good order and condition, and there remained to he done work not exceeding in value $150. The court proceeded to appreciate the evidence as to the different items of the plaintiff's claim, and came to the conclusion that the plaintiff had established his demand to the extent of $235.75, for which amount judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff, and t lie privilege was maintained.



<article title="Foliated Arches" author="">FOLIATED ARCHES.

From the invention of the arch to the middle of the eleventh century no other form of it was used except the semi-circular and segmental. About this period license was taken to alter the forms of arches ; the pointed arch was introduced, and with it a variety of other forms, as ogees, horseshoes and ellipses. At the same time there came in the practice of foiling arches—that is, of uniting a series of three or more by their bases so as to form one, which is termed a trefoil, quatrefoil, cinquefoil, and so on, according to the number of its component arches or foils, as they may be termed. These foils may be either of the same or different forms, but are generally of an odd number, with one in the centre and the zest disposed in similar pairs on each side of it. They are often all circular or all pointed, and sometimes all ogees. An ogee or pointed between two circular foils is a very common arrangement ; the lower pair are commonly imperfect semi-circles, from their being continued downwards to form the sides of the arch, but in some of the earlier examples are made complete semi-circles. The pointed arch, from its united strength and convenience, of course, assumed the prominent place, and was used in all the larger and essential pails of the fabric, while the other forms were reserved for the decorative arcades, the galleries, doors and windows. These arches when at first introduced were treated in composition exactly in the same manner as the circular arches had been, and were mixed with them. The other characteristics of the Pointed style were invented before or after their introduction, and may be traced from their first imperfect germs to their final perfection entirely amongst European buildings, so that the notion of the Pointed style being' introduced complete is at any rate erroneous.

