<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	'39



with rubbed joints cost nearly twice as much as an arch made up of chipped bricks. Again, an elliptical or a four centred gothic arch costs much more to build and prepare the bricks than either of the foregoing. Circular work of any kind, bay windows or oriels, octagonal work, panels, belt courses, cornicing, gables, chimneys and offsets, take much more time to construct than ordinary running work, and should be provided for in the estimate. Hollow walls should be measured as per the actual thickness of the brickwork, with ample allowance for bonding and for extra labor. Half of all openings should be counted as solid wall under 10 feet. face measure, to cover waste and extra labor. Bricks laid up in cement should be charged for extra labor and extra cost of cement. All wrought-iron bonding when used must be charged extra, as well as extra time employed in setting same. Building in fireplaces, setting in grates, placing in jamb tiles, and laying hearths should all be charged extra apart from the cost of materials. Piers for steps or for verandahs having two or more faces are extras and should be priced accordingly. When colored mortar is used there should be added to price of labor from to 8 per cent., besides the extra cost of material ; black mortar being the most costly to handle. Cleaning down the walls, while generally considered by contractors as run in with the price per thousand, is really an extra, and should be charged as such when closing the estimate, so also, should be the cleaning up of the grounds and removal of waste and rubbish. In topping off walls or finishing copings where cement is employed, the extra cost should be included in the estimate. In figuring up for the number of bricks required to complete any given quantity of work, the following rules may be of service. As before stated all openings having 100 or more square feet are not counted, but all having less than 100 feet are measured as one-half solid wall, therefore an opening having 90 square feet surface should be measured to contain 45 square feet of solid wall. This is allowed to cover waste and extra cuttings. Openings should all be measured at their greatest height and width. In measuring for a nine inch wall it is usual to allow 12 bricks for every square foot on the face of the wall, and for a 13 inch wall 22 bricks for each square foot, and 29 bricks for an 18 inch wall. In an experience of many years the writer has found these figures to be a trifle under the mark, and found that about per cent. added to the result was nearer the correct thing. Chimneys having 9 x 9 or 9 x 13 flues are generally measured solid throughout, but chimneys having larger flues some reduction may be allowed. No reduction should be allowed for stone trimmings, such as caps, quoins, sills or stone belt courses, if the bricklayer sets the stones, but it the stones are set by a mason or other contractor. One barrel of lime contains three bushels, which, with one yard of sand, will make one yard of to 3 mortar, which will lay about 8o feet cubic of rough brickwork or common rubble. One yard of colored mortar should lay about 90 cubic feet of fine brickwork. There should always be a damp course in brickwork, and the estimator should provide for this in his estimate. It may be of slate, asphalt or cement.



<article title="Setting Stone Work" author="">AFTER the blocks are properly prepared and the surface on which they are to bed being truly level, the setting is an

operation demanding great care in order to secure good joints and solid trustworthy work. In stonework, it

Setting Stone Work.

must always be borne in mind, only fine mortar is admissible, and this should be clean and the materials sharp, and it is important that no dirt, clay, or other uncementitious substance be interposed, as this destroys the binding of the cement, and, if of hard texture, is liable to fracture or chip of the delicate arrises of the blocks. Large stones should be first tried on their beds before setting, and then raised and withdrawn, the bed finally cleaned, well wetted, and the mortar laid even ; the stone should then be brought near its place and gently lowered upon wedges, by withdrawing which it is brought exactly to its bed, when it may be pounded down home by a suitable wooden mall or block of timber. Stones are raised and lowered by aid of a lewis, which is a contrivance for securing a firm hold of them, without defacing the faces or injuring the joints, the lewis hole being made on the top of the block, which becomes in turn the bed for the stone above. Cramps, joggles, dowels and plugs are names commonly applied to four different forms of connections respectively, thus A cramp, which may be of lead or copper, is from six to ten inches in length, and from to 1 1/4 inches in thickness, having each end turned up to act as the cramp, and from one to two inches wide, according to the size of the stones to be joined together. If the cramp is of copper it is forged to the form and run in with lead. Lead cramps are formed at once by running the molten lead into the channels prepared for

it. Joggles are of a double wedge form and usually of slate. They are sometimes cubes, inserted so that their diagonals coincide with the joints. Slate joggles and dowels are laid in fine cement or oil putty. Dowels are of a common square section, and are more frequently applied vertically, that is, to the beds of the stones, being inserted in the top of one block of stone and the bottom of another. A plug is similar to a dowel, but is formed by the mortices being run with cement or lead. Mason work is known as "plain" when worked to a smooth face ; " sunk," when " cut in"; "stopped," when not finished to the end of a stone moulded, straight, cornices, strings, etc., without a bend; "circular," moulded circular neckings, columns, etc.

circular circular," as in niches, domes and spheres "dressed" or "cleansed" on face, and "tooled" on face. About 1/8 the volume of ashler masonry should be mortar. Rubble masonry per cubic yard requires, of stone 115 and of mortar, 1/4 Masons' specifications require very careful consideration, in so far as the description, quality, and mode of working stone goes, but the architect's drawings should furnish all necessary information as to the quantity and disposition of the stonework of a building. Half-inch scale drawings should be prepared of the masonry of windows, doors, and other features, and the jointing should be well shown on drawings. These details may be supplemented with one-eighth or quarter full-size sections of window jambs, sills and mullions, door jambs and mouldings, piers with their arch mouldings, bases and caps, cornices, columns, etc. The net amount of stonework can thus be actually computed by the estimator, and the contractor can obtain a fair idea of the amount of labor on the work. Such details are also most useful to the architect when the preparation of the full-size working drawings has to be undertaken, as he can discover exactly how much stone is required for any feature.



The employees of the McClary Manufacturing Company, London, Ont., held their annual picnic recently at Port Stanley.

