<doctype type="text;ad;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER	43

any more than a conjectural reply to hisquery regarding the cause of the cracks mentioned. We do not think they are the result of oscillation as only, at most, about forty feet of the shaft is above the building to which the base of the chimney is attached. Doubtless the cracks are the result of unequal expansion and contraction, the greater bulk of brickwork below expanding much more than the bulk above the building, and the greater mass retaining heat longer allows the upper part to cool and shrink long before the lower. One remedy would be to cut the shaft clear off from the building and reinforce it one brick thick to the cracked zone and finish off with offsets. If the walls of the chimney are two or more bricks thick in the zone of cracks perhaps a good repair could be made by

raking out the joints clean, wetting the bricks well, and pointing the joints with good strong Portland cement mortar. This might be effectual, if not, the former suggestion might be adopted.

With reference to making hollow walls in factory chimneys, which is frequently done, there is no trick about it. Sometimes the lower corner of bricks are made from fire-clay, particularly when great heat is to be generated in the furnace, and the wall is carried up vertically and bonded here and there to the main wall as the brickwork progresses. The hollow does not usually run lip to top of chimney, but dies in the batter of the shaft. For a scientific treatise on the building of factory chimneys we refer our correspondent to "Chimneys for Furnaces, Fireplaces and Steam Boilers," by R. Armstrong. C. E., D. Van Nostrand, Publisher, price 50 cents. This little work contains much information concerning factory chimneys.—EDITOR C. A. & B.]





Mr. George Simpson, formerly assistant civil engineer of the Northern Pacific Railway, has accepted the position of chief engineer of the Province of Manitoba.

The N. T. Lyon Glass Company, of Toronto, have recently been appointed sole agents for Canada for the Solar Prism Co., of Cleveland, Ohio, manufacturers of glass prisms for the refraction of light into dark interiors.

There is nothing magical about advertising. It is one of the tools of trade, just as a chisel is a tool of carpentry. The man who handles the chisel properly can do many useful things with it. If he is careless and awkward he is likely to cut himself.—C. A. Bates.

The annual meeting of the Winnipeg Builders' Exchange was held a fortnight ago when the following officers were elected President, A. McDonald first vice-president, A. G. Akin ; second vice-president, A. Sutherland ; treasurer, J.G. Latimer, re-elected; secretary, H. Elliott, re-elected.

This illustration is from a photograph of a special design which we made in sheet copper after a prominent Montreal architect's model. It was only 27 inches high. Nevertheless, when completed every line was sharp and as distinct as was intended, We are prepared to execute similar work in sheet copper or zinc which we guarantee to be equal in every respect to the best foreign makers.

We manufacture and carry a complete stock of Brackets, Garlands, Spun Halls and parts, Lawn Pieces, and are prepared to fill all orders promptly. Our large new catalogue will be sent by express— prepaid—on request.



THE PEDLAR PEOPLE

OTTAWA, ONT.

Branch—22 Victoria Square, Montreal, Que.

