<doctype type="text">

shown. Fig. 8 exhibits an equilatoral gothic arch. This is described by two equal radii from the points o o, as centers, and jointed from the same points. Lancet gothic arches are drawn with a greater radius, having as centers points beyond the center, o o, with he lines of the curves starting from the points as shown in the diagram. A much flatter gothic arch is shown at Fig. g, the centers for the curves being within the span of the arch, as shown at o o. Gothic arches of any degree of acuteness may be obtained in the manner shown at Fig. 8, it only needs to use a greater radius when making the curves. The same also applies to











































































fiat arches; the nearer the radius is to a semi-circle the flatter the arch will be.





BESIDES the arches we have illustrated, there are many others, among which

may be mentioned, flat arches, of which there are various styles, and which are used over square top sash and door frames, and for lintels over open fire-places, and other similar purposes. There are also various kinds of Moorish or horseshoe arches, and of arches with semi-circular soffit, and a gothic outline outside, also rampant or raking arches, skew arches and arches that are inverted, as well as relieving arches. There is also an arch called the winged arch, in which the voussoirs are continued on horizontal line of the spring to some distance beyond the face of the inside wall or jamb. The different styles of arches and the manner of working them, and obtaining the lines for their con-

Other Arches.

struction, will form ample material for further comment. There are other classes of work, such as forming arched windows in circular walls that will surely be of interest to those engaged in the construction of buildings. To the carpenter, a thorough knowledge of lines pertaining to such work as has been described in these pages, is indispensable, for on him devolves the duty of laying out pretty nearly all the work of a constructive nature about a building.



<article title=" THE LATE G. H. WALLACE " author="">

THE LATE G. H. WALLACE.

THE death of Geo. H. Wallace, contractor and builder, of Sussex, N. B., is to be deeply regretted in the trade, which loses thereby one who has been eminently respected at all times and who took an active part for many years in the building up of his province.









































THE LATE G. H. WALLACE, SUSSEX, N. B.





The deceased was a native of Nottingham, Eng., where he was born in 1827. He received a good education, and at an early age entered the army, in which he served some years in both Scotland and Ireland.

In 1848 he came to Canada and settled in Sussex where he worked at his trade as a carpenter and builder. In late years he was a justice of the peace, a stipendiary magistrate, and in 1879 was made collector of customs, which latter office he filled until his death.

Four children survive him: Mrs. A. D. Sharp, of

Campbellton, Mrs. Quigg, of Boston, and two sons, F.

W.	and W. H., who comprise the present firm of

Wallace Bros., contractors and builders.





A new factory, 100 X 560 feet in size is in process of construction at Walkerville, Ont., for the Ontario Bridge Works. The structure will be a steel frame, fireproofed, and will cost $20,000. The company will employ 150 workmen in the manufacture of steel bridges, roofs and building material.



Attention is called to the announcement in this issue of the Imperial Varnish Company of Toronto. This company are manufacturers of high grade varnish for architectural and other purposes. Architects and others of our readers who have occasion to specify or use this material would do well to look into the merits of this company's goods.



According to Leslie's Weekly the Chinese are a nation living in brick houses in a land without a brick-making machine. All the millions of homes in the thousands of walled cities are built of brick, and every brick made by hand. These bricks are made by labor costing but 10 cents per day, still they cost more than our machine brick made with labor costing 25 times as much,

