<doctype type="text;plate">	40	ARCHITECT 



<article title="Correspondence – Design of Kiosks on Dufferin Terrace, Quebec" author="">CORRESPONDENCE

DESIGN OF KIOSKS ON DUFFERIN TERRACE, QUEBEC.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—Having in the past and lately again been several times asked by architects and others from the Maritime provinces and elsewhere for plans of the kiosks designed by me, now some 20 years ago, and since erected, five in number, along the 1500 feet





KIOSKS ON DUFFERIN TERRACE, QUEBEC.





frontage of Dufferin terrace, Quebec, it has occurred to me to have .one of them photographed, and if reproduced in your paper it will thus reach the world over.

Our band stands are structures of the same design mounted on a substructure or basement of a height sufficient to answer as a resting place for the bondsmen. to enjoy their smoke and glass of beer.

The kiosk proper is of cast and wrought iron, 20 feet in diameter, while the roof, for protection against sun and rain, extends to some 30 feet, or 5 feet further all around. The roof, little of which is seen in the photo, is of an ogee or of double curved profile reducing. to a straight slope over its salient portion.

CHAS. BAILLARGE,



Architect and Engineer.

QUEBEC, February 29, 1900.





<article title="Correspondence – Some Novel Architectural Features" author="">SOME NOVEL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—As spring will again soon be to hand when ladies will Be anxious to give their wintered flowers an airing your readers will perhaps be interested in the accompanying engraving, illustrative of a novel and desirable feature introduced to public attention by the writer, in the facade of a new house now being built by h m in Ursuline street, Quebec, at corner of Ursule street.

The house itself is an example of what may be done on a narrow lot of ground (some 20 feet or less) when a porch or carriage way is to run through it to rear of house on opposite street. This is brought about by making the house a few feet deeper and locating the stairway to the several stories across or crossways of the building, or parallel to the front and rear walls, instead of, as usual, parallel to the gable or party walls, thus leaving space for two good rooms: a kitchen and an office on the first or ground level, with cellars below for coals and provisions, and on each of the other floors and in attics-four good sized rooms of I I X 9 feet respectively by 15 to 18 feet according to depth, with folding doors between those front and rear on 2nd floor for an extensible dining room with sliding cupboard above kitchen. and allowing of throwing the parlor and boudoir into one on the front. of the house, with portiere hangings or screen between them as may be required. This arrangement leaves, opposite to the stairs, ample

space for closets and wardrobes, and between the two a spacious passage or landing on each floor amply and efficiently lighted through the well hole of the stair case by a skylight over center of depth of building.

Porch ways for vehicles are generally made some 7 to 8 feet in width, but feet is sufficient, as vehicles do not generally exceed 5 feet 9 inches to 6 feet 3 inches from out to out of hubs, while by laying a continuous curb all along both sides of the passage way, wheels are confined in them in a manner that the hubs cannot reach or abrade the parallel walls of the porch way. Thus when

a

land is scarce or lot confined, every inch must be carefully considered to meet requirements. Returning now to the novel feature alluded to at the beginning of this article, it consists of an ornamental cast iron (or it may of course be wrought, or both combined) open or trellis work stand for flowers on a wooden or metallic box to suit size of stand or in earthenware or other pots of the ordinary size and shape. These stands are placed under the outer window sills, supported on ornamental work and Cast iron brackets, two or three to a stand as may be desired or required, according to length of stand, for windows of all sizes, from one of only a few inches in width with room for one plant or pot to windows of 3 to 6 feet or more with space for from three to a dozen pots or plants according to size.

Wire stands or of wicker work have been made and can be purchased attachable to window sills, or suspended therefrom; but as a rule they are trashy things liable to get cranked and bent out of all semblance to a thing of beauty. These stands, as now proposed, are executed and to be seen in size and situ under the sills of a bay window, or rather an oriel (the "bay" being so called when originating at ground level while the oriel" is higher up) of the house herein above alluded to. Moreover the roof of the oriel or bay is at its apex made flat for a space of some 2 to 2

by 5 to 6 feet, this being hemmed in by a balustrade of low and appropriate iron cresting, affording space for flowers for the bed room above the parlor.

To render the improvement a practical or practicable one in any and every case, the supporting bracket is of inch by quarter inch wrought iron or steel on edge in pieces solidly rivetted to







































































gether. The triangular space enclosed by the structural portion of the bracket is filled in with ornamental cast or wrought iron scroll work, This construction while so cheap as to be within the reach of every proprietor, allows of the portions entering the walls being forged or cut off to a Point, and of driving the bracket into the wall, whether of wood, brick rubble masonry or cut stone.; and if there be not found in the brick or stone work a mortar joint sufficiently near the ends or centre (when three

