<doctype type="text;plate">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	195



<article title="Montreal" author="">which is in the Louvre, is known from the cuneiform inscription as Gudea. The bust well illustrates the differences between ancient Chaldean and Egyptian work, the latter being admirably exemplified by the bust already in the collection of Khafra, the Pharaoh who built the second pyramid, whose death is approximately 4,000 B. C. There is also a series of Greek heads, an Ephebus from a fifth century bronze in the Louvre, of the Attic school ; the famous Bologna head of bronze, which Professor Furtwaengler thinks an ancient copy of an early masterpiece of Pheidias, of the Lemnian Athena. Besides these, there are copies of the " Sorrowing Demetei,' now in the British Museum, dating from the fourth century B.C., the Aberdeen head, also in the British Museum, which is ascribed to Praxiteles, and may be from his own hand and a full sized head and bust of the famous Venus of Melos (Milo), a reduced full length copy of which the university already possesses. There can be no doubt that these form a considerable addition to the architectural room and that they will greatly assist in the illustration and elucidation of the new course of lectures on Ancient Art, which are to be given for the first time at the university this winter.





Branch Office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



Imperial Building.



OCTOBER 12, 1900



R. I. B. A. EXAMINATIONS IN CANADA.



The Royal Institute of British Architects has decided to hold qualifying examinations for Associateship in the Colonies. Montreal has been selected as the examinations centre for the Dominion the first examinations will be held in June, 1901 (from Friday, 21st, to Thursday, 27th ). The subjects embraced in the examinations are (a) Design; (b) Architectural Styles; (c) Construction; (d) Building Materials, Sanitary Science, Specifications and Estimating.

These" Special Examinations" are open to artists of not less than 25 years of age working in the Colonies, either as Architects in practice or as Assistants.

An Associate of the Royal Institute is admitted (under the charter of the Association) to full membership of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects without further examination.

As some who might otherwise wish to take advantage of these examinations may be deterred by lack of special facilities for study in preparation for them, the Professor of Architecture in McGill University has arranged to give a special course of lectures this winter, if a sufficient number of students comes forward, the course to embrace the subject of Architectural Styles, their Features, Mouldings, and Ornament. The lectures will comprise a study in detail of the three great divisions of historical architecture, Classic, Mediaeval, and Renaissance, in accordance with the programme of the Royal Institute. Three lectures will be given per week, illustrated by diagrams, casts, lantern views, photographs, etc. For students attending the course the Architectural Library will be available for reading and reference; it is open in the evening from 7.30 to 10.30, as well as during the day.

The days and hours proposed for this special course are Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday, either from S to 9 a.m. or from 5.30 to 6.30 p.m.; but these may be altered to suit the convenience of the class. The first lecture was given on Tuesday, October 2nd, at 5.30 p.m., in the Classroom, Engineering Building. The fee for the course is fifteen dollars.



ARCHITECTURAL CASTS.



The collection of architectural casts in the Architectural Department of McGill University, has been supplemented by several purchases made by Prof. Capper during his recent visit to Europe, These include a cast of the centre slab of' the southern portion of the frieze of the temple of Apollo Epikourios at Rhigaleia. The subject, which is in high relief, is the combat between Theseus and the Queen of the Amazons. This frieze is perhaps the most important example of advanced fifth century Greek architectural sculpture after the frieze of' the Parthenon at Athens, of which a large and representative selection has already been placed in the collection at McGill. A Cast of a charioteer from the frieze of the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, dating from the fourth century, is remarkable for its spirited treatment.

A draped female torso is reproduced from the original bronze in the National Library at Paris, and a number of representative busts, which will be specially useful for purposes of comparative study of ancient art, have been purchased in Paris and London. Amongst these is the head from Tello on the Euphrates, at least two thousand years older than the Christian era. The original,

MR. G. EMILE TANGUAY,

President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.





HISTORY OF ART AND ARCHAEOLOGY



On this subject a series of lectures are to be given during the coming winter by Prof. Capper, head of the Architectural Department of' McGill University, The first of these lectures illustrated with excellent views of Egyptian and Grecian Architecture, was delivered recently before a large audience of ladies and gentlemen.

PERSONAL.



Mr. J. Emile Vanier, the well known civil engineer, of this city, was accompanied by his family recently sailed for Paris.





ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE IN NORTH TORONTO.—A. FRANK WICKSON, ARCHITECT. WAREHOUSE ON FRONT STREET WEST, TORONTO.—MESSRS.



GORDON AND HELLIWELL, ARCHITECTS.



HOUSE ON LOWTHER AVENUE, TORONTO.—MESSRS. CHADWICK AND



BECKETT (MEMBERS OF TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL



EIGHTEEN CLUB), ARCHITECTS.



CARVED OAK MANTELPIECE IN OLD HOUSE AT DARTMOUTH,



ENGLAND.



The house and room in which this old mantlepiece are to be seen are situated in the street called the Butterwalk, at Dartmouth, in Devonshire. The room also contains a handsomely carved oak cornice. The oak is as black as ebony. In this old house, the erection of which was commenced in 1635 and completed in 1646, Charles II is said to have held his court in 1671.

