<doctype type="text;ad">	224	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

<article title=" SHINGLE STAINS " author="Cabot, Samuel">

SHINGLE STAINS.



70 KIRBY ST., BOSTON, MASS., OCT. 22, 1900. EDITOR CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—We are glad to see your approving notice of the beauty and utility of stained shingle roofs, in editorial on page 186 of your October issue, but very sorry to see you giving the same approval to the hap-hazard stains that are made on the ground to suit each job. That part of the editorial tends distinctly toward the cheapening of building materials, to their injury.

We have been making shingle stains for nearly twenty years, having been the originator of this article, and as chemists who have made a study of the subject for all that time and longer, we have reason to believe ourselves more competent to speak upon it than any architect, however well equipped he may be in his own profession, or yourselves, whose ability in your profession is undoubted; because it is our profession and not yours.

For these twenty years we have tried to make an article which could not be improved upon for quality, and have guaranteed every gallon put out. We have used the most expensive and carefully selected pigments, ground them in our own mills, formulated them in our own laboratory, and compounded them in our own works; and yet the gentleman who penned the editorial in question appears to think that any painter, acting under the direction of any architect, can make a good enough shingle stain by stirring color into a vehicle, without knowing with any accuracy what the color is, chemically, or whether the vehicle is one that will benefit the wood. Would he take the same position regarding paint, or varnish, or other materials?

We know from many analyses that these "mixed-on-the-job" stains are nine out of ten of them hap-hazard; with vehicles of kerosene or other worthless and inflammable petroleum product

and pigments stirred in with a paddle without grinding. The use of these stains, by architects (and others) who do not realize that a true and good stain requires as much care and experience to make as a good paint, has given shingle-staining in general a doubtful reputation among the undiscriminating, and we dislike to see a journal of your standing giving encouragement to such things "on the ground of cheapness. Hoping that you will see the propriety of our protest, we remain

Yours truly,

SAMUEL CABOT.



The portion of the article which referred to the use of "mixed-on-the-job" stains, was not an expression of opinion by the writer, but a statement of the opinion expressed to him by an architect.--EDITOR C. A. & B.I





MANUFACTURING NOTES.

The Canadian Litholite Company, of Owen Sound, has been incorporated with a capital of $50,000.



A large deposit of clay suitable for the manufacture of paving bricks has recently been discovered at Wabigoon, Ont., and a brick manufactory will be established there.



Inducements in the form of a bonus of $2,000 and an excellent water privilege are being offered by the citizens of Tamworth to secure the removal of the cement works from Marlbank to that town.

A syndicate represented by Messrs. S. F. Mackenzie, G. H. French and J. Jeffries, has been organized to develop an extensive deposit of terra cotta and pottery clay on Salt Spring Island, near Vancouver, B.C.

Application for incorporation has been made by the Imperial

Sand, Brick and Stone Company, with a capital stock of $200,000.

The company controls a valuable manufacturing patent process.

The head office of the company will be in Toronto. Mr. Chas.

D.	Warren, president of the Trader's Bank, will be president and

managing director.





METALLIC ROOFING COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO, CANADA