

<doctype type="text">fees for 1899 is 26, of which to are in class I, 4 in class 3, 3 are in class 5, are in class 6, and 4 in class 7. The receipts, expenditures and balances for the last three years are as follows

		1897. 	  1898. 	 1899.

	Receipts	$ 254.65	$ 375.40	$230.65

	Expenditure	143.00	  314.72	 317.86

	Balance	1,021.78	 1,082.46	 995.25

	                 Respectfully		submitted,

	                      G R ANT		H ELLI WELL,	Treasurer.



On motion by the Treasurer, seconded by Mr. D. B. Pick, the report as submitted was received and adopted.

The report of the Librarian and Registrar was submitted by the Registrar, Mr. W. A. Langton, as follows:

REPORT OF REGISTRAR AND LIBRARIAN.



Members—Continuing the system recommended by the convention of 1898, only three members have been printed 00 the Annual Register who are not in arrears for the annual fee for a longer period than three years. The membership as thus printed for 1899 numbered 31 non-resident members, 28 resident members, 3 travelling members, and 1 honorary member in all 63 members. One member has since withdrawn.

STUDENTS. -There has been one student registered. The examinations were held in April. The board of examiners was Prof. Galbraith (chairman), Messrs. C. H. C. Wright, S. G. Curry, R. J. Edwards, W. R. Gregg, Grant Helliwell, W. A. Langton, S. H. Townsend and. A. F. Wickson. There were two students examined one for the first examination, who passed well and one for the second examination, who is required to take a supplemental in one subject.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE COUNCIL.—The principal work of the Council has been the consideration of proposals for reforms in the working of the Association. A circular letter making a list of proposals was sent out to members of the Association with a request for an opinion as to their usefulness and feasibility. Only nine replies were received. An effort was made to obtain from prominent citizens of Toronto thc sum of $5,000 for the purpose of endowing a travelling scholarship for architectural students. The effort did not meet with success.

In response to a request from the Royal Institute of British Architects, the Council have undertaken to conduct for Ontario the R.I.B.A. special examination, open to practising architects not less than 25 years of age, or to chief assistants over 30, and qualifying for associateship of the R.I.B.A.

The Council have endeavored to procure the use of the Association Conditions of Competition for the new Toronto market, and also wrote to the syndicate of the proposed new lintel in Toronto setting forth reasons why it would be desirable to have a local architect in preference to an American.

THE LIBEARY.—There have been 48 lendings among 19 borrowers. There has been added to the library "Modern Plumbing and Steam and Hot Water Heating," by J. J. Lawler.



On motion by the Registrar, seconded by Mr. F. Darling; the report was received and adopted.

Mr. Pearson inquired if any action had been taken in regard to communicating wit h the Quebec association, as the Council had been requested to do with a view to securing for members of the Ontario Association in good standing the privileges of the Quebec Association.

Mr. Wickson explained that it had not been thought necessary to take any action, because on looking into the matter it was seen by the constitution of the Quebec Association it was provided that members of other associations of equal standing might be admitted to the desired privileges.

Mr. Aylsworth inquired if the report just read was the only report the Association received from the Council? He thought when the Council met for the transaction of business several times during the year, there ought to be a fuller report to the Association of what had taken place at the meetings.

The President replied that the report just adopted embodied the reports of everything that had come up for consideration by the Council.

Mr. A. F. Wickson said that while no doubt that was correct, yet a great deal of work had been done by the Council in regard to the travelling scholarship alone, of which the report said nothing. For instance, a number of persons were personally visited in regard to raising the necessary funds for the proposed scholarship.

Mr. Aylsworth said that was exactly the kind of information he desired to elicit ; he thought full information of that kind should be afforded.

The Registrar, Mr. Langton, said that the details were recorded in the minutes of the Council ; the report was a skeleton stating the results that had been accomplished.

Mr. W. R. Gregg asked if the report of the Consulting Committee was not really a report from the Council as well.

The Registrar stated that it was not, but was the independent report of the committee.

Mr. Aylsworth said he gladly accepted the explanation given by the Registrar, but the fact still remained that a great deal of work was done by the Council during the year of which the Association had no information. He thought with a fuller knowledge of the doings of the Council the members would be in a better position to discuss many of the subjects that came up at the convention, and there would be less confusion and misapprehension, He would therefore suggest that in future fuller reports be furnished by the Council, stating not only what had been accomplished, but also that which had been attempted.

Mr. Darling thought what Mr. Aylsworth asked was reasonable, and that it might be well to give the members a history, more or less elaborate, of what the Council had attempted ; the causes of failure in one direction or success in another ; the attitude of persons with whom they were thrown in contact, etc. Such a report, he thought, would arouse considerable interest. Take, for instance, this question of the travelling scholarship, it would have been of interest to know the position taken by the persons approached, and the exact reasons why the scheme had been found impracticable.

The Registrar pointed out that to make a record of all that had been attempted but resulted only in smoke would not make very scientific minutes ; but he could make a report that would be a happy medium. This report should not be spoken of as the report of the Council. The proceedings of the Council were reported in it but the manner of doing so was his own.

Mr. Gemmell said it was not possible to keep the record in any other way than that followed. If members desired further information it could be given on being asked for.

The President agreed with the view taken by the last speaker, and suggested that '' business arising out of the minutes," afforded the opportunity of asking for the information that was desired.

Mr. Wickson thought it would be a good suggestion for the new Council to report a little more fully as to what had been done and what attempted. The report just read showed that the project for the travelling scholarship had been abandoned because found not feasible. He thought it would have been interesting to know how many people in the city were willing to contribute and how many were not.

Mr. Darling pointed out that the desired information could be obtained by moving to have the correspondence relative to the matter in question read.

Mr. Aylsworth said after the discussion that had taken place, he was content to leave it as a suggestion for the future guidance of the Council.

The next business taken tip was the report of the Consulting Committee, appointed to consider and report on resolutions moved by Mr. F. S. Baker, in the convention of 1899, which, report was as follows



REPORT OF THE CONSULTING COMMITTEE.



This Committee was appointed primarily to consider and report on the following resolutions made by Mr. F. S. Baker, in tile Convention of 1899

1.	To find, and if possible obtain an option upon, premises which would make a suitable headquarters for the Association.

To consider the advisability of increasing the membership fee, and of using a portion of' the increased income to form a benevolent fund, to be used for the relief of any worthy member who may be in distressed circumstances.

3.	To approach the government with a view to their appropriating funds to provide a medal, to be known as the '' Ontario Gold Medal,' to be presented annually to time member of the Association, or other architect, whose work in ordinary practice in Ontario is considered of the highest merit.

4.	To consider the advisability of providing a suitable medal out of the funds of the Association annually, and of raising a sum of money by popular subscription, or otherwise, to found a scholarship, or travelling studentship, ama1 that this medal and scholarship be presented each year to tile student who ranks highest in the final examination for qualification for membership, or for other qualifications.

The Committee was instructed also to consider other matters to confer with the Council from to time amid to present a definite report to the Convention of 1900.

The committee beg to report as follows

m. They have procured an option upon rooms suitable for the uses of the Association. The rooms are situated at 94-96 King

