<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



strength in No. 120, Old Hoover Homestead on Lake Erie.' I is rather a contrast to the highly finished method of the last mentioned artist, but it shows that Miss Galbraith is not only a keen observer of nature, but that she has attained considerable mistress-ship of pencil and brush.

Mr. Carl Ahrens has some Ahrenesque landscapes which are full of mysticism and strange color. We like thc best his "Landscape," No. next his "Early Morning," No. 2, which has much poetic charm ; we would as soon have "The Coming of Night,' No. 1 as any other conundrum of the kind, while his

Nearing the End of Day," is really delightful and should find a ready purchaser.

Mr. Edward Morris does not paint for ordinary people or in ordinary ways, nor does he, to our thinking interpret nature any less mystically than Carl Ahrens. We take his disregard of the ordinary conventions to be a little too disregardful but, given a proper amount of shutting one's eyes to nature and detail, his pictures may no doubt be enjoyed when one stands far enough away from them and looks at them with a selective eye. These things are true of Mr. Morris' " Landscape," No. 45 He and Mr. Ahrens are the mystics of the exhibition.

Mr. W. Cutts is one of the men who have made progress during the past eight or ten years. His '' Far into the Summer," No. to, is a workmanlike landscape. In " A Winter's Sunset," No. 13, he has shown that he can tread in the footsteps of the veteran Jacob.

Miss Florence Carlyle has a clever portrait of a young girl in a white frock and black stockings, with roses scattered about her. It is a tour de force in its way, and shows some of the virile vigor that characterizes Miss Muntz. Miss Carlyle's " Hollyhock Time," No. 19, is painted in the interests of the paint and color manufacturers.

Mr. Reid's "Study in Low Tones," No. 54, is a really good piece of portrait work, as those will concede who have the honor of the acquaintance of the well known and gifted lady who is the subject, and who have any notion of what a portrait should be. His pastel of a man reading has, we understand, been chosen by ballot as a purchase of the Ontario Government, and, on the whole, it was the best of those available, despite a somewhat chalky pallor in the flesh tints.

One is at once struck by Mr. J. W. L. Forster's large portrait of Mrs. Coleman Stuckert. The attitude of the subject is easy and the whole effect of the picture is somewhat imposing. It is one of Mt. Forster's happiest efforts.

Mrs. M. E. Dignam, in her "Roses and Bluebells," shows a worthy example of her practised skill in flower-painting, the drawing and composition of the roses being especially' good.

Miss Gertrude Spurr has a definite and characteristic style which may become a fetter' unless she gives more scope to the imagination, since a picture should be something more than the portraiture of a place or scene. Nevertheless, the artist shows no falling off in her picture of Lynmouth Harbour, nor in the other examples which bear her name, conspicuous among which is "Scarboro, Herring Season."

The same can hardly he said of Miss Hagarty, whose contributions do not equal those of last year, and arc not distinguished either by good color or good drawing.

Miss Ethel Heaven's best effort is a pastel in profile which displays considerable facility of handling, and good color. In her upright panel she is less successful.

Mr. E. Wyly Grier has a good likeness of Hon. S. H. Blake, Q.C., which shows the perennial youth of the subject to great advantage.

Mr. Bell-Smith has one oil landscape and three water colors, which display much facility hut are not his best. In the water color " Evening (Holland)," No. 39, the artist has been too much of an anti-Boer to give Holland any flattery.

Mr. W. E. Atkinson is represented by two oils and one water color. The oil landscape, "Winter, Holland," No. 5, is a good example of this artist.

Miss H. E. Bastedo's white peonies gleam out nicely.

Mr. John Innes shows one example of his work, and it recalls the artist's recent trip to the Northwest in search of material. He calls the picture "Indians in a Blizzard," and very successfully represents the wintry landscape of bleak prairie, In the drawing of the horse Mr. Innes is a past master, while what he doesn't know about Indians is not worth mentioning. Accordingly we have in this picture not only good artistic work but an historical 'document' of the greatest value.

A little more characterization of the rocks in Mr. R. II.

Gagen's large water color, "When the Flowing Tide comes in," No. 112, would have made it an even more considerable picture than it is. It must not, however, be supposed from this that Mr. Gagen has not to a large degree grasped the facts of nature. To a very great extent he has, and there is no artist we can think of at the moment who has made more advance during the past four or five years. Both in this picture and in No. 114, "Sea Sand and Summer Sky'," Mr. Gagen shows the genuine marks of a true nature-lover, while his " Lobster Catcher," No. 113, is a triumph as to water. He has almost entirely left behind him the heavy' opaqueness that was once a besetting quality with him, and we must sincerely congratulate him on this year's contributions to the G.S.A.

There is not, to our think, much connection between the name and the subject in Mr. G. A. Reid's decorative panel "Music," No. 53. The nude youth who leans against the tree and is lazily blowing a few notes on his shepherd's pipe does not look as though he had much "music in his soul," neither does he look, as the poet say's, " fit for stratagems and spoils." He is just an ornamental adolescent, displaying the beauty of line and curve that are to be found in the human body', and being dreamily lazy about it. We know enough, however, not to waste time in making too much of the literary meaning of decorative panels, and are quite willing to concede that the artist has, in this example, given us much that we may regard with satisfaction. The splendor of the lumpy clouds in the top left hand corner is a thing to be seen and enjoyed, and the masterly harmoniousness of the work is freely apparent.

Of Mr. Henry Martin's two examples, we prefer the upright water color, "Chateau Dieppe, France;" the larger picture "St. Mark's, Venice," is a considerable effort, though the perspective, or perpendicular, or something, seems to be a little Out.



Mr. W. St. Thomas Smith gives us a Turneresque effect in No. 167, "Sunset in the Southesk, Scotland," and in so doing invites comparison with the memories of well known pictures. On the whole, the deceased painter has the best of it, though, of' course, we do not think for a moment that Mr. Smith had any idea of Turner in his mind when he started on the work. In No. 167 we have a St. Thomas Smith picture pure and simple, and although the effect of the storm-driven sky is well given, we must confess that we have seen much better examples of this artist, who has a distinctive and worthy method, from which considerable progress may yet be expected.

Mr. Harry Spiers can paint a "don't care a cent" agricultural horse as well as the next man, and perhaps better. His picture of '' Harrowing," No. 163, is full of what is called local coloring and should be bought by the government, of by collectors, as an aspect of farm life that is, we are told, destined to go out of fashion through the elimination of the horse from modern uses, in favor of electricity. This artist has also a noteworthy sketch entitled " Market Day at Hamilton," in which much deft craftsmanship is shown.

T. Mower Martin has three water colors, which, while of a not particularly ambitious character respectably represent his practised brush.

Mr. Challener has a bright oil painting of a bonnie Canadian girl sitting in the midst of a summer landscape. His decorative panel of three nude nymphs and a sheep shows capital composition and drawing and is, besides, a nice bit of color.

Miss Eleanor Douglass has an ambitious little oil which she entitles "By the River."

Miss Carrie Hillyard has a couple of clever and hopeful works. Of Mr. Staples' six works we like best his flock of sheep in No. 75 which he entitles "The Drover." "Evening, Toronto Bay" is too topographical. "The Brook" is green and bushy and rather nice in feeling and so is" Largo," the old man playing the 'cello.

Mr. W. A. Sherwood is represented by a single feminine pot trait.

Mr. Charles J. Way has four very interesting and capable water colors, in which there is much good handling and lots of good drawing. He is a Montreal artist whose pictures everyone will be pleased to see on the walls of the Toronto gallery.

The exhibition is brightened this year by the very clever statuettes of Mr. J. Lisney Banks, a sculptor of no mean ability. His presentation of the elephant in two of them is worthy of all praise—they are by a long way the uniquest things in the show— while his portrait " Alvais full of clever work.

BERNARD McEvoy.

