



<doctype type="text">Why Ontario Bricks

are not used in

Manitoba.

stoves, 8o ; steam, indirect, 8o ; steam, direct-indirect, 27 ruttan, 26 ; steam, indirect with fans, 9 ; steam, direct with mechanical ventilation, 6 ; hot water, Peck & Williams, 4 steam, with hot blast fan, 2 ; hot air furnace with fan, I. Ten cities reported in favor of steam heating direct and indirect ; four in favor of the Smead system ; one in favor of hot water, and one in favor of stoves. Nine cities reported in favor of steam systems, direct and indirect, for ventilation ; five in favor of the Smead system ; one in favor of stoves, and one in favor of hot air gravity. The average cost per room for all kinds of steam apparatus is given as $543.-74 ; the Smead system, $215 ; hot air, $198.61

hot water, $450 ; fan system, from $280 to $389. The committee recommend that in schools that are to be enlarged, where the Smead system is already installed, the furnaces be enlarged and evaporating pans introduced; that one of the new schools be heated with steam with fans and one with steam without fans. The recommendation is made that in the additions to schools where the Smead system is installed, flues be arranged for the introduction of steam at a future date. This seems to signify that the committee are prepared to discard the Smead system in favor of steam as soon as circumstances will permit the change to be effected.



<article title="Why Ontario Bricks are not used in Manitoba" author="">The fact was mentioned by our Winnipeg correspondent last month that owing to the excessive freight charges

imposed by the Canadian Pacific Railway, pressed and ornamental bricks manufactured in Ontario cannot be sold in Manitoba in competition with American bricks. Enquiry of the manufacturing companies in Ontario confirms this statement. Most of the material used in Manitoba is imported from St. Louis. That city is nearer by about three hundred miles to Winnipeg than is Toronto, but this should not account for the great difference in the freight rate, which is 45 cents per cwt. from Toronto as against 27 1/2 cents per cwt. from St. Louis. This disproportion is so great that, after paying a 20 per cent. ad valorem duty, the Americans have an advantage over the Ontario manufacturer of $7 per thousand. But for the prohibitive tariff imposed by the C. P. R. a superior article both as to quality and color could be supplied by our manufacturers to the architects and builders of the northwest, who would prefer to use Canadian material. The Ontario manufacturers made an effort to have the carrying charges reduced, but were told by the railway authorities that they could not afford to quote a lower rate. We had supposed that the C. P. R. was managed and equipped in such a manner as would enable it to compete with the American roads. Indeed, our recollection is that on one or two occasions the company fell foul of the American Traffic Association for having cut below the prevailing rates. It would therefore seem to be not so much a question of ability as of willingness to meet the rate granted by the Burlington and Northern Pacific to St. Louis shippers. Perhaps the company can get plenty of other classes of freight to carry at more profitable prices. Whatever the cause, it is to be regretted that our manufacturers should be deprived of entrance to the growing western market.



The Albert Manufacturing Company, of Hillshoro, N. B., have been awarded a silver medal for their exhibit of rock wall plaster, etc., at the Paris Exposition. Milne, Coutts & Company, granite manufacturers, of St. George, N. B., are also winners of a silver medal.

<article title="Sheet Metal as Sheathing" author="">SHEET METAL AS SHEATHING.

When architectural writers dwell upon the beauty of details in old work, declaring them to he as endlessly interesting to pore and ponder over as Nature's own work, and define such art as the expression of the pleasure the workman took in his work," the Canadian architect can only feel that such writings do not describe the sort of work he can expect to have done. We do not deal with workmen, but with machines. The day for details which one can pore and ponder over is, if not gone for ever, yet not here now. The execution of our work is mechanical, and the beauty we must aim at is only such beauty as is independent of a " loving " hand ; presenting qualities that the monotony of machine work cannot spoil.

The first and essential quality is of course composition of parts to which detail is only as the punctuation to a sentence. The second is feeling for material. A well composed building with its material showing itself to the best advantage is, even when the material is not of the most beautiful kind, a work in which we always take pleasure.

There is no material that has not been used in building with good effect; "gold, silver, costly stones, wood hay, stubble" are all there the one condition of acceptance has been that every material shall be used in a manner suitable to its character and shall exhibit its characteristic qualities. There is no reason to suppose that any material should not be used now, where-ever it is wanted, if it is used under these conditions in other words these seem to be the conditions of acceptability. It will perhaps be profitable to see how these conditions apply to ordinary sheet metal, a material which has great claims upon our attention as a durable and fire resisting finish.

The trouble that meets us at the outset is that the ordinary material, steel plate, must have some sort Of finish to protect its surface and to render it presentable, so that we are at once off the safe ground of a natural surface left to the improvement of time and the atmosphere. However, we do not expect purity in metals and there are so many " finishes " devised for hardware that we need not reckon it beyond the limits of ordinary outlay to have steel plate work finished in any suitable tone, if there is a demand created by architects for such work.

We start then with the idea of a surface showing a metal finish. It is a substance which lends itself to repousse work, and it is not only a matter of course in these days, but seems reasonable, that this work should be done by a machine. We cover walls with machine printed paper 'which is when it is well designed, a perfectly satisfactory form of decoration, and there is no reason why machine stamped metal should not be satisfactory also if it is well designed. What constitutes good design is more easily recognized than defined, indeed it is rather a matter for development than for definition. But it is safe to say that the best design is that which is most easily produced, that the key to it is to be found in the facilities of the material, and the power of the machine should not be used to force upon the material effects that would not be attempted by hand. The effect of such work is the play of light upon a modelled surface, and this a point to be remembered, not only in inventing patterns but in adapting old forms, like the egg and dart, from a carved o plastic example in which the effect is one of light and

