	<doctype type="text">202	THE	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



number of applications for price lists and samples have been received from all parts of the world.



A new Portland Cement Manufactory is being constructed at Brookholm, near Owen Sound, by the Grey and Bruce Portland Cement Co.



The Metallic Roofing Company complain that owing to a discrimination of railway rates in their favor, manufacturers of architectural metal goods in the United States are able to pay the Canadian import duties and undersell the home manufacturers.



Mr. Samuel Cabot, of Boston, the well-known manufacturer of shingle stains, is sending out to architects and others interested, a series of half-tone plates, showing various examples of recent suburban architecture by well-known architects, illustrating the styles of building to which shingle stains are adapted.



The Gurney Foundry Company state that they have done a larger volume of business this year than ever before in their history, and are finding their premises too small for the requirements of their business. They have largely increased the capacity of their moulding shop. For two or three years past they have been obliged to rent outside storage accommodation. They have this year put on the market a new style of wood furnace embodying a number of improvements. The large demand throughout Canada for their goods has caused them to neglect, to some extent, the export branch of their business. There is found to be more profit in the goods sold in the home market. American competition is very keen in Great Britain and the American manufacturers, in addition to having been longer established, have a considerable advantage in freight charges being able to ship very cheaply by canal from Buffalo to New York and place their goods directly on the steamships in that city. The British manufacturers are also said to be waking up to the possibilities of their own market and are steadily improving the character of their goods.





<article title="Dining Room Proportions" author="">DINING ROOM PROPORTIONS.

IN the dining-room there are certain practical points which to some extent dictate the proportions. Thus, in a small room it is more convenient for serving it the plan is nearer the square, whereas for a large dining table the plan may with advantage approach the double square, provided sufficient height can be given to the room. The largest room on any floor often fixes the height of all the rest, and Chambers recognises the impossibility on this account of employing the best proportions in the smaller rooms. The following suggestions are taken from Gwilt :—For square plan and flat ceiling, height to be not less than 4/5 the side, nor more than 5/6; for longer proportions the height may equal the width ; where a cove is employed the proportions should be increased. One of Palladio's rules for long rooms (as opposed to square) was to add length to width and take 1/2 the sum as height. The appearance of a room having too great a height may be improved by a predominance of horizontal lines in its decoration, and vice versa.





<article title="Porosity and Durability of Slate" author="">POROSITY AND DURABILITY OF SLATE.

DETERMINATION of the porosity and durability of slate when exposed to the influences of weather, is a question which interests the sanitary and building arts in an eminent degree. Mr. Lariviere made an interesting communication on this point to the Commission of Testing Methods for Building Materials, established at the Ministry of Public Works, and this is printed in a recent number of "Vie Scientifique."

It is difficult, says Mr. Lariviere to determine the porosity, because as a rule schists are but slightly porous, and because care must be taken not to confound the water between the layers of cleavage with the water really contained by the pores of the substance of which these layers are composed.

To estimate the degree of porosity, two identical plates are cut with a band saw from the same slate and then dried. When this is accomplished the weight p of one of them is found, and then the piece of slate is smeared on every side with an oily coating of known weight d, so that the weight p1 of this coating can be found.

Having estimated the weight of all, it will be easy with these data to calculate that of the dry slate. The other piece of slate is employed to calculate the weight when saturated with water; in this case only the edge of the slate is coated with grease before saturation. Comparison of these two densities will give the volume of the pores. It would be interesting to ascertain by study the amount of water absorbed by a square meter of roofing slate fixed with hooks, as in building, on a frame-work having the minimum slope employed for such roofs. The frame would be subjected to a regular rain of known intensity during a given time. To obtain such a shower the ingenious apparatus invented by M. Schloesing could he employed, as was recently done by Mr. Aime Girard to ascertain the degree of adherence to plant leaves of the various cupreous mixtures which are utilized to prevent disease.

As regards the resistance to effects of weather, the methods adopted to study the action of frost on stones do not seem able to give any precise indications with schists, for the very fact that they are but slightly porous.

Slate only become porous when decomposed by the effects of weather, so that specification of these effects would be the point needed. Unfortunately there are no methods to determine the resisting power of slate to such influences any more than for stone. Experience alone can decide the question.

However, as a rule, we may say that the duration of a slate seems to depend upon the proportion of carbonate of lime and pyrite it contains. Crystallized pyrite is less injurious than that disseminated throughout the substance, the existence of which is often only revealed by the general decomposition which finally takes place.

Chemical analysis will then give valuable data. In analysis of schists the proportions of hygrometic water and the combined water, silica, iron, alumina, lime, magnesia, alkalis, all are determined ; carbonic acid and sulphur should also be analyzed.

Professor Brunner, of Lausanne, recommends the following method, taken from Fresenius, to easily and rapidly estimate the quality of slates :—Take a sample of slate 7 by 3 centimeters and hang it by a cotton thread in a glass vessel containing 100 cubic centimeters of water saturated with sulphurous acid in such a manner that the slate will not dip into the liquid, then shut the glass and keep it in an ordinary temperature. Bad slate decomposes in a few days or even hours, becoming exfoliated. If it remain compact it will grow very friable and spongy. Good slate will preserve its primitive state for tour to six weeks. A superior quality of slate has no sign of decomposition after several months. This rapid decomposition of bad slate is due to the presence of pyrite, carbonate of lime and magnesia. The pyrite is transformed into sulphuric acid which decomposes the other minerals. The carbonate of lime is transformed under the influence of humid air and carbonic acid into soluble bicarbonate.

