<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Correspondence – A Proposed Aquarium under Dufferin Terrace, Quebec" author="">A PROPOSED AQUARIUM UNDER DUFFERIN

TERRACE, QUEBEC.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DEAR SIR,—The accompanying sketch is that of a cross-section of an aquarium for Quebec. The site is admirably adapted for the purpose, the height under the terrace being some 20 feet So that the housing corridor—15 feet wide by to feet high—would leave ample space beneath it for defense of city through the loop and port holes in the lower 10 feet. For the present the extent of aquaria tanks, end to end, would be some 700 feet or more, ranging between the terrace piers or buttresses from the second kiosk (the Lorne and Louise) to the fourth entrance and exit thereto and from, being at and under shelter of these by a spiral stairway 8 to 10 feet in diameter at centre thereof, and hermetically protected from wind and weather by a circular glazed enclosure Of that diameter and proper or proportional height—the ground plan of stairs shown on section to save space of another diagram.

The front wall of terrace is made up, above the 10 feet lower wall where the loop holes are, of a series of buttresses at 20 feet centres, say 4 to feet wide and leaving 15 to 16 feet clear for the aquaria tanks, which would have an aggregate length of some  500 feet. These would be as usual, of heavy plates of glass cemented into grooved iron framework, with wrot iron 1-4 inch bottom plates riveted to framing, water tight cisterns say 4 feet wide and 4 feet high, resting on a continuous table of proper strength to support the weight—upper surface of tank open for aeration

invitation by the city authorities having, of course, nothing to pay. This aquarium is more than 700 feet in length by too feet in breadth

—or was at the time I went through it in 1874—but the ground covered also contains a conservatory, a library, reading and lecture rooms, etc.

There is also an extensive aquarium at Sydenham—some 6 miles from London. It is in the old so-called Crystal Palace erected by Sir Joseph Paxton for the London Universal Exhibition of 1851, and thereafter removed to Sydenham, its length being 500 feet and height of dome or ceiling over nave 100 feet.

Contributions to the required salt and fresh water fauna and flora to be exhibited would no doubt be had from the above mentioned aquaria, as well as from those of Naples and elsewhere; the Marine and Fishery Departments of our Federal and Local Governments also helping us in the process of procuring the necessary exhibits. The larger species, the porpoise or white whale, sea lions arid other such mammalia, with such entities as the shark, the dolphin, etc., if procurable, can be accommodated in an excavated reservoir or tank of adequate depth and size at the Victoria Park, and housed in, of course, under a glass dome as a conservatory, where the proper heat may be maintained at all seasons and the water cooled in summer by the now liquid air process of refrigeration.

We have just finished, or nearly so, as suggested by the writer some twenty years ago, an 1800 feet sidewalk or promenade some 12 feet in width around the foot of the citadel walls, and



PROPOSED AQUARIUM UNDER DUFFERIN TERRACE, QUEBEC.



either by lifting out some of the water and dumping it in again from a higher level to cause it to stir up the body of water in the tank, or by a jet of water under pressure from a pipe above, penetrating the contents of the tank and thus restoring the oxygen taken in by the marine and fresh water fauna : fish, crustacca, zooplytes, mollusca, etc,—the oxygen being also supplied by vegetable growth or plants, which as is well known, take in carbon and give out oxygen under the influence of sunlight.

A	somewhat detailed estimate of cost figures up to about $9.00 per feet lin. of housing corridor, or for

   the 700 feet	.$	6,300.00

500 feet tank at $14.00		7,000.00

Two heaters and piping		2,500.00

Two entrance kiosks arid stairways		500.00

	Total	$16,300.00



The yearly cost would he

For interest on capital at per cent	$ 815.00 105,000 cubic feet of space to heat at 20 tons per 20,000

   feet	630.00

Salary of specialist	1,200.00

Wages of stoker and helper	600.00

Cost of common salt, Epsom salt, chlorate of magnesium

   and chlorate of potassium for artificial sea water,

   for say 300 ft. lin out of the 500 ft. of cisterns	200.00

	Total	$ 3,345.00



It is argued that as an educational feature, governments— Imperial, Federal and Local—might contribute to construction thereof, and that an average 20 cent entrance fee would cover yearly cost for interest and maintenance. The entrance fee at Brighton, England, is, I believe, 50 cents, those who visit it under

when this promenade is completed, reaching as it does from the south end of the terrace to and along the crest of the cliff to the old French fortification mounds at Cape Diamond, 330 feet above the St. Lawrence, when this is done and the Aquarium built, it will then be true to assert, as Princess Louise said at the time the Marquis of Lorne inaugurated the terrace, that, "it is the finest promenade in the world," congratulating the undersigned the while on its constructive, pleasurable and emotional features.

C.	BAILLAIRGE,



Architect and Engineer.





<article title="Arts and Crafts Association" author="">ARTS AND CRAFTS ASSOCIATION.

A MEETING of those interested in the formation of an Arts and Crafts Association in Vancouver was held in the rooms of the Vancouver Builders' Exchange on April 25th, at which steps were taken to form an association. The objects of the association are : The greater encouragement of the arts and crafts ; the association of those engaged in these pursuits for their mutual benefit and education, together with the collecting of examples of arts and craftsmanship, and the establishment of a library of reference.

The provisional committee consists of R. M. Fripp, F.R.I.B.A.;

S. M. Eveleigh, architect; A. Woodroofe, architect James Bloomfield, designer.



Mr. C. G. Horetzky, who for many years was employed by the Ontario Government as a civil engineer, died in Toronto a fortnight ago.

