

<doctype type="text;plate">into the dark interior would be gained if the angle of the prism and the curvature of the lens panels were correctly adapted to the length of the apartment to be lighted.

The latest modification of class 2 remains yet to be considered.

In this, the interior prismatic surface of the glass is the same as that just described, hut the exterior lenticular panels are arranged not parallel, but transversely, to the direction of the prisms, The details of this form of construction are shown in Fig. 4, A and B, while the modus operandi is best observed in Fig. 5, A and B.

The radical difference in the operation of this form of light projecting glass and that of both forms previously described, resides in the fact that the light distribution in this form is exaggerated in the lateral as well as in the vertical plane. This feature is illustrated in Fig. 5, B, in which B is supposed to be a section of the prismatic glass taken on the line c d, from an inspection of which it will be manifest that the vertical arrangement of the exterior lenticular panels will serve a similar purpose in this construction in relation to the light falling sidewise on the exterior surface of the glass as the lenticular panels in the previous case serve in relation to vertical rays ; namely, to arrest and refract into the dark exterior a considerable amount of light in the horizontal plane which would otherwise be lost for useful purposes. All of the light thus collected and introduced into the dark interior by the lateral collecting action of this device is so much clear gain over the devices previously described.

Further consideration will show, also, that if the interior surface of the glass be provided with prisms of uniform angle, determined in each case by the length of the apartment to be illuminated, this form of construction will secure the same advantage in respect of the vertical diffusion of the entering light as will be obtained from the lenticular prismatic construction previously described.

On theoretical grounds, therefore, the last-described modification of light-projecting glass, belonging to class 2, should give the best results if intelligently installed. Comparative practical tests also bear out this conclusion.



An additional and important advantage possessed by prism glass of the last-named construction (namely, a prism plate constructed with prisms on one side and prisms or lens panels arranged transversely on the reverse side) remains to be noticed.

Since all illumination by means of prism glass is thrown from a comparatively low point, namely, through windows, while all other illumination is directed from a point above, the shadows produced by the prisms on objects in a room constitute a disadvantage common to most systems of lighting by means of prisms, as has been noticed in what has preceded. The light-project

ing glass last described, however, by reason of its diffusing quality, both in horizontal and vertical planes, largely overcomes this objection. Where two such prism windows are used for the same apartment, the light thrown from one window completely overlaps that thrown from the other, thereby practically obliterating the shadows produced by prism lights of other constructions.



This construction also has the advantage of enabling manufacturers to produce more readily the larger sizes of prisms, from the fact that one surface has projections at right angles to projections on the reverse side, giving a bridge effect, thus adding to the strength of the plate. For this reason, likewise, it is not essential to have the thickness of the body of the glass as great as with other forms ; and inasmuch as there is a larger loss of light through absorption in passing through a thick than a thin medium, the loss of light from this cause may be much reduced.

Finally, it may be said that all the various forms of light-projecting prismatic glass accomplish, measurably, their intended purpose of considerably increasing the illumination of dark interiors over what would occur without artificial aid. In the selection of the kind of light-projecting and the manner of its installation, the user should be guided by the personal observation of the effects produced, rather than by the claims of rival manufacturers.











<article title="A New Portland Cement Manufactory at Lakefield, Ont." author="">A NEW PORTLAND CEMENT MANUFACTORY AT LAKEFIELD, ONT.

THE Lakefield Portland Cement Company, Limited, of Lakefield, Ont., are making progress toward the completion of their plant. Their main building will be 326 feet in length 8o feet in breadth, and 22 feet high, and will be constructed of the new material known as litholite, an artificial stone composed of Portland cement, coarse sand or ground rock, moulded in sand and hollow. The blocks will be prepared of the uniform dimensions 12 inches by 30 and laid in cement mortar. The roof will be a wooden truss sheeted with metal. Their deposit known as Buckley's lake, is known to be one of the most extensive marl deposits in the Dominion, contains about 800 acres and of a depth of 20 feet and over, is of great strength and purity, and situated about a mile and half a east of the works. A railway is being constructed between the works and the deposit. The marl will be dug by a clam shell digger, and conveyed to the works by a train of iron dump cars and small steam motor.

The Company have purchased the Young's Point mills and water power, and have removed the mills, and are removing also two piers of the dam for the purpose of increasing the inflow to their wheels. There will be four concrete flumes erected each of 22 feet in breadth, abutting against the face of the dam, and with wheel pits 13 feet in depth, so as to afford the fullest relief to the large body of water to be used in the power. The flow from several lakes converges at this point affording a steady and abundant supply.

The William Hamilton Manufacturing Co., of Peterboro' have secured the contracts for the wheels and iron work, and are supplying four of their 68 inch Samson turbine wheels which will all be connected to one shaft, which in turn is direct connected to a 400 k.w. electric

