<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	117



1.30	P. M.—Train leaves ° Central station, foot of Van Buren street, for Jackson Park, (57th Street,) thence by coaches through Jackson and Washington Parks, Michigan Boulevard and Lake Shore Drive, through Lincoln Park to Bismarck Garden, where supper will be served during concert.

8.30	P. M.—Business Session to take up unfinished work.



SATURDAY, JUNE, 9.



Fullerton Hall—Art Institute.

9 A. M.—"Our Duty," XV. Dominick Benes, Cleveland.

''American Architecture as opposed to Architecture in America," Ernest Flagg, New York. Read by Dwight Heald Perkins.

"The Licensing of Architects," A. G. Elzner, Cincinnati. Read by G. W. Drach.

"Progress before Precedent," J. F. Harder, New York.

Unfinished business.

Designation of place and time of next Annual Convention.

Election of' Officers of the League and Executive Board.

Adjournment

RECEPTION AND DINNER GIVEN TO THE DELEGATES AND VISITING FRIENDS BY



THE CHICAGO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB, IN THE BANQUET HALL OF THE



AUDITORIUM JUNE 9—8 P. M.



TOASTS.

D. H. BURNHAM, Chicago.

Toastmaster

Welcome	-	-	-	By the Toastmaster.

Response	-	- The New President, J. C. LLEWELLYN.



Music.



"the Architectural Club as a Factor in Public Affairs,"

		ADIN 13. LACRY, Philadelphia

Solo '	'	 ARTHUR R. DEAN, Chicago.

"The Young Man in Architecture"	'	Louis H. SULLIVAN, Chicago.



"Are Architectural Societies and the Architectural Press

	fulfilling their Whole Mission ?"	'	ARTHUR D. RODGERS, Boston.

"The Convention,"	DWIGHT HERALD PERKINS, Chicago.



The papers deserving of special mention, presented at the convention, were as follows : " Indigenous and Inventive Architecture," by Elmer Grey, Milwaukee "The Architect," by Frank Lloyd Wright, Chicago "The Young Man in Architecture," by Louis H. Sullivan, Chicago ; "The Architectural Club as a Factor in Public Affairs," by Adin 13. Lacey, Philadelphia ; "The Convention," by Dwight H. Perkins, Chicago.

Mr. Sullivan, remarking upon Mr. Grey's paper, said in part:

''The historical styles in themselves are absolutely without value as such and will not bear analysis. They were the expression of certain men who lived at a certain time. If these men, who lived at such times, were noble minded and of noble spirit and heart, their work is noble. If their minds were degenerated, their work is degenerated. All these qualities you will find depicted in the architecture of the past, running from the highest to the lowest, from the most nible to the most degenerate. The form in which these thoughts or feelings, or the lack of thought or feelings as they are disclosed, have nothing to do with the case when fundamentally considered. As Mr. Grey has truly said, the style is the evolution, if there be nothing other than the expression of its personality. If three men happened to think and feel something alike, the work of those three men will appear something alike. The same can be said of a thousand men acting and feeling the same way. That is practically all that can be said relative to the consideration of the national style as applied to the individual work. What counts, what is final and of consequence, is the individual. This has always been true, is true now and always remains true. What the individual thinks and feels makes him either a valuable or valueless member of the age in which he lives. If anyone supposes that by study, however reverent or serious it may be, in the spirit in which the past expresses itself, makes himself such valuable member, he is woefully mistaken. It may be true that he regards those expressions with reverence because he regards all expression of the mind with reverence. It has been

suggested by Mr. Grey that by virtually relinquishing all the distinct forms of those styles we might finally reach a definite expression of our own. I see no reason why that would not be the result. There can be nothing else. A form which represents one state of feeling may not apply to another state of fee ling As, for instance, take the style of Francis I, it will not apply to the present age, nor conform to our national feeling. Francis I and the men of his day are dead, and will stay dead. Let us suppose, if it is possible to suppose, an architect, filled with the same spirit, influenced by want of sympathy, and under certain circumstances should build the same house in New Orleans that he builds in St. Paul, the people of New Orleans occupying such a structure would find it to be exceedingly uncomfortable. The first effort should be to adapt it to the comforts of the people with reference to the place where they live. What has style to do with it ? This thought may be carried all through the discussion we have before us. What is the use of talking about books or about the styles we have passed? We have before us a simple plan. Examine any ordinary building with a little care and you will find it has the expression of one idea, solely and organically unfolding itself to the smallest detail. Therefore, if I talk about books or style, what will we gain by ignoring the fundamental law of development. A moment's reflection and serious thought will fill you with the correctness of the idea contended for. I know of no reason why that should not be the true idea that architecture is the true expression of our lives."

An interesting paper, which appears on another page, was also presented on "Architectural Education," by Mr. Eden Smith, President of the Architectural Eighteen Club, of Toronto.

The report of the Chairman of the Committee on Municipal Improvements recommended co-operation on the part of the League with the local organizations already existing in many cities for the purpose of promoting public improvements, such as planting of trees, laying out parks and squares, placing of public monuments, etc.

Philadelphia was selected as the place of meeting next year. Mr. J. C. Llewellyn, of Chicago, was elected president under the constitution which has just been adopted, which permits the committee to elect the president only. The president, with the Executive Board of his Club, must then, within 15 days, appoint the other officers who will form the Committee of Management, these officers to be selected from clubs within a radius of 300 miles of the city to which the president belongs. The object in making this condition is, that the members of the committee shall be within easy call of the president, and be available for business meetings when required.

It was decided that Toronto should have an exhibition in the League circuit, the date being approximately fixed for January 25th to February 5th, 1908. An invitation was also tendered to the League, through Mr.

J.	P. Hynes, the representative from Toronto, to hold the annual convention of 1901 in that city, but the vote went in favor of Philadelphia, which was more largely represented at the meeting. The invitation from Toronto was, however, most heartily received, with cheers for the Queen and Toronto, and it is probable that should a larger delegation be sent next year, the convention of 1902 may be secured.

