<doctype type="text">applying for a master plumber's license he shall state in his petition his age and place of business in said city, and said petition shall he accompanied with the bond hereinafter referred to.

38.	Any change in thc location of the business of a master plumber shall be promptly reported to the said clerk of works.

39.	Any journeyman plumber desiring to become a master plumber shall first comply with these rules and regulations as to master plumbers and no journeyman Plumber shall do business as a master plumber until he has obtained a master plumber's license, not withstanding anything in these rules and regulations.

40.	Any master plumber or journeyman plumber who furnishes satisfactory evidence to the board of plumbing examiners that he has carried on the business as a practical and experienced master or journeyman plumber in the city of Halifax for not less than four (4) years next previous to November 29, 1897. shall he entitled to receive a license or registration without examination.



41.	All licensed master plumbers shall be held responsible for all acts of their employees for work done in connection with their plumbing business in respect to which such license is granted.

42.	Every licensed master plumber shall on the first day of every mouth report to the City Engineer upon printed forms to be supplied at the City Engineer's office, the number, nature and extent of all new plumbing fixtures placed by him or his journeyman

plumber in any building in said city, hut they shall not be required to make returns of any old fixtures renewed except water-closets and urinals.

43.	Every master plumber shall only employ journeymen plumbers to do said plumbing work, but said work may be done and performed by any practical plumber under the guidance and direction of a journeyman plumber or master plumber then present directing thc work.



44.	Every master plumber before obtaining a master plumber's license shall file a bond with the Clerk of Works in the penal sum of two hundred dollars, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duty as a master plumber and for his not permitting or allowing any plumbing work that he may he called upon to do to be performed by any person in his employ except by such persons as may be authorized to do plumbing work under these rues and regulations and for his not violating any of the terms and conditions of said rules and regulations or any other rules or regulations in force in the city respecting plumbing, drainage, sanitary matters and the city waterworks.



45.	No person shall carry on business in the said city as a master plumber unless he is the holder of a license herein mentioned, nor shall any journeyman plumber do or perform any plumbing work until he has obtained his certificate under these rules and regulations.



46.	No person shall he allowed, without having first obtained a permit from the city engineer to open or shut off, the street stop-cock connected with the service supplying any premises or buildings, unless in case of urgent necessity to prevent loss or damage from flooding, and shall in every such case leave thc stop-cock as he found the same, and any person who shall commit any damage or injury to any stop cock in thc service pipes of the department shall be liable for the amount of any such damage in addition to any penalty imposed for the violation of these rules.



47.	When any old fixture or plumbing requires renewal the work shall be done in accordance with these rules and regulations as far as they apply, but it shall not be necessary to take out any old work which, in the opinion of the plumbing inspector, is in good sanitary condition. In every case where in the opinion of the city engineer and plumbing inspector the enforcement of any rule or rules respecting plumbing is impracticable or inadvisable they shall have power to modify or suspend any such rule or rules to meet the exigencies of the particular case.



48.	The city engineer, the foreman of waterworks, or any inspector appointed for that purpose, shall have the right at proper hours of the day and upon reasonable notice given and request made upon the owners, to enter upon and have free access to all parts of any building in the city of Halifax in which water from the city waterworks is delivered or consumed.

49.	The City Health Board shall have thc power at any time to cancel any master plumber's license or any journeyman plumbers certificate for cause, and thereupon all rights of said master plumber or journeyman plumber to do any plumbing work under these rules or regulations shall cease and determine.

50.	The license to master plumbers shall expire on the 31st day of December in each and every year, but they may be renewed by the City Board of Health on the recommendation of the Board of Plumbing Examiners, and master plumbers shall pay one dollar for each and every renewal.

51.	The City health Board shall from time to time as occasion may require, on the nominal ion of the city engineer, appoint such inspectors of plumbing as may be found necessary, but no pet-son shall be eligible for such appointment who has not passed a satisfactory examination for proficiency in both practice and theory of plumbing and drainage before the Board of Plumbing Examiners.

52.	Such inspector or inspectors shall be under the supervision of the city engineer, and shall be attached to the office of the said city engineer, and shall he paid such salary as the city council determines.

53.	All work contemplated in these regulations shall be done by a licensed master plumber or by a certificated journeyman plumber in the employ of such licensed master plumber or as provided in rule 43, and shall be subject to the inspection, supervision and approval of the city engineer or an inspector appointed by the city health board for that purpose, and all faulty or defective work which is at any time discovered shall be made satisfactory to the said engineer or inspector, as the case may be, and when found satisfactory thc certificate shall issue to die plumber at the expiration of thirty days from date of inspection, unless in the meantime such work has become faulty or defective.

54.	Hereafter no person or member of any company or employee or apprentice of such person or company shall do or perform any work authorized by these rules, nor shall any such person or member of any corporation direct or instruct any employee or apprentice to do or perform any such work until the owner or his agent shall have first obtained the permit and filed the plan and specification mentioned in rules 27 to 3[, both inclusive of the rules hereby amended.

55. Every person violating any of the rules and regulations of the board of health shall bc liable to a penalty of not less than five dollars nor more than eighty dollars for each offence on summary conviction before the stipendiary magistrate, and in default of payment to imprisonment in the city prison for a term not to exceed ninety days.



Sec. I, Sub-section. It is hereby repealed and thc following substituted: No trap vent pipe shall bc less than three inches in diameter where it passes through the roof, and all vent pipes after leaving thc trap must continue to rise above the bottom of any fixtures vented before being connected with or to any oilier vent, and vent pipes must pass out through the roof or be connected with the soil pipe.



Section 4. The first sentence is struck out and the following substituted Every connection between lead and cast iron pipe shall he made with brass ferrules properly gasketted, leaded and caulked into the soil pipe, and every connection between lead and wrough iron pipe shall bc made with brass soldering nipples having properly wiped joints.







<article title="Some Mistakes of Contractors" author="">SOME MISTAKES OF CONTRACTORS.

Contractors often make mistakes in assuming responsibilities without proper compensation and in taking unnecessary risks, says F. E. Kidder, the well-known consulting architect, in a late issue of the Brickbuilder. Not a few contractors will estimate on a hazardous piece of work on the basis that everything will proceed favorably, and if any mishap occurs they have no provisions for meeting the expense invariably occasioned. The contracting business necessarily involves the taking of some chances, as in the rise in price of materials or labor, but when unusual chances are to be taken, as in remodeling, underpinning, or supporting old buildings, or in the case of uncertain foundations, the contractor should protect himself by estimating so that in case unexpected, although possible, difficulties are encountered he will not lose more than his profit. It is much better to let some one else have the job than to take it at a figure which will allow a profit only under the most favorable conditions.

Then many contractors are careless about allowing their work to be damaged by other workmen or through orders of the owner or architect. For instance, a

