<doctype type="text">82	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of the two surfaces. The stalls are closed by wooden doors. This type of construction has been used at the Alexian Brothers' hospitals in Chicago and St. Louis. Where the water closets are in groups the partitions have cost $12.50 per closet, including ironwork, plastering and tour coats of enamel paint, but exclusive of woodwork and hardware. Partitions of marble with brass fittings for the same places were estimated to cost $36 each.



<article title="Correspondence - Building in Vancouver" author="">BUILDING IN VANCOUVER,

VANCOUVER, B, C., March 14th, 1900.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:

DEAR SIR, It may interest some of your readers to have a few

particulars regarding the building situation in this city. As you are no doubt aware, a Builders' Exchange was organized here about a year ago. I understand that at the annual meeting held recently the first board of directors was re-elected Recently several city contractors hate joined the Exchange, and I believe the membership now includes what might be termed a working majority of the city builders, and that it is the intention to make some decisive

move in the near future with a view to improving the condition of the trade.

The Exchange made an effort to induce thc architects of thc



city to organize and adopt a uniform contract and code of rules to regulate the practice of tendering for and awarding contracts. A few of he architects met and declared themselves in favor of such a move, but too many of them seemed to consider that independence was of more importance than organization. The Exchange, however, is moving along. A code of practice, setting forth the conditions under which the members will tender for work, has been adopted, and I understand that a committee will shortly complete a form of contract. Many of the builders of this city arc anxious-that a uniform contract should be adopted, as thc existing methods of tendering and letting contracts is very unsatisfactory. In asking for tenders the architects frequently ask for hulk and separate bids: competition is very keen, and thc result is that one contractor usually takes the entire work, with little or nothing for the risk and responsibility of the minor trades.

Occasionally separate tenders are accepted for the erection of a building, but this method sometimes means trouble and delay, and it suits the architect and his client better to find, if they can, some responsible mason or carpenter who, in order to secure the work in his own line, will assume the responsibility of the other trades at about the minimum figure for each as obtained by calling for separate trade tenders.

Another practice in vogue here is that of asking for a second tender. The architect estimates the work too low, with the result that even the lowest tender is refused as being above the estimated cost of the building. Then some small changes arc made in the drawings and specifications, and three or four of lowest tenderers are asked to revise their figures. A case of this kind occurred recently. Some brick partitions were changed to wood, and some other small changes made. Second tenders were taken from, I think, five contractors. The result was that the man who was the highest tenderer of these five in the first instance was the lowest when the second figures were opened, and he secured the work. Such practice encourages the taking of work at figures that are very risky, not to say unprofitable and unsatisfactory to the parties concerned. At the last meeting of the Exchange a rule was adopted requiring that the Prices of all work added or deducted which amounts to 20 per cent. of the lowest tenderer's bid be adjusted with him and providing for this being done by arbitration in case his figures are not considered equitable.

Competition is very keen among Vancouver builders. Although there is considerable work in sight, the usual number of bulk bids received is from fourteen to twenty, consequently prices are low. The bricklayers and masons have introduced the eight hour day and have demanded an increase from 50 to 56 1/4 cents per hour in the rate of wages, to commence on April 1st next. The carpenters ask 3313 cents per hour as the minimum rate, but are willing to work nine hours per day excepting on Saturday, when they want a half holiday. Painters are also asking for more money.

A number of contracts were let during tile month of February, and some of them are now well tinder way. An addition will be built to the Hudson Bay stores, Mr. W. T. Dalton being the architect and Mr. C. P. Shindler the contractor; cost $25,000 The Sherdahl block of stores, offices, etc., will cost $19,000 Mr. E. Guntber is architect, and Horrobin & Holdin contractors. An-

other important corner building is the Lovell block, of which Mr.

W.	T. Whiteway is architect and A. Milliken the contractor. yours truly,

"CARPENTER.'







<article title="Amendments to Plumbing By-law" author="">AMENDMENTS TO PLUMBING BY-LAW.

The Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, acting in conjunction with the Health Committee of the Council, have prepared important amendments to the plumbing by-law of that city, looking to the appointment of a board of plumbing examiners, The proposed changes, which will be submitted to the city council some time next month, are as follows

To THE ALDERMEN OF CITY COUNCIL OF MONTREAL:

DEAR SIR, —We, the master plumbers of the city of Montreal, take this opportunity to make known our views, hoping by doing so to be able to persuade our aldermen to amend our by-law No. 215 concerning plumbing, drainage,. and ventilation; of buildings, as we would like to keep pace with thc principal cities of America in the advancement of sanitary science, and we do hereby urgently request that the members of the city council take steps to place us in an equal position with other cities of our standing, viz — by appointing a board of plumbing examiners to deal with all matters appertaining to plumbing, drainage, and ventilation of buildings.

I.	The board of plumbing examiners is hereby constituted, to consist of one city sanitary engineer, one medical doctor, and three master plumbers. The last three montioned shall hold office for one year after their appointment and shall he paid a fee of ... dollars for each session of thc board, and this board shall be called together by the city sanitary engineer (who shall be the chairman of the board), and at such times as he may find it necessary.

2.	It shall be the duty of the above mentioned board of plumbing examiners to examine master plumbers and journeymen plumbers and grant licenses and certificates to the successful applicants, and to enquire into all charges and disputes arising from the operation or interpretion of any part of this by-law concerning plumbing, drainage, and ventilation or buildings, and to hear and decide disputes arising between the plumbing inspector and the public and said inspector and the master plumbers, and their decision shall be final and conclusive; and it shall be the duty of the chairman of the board to take such necessary action within one week from proper notice to him, in writing, against any person accused.

3.	In case of dispute arising relating to any provision of the above mentioned by-law, the party who disputes shall give notice to the sanitary engineer in writing, setting forth thc nature of the dispute, and they shall appear before tile board of examiners, who shall hear and decide on the merits of the said dispute, and the decision of the said board shall be final and conclusive.

4.	The council shall from time to time, as occasion may require, on the recommendation of the board, appoint such inspectors as may be required or found necessary, but no person shall be eligible for such appointment who shall not have passed a satisfactory examination for proficiency in both practice and theory of plumbing and drainage before the board, and such inspector or inspectors shall have full power to act on all matters under this by-law subject only to the board of examiners, and such inspectors shall be under the supervision of the board of health and shall bc attached to the office of the sanitary engineer, and shall bc paid such salary as the council may determine.

5.	Whereas it is desirable and necessary to license and regulate master plumbers in the city of Montreal, therefore we wish the council of the corporation of thc city of Montreal to enact as follows Upon and immediately after passing of this by-law and in every ensuing year before the first of Tune, any person desiring to carry on the business or trade of

plumbing within thc city of Montreal, shall take out a license, for which license such person shall pay at the time of issuing thereof the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) except as hereafter mentioned, arid no person shall receive such a license unless he is of the full age of twenty-one years, and in no case shall a license be granted to any person unless he carries on the business or trade of plumbing and has a place of business for such.

6.	That he is himself a practical plumber and that he will not permit or allow any plumbing work to be done by or for himself in connection with his business except by competent workmen having passed their examination before the board of plumbing examiners, and that he will not violate any of the terms, conditions, rules or regulations contained in this by-law No. 215 respecting plumbing, drainage and sanitary matters.

7. That every person desiring such license shall file with the board a petition in writing giving the name of the applicant, and in case of a partner

