<doctype type="text;plate">THE BUILDER

THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.



<article title="Color in Rooms" author="">Color in Rooms.

FEW matters in the finishing of interior of dwellings cause more concern than that of color. The tendency of

opinion with regard to finishing the woodwork and walls in a house, is to have "variety," some rooms finished dark, others in light shades. While it may be true that "variety is charming," it is not exactly true that good taste demands that one room should be finished in dark colors, and the next one to it finished in white or light buffs ; the best effects are made where rooms are all finished in middle tints. These tints need not be all in one color, but should be chosen with a knowledge of the relations they bear to one another, if harmony is desired. Dining rooms may be made somewhat darker than other rooms, for where a table is set it certainly looks better if the surroundings are of a receding character. Citrine, or blue of medium depth and with greyish hue, looks well for the wall of a dining room, and a maroon dado is very suitable. It is desirable that the spread table and the viands have prominence given to them by the shade of the walls. Our table-cloths, however, are too strong in effect; instead of being white, they should be of a cream tint, for the general repose would not then be disturbed, and yet the table would have sufficient prominence given to it. The emblems of a feast, fish birds and beast, may sometimes be incorporated with decorations, particularly in the windows, if colored glass is used, but the drawings should be of a conventional character. Parlors or drawing-rooms may be decorated in lighter tints, but it must be remembered that white is always a very chilly color, and furniture cannot look well against a very light wall. Flare light tints of a warm hue may be indulged in with good effect, it taste is displayed in harmonizing the tints which, when properly done, induces cheerfulness and promotes conversation. Bed-rooms should be made to look cheerful and cosy, and for this purpose should be finished in the same color, having red as a motive, but pinks should be avoided. Terra-cotta or light brown with a reddish cast may be used with good effect, and sometimes, for a young lady's bed-room, a dark lilac, with terra-cotta trimmings may be used, but this latter will require handling with skill. A smoking den is the one room where the grotesque and humorous may be allowed, but the grotesque, both in color and decoration, must be clever and vigorous, to be effective. In all rooms the appearance of effort should be avoided, and there should be no display of wealth beyond the capacity of the owner, yet, there should be a feeling of "competency" in every room. If special richness is to be indulged in, ° it upon the library, where all the surroundings may be made to harmonize with the costly bindings of the books.

Staining White Pine.





<article title="Staining White Pine" author="">THE fashion of staining white pine in imitation of more expensive woods does not seem to be in good taste, unless the work is exceedingly well done. The sham is at once apparent, and the effect is garish and vulgar. White pine itself is a beautiful wood for interior finish if properly treated, but the soft, silky texture of the grain is spoiled by the attempt to imitate walnut or cherry. Where other than the natural color of the wood is desired, artistic effects may be produced by making use of some of the aniline dyes, and staining in the various tones of green, light brown and yellow, which preserve the grain and texture of the wood, and may be made to harmonize with the surroundings. Of course, the dye, no matter what the color, must be put on lightly and evenly. No sandpaper must be used, and the whole work should be finished in white shellac, which may be rubbed down after the whole is dry and hard.



<article title=" Lengths of Jack Rafters." author="">IN the formation of hip-roofs, two difficulties generally confront the young workman---first, the finding of the



length, bevels and cuts of the hips, and second, the finding of the lengths and bevels of the "jacks," or cripple rafters. The first difficulty has been dealt with in these columns a year or so ago, so we will confine ourselves in this item exclusively to jack rafters. Let us examine the diagram shown herewith, and which



















































FOR GETTING LENGTHS AND BEVELS FOR JACK-RAFTERS.





was invented by Mr. J. P. Hicks some years ago, and which he has named '' The great circle of jack rafters." If A B represents the long run of the common rafter, B E the rise, and A E the length, then a bevel set on E

