<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 237



acquainted with the first principles of sanitary plumbing; he will not, for example, leave a soil-pipe without ventilation ; he will arrange for the disconnection of thc house drain from the sewer, and he may even provide for a proper current of air through the drains but when questions are put to him by the ingenious plumber concerning the laying-out of the hot-water circulating pipes or thc connection of the W. C. trap with the soil-pipe, he is liable to be placed in a position not entirely compatible with the dignity of the "arkos tectone."

From plumbing work it is not a far cry, in Dublin at all events, to enter the establishments of the master painters, for in more than one instance these trades, curiously enough, are combined.

Pilgrimages of similar scope, to the haunts of all the crafts that an architect calls to his aid, in ecclesiastical, civil, or domestic work, arc in contemplation.

I have tried to put before you the paramount need of general education, of improved opportunities in the technical training which is our special stock-in-trade, and of die culture which refines their use and combines them to their best ends. Without a full measure of these things ambition is heavily handicapped. I speak, of course, of ambition in its broadest sense, the ambition to deserve and 611 a niche in the Temple of Fame, not the mere instinct of self-preservation and successful plunder which we share with the domestic animal or the beast of prey; the desire to swell the store of wisdom already laid tip in technical achievement and record, to raise and maintain the status of our calling to extend without fear or favour the benefits of our ripe experience, to bear with and live down the prejudices or jealousies of our clients or fellows, and to feel ourselves efficient factors in private, social and national life --citizens, in fact, of no mean city.

I have not spoken of personal gifts, but without a fair heritage of aptitude, fostered in the hope of something better than by-ends, thc seed may fall on barren soil. If we cannot choose we can at least cherish them, so that when our barns and armouries are fuller than those of the less gifted or thrifty, we can draw upon ripened grain, or take down a burnished weapon from the rack.

<article title=" CHURCH ARCHITECTURE IN NORTHERN FRANCE " author="Squair, J.">CHURCH ARCHITECTURE IN NORTHERN FRANCE.*

By PROFESSOR J. SQUAIR.



The subject of architecture is one possessing many aspects We may, for instance, regard buildings from a mathematical or aesthetical standpoint, or we may consider them as successful adaptions of refractory materials to the purposes of utility or beauty, or we may consider them as reflecting the ideas and tendencies which characterize the age to which they belong. The latter is the one to which we shall confine our attention at present.

The art of France in the Middle Ages is one of great rich ness and variety. All the forms of literature flourished epic poetry, lyric poetry, the drama and the chronicle. Sculpture was carried to a high state of excellence. But the architecture of the period is the richest form of artistic legacy bequeathed to modern times. An attempt has been made in the nineteenth century to revive an interest in mediaeval literature and many beautiful things have been brought to our notice which were overlooked by the men of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Scholars and critics have republished and expounded and sometimes modernized the great epics and dramas of thc Middle Ages, but it is doubtful whether any permanent vogue regarding these works will ever be re-established. Some of great patriotic value such as the Chanson de Roland, or some of the beautiful lyrics appeal strongly to men of our time and will not be forgotten, but the number of ancient poems secured from oblivion will be small. Quite otherwise is it with architecture. Here, all the samples of mediaeval art which remain are regarded with the greatest favor. The contempt which was heaped upon them by men of classical tastes has been forgotten and they have become models for the architects of to-day.

Church architecture in France in the Middle Ages is represented by two great types, the Romanesque and the Gothic. Notre-Dame de Poitiers, of the end of the eleventh century, is a sample of the Romanesque style. It is an oblong building of a type developed from the Roman basilica. Its nave and transept form a cross, its arches are round, its walls are low, and the flying buttresses are absent. From the Romanesque style was developed the Gothic. The same cruciform ground-plan is at the basis of both, but the Gothic takes an enormous flight upward. The nave becomes very high, to support which the flying-buttresses so characteristic of the Gothic style are developed. The facade un

*Abstract o a lecture delivered on November 19th before the Modern Language Club of University College, Toronto.

dergoes marked changes, the great towers become a striking feature. Beautiful details like the rose-window and the delicate arcades arc invented. The pointed arch gives also opportunities for richer sculptural displays. In thc Gothic church mediaeval architecture reached its climax. The great cathedrals of Paris, Reims, Amiens, Chartres, etc., have never been surpassed by other buildings in point of beauty. The thirteenth century is the period of highest excellence, but the style was continued for a century or two later.

In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the new movements to which the name of the Renaissance is given led men to consider more closely the art of Grecian and Roman antiquity. The result in architecture was that they began to show contempt for Gothic style and to introduce features drawn from thc styles of Greece and Rome, In the facade of Saint-Etiennc du Mont, of the beginning of the sixteenth century, we see this mingling of the styles. There is a Romanesque tower, a Gothic rose-window with a Grecian colonnade and pediment. After the completion of St. Peter's at Rome it became the fashion for a couple of centuries or more to build churches of a domical structure, like St. Peter's, Such are the churches of the Sorbonne, the Invalides, the Pantheon of Paris and many others. The Grecian colonnade and pediment coupled with the Roman dome are the striking features of the churches throughout the period known as the Classical in literature, The very word Gothic became a synonym for barbarous. Nothing was in good taste that was not of Grecian origin. This is one of the most striking phenomena in the history of art. The men of the Renaissance did not cast aside the Gothic style and adopt the classical because the latter was intrinsically more artistic. Indeed, it is doubtful if it was so. They really rejected thc Gothic and adopted the Classical because, under the charm of the superior Classical philosophy and poetry, they rejected their own mediaeval literature and, along with it, what was no part of it, their mediaeval architecture.

The church of the Madeleine of the year 1807 represents a new phase of development. It is true that it was intended by Napoleon not as a Christian church but as a temple of glory, and so could be fashioned more appropriately after the model of a pagan edifice. But that is not the only reason for its being an almost exact copy of a Grecian temple. It is easy to see by comparing, for instance, Saint-Etienne du Mont (1517) with the Pantheon (1764) that originality f design was waning. The Madeleine marks the close of the eras of invention and the beginning of the era of imitation. It is a far cry from thc free spirit of inventiveness which produced a facade like that of Reims to the spirit of imitation which produced the colonnade, however beautiful, of the Madeleine. The nineteenth century is the age when men are more anxious to secure historical accuracy than to invent bold, striking novelties. The field from which to choose models has been very much widened, however, since the Romantic movement of 1830. Hugo and his contemporaries turned their attention to mediaeval art and rediscovered, so to speak, the Gothic cathedral. That graceful form became again an object of admiration, and architects took it as a model for modern structures. But Romanesque and Classical models are not excluded. In fact, nearly all types of buildings are copied in our time. Thc two great characteristics of modern architecture are variety of style and, what may seem paradoxical, lack of originality.





CANADIAN SOLDIERS' MEMORIALS.

with regard to this subject, Mr. A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., Montreal, writes as follows

"I am heartily in sympathy with the project of erecting permanent memorials of the Canadian contingents who did such splendid work in South Africa in all the chief centres. Such deeds should be commemorated as an incentive for ourselves and for our children. The form you suggest for Toronto, viz., a triumphal arch, is particularly suitable, as not only following the precedent of great nations of the past, but also as being always a striking architectural feature in any city. In New York the temporary "Dewey" arch is still standing and is universally felt to be a high sounding clear note in the architectural discord of that city."



THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The formal opening of the new rooms which have recently been fitted up to serve as the headquarters of the Association, was celebrated by a dinner held in the Assembly Room on the evening of the 11th inst. There were present about fifty members and invited guests. The chair was occupied by the President, Mr. A. F. Wickson, having on his right the Rev. Professor Clark and on his left Professor Galbraith, Principal of the School of Practical Science. The principal feature of the occasion was an interesting address on "Architecture,' by Professor Clark, a synopsis of which we hope to have thc privilege of publishing in a future number. The new rooms have been partially furnished and already present an attractive appearance. The furniture in the architects' rooms was specially designed by members of the Association. It is the purpose to hold monthly meetings of the Association at which papers and discussions will form the principal feature. The rooms contain the Association Library and other interesting literature, and will be open at all times to members.

It is proposed to postpone the Convention of thc Ontario Association of Architects until the 29th and 30th of January, the same week as the Architectural Exhibition of the Eighteen Club.

