<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	BUILDER	149



<article title="" author="The Intercepting Trap">THE INTERCEPTING TRAP.

The frequency with which infectious diseases enter dwellings in the so-called choice residential districts of some of our cities, is calculated to weaken public confidence in the efficiency of the intercepting trap as a means of preventing the entrance of sewer gas into the house drainage system. Some of our most experienced and progressive sanitarians have openly proclaimed their belief that the intercepting trap is a humbug that ought to be abolished. The important bearing of this question upon the public health has led us to solicit the views of a number of we1l-known architects, engineers, plumbers and physicians, some of whose opinions are printed herewith, and others will appear in future numbers. in this way we hope to see the subject thoroughly ventilated and the value or uselessness of the intercepting trap established.



TORONTO, Aug. 7th, 1900.



DEAR SIRS,-—The entire absence of a trap in house drains is the ideal system. There are two difficulties in the way, however; the first is that the great majority of drain connections are now trapped; the second is that houses vary very much in height, so much so that the lop of the soil pipe in one house might be below the level of the upper story windows in the adjoining house.



This would be a source of danger in the case of the wind blowing towards the higher house, and the danger would he especially great if but few houses w ere trapless, as the hulk of the sewer air would then pass through the drains and soil pipes of these houses, concentrating the sewer air in that certain



locality.

If legislation could be obtained and abolish all traps and make the tops of all soil pipes extend above any window or future window, the scheme might be feasible.



Of course it would be very unsightly to have a tall outlet upon the roof of a low house, and we doubt if such a thing could be carried out.



Yours truly,



BURKE & HORWOOD.



TORONTO, CANADA, Aug. 9th, 1900



DEAR SIRS,—Your circular letter of August 4th requesting my opinion on the subject of main traps on house sewer connections, duly received.



In a properly designed sewerage system, main traps are not necessary, and I am now, after several years residence in Toronto, of the opinion that in the combined sewerage systems the main traps should be abolished.



The so-called "breathers" which are so prominent a feature in the Front lawns of Toronto and in many other places that have followed Toronto's example, are in my opinion a menace to the health of the citizens. The only practical method of properly ventilating street. sewers is through the house soil pipes, each of which should have a free opening from the main sewer to a point above the roofs of the buildings.



In 1888 I advocated the abolition of main traps on house sewers, and I succeeded in inducing the town of Brockville to adopt my recommendation, although at that time I believe I was the only engineer in Canada who advocated so radical a departure from the old method. The Brockville system has now been in operation for twelve years and has proven entirely satisfactory. Thc sewer system is well ventilated by means of the house sewers notwithstanding the fact that the manholes are completely closed over by ice and snow during the winter months.



The Brockville system was followed at Brantford, Barrie, Berlin, Waterloo, Toronto Junction, Renfrew and some other places in Ontario, and there can be no question now as to the merits of this method of ventilating sewers and house drains.



In the Toronto system neither the house drains nor the main sewers are ventilated. Manhole gratings cannot ventilate a sewer system, neither will stacks or chimneys built along the line of sewer.



The so-called sewer gas should not he produced in a properly constructed and properly ventilated sewerage system, and the foul smells so offensive in many of the cities are unknown in Brockville, Brantford, and other places where the separate

system has been adopted and main traps on house drains



omitted.



You will see from the foregoing letter that the omission of the main traps is nothing new, having been omitted for the last twelve years.

Truly yours,



WILLIS CHIPMAN.



TORONTO, Aug. 9, 1900.



GENTLEMEN, In reply to yours of the 4th inst. regarding the question of ventilating sewers through the private houses by the omission of the main trap, I think a great deal can be said in favor of this scheme, under proper restrictions. I am of opinion that it would be necessary to have all of the pipe inside the street line of iron, and laid very carefully under rigid inspection. Under these conditions a portion of the sewer gas would probably find its way out through the ventilating pipe at the to1) of the houses, but the greater portion would probably still follow the lines of least resistance, and pass in or out of the manhole gratings in the centre of the street. As, however, the private drains of this city are practically all laid and are very numerous, it is not practical to make the change at this date, especially as the sentiments of the people would probably be against having a direct ventilation of the sewer through their houses, no matter how well it may be done and no matter how safe it may actually be.

Yours truly,

	C. H. Rust,

	C.B.S.	City Engineer.



TORONTO, Aug. 9th, 1900.



SIRS,-—In response to your racquets I am glad to express my opinion as to the advisability of omitting the trap from private drains at connection with street sewers.

On all work done in accordance with modern usage that trap, with its hideous "breather," is not only useless to the house plumbing, but an evil to the street sewer, in retaining gases which would harmlessly escape through the thousands of soil-pipes if permitted.

You refer to the suggestion as new, but I beg to remind you that for many years I have been its earnest advocate, and have practised as I preached. In each case I have to repeat the same arguments with plumbers, drain men and owners, but always prevail, and never use the trap.

In former years I have interviewed the mayor, aldermen arid city engineer, and have published my views in the daily press and your excellent journal.

On the whole, our by-laws arc thorough, but on this one point we are behind other cities whose more recent by-laws prohibit the trap, but of course require the iron soil pipe continued to outside of building.

In the old days of putty joints, no break syphons, and sheet metal or no vent pipes, the trap was a needed though only partial safeguard; in some cities better than here because of having a back vent pipe carried to the roof. But now that we insist on perfect plumbing, with a back vented trap on every fixture, the old danger is avoided, and every soil pipe should help to ventilate the sewer. Then there would be no confined sewer gas, because the fresh air would enter by the street gratings, and, being warmed, would freely escape out of the high soil pipes. At present the confined air becomes poison-laden, rises to the higher parts of the city and escapes by the only outlets, the street gratings, over which children may be seen playing, and to which I would trace the outbreak of diphtheria in those localities a few years ago.

High chimneys have been proposed as a relief at certain points, but why add expense and ugliness when the thousands of soilpipes are available gratis?



At a recent convention of sanitary engineers here an able paper was read advocating the omission of the trap, but I failed to note its unanimous endorsation at the time.

Trusting that your efforts may result in complete reform, I am, respectfully yours,

M.	B. AVLESWORTH.



24 SULLIVAN ST., TORONTO, Aug. 14, 1900.



DEAR SIRS,—-In answer to your letter of August 4th, if you mean all traps I don't think it is worth considering; if you mean the main trap only there might be some arguments in its favor, such as better ventilation of main sewer, for without main trap the current of air would be down manhole and out through soil pipe terminus. This is about the only argument in its favor,

