



<doctype type="text">COMPETITIONS IN MONTREAL.

By "POLNUD.'



<article title="Competitions in Montreal" author="">THESE are invariably of a character that architects of any professional standing can hardly enter with safety, and always with a surety of loss, for it is the best lobbyiest who secures the prize in the end, and though he may have a good design and the ability to construct a creditable building, it is his influence as a churchman, or the enmity of a certain member on the committee to the other competitors, and not his ability as an architect, that wins. Under this condition of things the best architects do not compete, and those who have a professional name to make and a fortune to acquire, enter them only so far as they feel some hope of success, and leave them when other work brings more lucrative employment. On the other hand in England, France and Germany, the conditions are vastly different. They have a past to commemorate and an accumulated wealth to invest, and the architect works for glory, being assured when he competes for a structure of importance that his chances are all based upon his ability to design ; and once asked to enter such a competition, he feels confident of fair play, and his design being placed first, no party or petty spite is allowed to wrest from him what lie has fairly Won by his genius. We should not despair of seeing a like condition of things in this country. A few such successful competitions as this would have a vast influence; a new generation will come with advanced ideas upon art, and while a new style will be a matter of formation for generations and its perfection only to be found in the decadence of a nation, still each bright mind in the profession will seek to better that which exists.

Two conditions always necessary are

The successful designer should as a matter of course he employed to carry out his design at regular prices competition as regards rates of compensation would necessarily be demoralizing to the competitors, and possibly to the judgment of the committee.

While it is in accordance with the extremely mercantile spirit of the age to endeavor to obtain the maximum of value for the minimum of payment, yet such a principle applied to artistic work has a most depressing effect on talent, fails to call out high ideas and drives eminent practitioners entirely away.

The best way to secure a keen and good competition is to name and pay (enough for expenses) a certain number of leading architects, and allow all others to come into the competition without pay but a fair and just chance of winning the prize should their plan take first place. There is nothing individious in the choice ; all architects not named would know that a want of influence on the Board was the cause of their being left out.

This is where the members of the Province of Quebec Association of architects could be benefitted, as all members in good standing should be invited to compete on all public buildings, viz., government, municipal schools, libraries, hospitals, and public charitable buildings. I can plainly see unless some compensation as well as glory is derived from the Association it will dwindle away and members will resign and practice as do the aliens and outsiders without its benefits and protection.

This, after all the devotion and labor of the first originators of the Association would indeed be a serious calamity, as no branch of the professions should be more protected in an educational sense than Architecture, as it is the most important of all professions, affecting as it does the health, comfort, safety, and the beauty and

wealth of all cities. No doubt the Association has accomplished a great deal, and through the generosity of the founder of a chair of architecture in McGill by Sir W. McDonald. This important achievement will be a great incentive to the profession and the better education of architects will be a certain surety to the public that architects will at least understand the construction of a building if they are not all geniuses and endowed with artistic ability. The architecture of our city will be improved ; the comfort of our inhabitants will be increased ; the revenue will be augmented ; the daily travel to our beautiful cities be tripled ; and the prosperity of our people assured. This is all very encouraging, and our young men are led to believe that all is accomplished for their future prosperity when they have become members of the Association. The public, however, looks for one great essential in our architects, competency, and nothing but the real article will suffice. An architect in these days must prove that he possesses distinct knowledge of building, that he is a better constructor, better sanitarian, better artist, than a builder merely — that his scientific knowledge of mechanics, of the properties of matter, the laws of heat, light and sound, of chemistry and hygiene, are so far complete that he can advise on buildings for all purposes ; specify works of drainage and ventilation ; he must know sufficient law to protect his client from all possible risks, and all this in addition to his art training and artistic capabilities. It is such a competence that can only be proved in actual works designed, and executed by him, that the public demand for the five per cent.—not a mere theoretical knowledge that may do very well for a graduate of McGill or a member of the architects association. The titles bestowed by these two ought to imply a distinctively competent man as I have sketched, and should only be bestowed on those who have actually carried out designs of' their own ; but alas ! the titles are won by men of very indifferent attainments, and whose rank as artists may be impeached in many cases. The examinations have unquestionably raised the meaning and standing of members in many instances, but they are of a much too general and perfunctory kind to guarantee the architect's ability. When a diploma or letters bestowed on an architect can actually mean that he is above his fellows, then will the public begin to realize the value of these distinctions, and not before. No system of questions and answers will ever test the actual ability of an architect in his two fold functions of an efficient builder and skillful designer. The public also have a suspicion of anything like cliqueism, and those who form themselves into societies and combinations have generally a reputation (ill founded in most cases) of trying to serve their own ends, and the charge of trade unionism is often brought against professional bodies. It is for the professions to show the unreasonableness of the charge by proving that their interests are the public's interests. The building public ask for competent men able to design and carry out well constructed and sanitary buildings. They want to have proof of that competence by some guarantee that a building will be more efficient when an architect is employed than when he is not, and the Association should strive to prove to this doubting public that the degree conferred on any member by the Association and sanctioned by the legislature (as it is) should be guarantee of the highest standard of professional attainments.

