

<doctype type="text;plate">are arranged in clumps around the drive at fairly even distances ; but no two clumps are alike in number or arrangement of trees. Any appearance of formality is upset by the group of two near the centre of the circle. on the opposite side of the central walk to the large group near the lodge. The effect is one of park like beauty which we may hope will long be preserved to Toronto. It is an example of what may be done with fifteen or twenty trees to create a beautiful place; requiring neither the great first cost nor so great an outlay in keeping- up as the formal garden.

The grounds at the back contain the necessary garden, conservatory, yard and stable arrangements, and the residence is completed as a self contained establishment by a row of servants' cottages at the Beverley street entrance, which, with their flowers and creepers and the trellised vine over the stable yard behind, make a

pretty group.

There was at one time a race course on the Grange property behind the house. This ceased to exist about 1850 All that remains of it is a portion of the grand stand, forming part of a green house in the garden.



<article title="Ontario Association of Architects" author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

Two meetings of the Council have been held since the annual convention. Mr. W. R. Gregg', 66 Victoria street, has been appointed registrar, and Mr. C. H. Bishop, auditor. The several committees appointed for various purposes were not in a position to report yet, hut are at work.

It has been decided to lease the rooms at No. 94 King street west in accordance with the following recommendation contained in the report of the consulting committee presented at the annual convention, viz.: "They have procured an option upon rooms suitable for the uses of the Association. The rooms are situated at 94-96 King street west, Toronto, between York and Bay streets. It is proposed to arrange them as in the accompanying plan, so as to share the premises and cost with the engineers. The rooms will occupy the second floor, but will have a separate entrance from the street, and every member should have a key to the door. The rent for each of the societies associated as tenants will be $150 per year. The alterations necessary to arrange the floor as planned will be made by the landlord. Heating and care taking will be provided, but not light." Some slight alterations to the arrangement of the rooms as shown on plan will be made.

It is intended that the examinations shall be held in March. Students wishing to enter for the examinations should send in their names to the Registrar, Wm. R. Gregg, 6i Victoria street, Toronto. The following gentlemen compose the Board of Examiners Prof. Galbraith, (chairman), Messrs. C. H. C. Wright, S. G. Curry, R. J. Edwards, W. R. Gregg, Grant Helliwell, S. H. Townsend, E. Burke and

J.	Wilson Gray.

A full meeting of the Council will probably be called within a few days to consider other matters in connection with the various schemes suggested for the improvement of the Association. In next issue further particulars will be given.

<article title="The Chicago Architectural Club Exhibition" author="">THE CHICAGO ARCHITECTURAL CLUB EXHIBITION.

THE Thirteenth Annual Exhibition of Works of Architecture and the Allied Fine Arts, will be held at the Art Institute, Chicago, under the auspices of The Chicago Architectural Club, from Tuesday, March 20, to Monday, April 2nd. The Exhibition of original works, not previously shown in Chicago, will include Architectural Drawings, and Sketches in Plan, Elevation, Section, Detail and Perspective, in all renderings Projects for Public and Monumental Work ; Interior Decorations and Furnishings (Sketches and Samples); Architectural and Decorative Glass and Mosaic Work Architectural Metal Work ; Sculpture Architectural and Decorative-—Models, etc.; Landscape Architecture.





SECOND FLOOR PLAN



If necessary, in order to complete an exhibit, a drawing previously exhibited, will be accepted.



The official Bulletin of the National Master Plumbers Association has ceased publication.

The worlds progress for 100 years is the best recommendation for advertising; as a lesson well learned recommends its teacher.

A century ago business was largely a matter of local exchange; a manufacturer in the east having to deal in the east because the west was to a great extent a stranger, unacquainted with eastern products. The evolution of newspapers and magazines has leveled all commercial barriers. The man in the east advertises and the advertisement does the duty of a traveling salesman in every town that is reached by its publishers. The inventions of a century, quick and satisfactory systems of printing, and facilities for transportation, have evolved a practical art that has a monument in every successful business the world over.

