<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Our " splendid " galvanized iron statuary, our tons of" beautiful'

metal cornices, our sham Gothic churches, with their wealth of stained glass, in which is revealed about as much power of design and thoughtful color as is found in a 10-cent kaliedoscope, all of these not withstanding, it is greatly to bc feared our learned critics would not place its very high on the scale of civilizations. What indeed could the future Mr. Dryasdust find to say in favor of a people apparently so devoid of excellence in the practise of the Arts? Imagine how he would record his discovery of the entire absence of an art gallery, public hall, technical schools, of a library of reference, in the most modern and important town to be found in a distance of nearly 3,000 miles—his comments on a people content to worship in buildings which would not have reflected credit on the Vikings of Europe, who ran their race ten centuries before them, would probable be worth reading! Posterity would indeed find it hard to believe that Eastern and Western civilization were contemporary and linked by the superb engnieering feats making the trail of the iron road connecting the two extremes.

We are pleased to learn that steps are being taken towards the formation of an Arts and Crafts Society, based, we understand, upon similar lines to the now famous Arts and Crafts Society of London, founded by the late Mr. Win. Morris, which has performed yeoman's service in the cause of restoring English Art to a national art, as opposed to a merely one man or individual art the new society hopes to bring together all workers in metals, wood carvers, architectural sculptors, carvers, modellers, designers and workers in glass, furniture and fabrics, painters of china, wood engravers, professional and amateur photographers, and, in short, all sorts and conditions of men and women who regard their daily vocations as something higher than mere wage-earning drudgery. It is intended to enroll both working and honorary members, with a nominal subscription for the former and a higher one for the latter thc chief efforts of the society will at first be directed towards holding an annual exhibition to remain open to the public for some days, and an attempt will be made to encourage the sale of local productions by means of an art union. The honorary membership will carry with it admission to the Society's exhibition, the opening conversazione and the private view, and will also entitle the holder to certain chances in the Art Union. It is to be hoped that the enthusiastic promoters of this excellent scheme will meet with a full measure of success.

Had the craftsmen to whom our details have to be entrusted for execution enjoyed the opportunities for study and comparison which a properly constituted Arts and Crafts Society affords, we should be spared many of the errors in elementary good taste and in the proper fitness of things one so frequently meets with even when the architect provides carefully studied details, which is far less frequently the case than should be, they are often misrepresented in execution by thoughtless artificer who puts but little life or pride into his work the every day, machine-made artizan works primarily for wages. Wages, of course, must be earned, but if the worker could have instilled into him some appreciation of the art value of the molding, contour, or what not on which lie is working, as well as of the texture of the material, his interest would be quickened and he would of necessity put more of his own soul and character into his execution of most workmen it is the highest ambition to emulate the precision and neatness of a machine, and in this he is encouraged by a public which places a false view on mere exactness upon being shewn a drawing the first comment of both the average workman and the every day layman is made upon the mechanical dexterity or draughtsmanship betrayed in its preparation; rarely indeed does either look beyond this point and seek for its real value, the knowledge and power shewn in its design and composition; it is not possible that character and feeling can be retained under such circumstances—one might as well expect to hear a soulful rendering of Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata" ground Out by a grinning Italian organ grinder and his appreciative monkey. The fault, too, lies heavy at the door of the every day architect, who takes about as much interest in the higher teaching of his vocation as does the man who tends the planing machine with the former, commission is the first aim, with the latter, wages in no true sense is one better than the other. Not long ago the architectural world in England was much exercised over the question of "Architecture a Profession or an Art?" here it might be transposed, "Architecture a Business or a 'fracle ?"





Advertising will sell everything that ought to be sold.—Bates.

<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

DINING HALL AND UPPER CORRIDOR IN ROYAL HOTEL,



HAMILTON, ONT.—MR. W. P. WITTON, ARCHITECT.



EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR VIEWS, RESIDENCE OF MR. W. S. ANDREWS, ROSEDALE, TORONTO. —MESSRS. DARLING

& PEARSON, ARCHITECTS.





THE MACDONALD CHEMISTRY AND MINIM; BUILDING, MCGILL UNIVERSITY, MONTREAL. —ANDREW T. TAYLOR (TAYLOR



& GORDON), ARCHITECT.



DRAWING TO HALF-INCH SCALE OF OFFICE BUILDING FOR MESSRS. LEVER BROS., LIMITED, TORONTO (SELECTED BY



THE ARCHITECTS' EIGHTEEN CLUB, TORONTO)—	 SPROATT & ROLPH, ARCHITECTS.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER'S STUDENTS' COMPETITION. FOR A SUBURBAN BICYCLE CLUB HOUSE. —DESIGN



BY " KENIL WORTH" (CLARENCE THEDFORD, 237



DUFFERIN STREET, TORONTO) AWARDED FIRST POSITION. —DESIGN BY "SPES" (WILLFORD A. GAGNON,



25 MELBOURNE AVENUE, WESTMOUNT, MONTREAL,



QUE.,) AWARDED SECOND POSITION. —THIRD POSITION



IN THIS COMPETITION HAS BEEN AWARDED TO THE



AUTHOR OF THE DESIGN SIGNED "DINAH," FREDERICK



C.	FRENCH, 84 WELLESLEY STREET, TORONTO.)







<article title="Figuring Up" author="">FIGURING UP.

The following is given by the Illustrated Carpenter and Builder as a simple and rapid way of finding the number of joists, studs, furring, &c., for any given length of floor or walls, where the centres are placed 16 in. apart Multiply the length of the building in feet by three, and divide the product by four. For instance, a building is 124 ft. long, then 124x3=372/4=93, the number of joists or studs required. This rule holds good no matter what the thickness of joists may be, as long as they are spaced 16 in. from centre to centre. Allow one extra for a starter, except where a sill or other timber forms a starter. The same rule applies also to furring or stripping, or any other work, when 16 in. form the distances from centres. In estimating the number of rafters or other timbers that are set 2 ft. 6 in.



to centres, results may readily be obtained by multiplying the length of building by two and dividing the amount by five. The result will show the number of pairs of rafters required, less one pair, which must be added. Again, if we want to place joists of timbers of any kind, 18 in. from centres, all we have to do is to multiply the length in feet by two, and divide the product by three, pieces required less one, which must always be added. In the first instance the foot is divided into three parts of 4 in. each, and in the two latter examples the foot is divided into two parts of 6 in. each. The principle is quite plain, and, when properly understood, may be applied to many cases in estimating.



The Dominion Radiator Company has contributed $500 to the Canadian Patriotic Fund.



The introduction into New York of a mechanical bricklayer, which has been invented in England, has brought the leaders of the builders trades' unions face to face with a serious problem. The latter say they cannot stop the progress of machinery, but they will keep reducing the hours of labor as the introduction of machinery proceeds. The new machine will save two-thirds of the time occupied in laying bricks by hand.

