<doctype type="text">THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER	49



<article title="The Ontario Society of Artists' 28th Exhibition" author="">THE ONTARIO SOCIETY OF ARTISTS' 28TH

EXHIBITION.

IN endeavoring to put down a few notes on this year's exhibition of the Ontario Society of Artists, one is brought face to face with thc unsatisfactory nature of all criticism. One man's opinion can never be anything more than one man's opinion, but one man may perhaps be a sort of representative delegate from the general public to those most interested, viz., those who have labored over these works of art, and after many an hour of anxious thought have brought them to a stage of readiness to be exposed to the public eye. The chief value of the jottings which follow is that they are the sincere utterances of an ordinary observer.

No. 31, "A Red Roof in Surrey," by C. M. Manly. In this picture Mr. Manly has displayed his old faculty of selection, and has given us somewhat more breadth of treatment than he usually allows himself. In taking this characteristically English scene, the artist has displayed some courage, seeing that it involves a stretch of rather uneventful grass at the base of his picture-. always a difficult thing to manage, but, as a whole, the picture is pleasing. In " harvest of the Sea," No. 138, Mr. Manly has a subject in which lie has introduced more figure drawing than is usual with him, and has done it well. In 141, "Ockment Water," he is again in his old arid well known style, and one can pick it out for a Manly from the other side of the room. his water colour, " in an Old Cathedral City," No. 137, reminds us very much of a similar effect by the lamented Mr. O'Brien. It is a scene that has been very frequently portrayed. In 139, "In a Peach Country," Mr. Manly has as pretty a little sketch as one need hang.

Among the newer stars that have arisen on the horizon of the society, is Mr. J. D. Kelly, whose clean and well rendered effects in water color are highly successful. He has got a good deal of light and bold color into No. 132, "A Muskoka Trout Stream." No. 131, "The 'Wild Fowler," is a pretty little subdued bit of treatment.

Miss Wilhemina D. Hawley gives us examples of her clever patch-sketching-—No. 124, "The Woman in White,' and 120, "By the River,"—in both of which the good figure-drawing somewhat atones for the slobbiness of the finish. It is only on rare occasions that sketches can be exhibited in galleries, and perhaps this is one of them.

In 148, " The Day is Ending," Mr. H. Robins shows a fine feeling for nature and a good eye for color and a faculty of composition which is not above learning from established precedents. It is pleasing to remark that this picture is sold.

Again Mr. Reid attempts the task of showing us the decorative qualities of a hay-stack in "A Cloud Effect," No. 153, and gets over the difficulties of the case as well as could be expected.

One of Mr. Chavignaud's most characteristic effects is shown in a "A Dutch Landscape, (Evening)," No. 106 The row of gaunt trees is of course indispensable and familiar, but Mr. Chavignaud manages it rather better than usual. He has also three other manneristic Dutch drawings. Mr. Chavignaud is industrious and forcible. He is also not without poetic feeling but it is too much of the dark gray order.

As "A Design for Decoration Mr. Gustay Hahn's drawing, No. 127, is bold, striking and inventive, but we would like to know what that decoration is for.

In No. 51 " The Widower and His Daughter," Miss Laura Muntz has been bold enough to give us a picture with a story. This is, we know, against the canons of the hypercritical, who tell us we should paint for " art's sake only," and let the story go hang. Nevertheless, pictures with stories, especially when they are so full of ability as Miss Muntz's, will continue to attract a large amount of notice. Miss Muntz's fine handling is also shown to advantage in No. 46, which she calls "Eventide." An old Frenchwornan and her daughter are returning from, or going to, vespers. The contrast of the faces, and the work of years on that of the elder woman are remarkably well shown. In No. 48, "In the Sunlight," Miss Muntz again gives us a delicious bit of color and dash, and equally spirited is "The Child with a Rose." Miss Muntz's "Portrait of My Father," is by a long way the best portrait in the exhibition.

Mrs. Reid's "Roses, Lady Dorothea," No. 57, is an example showing that lady's mastery of form and her inimitable technique. Its color has a splendor and transparency which mark it as one of the best of recent flower paintings. Equally charming and full of sunlight is her "A Verandah,' No. 6o, a picture of luxuriant growth and the juiciest of coloring. The glowing sunlight is

also well rendered in her "Poppy Garden," No. 59. Another triumph of this artists is No. 58, " Looking East.' In this picture Mrs. Reid shows a mastery of her materials which is very remarkable; "this sort goeth not out but by prayer and fasting." In this picture, too, she has had the courage of her convictions, and has not hesitated to paint clouds as she sees them, nor to give us a delightful spot of color in the gable of the little house.

J. W. Beatty has painted a little gem in No. 8, "Evening," and we note that it has attracted a purchaser early in the Exhibition. His handling of the sky and trees is full of craftsmanship.

Miss Tully's fine pastel portrait of Mrs. Russell, No. So, is marked by great freedom of handling and that mastery of materials which long ago gave thc artist a favoured place among those who deal with this medium. Miss Tully's Pastels are indeed something that the artistic world of Toronto may he proud of. She has also considerable insight into the characteristics of the sitter; in this example thc beholder has no doubt of the reality of the portraiture. It has actually human qualities, while the draperies and accessories are likewise exceedingly well rendered, though we cannot say that we altogether like the handling of the neck, the exceeding breadth of the method by which the lights are put in giving a woolly appearance. The same ability to catch the characteristics of tile sitter is shown in the portrait which is hung above that of Mrs. Russell, No. 79, in which Miss Tully has chosen oil as a medium. Her "Evening Effect, [Decorative Panel)," No. 84, has a sympathetic feeling for nature and much poetry in it. In " The Poplars," No. 86, which the artist brackets " Afternoon Effect," she has introduced us to an experiment which no doubt will be interesting to artists, but can scarcely be appreciated by the general public..

Mr. F. H. Brigden gives us six interesting water colors, in which we see that the progressiveness of this young artist has not come to its limit. "In the Harbor, St. John, N. B.," No. 93, though it represents somewhat usual method of treating a subject of this kind, gets over the difficulties of the situation with considerable skill. In the water color entitled " St. John River,' No. 94, we have one of those panoramic effects which, while they arc useful in giving the beholder a fair idea of the surroundings, scarcely afford the artist any better opportunity than he finds in a more limited area. The best part of this picture is the foreground, which is very happily rendered and full of artistic feeling and life; the distant landscape is somewhat heavy. The same skill in handling the foreground is shown in No. 96, "in the Valley (August.) " Familiar as this scene is to all Torontonians, the picture gives a romance to the locality of the Don which is not found there by everybody.

In No. 44, "The River Road," a large oil painting, Mr. Manly somewhat escapes from himself and his usual habitudes. He gives us in this an English village scene, which is redolent of the characteristics of the old country. He treats it with a juicy brush and much freedom, though we can not quite like his handling of the dark green rushes at the right hand side of the foreground still it is a lively and interesting effort, only wanting a little more time and putting together to make a very good picture of it.

In No. 128, "The Return of the Fishers," Mr. McGillivray Knowles has a subject that suits well his practised skill in figure drawing. The work is catchy, breezy, and does not require the frame to make it a satisfactory composition. His little picture of

St. Paul's," No. 130, makes the heart of an Old Countryman turn to the land of his fat hers, but it is not everybody who can put the great dome into a sketch with such facility and effect as Mr. Knowles. "Newlyn, Cornwall," is an "easy one" for this artist, seeing that lie is as familiar with the brown sails of fishing boats as he is with the store awnings on Yonge street.

Mr. F. S. Challeners eye for color and craftsmanlike observance of detail are both evident in the two little water colors which hear his name, namely, " Old Mosque, Near Jerusalem," No. 110, and "A Country Road," No. III. this last is a genuine bit of Ontario, and would also make a pretty little adornment for a room.

Very good examples of Mr. J. W. Blatchly's well known style are to be found in the works Nos. 99-102. Mr. Blatchly has a good eye for color, and in No. 101. "A Canadian Homestead," he has glorified an ordinary bit of country scene, which he presents to us transfigured with the glorious sunlight of summer. We prefer, however, " Declining Day," No. 99, in which he has given us a composition that shows not only much ability, but capacity for seeing nature.

Miss Clara E. Galbraith exhibits considerable freedom and

