



<doctype type="text">MASONRY STRESSES.

<article title="Masonry Stresses" author="">THE most valuable lessons and principles in structural science are derived from failures when intelligently investigated, says a writer in the Contract Journal. The range of duties imposed upon structures not being always sufficiently anticipated often leads to failure. Materials not weathering according to reasonable anticipations is likewise a source of failure. A frequent cause is the execution of the work of a class inferior to that upon which computations of strength are based, seemingly ignoring the weakening effect of weather and local exposures to which structures may be subject. It is here to be observed that very few tests are made of the strength remaining in old materials, which have been in service in particular lines of duty. The information to be derived from this class of tests is not less important than that of new materials. It reveals the probable decrease of strength which all new materials of the like kind, to do duty in like conditions, must be expected to undergo, and which should be duly allowed for. The proper factor of safety to be allowed in structures is in some instances more a matter of following authorities than the result of a due investigation of the vital conditions which are inseparable from the problems of the case.

it may be a simple enough affair to compute certain generally recognized stresses in masonry structures according to ordinary rules and in the general modes in which they are set forth and discussed, say, in text-books. But to have to realise that you must be individually responsible for the sufficiency of the computations reaching to and covering all the conditions practically involved makes it a serious matter. Anticipating all the conditions and factors which may be actually involved in masonry stresses often requires searching investigation. No text-book example can be expected to anticipate local exigencies, and it is these which the practitioner must find out and investigate for each case according to its needs.

In usual methods of computation the full section is treated as if the whole area were available for sustaining the load. Suppose a masonry pier, for instance as it is the most tried type of structure, and its statical stresses are regarded as the most precise. All masonry, we know, consists of facework, backing, and filling, whether it be ashlar, block in course work, coursed or uncoursed rubble, the latter sometimes called random rubble, Each of these four kinds of masonry vary, according to circumstances, as to size of blocks of stone, quality of dressing, care in laying in pier, selection of stone, quality of mortar, nature of the filling, and so forth. The filling in even of ashlar or block in course work is invariably of rubble, and of an interior class according as the filling space affords room for large rubble stone or spawls and chips only. Even when rubble stones are filled in, much spawls and chips are thickly bedded in mortar, so that although it occupies a large part of the sectional area, it can take but little of the stress until the facing shell with closer bed joints yields sufficiently to bring the filling into bearing duty. The large proportion of mortar in the filling when of lime will shrink more or less and remain soft for a long time, hence the capacity of the filling to take share of the pier load is not of a promising nature. With cement mortar, when properly indurated, the case would be different, depending on its quality. Most of the failures of piers of Norman and Gothic cathedrals are due to the inferior masonry of

the filling. The shell of facing stones carried all the load that was assumed to be distributed over the entire cross-section of the pier. Since there are very wide differences in every description of masonry in the four types already named, not only in achitectural work, but to a greater extent in engineering masonry, there should be discrimination in their adaptable loads. For instance, ashlar masonry, assuming it for argument to he all ashlar throughout the section, would have different bearing capacity for different size blocks. Thus blocks containing but a quarter of a cubic yard, would have much less bearing strength than blocks of a cubic yard to 1 1/2 cubic yards i. e., 40 cubic feet. This assumes that the blocks, large and small, are all solidly bedded throughout the entire area of the bed, but in the larger beds this is difficult if not impossible in ordinary conditions of stone setting, except the contact beds are all dressed to true corresponding planes. Though large masses of stone have greater unit strength than the small cubes used in testing, from which the data of crushing loads are obtained, compound structures are not so strong as monoliths. The ratios of the respective strengths is not a constant quantity for general use, and therefore difficult to apply. In the case of piers that have great height as compared with their least thickness, some diminution of strength must be allowed for. In many descriptions of masonry piers the loads are not applied axially, so that the resultant cannot pass through the centre of the section. This disparity may cause a diminution of strength up to a third in a homogeneous structure, but much greater disproportion when only the pier shell takes the full load stresses.

In recent years many practitioners prefer to take the ''cracking" instead of the ''crushing" strength of materials as the real criterion of strength. They argue that in practice crushing of a structure should never be approached, and that cracks indicate the full permissible extent of failure to which it can be allowed to go before being protected. The additional load necessary to crush a specimen after being cracked varies with different materials. Mr. W. G. Kirkaldy published some specimen tests, which included the "cracking" and 'crushing" forces for various kinds of stone under their quarry names for the London and North-Western Railway engineer. In a few cases the cracking and crushing was simultaneous, and in others up to about one-sixth less load was required to crack than to crush the specimen. The specimens were in many instances from one to four diameters high, the higher prisms giving less resistance than the lower ones, which were 6 in. cubes. The difference in these also varied up to about one-sixth of the cube results less for cracking than for crushing.

The stresses which may disturb the stability of a pier are exposure to heat and cold, causing expansion and contraction, of sub-structure and super-structure, live or varying loads, in the case of roads, railways, stores, etc., strong winds. The failure of the towers of the Niagara Suspension Bridge, which were completed in 1855, and replaced a few years ago by iron structures, is instructive. They were 90 ft. high on American side and 8o ft. on Canadian side, and were of compact limestone ashlar, laid in cement. The load was 36 tons per square foot of section. The towers were bedded on the country rock of the Niagara gorge, and were full of cracks in all directions, when examined by Mr. L. L. Buck the engineer, in 1887, the most serious being

