



<doctype type="text">of Science authorities, under which, students desiring to do so, who are at present engaged in architects' offices, may attend the lectures as suggested in the report.

It may be said that these new features in the Association work will be in the nature of an experiment, to see how far they meet with the approval of architects and students and it is sincerely hoped that the efforts now being made to raise the standard of student education may be generally endorsed by the profession.



<article title="House Drainage and Inspection" author="Bascombe, H.C.">HOUSE DRAINAGE AND INSPECTION.*

BY H. C. BASCOM BE.



I should wish to place before you the gist of 25 golden sanitary rules which I had the honor to assist in preparing prior to my commencing life as a public sanitary officer, and during a pupilage of seven years under the well-known sanitarian, the late Henry Masters, architect and surveyor, of Bristol

i.—Let it be remembered that foul, air from drains or pipes, or damp walls, will, sooner or later, promote disease.

2.—If you discover that rats have gained access to premises, rest 'assured that sewer gas follows in their track.

3.—If it is found that the drains from a house are connected with the sewer or cesspool, the chances are that, upon examination, you will discover that foul air from the sewer or cesspool passes into the house through some defect existing in connection with such drains.

4. It you discover that a main trap exists between the house and the cesspool or sewer, be sure that the fitting is so ventilated that any foul air from the cesspool or sewer (if it is forced or otherwise passed through the waterseal of the trap) be not drawn into the system of your house drains.

5.—On visiting premises, he very suspicious of the drains. It the pipes are too large to be readily flushed by the water at command, recollect that a bucket of water suddenly discharged into the drain has more effect in cleansing it than the ordinary water tap running the whole day.

6. Never allow a drain to be laid under a house if you can possibly keep it outside the four walls.

7.—Ascertain that the well or underground water tank gives the drains a very wide berth.

8.- Beware of an unventilated sewer or underground water tank.

9.—Beware of having in or about the house a drain, cesspool or water tank that is hermetically sealed.

10.— It you find a drain trap in the cellar or dark room, rest assured that, sooner or later, the water seal will evaporate, and foul air escape through the trap into the house.

11. If you find a pipe in or about the house for conveying soil or water in the form of a syphon, you may depend that at times such pipe will he affected by syphonic action ; the trap water will pass down its long leg, and thus foul air will gain access to the house through the broken water seal.

12.—Recollect that, in the act of discharging a closet, bath or lavatory, the descending waste water has a tendency to stick or force out the water seal of some other fitting.

13.—Bear in mind that every pipe discharging into the open is a duct for the admission of air into the

From a paper read before the Royal Institute of Public Health Congress at Blackpool, Eng., 1899.

house, and that such air is made foul by contact with the inside of such pipe, all waste pipes being coated inside with foul slime.

14.—-- Prevent all tanks used for the storage of water being fixed in a cellar, over a sink, or in a dark or inaccessible place.

15.—Ascertain that a current of air does not pass between the underside of the seat and the w.c. apparatus.

16. - Remember that the fats contained in the greasy water used for washing up dishes congeal in passing down the drain. Instruct the tenant, therefore, to discharge plenty of hot water into the sinks, especially the scullery fitting. In some cases it may be desirable to recommend a fat interceptor.

17.—-Recollect that air in passing through a pipe is retarded by friction. Ascertain, therefore, that all pipes are of adequate size, and fixed without bend or angle, unless absolutely necessary.

18.—Don't forget that food in the process of cooling absorbs air, be that air good or bad. Ascertain, therefore, that the food supply is stored in pantries or larders free of air currents from polluted or doubtful sources.

19. Ashes and vegetable matter, if mixed produce offensive odors. Instruct all tenants to deposit waste matter as far as possible from the dwelling, and to hank their tires during the latter portion of each day with all vegetable refuse produced upon the premises.

20. If a gurgling sound is heard in a lavatory, sink or bath waste pipe, the chances are that foul air will shortly pass into the house by that particular fitting.

12.—Observe that the tendency of air is to pass into a house by way of doors, windows, cracks, and crannies. Ascertain, therefore, that the surroundings of a dwelling are free from offensive deposits or possible pollution of any description.

22.—If a w.c. is found to admit a foul odour, the sooner you recommend the owner to substitute a self-cleaning apparatus, the better for the health of the inmates.

23.—Instruct the tenants to caution their domestic servants to carefully discharge all slop water into the w.c. apparatus, in order to prevent the fouling of the floor or space beneath the seat and basin.

24.-— Remember that, in drainage especially, "Nature abhors a vacuum."

25,— Bear in mind that "Cleanliness is next to Godliness."



<article title="Illustrations" author="">ILLUSTRATIONS.

MANNING CHAMBERS, QUEEN STREET WEST, TORONTO.—



E. J. LENNOX, ARCHITECT.



NATIONAL TRUST COMPANY'S BUILDING, KING STREET EAST,



TORONTO. —GEO. W. GOUINLOCK, ARCHITECT.



DOOR IN THE PALAZZO VECCHIO, FLORENCE (ILLUSTRATING ARTICLE IN THIS NUMBER, BY MR. W. A.



LANGTON, ON " SHEET METAL AS SHEATHING.



DETAILS 01" MANNING CHAMBERS, QUEEN STREET WEST, TORONTO - E. J. LENNOX, ARCH ITECI' (CHAS.



LENNEX, MEMBER 01' ARCHIIECTS



EIGHTEEN CLUB).





<article title="Cleaning Tracing Cloth" author="">CLEANING TRACING CLOTH.

VERY few engineers or draftsmen, says a contemporary, seem to know that tracing cloth can be very quickly and easily cleaned, and pencil marks removed, by the use of benzine, which is applied with a cotton swab. It may be rubbed freely over the tracing without injury to lines drawn in ink, or even in water color, but the pencil marks and dirt will immediately disappear. The benzine evaporates almost immediately, leaving the tracing unharmed. It must, however, be borne in mind that the surface has been softened, and must be rubbed down with talc or some similar substance before drawing any more ink lines.

