



<doctype type="text">ILLUSTRATIONS.

<article title="Illustrations" author="">CITY HALL, STRATFORD, ONT.—J. W. SIDDALL, ARCHITECT. BUSINESS PREMISES, KING STREET WEST, TORONTO, FOR MESSRS. JOHN KAY, SON & CO.—S. G. CURRY, ARCHITECT.



NO. 87 BEDFORD ROAD, TORONTO.—-W. A. LANGTON,



ARCHITECT.



This house, at the south-east corner of the junction of two streets, is on a lot of which the greatest length is east and west. The house is kept at the outer end of the lot, so as to keep the land which is not built upon together in one piece on the private side of the house and it is set on the north side of the lot so as to leave a space which converts the house into a south fronting house, with its sunlight unobstructed throughout the year, and which allows a carriage to be brought up to the door. The material is red common brick toned in color by full joints of gray mortar. Sills and coping are of Ohio stone.



THE "MARLBOROUGH "APARTMENT HOUSE, MONTREAL.



—MESSRS. TAYLOR & GORDON, ARCHITECTS.



The " Marlborough" apartment house is now under construction, and will be completed by the first of May. It is situated on Milton street a few yards from University street close to McGill College and with beautiful views of the mountain and has a frontage of 110 feet.

The architects of the building are Messrs. Taylor & Gordon, of Montreal, under whose supervision the work is being carried out.

The style of architecture is Elizabethan, characterized chiefly by its graceful towers, picturesque outlines and free ornament. The building is three storeys high and basement, except in the front, which is carried up another storey to provide four suites for artists, with two large, well lighted studios, each 30 x 18 feet.

The facade is carried out in red pressed brick, set off by rich cream colored sandstone trimmings. The main entrance facing Milton street is elaborately treated and finished in sandstone, effectively carved, with handsome wrought iron lamps on either side. A broad flight of marble steps in the main vestibule leads up to a spacious and well lighted entrance half, paved with marble mosaic and completely finished in quartered oak. On the left is the waiting room, from which communication can be had to each suite by means of speaking tubes.

Opposite the waiting room is the janitor's office, where the telephone for the use of tenants will be placed.

The building is so planned that every room has direct Light and air, the use of light wells of any description being entirely done away with.

The three main staircases of the building are entirely carried out in iron and marble, encased in brick walls, with all the landings finished in mosaic, thus rendering the staircases completely fireproof.

The building contains twenty-seven suites of apartments as follows Six suites with 9 rooms each, including kitchen ; six suites with seven rooms ; six suites with six rooms ; five bachelor suites comprising sitting-room, bed-room and bath-room. On either side of the main entrances on the ground floor are two suites suitable for doctor's offices, and on the top floor facing Milton street are the artists' studios already referred to.

In the centre of the building is a large open court, 6o feet long by 30 feet wide, which will be laid out in grass with a fountain in the centre.

The floors of all the halls and principal rooms in each suite will be of hardwood. The floors of all the public halls throughout are paved with mosaic.

The drawing-rooms and sitting-rooms of all suites have open fire-places with tiled facings and hearths and Elizabethan mantel-pieces.

Each suite is well provided with clothes closets, in addition to linen closets, store closets, etc. It is expected that the larders will be fitted up with a system of cold storage, operated by the ammonia process from the basement.

The heating, plumbing, sanitary appliances, and ventilation of the building are up-to-date in every respect.

The bath-rooms of each suite are fitted up with enamelled baths and marble basins, the hot water being supplied from the boilers in the basement.

The rooms of all suites are ventilated by means of ventilating shafts. The building is heated by hot water and lit by electricity. The tenants will find the dust-chutes provided for each kitchen a great convenience.

In addition to other conveniences, each suite is provided with an open balcony, and also store rooms in the basement for boxes, trunks, &c. There is also adjoining each stair a lift for trunks and for tradesmen's supplies, etc., with speaking tubes to the several suites.



Such are a few of the attractions and advantages of the latest addition to Montreal's apartment houses.

Mr. A. F. Gault, who is the owner, is to be congratulated upon his enterprise in providing what will undoubtedly be cosy and comfortable homes, suited to the varying requirements of residents. Mr. Stanley H. McDowell, 21 St. Helen street, has charge of the enterprise in Mr. Gault's behalf.





<article title="Questions and Answers" author="">QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

AN Old Subscriber writes " There was an article 10 your October number, referring to a method of roof trussing, that I was rather astonished that you should have published. To my view it appears to be a very faulty piece of building construction, as the weight of the roof is thrown upon a 2" x 6" lookout, instead of directly on the walls where it should come. I, with other builders, look upon the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER as an educator in building construction, and hope you may continue in the good work, not withstand standing your one mistake in your October number."



ANSWER.—Evidently our correspondent has not carefully examined the truss he takes exception to, or he would have arrived at very different conclusions. The weight of the roof does not rest on the lookout as he asserts, but on the inside stud which conveys it again to the inlook which rests vertically on the wall, thus taking off all lateral thrust from the walls. The outlook and inlook combined, rest square on the wall, and the whole weight of the roof centers directly on the top of the walls with a vertical pressure. This method of half-trussing has met with favor with many American architects, and has been copied in several journals. The London Building News, one of the best building authorities in England, reproduced the illustration referred to, and gave it its great approval. If our correspondent will examine the illustration again, we are inclined to think he will change his mind.

