

<doctype type="text;ad;plateAMILTON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE

<article title="Hamilton Builders Excahnge" author="">IT is learned that no meetings of the Hamilton Builders' Exchange have taken place since last spring. Enquiry seems to point to indifference on the part of the members as the cause. It is stated that an effort is to be made to revive the interest of the members and to arrange for the holding of meetings regularly during the winter. The Exchange had attained to a membership of about 70. it is to be hoped that it will not be allowed to lapse.





<article title=" Toronto Builders' Exchange" author=""> EXCHANGE.

THE annual meeting of the Toronto Builders' Exchange was held on Monday, the 15th inst. The following members were present

Frank Saunders, W. D. Hutson, Jno. B. Vick, Jno.

Hillock, W. Keane, J. C. Gilchrist, T. Robinson, W.

F.	Marshall, D. Williams, Thos. Thompson, Jas. B.

Thomson, R. Chalkley, J. Russel, W. F. Petrie, Ben.

Brick, R. Hewitt & Son, J. Maloney, T. Cannon, jr.,

W.	Smallwood, Geo. Henry, Win. Clarke. R. C. Kirby,

T.	Painter, J. R. Lyon, T. Christie, W. F. Davidson,

D.	Patterson, Scott & Cross, J. Lucas, A. McCurdy,

J.	Bowne, J. Pears, A. P. Stewart, E. Gearing, Geo.

Burry, A. Weller, J. H. Morrison, J. Holtby, C. J. W.

Neale, Mr. Nelson (of Hanna & Nelson), Mr. McGowan (of Bayliss & McGowan), W. F. Payne.

The meeting opened at 3 p.m., the president, Mr. Henry Martin, in the chair.

The finance report showed the finances to be very satisfactory, there being a substantial balance in the treasury.

The directors' report showed that the Exchange had made progress in all lines during the past year, and that the membership had been considerably augmented, there being at present 139 members.

The election of officers resulted as follows President, H. Martin, re-elected ; 1st vice-president, T. Christie, re-elected ; 2nd vice-president, J. B. Thompson, reelected ; treasurer, D. Williams, re-elected ; directors,

J.	Crang, R. G. Kirby, J. Russell, T. Cannon jr., Jno.

M.	Gander ; auditors, Geo. Clay and F. Holmes.

The president thanked the members for his re-election, and gave a brief review of the history of the association from its commencement, 22 years ago.

<article title=" London Builders' Exchange" author=""> EXCHANGE.

There was a large attendance at the second annual meeting of the above Exchange, held on the 15th inst. The President, Mr. Jeffery, in reviewing the work of the year 1899, expressed the hope that as a result of the large amount of building done, the members had reaped a fair profit, notwithstanding the unexpected and unprecedented advance in prices of materials and the shortening of the hours of labor in certain trades. He expressed the belief that no further advances in this direction need be anticipated, and consequently that no real cause existed for the postponement of projected building enterprises. Early in the year a banquet had been held that had been productive of good in continuing the already good feeling existing between contractors generally, as well as between the architects and contractors. Later on was secured the adoption of what is considered a very equitable form of contract between the proprietor and contractor, and they are now in use in all the city architects' offices. The Exchange's amendment to the Mechanics' Lien Act, he regretted to say, had been thrown out by the Bills Committee of the Legislature at the last moment through a misunderstanding, but it would without doubt go on the statute book at this coming session. Last August the Builders' Exchange of Cleveland arranged for a day's pleasure on our Canadian shores, and on an invitation from the Exchange had an early dinner with the members, enjoyed an hour's drive through the city, and the Exchange returning with them to Port Stanley, terminating what will always be remembered by both exchanges as a red letter day in their history. The President, in vacating the chair, wished every member a very prosperous year, and felt assured that harmony and good will would prevail in all meetings, honor and fairness in all dealings with each other, and wisdom and sound judgment in all legislation.

The auditors books and report was read, showing the finances of the Exchange to be in a satisfactory condition.

The number of certificates issued during the year was 70. One member was lost by death and three by business changes.

The election of officers resulted as follows President, William Tytler; 1st Vice-President, Ed. Martyn 2nd Vice-President, Geo. Howe; Secretary, Geo. S. Gould; Treasurer, James S. Luney; Board of Directors, Thomas Jones, Wm. Jeffery, John [layman, John Fenn, Win. Skelly.



FOR MEOHANIGALLY DRYING EVERYTHING

THE F. D. CUMMER & SON CO.,

	Hundreds in operation.	CLEVELAND, OHIO





Specify

LUXFER PRISMS



and



DAYLIGHT

Save Gas Bills

Save Eyesight

Save Money





LUXFER PRISM CO., Limited