	<doctype type="text;plate">CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



binder to set in diagonally from the face of the wall, and every layer of these binders should be tied with a header course the whole length of the wall. The binders should be put in every fifth course in order to get the best results, and it is evident that the backing up of this work should be done in the most substantial manner with hard bricks laid in a close joint, for the reason that the face work is laid in a fine putty mortar, and the joints consequently close and tight, and if the backing is not the same, the pressure upon the wall will make it settle and draw the wall inward.

The bricklayer, in starting this kind of facework, should take care and have the work so laid out on his wall that no bats or closers will appear in any part of it; and in a first class job, the doors and windows will be so arranged that such will be the case. Little matters of this kind, while they do not take up much of our time, add much to the building, both in appearance and in quality.

For domestic buildings, brick seems to be the most appropriate of all materials, cool in summer without being damp, warm in winter without many of the disadvantages that accompany stone or wood. The color



















FIG. 5.—BLIND BOND.





and texture of brick harmonizes with any surroundings, and there is a cosiness about it that imparts a feeling of comfort and content that no other building material can convey. Of course, there are degrees of these qualities, dependent somewhat on the color of bricks employed and the pretentions of the structure, together with the surroundings, but in the main the homelike qualities are always present in a brick building, no matter for what the building is intended.

The necessary requirements for a good, substantial brick house are: First, a solid and ample foundation of stone or other suitable material ; second; good hard-burned bricks of some regular color; third, properly proportioned and made mortar; fourth, good and careful workmanship on the part of the bricklayer. If these requirements are honestly complied with, the most satisfactory results will ensue, and the building will be a "joy for ever." Cottages, one storey or one and a half storey, may have walls one brick in thickness (nine inches); and as this is a light wall, a foundation, on most soils, sixteen inches thick, with footing twenty inches wide, will be ample to sustain it. The wall should be rendered inside—that is, given one coat of good plastering, and over this a series of strapping should be nailed with centres sixteen inches apart. The strapping should be plumb and fair on the face. Over the strapping is a coat of lath and plaster done in the usual manner, care being taken that the plaster is well worked in about the windows and doors in order to shut out the cold. In a wall of this sort we get, first, a solid brick wall nine inches thick, next a coat of plaster, then an air space of one inch, produced by the strapping, then we have the inside lathing and plaster:

all of which, when well executed, should make a comfortable house. To make the house still warmer, I have seen the walls, after being rendered and permitted to dry out, lined with heavy building paper before the strapping was nailed in place, a method which insures warmth in winter and preserves a cool temperature in summer.

Sometimes two-storey buildings of brick are put up with nine inch walls. This system is not to be commended, as a nine inch wall twenty or twenty-two feet high, as the case may be, is not a very strong one, and must be well supported from the inside to give it stability enough to resist a wind pressure of 30 or 40 pounds to the square toot, or support a roof having a large area. It is always better to make the walls in the lower storey of a two-storey house thirteen inches, or one and a half brick, thick. The second floor joists can then rest on the offset formed by the upper storey wall falling back four inches, the top wall, of course, being only nine inches thick. In the case of a three-storey building, the lower storey should be two bricks in thickness, the second storey one and a half, and the top storey one brick thick. In fact, it is a good rule to follow, to add a half a brick in thickness to the lower storey for every extra storey in height. An increase in the height of wall, with the necessary increase of thickness, requires a corresponding increase of resisting power in the foundation, and an extension of the area of the footings. No brick building, two storeys or more in height, should have foundation walls less than eighteen inches in thickness, with footings two feet wide. Buildings three storeys high should have foundation walls two feet thick, with footings at least three feet broad.

As dwellings are seldom more than three storeys high

—and it is to this class of buildings this paper more particularly refers—a further discussion of footings, foundations and thickness of walls is not necessary here, but, before leaving the subject, I might say there is no reason why good bricks -hard burned—might not enter largely into the construction of foundations. They will resist all the pressure necessary, look well, will not absorb more moisture than many kinds of stone do, and are always available. Bricks, also, might be used more freely in the construction of fences, posts for entrance gates, paving cellars, and a hundred other purposes. A greater demand for bricks would give us a better article at a reduced price, conditions worth striving for.



The chief of the Winnipeg fire department in his annual report to the council, adverts to the careless and dangerous construction and arrangement of buildings, which he insists has much to do with large conflagrations. He suggests that a provision be made in the building by-laws regarding elevators, staircases, etc. lie thinks these dangers could be guarded against, and that too much dependence is placed on the fire department for protection. The smallest water mains, he claims, should not be less than six inches, and hydrants should be properly drained to prevent freezing.



In the new extension to the Boston State House, the rear staircase, which is an elaborate piece of wrought ironwork, has been coated with aluminum leaf, with the ornamental portions touched with umber, and in some cases the sunk panels on the square newels and the panels of the open soffit of the stairs have been shaded in umber, the whole thing being then varnished, giving a soft effect. Similar results, though not quite so durable, can be obtained by using aluminum bronze instead of the aluminum leaf. If gamboge is used for glazing instead of umber, a golden tone is given, somewhat approximating in effect to that obtained by using gold leaf. Dull tones, resembling the appearance of oxidized silver, are got by skillfully glazing with asphaltum over aluminum leaf.

