

<doctype type="text">BY THE WAY.

<article title="By the Way" author="">I HAVE arrived at the conclusion, based upon a careful consideration of the subject, that the citizens of Toronto get value at the rate of only about 40 cents on the dollar for the money expended on so-called public improvements" remarked a prominent business man of Toronto to me recently. "For example" said he, "look at that piece of land on the water front, formerly occupied by the C.P.R. depot, and which cost the city a quarter of a million dollars. It was purchased for a public square, with the idea that it should be made an attractive spot which would enhance the appearance of the entrance to the city from the lake and afford a delightful breathing place to the citizens during the heat of summer. Instead of fulfilling these commendable purposes, for want of proper attention it has become a receptacle for old tin cans and such like refuse. The expenditure of half a million dollars on the so-called "Don improvement scheme," was entirely thrown away. The St. Lawrence market bungle affords another object lesson in the same direction, and the list might be indefinitely extended."



x x x



WE have recently been asked says a writer in the British Clayworker what terra alba is. It is one of those substances the history of the production of which is clear enough, but its history after that is particularly uncertain. It seems to be known only in England to a chosen few who take particular care to keep what they know about it to themselves. And they have every reason to do so, in most instances. Terra alba is ground gypsum. It is in at least two qualities depending upon the purpose for which it is required. The chosen few have learned a few wrinkles about it from Nova Scotia. It is some extent employed in making up cheap white pigments, where the purchaser in some instances imagines he has white lead. Now and then it may usurp the place which ought to be occupied by barite in paint manufacture. It is of very clinging nature and where-ever the manufacturer has a mind to cause a substance to be rather more weighty than it ought to be he often looks toward terra alba. In short, it is commonly used as an adulterant for many purposes far too numerous to specify. The substance is not injurious to health, unless the taker deliberately sets himself to feast on it. It cannot be classified as a plaster, for it is not calcined, and the prime qualification to be possessed by the gypsum from which it is made, is that the latter shall be as pure as can be. Of course, so far as its use in cheap paints is concerned, that is legitimate enough but of some of its other uses—well, we would rather not express an opinion. Somerset House might, however, do so, if it felt that way inclined.

xxx



THE Executive of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association have been considering the question of the advisability of holding a Dominion Exhibition in Toronto next year. The opinion of the members of the Association has been asked as to whether the Association should go beyond this and make an exhibit at the Pan-American exhibition to be held in Buffalo. The consensus of opinion seems to be that, if the project for a Dominion Exhibition is gone on with, no attempt should be made to exhibit at Buffalo, This opinion seems well founded. If a Dominion exhibition is undertaken and carried out on a creditable scale, it will sufficiently tax the energies of the Association. It must also be borne in mind that

the possibility of finding a market in the United States for Canadian manufactures is extremely small, seeing that the United have now an over-production in almost all lines of manufacture, and are looking for outlets in foreign markets for their surplus goods. I have felt for several years past that the holding of an Exhibition in Toronto, on such a scale as to attract visitors from all parts of the Dominion should be productive of much good, and if the attempt is to be made it might as well be next year as any other time. The Exhibition at Buffalo would not be likely to interfere with its success, but on the contrary might add to it, as some of the visitors to the larger exhibition might be disposed to visit Toronto also. Speaking generally, it would seem as though the Exhibition idea is likely to be carried to an extent which will eventually deprive it of any novelty or usefulness. I observe that on the heels of the Buffalo Exhibition is to come another one at St. Louis, preparations for which are already in progress. There is also to be one held next year in Glasgow. If Canada is to have an Exhibition on a national scale, it would be as well to launch the enterprise at once, so that we may not come in at the tail of the procession.



<article title="The Canadian Exhibit at the Imperial Institute" author="">THE CANADIAN EXHIBIT AT THE

IMPERIAL INSTITUTE.

THE resources of Canada, and particularly of the province of Ontario, are by no means properly or creditably represented by the exhibit at the Imperial Institute in London. The visitor would be much more favorably impressed if the exhibits of the various provinces were placed side by side, instead of on different floors. The present arrangement does not convey the idea that Canada is one Dominion, but rather that it consists of a number of separate provinces having little or no connection with each other. The exhibit should be arranged in compact form like that of Australia. As to the character of the exhibit, and more particularly that of the province of Ontario, the richest and most important of the provinces, there is good ground for complaint. One would suppose from the numerous views of Niagara Falls placed about the walls, that this great natural phenomenon was the one distinguishing characteristic of the province of Ontario, while the specimens of Indian work are well calculated to confirm the idea, already too prevalent in the minds of some of the people of Great Britain, that Canada is a wild and uncivilized country. Ontario is known on this side of the Atlantic as a fruit-growing province, and the quality of its production in this line is not excelled by that of any other country. in view of this fact, it is extremely humiliating to a Canadian to observe that the jars containing samples of Canadian fruit shown in this exhibit have apparently not been refilled during the last decade. What was once fruit might now, judging from appearance, be almost any other substance under the sun. There is also displayed a view of the Toronto Industrial Exhibition of date the year 1885, which, of course, conveys a totally inadequate idea of the character and extent of the Exhibition of to-day. We would suggest that all relics such as this and the photograph of the ruins of Fort Erie, might well be thrown out of the exhibit, and modern views of our principal cities and industries substituted, so that visitors would be given an approximately fair idea of the kind of country Canada is, the extent of its development, and its advantages as a place of residence and business enterprise. The Canadian Pacific Railway show some excellent views of harvesting in Manitoba. These are well calculated to make a favorable impression upon intending emigrants. There is also an excellent geological map of Ontario containing a large amount of information with regard to the population and resources of the province. There is a fairly good exhibit of building stones and marbles, also of hardwoods. Other features equally valuable might be added, so as to convey to visitors a proper idea of the country and its resources. The entire exhibit should either be rearranged, improved, and brought up-to-date, or be entirely done away with.

