



<doctype type="text">STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT



<article title="Alphabets and Printing" author="Chorlton, H.C.D.">ALPHABETS AND PRINTING.*

By H. C. D. CHORLTON.



To trace the evolution of our alphabet from the earliest possible records and through historic times is of great interest and use, but I purpose rather to treat of the arbitrary forms as we now have them, more particularly dealing with those styles of most utility, and to give you my own ideas respecting their proportions, spacing, and arrangement. The formal REFINED EH

	Elongated refined forms.	Want of proportion in

		thick and thin parts.



tion of good letters, though seemingly a simple matter, is evidently difficult, seeing that so many hundreds, almost thousands, of variations have been made, yet so few continue to hold the approval of cultivated judgment.

I find that among those who have been observant of natural forms, and particularly among those who have carefully drawn and studied them, that there is a general unanimity with regard to the proportion of thick and thin parts and the avoidance of mechanical regularity, From the appearances of Nature, according to our individuality, we absorb certain ideas of proportions, such as from a vigorous oak-tree with its strong trunk and boughs, or a graceful birch tree with its tapering, radiating, and delicately curving branches.





EH CAT

Want of variety. Proportion of thick and thin.



A stout piece of humanity has proportionately stout limbs as a graceful woman has proportionately graceful limbs. Such observations have their beneficial effect on our appreciation of conventional work, and even in our choice of letters.

We ought not only to design well-formed letters, but they should also be suitable for the instrument and material with which they are to be worked. The conditions not only facilitate the work but they give character also. The old Roman letters were cut in hard substances and are consequently angular. The reed pen and stylus made scratchy, monotonous lines. The quill pen, with its delightful flexibility and the different angles at which it could be cut, produced the beautiCLAUSE

VSE USE

The first u, which was formerly used as a capital, is preferable. The second V is useful as an angular form among curved letters. The last U is the least desirable form.



fully-varied forms of the old illustrated MSS., the forerunners of the printer's lower-case forms.

Legibility is, of course, the first consideration, and we can secure this by the avoidance of oddities and jerky points and twists of the serifs, and we can get beauty in simple purity of line.

In Roman letters I have always a liking for a gener



*	Read before the Machester Society of Architects, 14th December, 1899, and reprinted from the Journal of the R. I. B. A.

ous form not too condensed nor too extended, and for variety in extension ; every letter should not fill a square, which would only give a mechanical monotony.

Curved letters should approach a circle or even go beyond it, as in 0. Albrecht Durer had a good system for these proportions and for forming the serits.

If it is desired to use a light letter, I prefer the employment of the double line throughout.

For convenience of space letters may be linked together, but this should be done judiciously so as to avoid loosing legibility or cutting the word into a monogram. Linking should be avoided in words beginning with a capital.

There is some obscurity respecting the origin of a very beautiful form of Irish MSS. in use from the sixth to the ninth century, of which the Book of Kells, now in the Library of Trinity College, Dublin, is the finest example. The capitals are of little use for modern requirements, but a careful study of the small letters





OPEN

could not fail to be beneficial, and might be made to form a basis for a good series for present use.

I come now to the question of printing. To my mind, both from a matter of clearness and good appearance, modern types are too thin, too condensed, too much spaced between the lines and between the words, and often to small. The result is a washed-out grey and mechanical appearance in the mass. The fifteenth century printers did very much better.

The rectangular shape of the paper and the necessary lines of words force us in a general way into the acceptance of the panel form for the massing of type. I prefer that the panel may be retained as much as possible.

In a display page the division of words at the end of a line is sometimes awkward, but on some rare oc THE LOVE

TOO AND

casions 1 think it is permissible to sacrifice the customary syllabic division to the effect desired. It is only a question whether the artistic or the literary side shall rule, and I think there are occasions when ornate appearance shall be the first consideration and the idea of clear reading quite secondary. These occasions must of course be carefully chosen.

It is not any more difficult to set well-formed than ill-formed types, and cultivation will make good arrangement easy enough. Well-formed type, if well set, may look ornamental even without any added ornament.

Ordinarily we do not sufficiently consider the white paper. We should remember that when we are setting black we are putting it on white, and the proportions one to the other should be considered, and although we are using black ink, the result in appearance may go through grey to solid black.

I like to see the spaces between the words less than is at present customary, and to make them as regular as circumstances will allow ; the early printers did this,

