<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	BUILDER	ix.



declared to be entitled to the sum which the arbitrator had awarded. Lord Justice Collins, in agreeing, said it seemed to him to be immaterial what kind of work a workman was engaged on at the time he met with an accident. Lord Justice Romer also agreed, and, according to him, when several persons were engaged in carrying out separate parts of a, building each and all of them became "undertakers," but that undertaker alone was liable to pay compensation who was employing the workman when the accident occurred. The decision will not be satisfactory to sub-contractors, and it will increase the liability of many who hitherto were held to be exempted from the operations of the Act, but it will have the advantage of simplifying interpretations, and will help to prevent needless litigation.



The case of Benoit et al vs. Smith, recently decided by Mr. Justice Doherty at Montreal, was an action for the cancellation of a lease of a lower tenement on the ground that, owing to the imperfect construction of the floors of the building, the plaintiffs were so disturbed by noises overhead as to he deprived of the peaceable possession to which they were entitled. The court held that the plaintiffs had failed to prove the existence of any fault of construction or hidden defect in the premises leased, which rendered the same uninhabitable. The houses in question appeared to have been constructed in a manner similar to that in which a very large number of tenement

houses are built in the city of Montreal, and thc precautions taken in the construction of the flooring to prevent or diminish the communication of sound from one tenement to another, while possibly not the best, appeared to have been such as commend themselves to and are adopted by a very large number of architects in this city, and, under the circumstances, the absence of a more perfect means of preventing such communication of sound, could not be considered as constituting a defect of construction in the premises in question. In view of the foregoing facts, the noises complained of, heard in the early morning in one or two rooms of the tenement occupied by the plaintiffs, and which awoke all the occupants thereof about six o'clock in the morning and which are caused by the occupants of the upper tenement moving about in the kitchen in an ordinary and usual manner, must be considered to be inconveniences incidental to the occupation of a lower tenement, and afford no ground for resiliation of the lease prayed for by the plaintiffs. The defendant's plea was, therefore, maintained and the action dismissed.

TORRANCE v. CRATCHLEY.—Judgment by Chief Justice Armour in the Divisional Court at Toronto on appeal by defendants from judgment of Neil McLean, esquire, official referee in a summary proceeding to enforce a mechanic's lien in that it does not direct that the sum of $354 paid into court by F. G. Clarke, the land-owner, s sufficient to discharge the lands in question from the liens. Thc referee held that the payment of $94 10 Steele and other lien holders for wages was not a valid payment of part of the 20 per cent. to be retained under R. S. 0. ch. 153, sec. II, because made before the expiration of thirty days after the completion or the abandonment of the contract. Held, that the only object of the provision requiring the owner to retain 20 per cent. for 30 days appears to be that indicated by sub-sec. 3 of sec. II, viz., to give persons entitled to liens an opportunity of enforcing them against the fund directed to be retained. As to the effect of the premature payment in this case, it is clear that the position of all lien-holders is precisely the same as if the owner had retained the 20 per cent. for the full period of 30 days, and then distributed it according to legal priorities

or paid it into court. No one is here injured, but in making such a payment the owner takes the responsibility of so showing as he has done in this case. Section 12 does not affect moneys which the owner is directed to retain and so does not apply. Appeal allowed with costs here and below.



" Practical Staircase joinery," with 180 illustrations in cloth, Cassel & Company, publishers, 7 and 9 West 18th street, New York, contains, in a form convenient for every-day use, concise information on the general principles and practice of the art of which it treats. In this handbook the examples of staircase joinery described and illustrated are arranged progressively, beginning with the simplest and leading gradually to the most elaborate kinds of work.

Owing to a dissolution of partnership in the firm of Leitch & Turnbull, elevator builders, of Hamilton, Messrs. Turnbull and Russell, who were connected with of the old concern, have been negotiating with the Assessment Commissioner with a view of locating their factory in Toronto. Mr. Fleming is now in a position to announce that Messrs. Turnbull & Russell have purchased the large four storey brick building, No. 126 John street and the adjoining premises, formerly owned by the John Burns Carriage Co. The members of the new firm have had varied and successful experience of 20 years in elevator work and have thoroughly grasped the necessity of energy and enterprise, and in order to advance with the times they are not only installing the latest modern machinery in their works but are introducing new ideas and designs both in electricity and hydraulic elevators. The firm will employ a staff of 25 hands.



THE PEDLAR PEOPLE,  OSHAWA, ONTARIO

PLASTER ON STEEL LATH

