<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	29



PLAN OF CATHEDRAL CHURCH.





Richardson designed, the head draughtsman or draughtsmen executed his design and the junior draughtsmen made from it the working drawings and specifications. There was, of course, much mutual consultation, criticism and advice; but Mr. Richardson himself was usually away most of the day, when in town, and was half the time out of town ; and the final authority in construction, who was called thc foreman, was away for months together superintending the erection of the largest work. So it was a school of artists or art students of all grades all helping one another in that mutual agreement which came from their having but one aim and one idea—to carry out Mr. Richardson's design. When it came to details there was even more apparent freedom from the fact that a design would be from beginning to end a draughtsman's own work but it was not his own in the sense of being a departure in any way from Richardson's recognized feeling. Where, when or how he stated his ideas about detail it was not always easy to trace, but all the office knew what he liked. He did not fail to praise what had turned out to be successful and in course of time the tradition of what pleased him was established, for detailers were particularly keen to have their work approved as it was in a real sense their own though it was designed to meet his views.

The conclusion which, I think, we may draw is that Richardson's very method of work had much to do with the ideal character of his design. It was to the idea he devoted himself entirely and it was the essentials to its expression that he looked for in thc drawings and succeeded in bringing out of the draughtsman. So that to return to the juryman's point of view I think we may say that not only was he entitled to his fees without having made any drawings himself, but it was the very fact of his not having made drawings himself that gave his work that quality which made the public glad to give him the large fees he asked.



<article title="Engineers' Club of Toronto" author="">ENGINEERS' CLUB OF TORONTO.

The annual meeting of the above Club was held on the 13th inst., when the following officers were elected: President, Kivas Tully; vice-president, Prof. John Galbraith directors, C. H. Rust, R. W. King, T. R. Rosebrugh; treasurer, T. B. Speight; secretary, Willis Chipman.

In the evening the annual Club dinner was held at the Rossin

house. Upwards of thirty members and guests sat down to the

temptingly spread tables. The venerable president of the Club,

Mr. Kivas Tully, presided, the vice chair being occupied by Prof.

Gaibraith. Among those present were: r. S. Speight, C. M.

Canniff, J. G. Ridout, H. F. Duck, C. E. Cooper, W. A. Clement,

Geo. Mickle, A. M. Wickens, E. J. Philip, Jno. Williams, Fred.

G.	Durnford, R. F. Tate, R. J. Parke, Maj. Gray, Geo. Hanning,

W.	A. Johnson, Geo. White-Fraser, T. S. Scott, W. M. Brodie,

R.	A. L. Gray, J. A. Ellis, C. H. C. Wright, Jno. A. Duff, J. E.

Maybee, R. W. King, C. H. Rust.

Following the toast to Her Majesty the Queen, and the singing of the National Anthem, the chairman proposed a toast to

"Canada," to which fitting response was made by Messrs. J. G. Ridout and Henry F. Duck. " Engineering," proposed by Prof. Galbraith, drew forth a series of interesting remarks from Messrs. C. H. Rust, R. W. King, Geo. White-Fraser, E. J. Philip and A. M. Wickens, the two latter gentlemen representing more particularly the Canadian Association of Stationary Engineers.

The proceedings were enlivened by instrumental music and a number of' excellent songs.

Already sixty persons have joined the Club and paid the yearly fee of $5, so that its success would seem to be assured.





<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.

Mr. Willis Chipman, the well known civil engineer, left Toronto a few days ago on a visit to Europe, where he proposes to spend two months in the study of engineering works.

Mr. Philip C. Palen, formerly of Toronto, has recently opened an office for the practice of architecture in Collingwood, Ont., and would be pleased to receive from manufacturers and supply firms copies of their catalogues, etc.

The death is announced at Stratford, Ont., of Mr. Jos. G. Kirk, C.E., who was one of the oldest and best known members of the

profession in Canada. The late Mr. Kirk was born in Londonderry, Ireland, in i8o9, and came to Canada in 1829, and for some years thereafter practised at Ottawa.

We regret to chronicle the death, at the age of sixty-five years, of Mi. Duncan McIntosh, President of the McIntosh Marble and Granite Co., of Toronto. The deceased was a native of Perth-shire, Scotland, had been engaged in business in Toronto since 1871, and as a citizen was highly esteemed.

Mr. XV. E. Doran, the well-known architect of Montreal, is receiving the well deserved congratulations of his friends in and out of the profession, on his splendid run for the mayoralty.. Without the aid of the usual election machinery he secured the support of 8,492 electors. In his election address he said : " I would use my influence in regard to enforcing the by-laws on sanitation and to bettering the sanitary condition of the city. For a long time the aldermen have pigeon-holed a proposed bylaw that would make much improvement in the conveniences of houses erected in the city ; this is a great shame, especially to the masses who cannot afford to build houses and put sanitary arrangements in item which they would like. A mayor who had the interests of the city at heart would not permit of important by-laws being pigeon-holed in any such manner ; he could keep calling meetings till action would be taken upon them

