

<doctype type="text;plate;ad">COLLAPSE OF A CHIMNEY AT HAMILTON.

<article title="Correspondence – Collapse of a Chimney at Hamilton" author="">To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER;



SIR,—YOU have in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER an article on thc chimney built at the Hoefner Refining Company's Works, Hamilton. Being the architect of the said structure, there are some points which I would like to explain. The copy of the plan is all right, only that thc foundation was stepped up one foot higher, as per sketch. It was stepped up one foot each time off a two-foot offset on the concrete, instead of a two-foot step



each time off a three-foot offset on the concrete. In regard to the weight per cubic foot of brickwork, there are 18 bricks in one cubic foot, at 4 3/4 lbs. each, net 85 1/2 lbs. of brick, and one cubic foot of mortar, 22 1/2 lbs., or a total of 108 lbs. per cubic foot.

There being 36,500 cubic feet at 108 lbs. 1,640 tons, or 5 1/3 tons per cubic foot. A reliable contractor here states that the average brickwork will weigh 112 lbs., not 108 lbs., per cubic foot, which would still leave a fraction less than 6 tons to the cubic foot, and a safe load is 6 1/2 tons. There was a very high wind a the time of the accident. The chimney fell in a N. W. direction, not N. E. We received a tender from a contractor to put additional

50 feet on the chimney before it was completed. This is the reason why the top of the chimney walls was so thick. The bricks were not all first class, but soft brick was smuggled in, also large ragged pyramidal stone with no particular bed, also other pieces, one especially of rotten blue slaty stone, which was thicker than two courses of brick and which crushed under the weight. The contractor also neglected to keep the tunnel and the chimney dry, there being fully 2 feet deep of water and ice in the tunnel, which saturated the brickwork throughout with damp and frost. The work was altogether in his charge to deliver complete. A good percentage of the money was held back. I gave the contractor no authority whatever to build in stone; he put it in at his own risk.

Yours, etc.,







<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

Furniture Designing and Draughting." By Alvan Crocker Nye, Ph. B., Instructor in Furniture Designing, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. New York City: Win.

T.	Comstock, Publisher, 23 Warren Street, New York, N. Y. One octavo Vol., Cloth. $2. For classes in design the book will serve as a text book, for with it a knowledge of the elementary forms and principles of construction necessary to good designs can be obtained. The experienced draughtsman will perhaps find the book

a handy reference, as it gives in convenient form much data that is not always easily

remembered. To the architect who occasionally must give some consideration to furniture, the tables of dimensions, if not the entire work, will be a great aid. In fact, this is a serviceable book for everyone who has to do with drawings for furniture.



Mr. George Warwick, one of the oldest contractors of Brockville, Ont., died in that city on July 11th, aged 8o years.

A despatch from Paris states that the International Jury of Fine Arts has awarded a third class gold modal to Mr. A. Luzor-Cote, a Canadian artist, for paintings exhibited in thc Canadian department of the Paris exposition.

A despatch from London, Eng., states that the county council has decided to send a deputation of architects and engineers to the United States and Canada to investigate the methods of construction and system of management of public asylums.



Mr. Bernard McEvoy, who recently visited and inspected technical schools in a number of the leading cities of the United States, by direction of the Education Department of Ontario, has expressed the opinion that the Athletic Club building purchased recently by the city council of Toronto for technical school purposes is not adapted to properly fulfil that object.







METALLIC ROOFING COMPANY, LIMITED,  TORONTO