<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	217



carriers at one end (the farther end in No.3), and is then shoved along horizontally to its desired position. As the structure rises layer by layer, the carriers are elevated accordingly as often as necessary, being so designed that they interfere none whatever with the work, as is shown in No. 5. This is a peculiarly designed carrier and a most effective one.

No. 5 also illustrates the platforms for the workmen and the character of their supports in such a way as to be almost needless of explanation. The wedge brackets can support the platforms at any height as the work





























No. 5.—(A) Wedge Brackets. (B) Wedge Brackets in Service Supporting Platforms. (C) Movable Platforms. (D) Lumber Slides in Position. (E) Rolls.





proceeds; and these are raised as fast as the planking rises.

Close inspection of the picture shows that cross and longitudinal layers of plank lap alternately. This view is taken at a height of 6o or 70 feet from the ground.

No. 4 shows the exterior of the planking when completed, the perpendicular lines being the ends of the cross planking. It is now ready for the galvanized iron covering which makes the outside finish.

A.	B. PICKETT.



OCT. 31ST, 1900.





<article title=" THE INTERCEPTING TRAP " author="">

THE INTERCEPTING TRAP,

THE Builders' Journal, of London, reproduces the correspondence lately published in these columns on the above subject, and comments thereon as follows

"Our readers will probably be astonished, not so much at the diversity of opinion, as at the backward state of sanitation in our great colony which these reports appear to indicate. True, our sanitarians have not yet discovered the best method of ventilating sewers, for indeed ventilation, whether of rooms or sewers, appears to be the most difficult subject with which the modern engineer has to deal; yet we thought by this time it was a generally accepted principle that the house-drainage system should, as far as possible, be separated from the main sewerage scheme. But apparently the Canadian system in the past has been to ventilate the main sewers by means of " breathers

or gratings at ground level in the front gardens, and it is hardly surprising, therefore, that our Canadian confreres are desirous of altering a condition of things that is both dangerous and unpleasant. At the same time to make the soil pipe the means of venting the sewer air does not by any means lessen the danger, for only the water seals of the water-closets and gulleys prevent the ingress of sewer air into and round about the house. If, as several of the writers point out, the tops of the soil pipes are frequently choked by frost, any pressure of the sewer gas will force the water seals

and enter the house. This new evil would probably be worse than the original trouble. If the sewers are to be ventilated, they must be ventilated below the disconnecting trap, so that no possible danger of sewer gas forcing its way into the house system may be apprehended.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

sketch FOR	SUBURBAN RESIDENCE. —J. RAWSON GARDINER, ARCHITECT.



RESIDENCE, ROSEDALE, TORONTO. BEAUMONT JARVIS,



ARCHITECT.



CHURCH OF ST. CLEMENT, BROOKLYN AVENUE, TORONTO.



BOND & SMITH, ARCHITECTS.



MEN-wAH-TAY LODGE, ROCK LAKE, 0. AND P. 5. RAILWAY.



W.	H. WATTS, R.C.A., ARCHITECT.





<article title=" AN ATTEMPT TO BRIBE ARCHITECTS " author="">

AN ATTEMPT TO BRIBE ARCHITECTS.

The following correspondence has been forwarded by Messrs. Burke & Horwood, architects, of Toronto, in the hope that its publication may deter other manufacturers from adopting a like foolish line of policy. The words underscored were underscored by the United States firm who are the authors of the proposition.

(Copy).

RACINE, Wis., II—I----l900.



MESSRS. BURKE & HORWOOD, Toronto, Ont., Can.



GENTLEMEN: We note through the different contractors' journals, that you are designing and constructing many buildings. We Bellevue there is much of mutual interest in our profession and line.

We wish to inform you and make you familiar with our entire system, so that in the planning and construction of your work you can recommend some of these devices which seem most practical, and for every building that is equipped through your recommendation and plan, you are to receive 514212n the contract price.

We would be pleased to have your views regarding this plan. We now have two or three hundred architects working with us, and we propose interesting the majority of the leading architects of the entire country. You can give us the name of the parties with whom you are dealing, or furnishing plans, and we will correspond with and give them all the information possible, and with your consent refer them to you, as a disinterested party as to your views on the subject.

Hoping to receive a favorable expression from you, we are Yours very truly,



RACINE FIRE ENGINE & MOTOR Co.



R.	B. SIGAFOOS, Pres.



We are not members of the Fire Apparatus Trust.



(Copy).

THE RACINE FIRE ENGINE & MOTOR Co., Racine, Wis.



DEAR SIRs,—Yours of the 1st inst. is received, asking us for our views regarding certain statements in your communication.

In the first place, we have to state that you are making a great mistake in offering a commission. No reputable architect will have anything to do with such a proposition; it is entirely against all the best traditions of the profession.



Second—an architect who accepts such a commission cannot be a "disinterested party."



If your goods are what you claim for them, they should carry their own recommendation without the necessity of a bribe to the man who should, of all others, judge by the merits of the article he is recommending, from an entirely unbiassed standpoint.



Our advice to you would be to send out no more such offers to the profession, if you want to retain the good will of all right minded architects.

Yours truly,

BURKE & HORWOOD.







Architect—" We've settled about the design for. the drawing room. Now, as to the study; how do you want that finished ?"

Nurox—" I seen in a newspaper once about a study in black and white that was very artistic. Suppose you gimme one o them ?"—Philadelphia Press.

