<doctype type="text">



No. VI has a long archway, but a small court on the right admits light just at the doorway and breaks up the tunnel-like appearance that the archway would otherwise have. The absence of any probable utility for the shallow colonnade on the tar side of the court and the fact that it is on the side where it will be seen, suggest the supposition that it is there for that purpose-—to further relieve the monotony of the entrance.

No. V is a palace, dated 1668, in which a large court is obtained without much loss of room for the dwelling, by carrying the upper structure across the court on columns. There is plenty of room to drive between the entrance and the next pair of columns, and the height of the superstructure is about 20 feet. The main mass of building is evidently one room deep—room opening into room no doubt in the manner of the time but passage ways are provided by carrying enclosed galleries, as shown by dotted lines, from the front and back parts of the building to the central portion which rests upon the columns.

No. VII shows a Parisian residence of the best class. Here as is common in Paris the second driveway opens on the same street as the grand entrance, but there is no danger of confusion ; the entrance is more imposing than the exit and the latter is kept closed except on state occasions. The house of course extends over both





























openings, the full width of the lot. This is a plan for a building site which runs only to the middle of a block. If the block is shallow and the site runs through to the other side it seems to be preferred in Paris to place the stables at the entrance and the house on the other street with its front inwards towards the court. There is none of our abhorrence of stables, and no doubt the stables are so well kept that there is no cause for abhorrence. The smaller class of houses, which have no stables and not even an entry for carriages, still make the most possible of the inside of the lot. A Parisian house of modest pretentions still attains to the dignity of facing upon ground of its own by maintaining a garden behind upon which some of the principal rooms look and where the freedom of low windows and an external verandah or gallery of some kind may be enjoyed.

No. VIII represents the British Legation at Paris, which extends entirely through a deep block so that it has not only a handsome entrance front and court but, in the true palace style, a more imposing front looking south upon a garden with no limit but a distant street. This is a splendour so remote from every-day life as to chill interest, but it is wholesome to enjoy contemplating the great problems for they do come occasionally and are apt to be abused from the very habit of not rising above the ordinary.

No. IX, which is the residence of aristocracy in a country town, is perhaps more like the sort of large treatment that would suit our needs. It is a model of quiet dignity. The front, somewhat important from the arrangement of its parts, though quite plain, has the entrance court to itself. A little lower and a little withdrawn is the service department looking into the service yard, which a lofty iron fence, like a rood screen, cuts off, while adding to rather than detracting from the































effect of its space. No doubt there is a garden on the other side of this house.

It is interesting to find that the principle of self-contained house planning was adopted by H. H. Richardson in two large houses in Chicago, shown in Nos. X and XI. Both these houses stand on corner lots. Mr. Glessner's house, No. XI, is an obvious case of getting a south aspect for a house which would, if facing the street, look north and east. The east aspect has been preserved for the library and a bedroom over the driveway, but the other rooms are made to face inwards to the court and the sun, while the street front is occupied in the most marked manner by a corridor.

In No. X, a house for Mr. Franklin McKeagh, the lot is a corner lot facing south and east so that the recess in plan does not alter the exposure but is designed for its own sake for the advantage of a certain retirement from the street and for the increased exposure to light on the front side.

It is worth noting in conclusion that a study of foreign plans of this sort shows what a gain it would be





















to the plan, how much more freedom we should have in using both fronts for living room purposes, if custom allowed the kitchen department to be put in the basement.

W.	A. LANGTON.







Five bronze tablets have recently been placed in the entrance to the Massey Music Hall, Toronto, in memory of the founder, the late Hart. A. Massey, and his eldest son, Chas. A. Massey.



An historical tablet has recently been placed by the Canadian



Club on the site, at No. 191 1/4 King street west, of the Home



District School, the first building used for school purposes in



Toronto.

