<doctype type="text">

<article title=" COLLEGE RESIDENCE AT SACKVILLE, N.B." author="">

COLLEGE RESIDENCE AT SACKVILLE, N.B.

THE accompanying plate illustrates the handsome brown stone residence recently completed in Sackville, N.B., in connection with the college there. The main building is four stories, size 217 X 50 feet, with a rear ell, 90 x 45 feet, and was designed by Messrs. Burke & Horwood, of Toronto. It replaces the residence which was burned last year.

The students' rooms are bright, airy and commodious, and present alternating systems of rooms in pairs (study and bedroom for two), with apartments for single occupancy. The large hall in the ell is a handsome room having an open truss roof with exposed timbers, and ornamented windows.

The building contains spacious and sunny dining room, well lighted reading rooms, large office and re

1900, may be admitted without passing the examinations prescribed for students, if the Council after taking such steps as may be necessary to satisfy themselves of the qualifications of applicants, are agreed as to their fitness."



This resolution was published in this journal in August and some desirable men have been added to the roll of membership, and it is the desire of the Council that further applications shall be made immediately as the opportunity ceases this month. Application should he made by sending name to the registrar, W. R. Gregg, 94 King street west, Toronto, who will bring it before the Council.



<article title=" SWEDISH BRICKWORK " author="">

SWEDISH BRICKWORK.

SWEDEN is a country of forests, and until recently, says the British Clayworker, the domestic buildings































































COLLEGE RESIDENCE AT SACKVILLE, N. B.—BURKE & HORWOOD, ARCHITECTS



ception rooms, Y. M. C. A. rooms and rooms set apart for hospital uses.

A large reservoir in one of the towers provides protection from fire. Drainage, plumbing and ventilation appear to have received particular attention.

<article title=" MEMBERSHIP IN THE 0. A. A." author="">

MEMBERSHIP IN THE 0. A. A.

THE attention of the architects of Ontario who are not members of the Ontario Association of Architects is called to the fact that as was proposed at the last annual meeting a special arrangement was made to admit members during the year by passing the following resolution

"Whereas the Association is endeavoring, during the current year, to establish conditions of new activity and usefulness, and Certain architects are in consequence desirous of becoming members of the Association without passing the examinations prescribed for students, be it therefore resolved that Architects who have not registered, nor passed the examinations prescribed by the Association, but who otherwise satisfy the requirements of the " Ontario Architects' Act,' and who apply before December 31St,

were constructed almost entirely of wood. Time after time, however, the towns have been laid waste by fire, and from the ashes there are now rising towns of brick and stucco. The bricks are usually larger than those employed in this country, measuring about 12 in. by 6 in. by 3 in., but the size varies in different districts. For exposed brickwork, header bond is generally adopted, the angles being formed with three-quarter bricks laid alternately along each return. At Upsala Cathedral, however-—which, by the way, has been restored till it looks as it were built yesterday instead of five hundred years ago—the bond is somewhat curious, and varies in different parts of the building. Most of it is a modification of the so-called Flemish bond, and consists of two stretchers followed by a header. The effect is far from displeasing. A few modern buildings in Stockholm are faced with rock-faced wall stones, shading in color from yellowish-brown to purple. The courses vary in depth and in width of bed, so as to bond with the brickwork behind.

