



<doctype type="text">He thought the Association ought to include every good architect in Ontario, He did not know exactly how it was to be done, but he would propose that all these men be brought into the Association by January 1st, 1901, or perhaps it could be done even sooner.

Mr. Acton Bond said that, as far as the 18 Club was concerned, there were only three members in the organization at present who were not fully qualified. The point they most insisted upon was the provision for educational facilities in working out the scheme.

Mr. Aylsworth said he supposed that the 18 Club would be quite willing to go into the rooms with the Association, and make use of them in some way.

Mr. C. Lennox thought the rent of the proposed rooms was rather high. lie knew of other clubs which had similar rooms on Adelaide street—-one of them had four rooms and they only paid $120.

Mr. Darling said he did not think the rooms could possibly be as good.

Mr. Dick begged to move, as an amendment to Mr. Gordon's motion, " That this meeting approves of the proposal to have rooms for the Association, and that the question of adopting this scheme, or any other scheme, be left to a committee to he hereafter appointed."

Mr. Aylsworth seconded the amendment, which was then carried.

Mr. Pearson, seconded by Mr. Aylsworth, moved that the same committee, consisting of Messrs. Pearson, Gordon, Burke, Langton, Siddall and Smith be appointed. (Carried.)

Mr. Gray then moved, seconded by Mr. Langton, that the Association appoint a committee to meet and confer with a committee of the 18 Club. (Carried.)

On motion of Mr. Darling, seconded by Mr. Gray, the following committee was appointed, Messrs. Wickson, Dick, Langton, Gray, Darling and A. H. Gregg. (Carried.)

The Registrar then read Clause 2 of the report, which, on motion by the Registrar, seconded by Mr. Aylsworth, was laid on the table.

The Registrar then read clause 3: "The committee suggest that members of the Association should make it an essential requirement from their students to go up for the examinations, and this condition might be made a condition in the student's articles " He thought while the terms of this might be qualified by subsequent action as to the course of education it was an important matter ; it certainly should be insisted that every student take the course of education whatever it was. lie would move the adoption of this clause.

Mr. Aylsworth, in seconding the motion, said this was a very important clause. He thought it rested entirely with the members themselves whether the Association attained a higher standing in the public esteem or not, and that this was one of the most essential features in attaining that end.

The motion was then carried.

The Registrar then read clauses 4 and 5 of the report, and moved that they be referred to the committee appointed to confer with the Eighteen Club. The motion was seconded by Mr. Helliwell and carried.

The Registrar then read clause 6 of the report, "That the proceedings of the Convention, as reported by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT, be printed separately in convenient form.''

On motion by the Registrar, seconded by Mr. Dick, the clause was adopted.

The Registrar then read clause 7, "That instruction by architects to students upon the work in which the students are to he examined should form part of the work of the Association." He moved the adoption of the clause.

Mr. Dick having seconded the motion the clause was adopted.

The Registrar moved, seconded by Mr. Aylsworth, that clause 9 of the report be referred as an instruction to the new Council. Carried.

The Registrar then read clause 10, "The committee agree with a proposal that a certificate of membership should be issued, suitable for display in the offices of

the members, and that members should be requested to adopt the words, 'Member of the Ontario Association of Architects,' as their distinguishing title."

Mr. Kay was in favor of adopting the clause. Every other Association had a certificate or diploma of some kind, and be thought the members of the Architects' Association should also have one. He moved the adoption of the clause.

Mr. Gemmell thought as a matter of policy that it was very advisable to issue the certificate. lie felt sure members residing outside of Toronto would appreciate it.

The Registrar said that as far as he could gather there was a general feeling in favor of something of the kind. He had received letters from travelling members asking for some certificate that they, belong to the Association.

Mr. Kay's motion for the adoption of the clause having been seconded by Mr. Gemmell was then carried.

Clause ii of the report was then taken up. " The committee agree with a proposal that has been made to make the office of Registrar and Librarian honorary."

Mr. Helliwell thought that in view of the contemplated action in regard to having rooms, and the expense incident thereto, it might be well to adopt this clause. If in the future the Association found itself less straitened financially a resolution could be passed to make the office a salaried one again.

Mr. Darling said that was all very well, but what was the Association going to do without a registrar and librarian. He thought if the salary were withdrawn it would be a case of the office seeking the man instead of the man seeking it. He would like to hear of a volunteer who was willing to take the office without remuneration.

Mr. Strickland did not think it expedient that the services of the librarian and registrar should be without payment. Work done for nothing was never so efficient as that for which a consideration was paid.

Mr. W. R. Gregg shared Mr. Darling's feelings of wonder as to who would undertake the duties in question without pay. The Association had always had a great deal of work, and this coming year, if the proposed changes were carried out, there would be more than ever. He thought it would have been more to the point if the Committee had accompanied their recommendation with the names of half a dozen gentlemen who were prepared to undertake the duties without payment.

Mr. Gray failed to see how the expense of carrying out the proposed scheme was going to be met if they could not get a registrar who would do the work without pay. He thought someone might be found willing to undertake it without remuneration.

Mr. Gemmell pointed out that in the past there had been a great deal of work in connection with the attempts to secure legislation. There would not be this work now, and he suggested that while not withdrawing the salary altogether it might be possible to find someone who would be willing to accept a smaller sum than was now paid.

The President said that in view of the importance of the subject under discussion, he thought it well that it should be left over until there was a larger number of members present.

Mr. Kay thereupon moved that. the Convention do now adjourn, to meet again at 10:30 to-morrow morning.

Mr. Strickland having seconded the motion, the meeting adjourned accordingly.



THE DINNER.



The dinner on the evening of the 16th inst. was well

attended, and proved to be a most enjoyable function.

The proceedings opened with a loyal toast to Her

Majesty the Queen and the singing of the National

Anthem.

Responding to the toast to the School of Practical Science, Professor Galbraith expressed his regret at the failure of the effort to obtain the desired amendment to the Ontario Architects' Act. He was at a loss to understand why the scientific schools were full of students of

