



<doctype type="text;ad">vation is able to ascertain the value of such work safely. The contractor cannot reasonably look for close and safe estimates from an estimator who is not qualified as stated, even though his ability to read or make drawings remains unquestioned. Even then) as noted before, the estimator must be in touch with the shop and the ever-changing records to be capable of producing the best results.

Another qualification of the estimator is his ability to read drawings. And he is still better qualified if he is skilled in making of all kinds of drawings which are to be found within his sphere of duty ; because he is thus able to see with the draughtsman' s eye and discover, accordingly, much that is necessary to the proper discharge of his duties, and which, otherwise, would escape his notice. Of course, it must be admitted that there are estimators who are not draughtsmen by profession, and who are thoroughly reliable as to estimating, but long practice or exceptional opportunity has developed in them the draughtsman's eye—the ability to see as the draughtsman does ; and consequently, that being the reason for the estimator' s possession of this qualification, it cannot argue against the necessity for it. Then, too, the more thorough the estimator is as a draughtsman, the more thorough he is as an estimator. His ability in this direction is only secondary to the necessity for being practical as hereinbefore shown, both being necessary, his ability is proportionate to his strength of knowledge of each-—draughtsmanship and practical stonecutting, which includes, of course, all that relates to the practical working of the stone, from quarry to building, if we would aim at perfection in this matter.

Next to the estimator 's ability as draughtsman conies the mathematical qualification, which, in general, is simply arithmetical, although there are moments when he can advantageously use his knowledge of practical, descriptive and rational geometry, as well as plane trigonometry. This is so obvious a necessity that it is simply mentioned here as a qualification, and dismissed from further consideration ; but the last and very important requirement of the estimator, outside of "taking off quantity," which is understood to come within the bounds of draughtsmanship, is the preparation of the "quantities" for estimate. This presupposes that the estimator is well versed in the science of construction as applied to buildings, etc. ; that lie understands from the drawings and specifications where to expect, and look for, all stone work in connection with the contract, whether it is a "girder block" hidden away in the brick backing, or stone work plainly shown on the elevations, plans, etc. ; that he understands how the stone work butts against the different materials, whether they be iron, brick, wood, etc. ; and in general, that he understands from the requirements of the drawings and specifications exactly how the stone work should be cut and set in the wall ; for then, and then only, will he be prepared to say fully how much stock shall be used in the execution of the contract, and how much labor must be involved. This being settled, we will consider the preparation of the quantities for estimating purposes. It is not intended here to elaborate a system, but simply to point out a few facts which are essential to good estimating, and which, taken in conjunction with what have been stated before, serve to show the duties of the estimator, and what should be required of him if he is not to be chargeable with inefficient service.

In arranging the quantities for estimating, it should be determined upon, at the outset, that all similar stones shall be grouped ; that is, all of the same size, profile and finish should be written in a column together, with the three dimensions and cubes, so that the calculations may be simplified as much as possible, on the principle that simplicity in this respect means speed and safety. Next in the order is the arrangement of those pieces which cannot be classified as similar. Having listed in this way all the stone in the building, the cubes should be brought out, and added, in order to determine the amount of stock, and the cost of freight and handling. Before doing so, however, the estimator would do well to scan closely the specifications, and read them all through carefully, and ascertain whether some particular stones are hidden away, which are not shown on the drawings, as contractors often find to their chagrin, when shipments of stock take place, that there is some more work that they never figured on. The next step for the estimator is to determine the labor, and to find the net cost, all as has been indicated herein. These are his plain duties, and it is manifest that if he should be found wanting, as herein shown, the contractor has just cause for charging him with incompetency, and he is one cause of failure as pointed out before.

The next to be considered is the superintendent of the shop, and, perhaps, the quarries. It can be truthfully said that in him should be found all the qualifications of the estimator. His duties as superintendent require of him, if not at one time, at another, all the qualifications already described, and he should, in a well regulated establishment, he charged with the preparation of the estimates ; as it is obvious, unless a check be contemplated on the figuring, that he is in a position, with reference to all that which enters into the cost, to render the best service available.

After a careful consideration of what has been said here, it will become apparent to the contractors for whom this paper is intended that it is of paramount necessity for the success of their business that they should, first, systematize it so far as it relates to the work ; and, secondly, having secured the services of those well qualified to direct the work, and pass upon the value of it, there should be no difficulty in avoiding the financial pitfalls into which so many contractors have plunged unwittingly, and which can be easily guarded against, when seen. Then the contractor will know that when he fails to get a job that his figure was safely high, and that, it his figure is much lower than his competitor's, that he is safely low—in all cases he will know exactly how he stands with regard to a bid before he signs a contract.—--F. T. Mallon, in Stone.















THE F. D. CUMMER & SON Company, 

CLEVELAND, OHIO



O. T. Springer, BURLINGTON, ONT.

Balanced Folding Partition Fixtures please all who

