	<doctype type="text;plate">136	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



to the room is assisted by the shape of the inlet. Many of these elements which enter into the problem have been estimated, and even given ° place in tables but it is well that the various elements of the problem be recognized. This may be done by a single example.

A school house of four rooms, each to have a cubic-air space







of 240 cubic feet (or 4 x 15) per pupil for a school of 200 pupils is to l)e healed and ventilated.

The construction of the building having been made upon the principles of building already indicated, we have to supply means of ventilation for supplying 2,000 cubic feet of fresh air per pupil per hour, or 100,000 cubic feet per hour must be poured into each room with cubic capacity of 12,000 feet. This means 8 1/3 changes of air per hour, or a renewal of air every 7 1-5 minutes. An inlet of 2 ft. X 2 it. would deliver the requisite volume of air if moving at the rate of 6.94 feet per second. With the ordinary smooth ducts, as when lined with tin, to prevent friction as far as possible, it is estimated that from 20 to 25 per cent. is lost by friction, so that in the present instance the duct delivering

air in the amount stated at thc rate indicated should be about 2 ft. x 2.5 ft. in area. It is apparent that the forward movement of this volume of air will depend not only upon a steady motive power, a vis a tergo, by which, as with a fan, a regular pressure is maintained in the duct, but also upon there being a free exit duct to conduct the air from thc room, which removal of air can indeed be accelerated by an exhaust fan at the outlet of the duct or by a coil of steam pipes in the exit shaft by which the air is heated and thereby made to ascend. Much experience in ventilating shafts by the officers of the Massachusetts Bureau leads to the conclusion that "as a rule, a reduction of one-fifth the area of the foul air outlets for the size of the fresh air inlets has proved sufficient for inflowing fresh air. I have seen no reason to change this statement, and it will be found that ventilating engineers and architects who have been most successful in obtaining good ventilation have varied but little, if any, from the above rules." It is apparent that with the size of the inlets being determined as being, say 8o, the outlet would be represented by

100. Along with the various elements as regards thc size of inlets and outlets, it is important to have determined by experiment the most successful points at which inlets and outlets should bc placed in any room, in order to promote the even distribution of the air introduced. Both English and American authorities arc now agreed that in rooms of the ordinary size, as those in schools, inlets should be arranged

on the inner walls, at a point from 6 to 8 feet above the floor, while thc outlet should be at the floor in the same wall and in close proximity to the outlet. This arrangement is based upon the fact that the incoming air is usually warmer than that of the room and therefore tends to ascend, and with the forward movement the impulse along with the higher temperature will distribute the fresh air to the farther side of the room it being further aided by the lessened pressure caused by the downward movement of the chilled air along- the outer wall, and the outward movement of this air along the floor to the outlet.

Summing up these points Mr. R. R. Wade,

of Boston, Chief of the Police Inspection Commissioners, says:

"Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the merits of the various appliances that have been applied for the ventilation of schools or other public buildings, it must be admitted that the system that can furnish and remove under perfect control a sufficient amount of air, with a velocity that can be regulated arid so distributed as to supply fresh air and remove foul air from each room with regularity and perfect independence of weather, summer and winter alike, should be the system to be adopted, and in all appliances that is the simplest which most positively and directly effects thc purpose in view."

The problem of heating the air equally has in every System proved of much difficulty in practice when a definite amount of fresh air is to be delivered. In estimating the work to be done, it is apparent that an average external temperature must be taken as the basis of

ordinary work, and that for extremes a system of extra coils must be supplied either in (he rooms or in the fresh air chambers in the basement. A four-horse power gas engine has been proved sufficient to give to a 4-foot diameter fan enough revolutions to supply 1,000 persons (pupils) with 2,000 cubic feet per head per hour; hence with any system of steam heating, boilers of sufficient power can be economically used, even where electricity is obtainable for supplying power to fan.

In the problem here we may assume that the outer air is to be heated to a temperature as low as 15° F. in the basement cold-air chamber, to be delivered in the room at 70 F., and that for colder weather steam coils be placed in thc rooms for subsidiary heating.



In practice it may be said that the same number of heat units is required to raise water through any degree of temperature from 32 to 212 F., and proportionately air through any degree from to 70° F., the ratio between air and water being at 212° F., as to 1,000 Now the weight of a cubic foot of dry air at 32° F. and 30 inches of barornetic pressure is 566.9 grains, or 100 cubic feet equal 81 lbs. Assuming that a cubic

