

<doctype type="text">THE BUILDER



THIS DEPARTMENT IS DESIGNED TO FURNISH INFORMATION SUITED TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE BUILDING TRADES. READERS

ARE INVITED TO ASSIST IN MAKING IT AS HELPFUL AS POSSIBLE BY CONTRIBUTING OF THEIR EXPERIENCE,

AND BY ASKING FOR PARTICULAR INFORMATION WHICH THEY MAY AT ANY TIME REQUIRE.]



<article title="Metal Ceilings" author="">Metal Ceilings.

THE introduction of sheet-metal as a roofing material, and for decorative and other purposes, has made it necessary that the carpenter and builder doing business in small towns and villages should have some knowledge as to the manner of putting in place and securing this material. The imaginary difficulties that present themselves to the uninitiated workman in the application of sheet metal work has in many instances prevented the use of sheet metal, when such would have suited the purpose admirably; therefore, a few remarks as to the manner of "fixing up" an embossed ceiling or wainscot will not be considered inopportune. Let us suppose it is necessary to put up a metal ceiling in a room where no lath or plaster has been applied. The first thing to do is to make a diagram of the ceiling with the exact dimensions marked on each side and end, the exact position of any projections, such as chimney breasts, offsets, or other irregularities, with proper measurements of their projections, width, etc., all of which must be figured on the diagram. Then determine on the style of ceiling, depth and width of cornice, which will, of course, be selected from some one of the many trade catalogues, which may be obtained from any dealer in sheet metal work, whose address can be found in the advertising pages of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. All this being satisfactorily arranged, send the diagram and order, with the number or description of the style or pattern of ceiling and cornice required, stating exactly what you want. The dealer will arrange the metal to suit your diagram, and, when received, you can readily find out where to nail up battens on the ceilings and walls to suit the joints of the metal, and to receive the cornice. It must be borne in mind that, for the cornice, there must always be a batten in such a position that the upper member of the cornice can be nailed to it, both along the sides of the room and the ends. This may sometimes require either an extra joist or pieces fitted between the end joists on which to nail the battens. There must also be a batten nailed around the room on the walls to receive the lower edge of the cornice. The line to nail it to will be found by trying a piece of the cornice in situ, after the ceiling strips have been nailed on. If the joists have been properly sized before being put in place, there will be no trouble whatever in putting up the ceiling; but, if they have not, such joists as hang below the others must he dubbed off where the batten crosses them, so that all the strips will be in one plane or have an even face, so that when the metal is nailed in place it will be straight and even. Everything depends on having the ground-work, on which the metal is fastened, true and even on the face, and the battens in the

<article title="Metal Ceiling over Plaster" author="">Metal Ceiling Over Plaster.

proper positions to receive the edges of the metal. Mitring the cornices at the edges of the room, or about the projections, is a very simple affair, and need not deter the workman from undertaking the job. In the cornice one piece may run through to the wall, and the returning piece cut to butt it, a plan that requires but little skill. The outer angles of projections will require a little more care, but the work presents no difficulties that even an ordinary mechanic may not overcome.



THE best way to repair old ceilings when the plaster is getting old and rotten and liable to drop down at any

moment, is to cover it entirely with a sheet metal ceiling—an operation that is neither difficult nor costly. It is not necessary to take off the old plaster, to remove gas piping or electric wires, but should there be any plaster centre pieces they had better be taken down, as they would remain a source of danger and perhaps an eyesore. If the ceiling has sagged, which is very likely the case in an old building, care must be taken in putting in the grounds or battens to overcome the appearance of "sag," by having some of the grounds much thicker than others in order to have the face of the work level on the under-side. The centre strips will require to be thin, while their ends may want to be thick, and the grounds near the sides of the walls will require to be the thickest. A good way to start work is to nail up a string of the thickest grounds along the sides of the wall, at the proper distance from the angle, to receive the extreme member of the cornice projecting into the room. This strip must he made straight in its face, and should be level. Another strip on the opposite side of the room should now be put in place under the same conditions as the first piece, and it should be kept in line with it, and should not be winding but exactly on the same plane, then by use of a straight-edge, which must be long enough to span the space between the two grounds now in place, the thickness of all other grounds may be determined by measuring up from the edge of the straight-edge to the plastered ceiling. It may be necessary to have several thicknesses on the one strip of ground in order to make up for the unequal sagging of the ceiling. The strips should in all cases be nailed on across the joists, and where the joists run in the direction of the longest dimensions of the room, and the metal is arranged to run in the same direction, more strips will be necessary than would be the case if the joists ran across the room, which they generally do. If the plaster on the ceiling is very rotten, the workman should be as careful as he can in trying to prevent it from breaking down, as the more of the

original plaster left on the better will be the work

