



<doctype type="text;plate">seat of the hip or valley , as b d; then divide a b into any number of spaces, as 2, 4, 6, etc.; from these points draw lines at right angles to a b intersecting the profile of the common ratter and the seat of the hip, b d ;   then from these points on the seat of the hip continue lines at right angles to seat of the hip, making 9 10 on the common rafter, and 7 8 on the hip rafter equal to 7 8 on the common rafter ; 5 6 on the hip equal to 6 on the common rafter, etc.; the points thus found are

FIG. 4.—CURVES FOR VERANDAH Hip-Roofs.





points on the profile of the hip rafter ; then connect b 10, 10 8, etc., with the curved line as shown, thus giving the profile of the hip rafter. This should be readily understood, for if we raise the curved line c

until it stands plumb over a b, we get the common rafter in position. Then, by lifting c b until the curved line stands plumb over the seat d b ; we get the hip curve in position, and a line laid on c and e, or from

to 2 on the curved lines, will be level or horizontal; thus proving the truth of the solution. In order to get



FIG. 5.—LENGTHS AND BEVELS OF CURVED RAFTERS.

the jack rafters of the proper curve and length, we draw the plates a b and b c in Fig. 5 ; and the seat of the hip, as a c. Now draw the rise and profile of the common rafter, as c e and e b ; lay off the seats of the jack rafters, as I 2, 3 4, etc., making 1 the thickness of the jack rafter. Continue these lines from where they

Drainage.

strike the seat of the hip, parallel to a b, until they strike the curve of the common rafter. Then b 4 will be the length of the jack rafter, 4 will be the long length and 2 the short length, or 4 will be the line of the cut on one side and 2 the line of the cut on the other side. The curves on these rafters must be made by the same pattern as that used for the common rafter, and the lengths, as shown, must be taken from the bottom of the pattern, as at b ; the curves will then all work on the same plane.



WHEN a soil drain has to be fixed inside a house, or outside it where a leakage from it would find its way into

the house or under the footings, cast iron with caulked lead joints, is preferable to glazed or stoneware tiles, whatever kind of joint may be adopted ; the pipe not being less than 3/8 in. thick in any part for a 4 in. or  in. diameter, and thicker for drains of a larger size. Instead of laying an iron drain in the ground, where it is inside a house it is better that it should be carried on the fan of some wall, or be suspended from the floor, or be carried in a subway, or in a tunnel, or creeping-trench, specially built for the purpose, of bricks or cement, with openings here and there so that the pipe can be examined from time to time when desired. In order to secure proper connections to main sewers, it is always best to get the local authorities to do the work, as they know best how to go about it, and they generally perform the work in compliance with municipal rules prepared for the purpose. When drains are solely meant for rain water, much less fall is required than for sewage. Generally a velocity of 2 1/2 feet per second is sufficient in order to carry away any dust and dirt that may have accumulated on the roofs between showers. The drains should be surrounded by concrete when passing through buildings or near the roots of trees, or when likely to be disturbed. The provision for the rapid clearance of rain fall should be ample, and should vary to meet the average annual rainfall according to the district in which the building is located. It there is no regular sewage system, and the soil is carried to a cesspool from the house, the greatest of care should be taken to have every inlet to the drains well trapped and thoroughly ventilated. There should also be suitable vent from the covered cesspool, with a proper goose neck attached. A small vent, leading to the outside of the house should be attached to every sink outlet, for, as a rule, the sink traps are not overly efficient.



<article title="Publications" author="">PUBLICATIONS.

The Plumbers' Trade Journal of New York issued to the trade a Christmas number which was attractive in appearance and



interesting in coments



Mr. Horace B. Hudson contributes to the Review of Reviews for December an account of the movement to establish a national forest park in Minnesota, near the headwaters of the Mississippi.



The David Williams Company, 232 William Street, New York, has recently published a book by Mr. F. T. Hodgson on " Estimating Frame and Brick Houses." It comprises 147 pages 5 x 7 inches in size, illustrated by means of scale drawings and constructive details. This appears to be a practical and fairly comprehensive work explanatory of the method of estimating for labor and materials as applied to domestic buildings of wood and stone. The book is well bound in cloth and sells at $1.00 per copy.





The new court house building at St. Thomas, Ont. was formally opened a fortnight ago, and is said to be a handsome structure.

