



<doctype type="text">engineering while there were so few students of architecture, and was obliged to leave with (he Association the solution of the problem. Mr. C. H. C. Wright, whose name was also coupled with the toast, was pleased with the determination arrived at by the Association to establish a system of education for students, and to fit up rooms for the use of members and students. He wished that he might be able to connect himself with the Association so as to enjoy the privileges which were about to be provided.

Messrs, Kay, of Paris, Ont., Power, of Kingston, and Munro, of Hamilton, were asked to respond to the toast " Our Guests," proposed by Mr. D. B. Dick.

Mr. Munro said there sixteen or seventeen architects in Hamilton, and suggested that the Association should cultivate that field ; and also that a summer meeting might profitably be held there, affording the opportunity to sketch the remains of old forts and other objects of interest to be found in that locality.

Mr. H. Gordon, in proposing a toast to the Eighteen Club, took opportunity to say some pleasant things of the younger men and to invite their hearty co-operation with the Association for the advancement of Architecture.

Mr. Hynes, in responding, outlined the aim and work of the Architectural League of America, and urged that an effort should be made to secure the holding in Toronto next year of one of the series of exhibitions under the direction of the League.

Mr. C. 1-1. Mortimer, of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, responded for ''The Press," and Mr. Gemmell for "The Ladies."

A most enjoyable feature of the evening was the singing in excellent style of several humorous songs by Mr. Lincoln Carlisle. Recitations by Messrs. Pearson and Langton also contributed to the pleasure of the evening.

The proceedings closed with the singing of "Auld Lang Syne."

Mr. Chas. Langley was justly complimented upon his skilful designs for the menu card.





SECOND [)AV.



The Convention re-assembled at 10.30 on Wednesday, the 17th inst., but owing to many of the members being engaged in committee with the 18 Club, the proceedings were not resumed until 11.30.

The President then called attention to the fact that clause 11 of the report of the Committee was still open for discussion.

Mr. Dick pointed out that the attendance was, if anything. smaller than yesterday, when this matter was left open because it was not thought well to deal with it without having a larger number present. He thought it had better be still left over until more were present.

Mr. Gordon said it was not proposed now that they should appoint anyone as Registrar ; all that could be done was to elicit an expression of opinion, and, if necessary, put it in the form of a resolution, with instructions to the Council to secure, if possible,. the services of a suitable person to act as Registrar gratuitously. What was required was some one with sufficient enthusiasm to undertake the ditties without pay, and with sufficient executive ability to carry them out in a manner satisfactory to the Council. There were many persons who, while very enthusiastic, were not very painstaking and analytical in their methods, and what was wanted was someone who combined with enthusiasm the necessary' executive and literary ability. He would therefore simply move that the suggestion of the Committee that the office of Registrar and Librarian be made honorary in the meantime—that is for the next year- be adopted, and that the Council be instructed to try and secure the services of a suitable person among the members to act in that capacity.

The President thought. the question was one of vital importance, and should very carefully considered.

Mr. Aylsworth thought they could not expect anyone to do the work for nothing ; there ought to be some remuneration. lie thought some one might be found who would undertake the duties for $100 per year, and let the instruction be made to the Council in that way.

The Registrar pointed out that the only action the convention could take was by way of recommendation to the Council as to whether the office should be made an honorary one. The appointment of the Registrar lay with the Council.

Mr. Paull said the present occupant of the position had been with them so many years, and had been so very courteous and efficient in the discharge of his duties, that he could not contemplate any change without a feeling of apprehension. If the proposed changes in policy resulted in an enlarged membership it might make a difference in the financial position of the Association. $100 a year seemed to him a very small sum for the work required, arid he feared difficulty would be encountered in getting a suitable person who would do it gratuitously.

Mr. Power found it impossible to reconcile the increased duties which would fall to the Registrar in connection with the enlarged policy of the Association with a reduction in the remuneration of that officer. It did riot seem to him that that was equitable. Speaking as an outside member, he had always felt that he could write to the Registrar for any information or anything he wanted with the expectation of receiving a prompt answer, but it would be unreasonable and unfair to expect one who was receiving no payment for his services to leave his own affairs and attend to communications of that kind at once.

Mr. Wickson admitted the force of Mr. Power's remarks, but said they were on the horns of a dilemma. On one hand it was quite conceded that it was necessary to have the rooms and carry out the proposed scheme which involved extra expense, while on the other hand there was this feeling that the Registrar ought not to be asked to perform his duties without pay. But the fact remained that if they were going to incur the expense necessary for the proposed innovations they would find themselves seriously embarrassed if they retained a salaried Registrar. He thought if someone could be got who would undertake the duties for a year free of charge, by that time things might be in such a position as would enable them to revert to paying a salary. Of course, if no one could be found to do it, there remained no option.

The President called attention to the fact that in the earlier stages of the Association, they had managed to get along with an honorary officer in that position. Certainly if the right person could be had it would be a very great consideration to save that money.

Mr. Gordon said the salary had already' been reduced to the very lowest possible figure that could with any conscience he offered to a salaried officer, $200. He thought that was indeed very small remuneration for the services performed by the Registrar at present. To offer a man $100 for those services was asking him to assume the position of a paid officer without the remuneration that a paid officer gets. But if you asked someone to undertake it for the good of the cause, for a year or two years, gratuitously, then that person is in an honorary position, and his services are regarded by his fellow members in their trite light, and lie receives their commendation and whatever honor attaches to the position. But to offer a man a paltry hundred dollars, and expect him to regard that as a quid pro quo for his services was little short of insulting. Therefore he was not in favor of any compromise. It was either a question of recommending the Council to go on and pay the salary of $200 a year or else to procure someone who would do the work for the pure love of the cause.

Mr. Wickson made the suggestion that while the office might be regarded as purely honorary, there might be an allowance made of, say $100 a year, for clerical work, which would go a long way towards relieving the Registrar from the drudgery incident to his duties. He thought if someone would volunteer for the work it would practically settle the question.

Mr. Gordon said the mere fact of someone volunteering would not settle it. A volunteer might have the enthusiasm, but the Council might riot have confidence in his ability to carry on the work. It would not do

