<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



amply provided for. Two furnaces with a capacity of 40,000 cubic feet are necessary and may be wood or coal heaters four large

brick or galvanized iron heating ducts convey heat to the classrooms, and a hot water coil to teacher's room. Separate vent flues have been provided for each class-room with smoke flues adjoining to insure efficiency of operation vent flues are calculated to exhaust air of class-rooms every ten to twelve minutes when furnace is heating. Foul air ducts of heavy galvanized iron of ample capacity with floor at the coldest positions in rooms at windows and are carried at basement ceiling to vent flues this arrangement is quite simple, economical and most effective



The following objectionable features have been disregarded flat roofing, extremely high ceilings, the arrangement of classrooms with but a single wall or partition division between them, narrow or cramped hall or entrances, entrance doors exposed to overflow of roof valleys, combined cloak rooms, indifferent heating and ventilation the placing of w. c. in building.

Basement walk to be built up of local stone, and may be faced on interior with grey brick in colored mortar wainscott to be alternate courses of red and grey brick. Stonework above grade to be of broken ashlar or coursing.

Brick walls above foundation to be 14" inches thick laid up of sound stock brick in lime mortar.

Flooring to be first quality kiln-dried birch 3' widths for ground floor. Basement to be. floored with wrought 6" plank on cedar sleepers. Furnace room floor to be of brick.

Trim windows and doors with 5 1/2" double moulded archtraves. Base to be 14" x 1 14 double, chair rail to continue around all rooms and halls, also black board mouldings.

The estimate of the various trades is based upon recent work of similar description, executed under the direction of author, and will be found quite reliable

	Masonry	$2,075

	Carpentery	2,390

	Plastering	360

	Painting and Glazing	240

	Galvanized Iron Work                      

	Slating	330

	Heating arid Ventilating	350

	$5,850



It roof is shingled instead of slated deduct $150.00.

In some localities this design could easily be executed for less than the above amount.





<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

A PLUMBERS' strike at Halifax has terminated by all the strikers going into business on their own account. They will now have an opportunity to learn what an easy life is that of the master plumber, and how magnificent are his profits.

xxx



THE City Commissioner of Toronto has been asked to

find a suitable site for a handsome model of Windsor

Castle, which was recently presented to the city by

Messrs. Lever Bros., the well known soap manufacturers.

The model was exhibited at the World's Fair at

Chicago and afterwards removed to England.

	x	x x



As a means of commemorating the devotion of the colonies to the mother land during the present war, the Rev. J. S. Sinclair, vicar of Cirenester, makes the suggestion, in the columns of The Spectator, that there should be erected in front of St. Paul's Cathedral, four great masts, set in emblematic bases and properly decorated, like to those in front of St. Mark's at Venice, to represent Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. The proposal has been favorably received.

	x	x x



It is gratifying to learn that the Canadian club propose to put a distinguishing mark upon historical buildings. The first step in this direction has been taken by placing on the old Canada Company building on King street, east Toronto, a granite tablet hearing the

foil owing inscription. —"The Canada Company building, built in 1807. One of the earliest brick edifices erected in Toronto. Occupied from 1853 to 1895 as the chief office of the Canada Company in this province." The house was built by the late Mr. Quetton St. George and is now the property of the Baldwin estate.

	x	x x



UNDER the title of a " Lost Principle in Architecture," a writer in the '' Fortnightly Review " says

If the visitor to Athens places his hat or other small object at the corner of one of the steps of the Parthenon and tries to sight it from the other end he will find it has sunk beneath the delicate curve in the middle which the designers saw would appear pleasanter and softer to the eye than if each step were shaped to a line of ruler-like straightness from beginning to end. All parts of the great building the floors, architrave, and even the layers of stone that constitute the main walls -have been shown to conform to a like principle, and some portions to be curved both in a vertical and in a horizontal manner. Important as was this discovery, it does not stand alone. Mr. Ruskin has found that deliberate divergencies of a similar kind exist in the old Gothic buildings of Venice, and he considers that they were introduced so as to avoid a too obvious precision, as does nature, even in her most symmetrical creations—the two sides of the human face, for example.

x x x



IT may be remembered that the architect of the Impenal household of Japan, visited Europe, the United States and Canada last year in connection with the project to erect a palace for the Crown Prince's household and to contain some of the state offices. In view of the numerous earthquakes which occur every year in Japan brick structures are soon destroyed. Wood though better adapted to withstand the shocks is objectionable by reason of its inflammability. Consequently it. was finally decided to erect this palace, to cost $3,000,000, on a framework of steel. The contract to design, manufacture and supervise the erection of this steel framework has been given to American firms. The fundamental principle and leading consideration in the design, says the Engineering Record, has been not only to provide for its stability under a single severe earthquake shock, but to ensure its endurance of numerous shocks continuing year after year at frequent intervals. To meet these strains and vibrations every part of the building is supported or reinforced by a skeleton steel framework made continuous throughout, so as to act as a whole to resist displacement of any part. There are very few adjustable members or loose joints. Nearly all connections are riveted with unusual strength, although they are not so rigid but that the members may deflect within the limits of their elasticity without injury. Special lateral strength and stillness are introduced by systems of struts and ties in all the horizontal planes, which develop the strength of the beams and practically create great horizontal trusses to resist distortion and distribute strains. The masonry is massive, proportioned for stability, and abundantly anchored at all points to the steel framework. The solid continuous floors add to the strength and rigidity of the structure, and its stability is promoted by making the cornice, parapet and other upper parts as light as possible. The whole building is seated on wide continuos footings of solid concrete, to which the columns are each bolted.

