	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



street, Toronto, between York and Bay streets. It is proposed to arrange them as in the accompanying plan, so as to share the premises and cost with the Engineers. The rooms will occupy the second floor, but will have a separate entrance from the street, and every member should have a key to the door. The rent for each of the societies associated as tenants will be $150 a year. Tile alterations necessary to arrange tile floor as planned will be made by the landlord. Keating and caretaking will be provided, hut not light.

2.	The institution of an Association medal for presentation to architects is recommended, with the suggestion that the medal be provided by the Association, as the government is unwilling to assume the position that the presentation be not necessarily annual, but occasional; and that the decision as to its presentation be by ballot of members of the Association in good standing.

3.	The Committee suggest that members of the Association should agree to make it an essential requirement from their students to go up for the examinations, and this requirement might be made a condition in the student's articles.

4.	The Committee suggests that young architects in practice, who have riot opportunity for much study, should be allowed to pass the final examination by coming up for one or more subjects at a time, as they are able to leant them.

5.	The Committee suggests that students of the Association, who propose to travel in Europe, should be supplied with a certificate, which will enable them to obtain the advantages which are offered by the European governments to art students who bear credentials of this kind.

6.	The Committee suggests that the proceedings of the Convention, as reported by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT, be printed separately in a convenient form.

7.	The Committee suggests that instruction by architects to students upon the work in which the students are to be examined should form part of the work of the Association.

8.	The Committee agrees in theory with a proposal that has been made to hold the Convention in different cities outside of Toronto, as well as in Toronto, but doubt whether it would be practicable to do so at present.

9.	The Committee thinks that the building and fire by-laws, drawn up with so much care by a committee of the Association, should not be forgotten ; that occasion should be found to press them again upon the attention of the Toronto City Council, and to bring them to the notice of other municipalities.

10.	The Committee agrees with a proposal that has been made that a certificate of membership should be issued, suitable for display in the offices of members, and that members should be requested to adopt the words "Member of the Ontario Association of Architects as their distinguishing title.

11 The Committee agrees with a proposal that has been made to make the office of Registrar and Librarian honorary



Mr. Gray moved, seconded by Mr. Darling, that the report be taken up and read and dealt with clause by clause 

The Convention proceeded to discuss clause I. relating to the proposed rooms.

Mr. Helliwell inquired what was to be done with the library, whether it would be placed in one of the rooms, and, if so, under whose charge it would be.

The Registrar stated that it was proposed to place the library in the room of the Association, and that it was thought it might be in the charge of a student.

Mr. Dick said if the library was to be accessible to members at all times, each member having a key, what was to prevent them helping themselves ?

Mr. Pearson pointed out that it would be necessary to have the books under lock and key, and students who desired to get books would have to attend at stated hours.

Mr. Aylsworth said in that case the library would not be freely accessible.

Mr. Darling thought if the library was not in charge of some one who would be responsible it would be found to diminish rather than increase ; not because anyone would actually steal the books, but through the carelessness that would be inevitable, and through books being taken away and no record kept of the persons in whose possession they were. lie thought the whole question was one of finance. He did not think members would care to be restricted to looking at the books through the doors of a glass case, and members would not want to go to somebody's office about it ; it was essential that there should be someone there permanently, and if that could be managed it was excellent. But he did not see where the money was to come from for that.

Mr. Wickson said that unless the arrangement was such that members could avail themselves of the library in their spare moments at luncheon hour or at other times he did not think they would use the library; he did not think they would go at certain appointed hours.

Mr. Gordon suggested, as a possible solution, that by a slight change of plan a portion of the space devoted to cloak rooms might be utilized as an office, which might be occupied by a typewriter, who, in consideration of free office room and the possibility of picking tip architects' work in the way of copying specifications, etc., would assume the charge of the library and render whatever service was necessary. He felt sure plenty could be found who would undertake it.

Mr. \V. R. Gregg thought a division of the library might be made, that portion of the books intended for circulation being placed in charge of someone having an office who would be willing to undertake the responsibility ; and the reference books being kept in the room lying on a table accessible to all members who had keys.

Mr. Pearson, having ascertained that there were only 19 borrowers of books last year, said he could not understand why- there was so much objection raised. He thought the circulating part of the library might very well be entrusted to some responsible student who would attend at stated hours to give out books. Then, as to the other books, he did not apprehend any danger of their being taken away and not returned.

Mr. Dick was not in favor of having part of the books at one place and part at another. He thought some such plan as outlined by Mr. Pearson and others might be desirable. Let the hooks be freely accessible in the rooms, with the understanding that no book was to be removed save at stated times, when someone appointed for that purpose would be in attendance.

Mr. Strickland inquired whether the architects and engineers, by maintaining a joint library, might not be in a position to employ someone permanently to take charge of it.

The Registrar replied that the engineers, like the architects, would probably find it enough to undertake the expense of the rooms without undertaking any additional expense.

Mr. Wickson proposed that, so far as city members were concerned, the library should be treated as for reference purposes only, while outside members could still obtain the loan of books on application to the Registrar or a student appointed for that purpose.

Mr.. Gordon then moved, referring to the report as a whole, " That the proposed scheme be adopted, subject to the co-operation of the Engineers' Association, and also subject to any change of plan or method of administration that is found feasible." He thought the convention ought to approve of the general plan, leaving the details to be worked out.

Mr. Darling, who seconded the resolution, asked if there was any question of their financial ability to carry the plan out.

Mr. Dick thought it was desirable, before further considering the details or putting Mr. Gordon's resolution, to elicit from those present some expression of opinion on the broad question of the desirability of having rooms at all. Were the advantages to be derived from having rooms sufficient to warrant the expenditure which the plan would involve?

Mr. Gordon said that was covered by his motion, which simply called for an expression of opinion as to the principle of having rooms.

Mr. Kay, of Paris, Ont., asked if the sum of $150 mentioned included all the expenditure necessary.

Mr. Darling replied that it covered everything except light.

Mr. Wickson pointed out that there would be an expenditure for furnishing.

Mr.. W. R. Gregg, in order to bring the matter more distinctly to the point, moved " That we rent these rooms for one year." He did this because he understood the engineers were meeting this evening.

Mr. Darling said the owner of the building would hardly go to the expense of fitting up the rooms as proposed with the object of renting them for only one year. lie felt that the whole subject. was one of very great importance, and that if anyone had objections to urge they should be heard.

The undertaking proposed involved a distinct change

