<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



mention that one of the best methods for glazing skylights is merely to seal the glass on a bedding of putty, and then to sprig it in and paint the joint over with the woodwork of the bars. It is perfectly watertight, and there is no putty on the weather side to get out of order. This plan is much adopted in horticultural building, both vertically as well as in the top-light glazing. The laps of the glass to the top-light should be cut to a curve, the water being directed down the centre of the glass and away from the rebate in the bars.

PAINTER.



External painting if done in the spring or autumn will give a more satisfactory result. No painting, papering, or other decoration should be done while there is a suspicion of dampness about the building. All ironwork should be well painted over before it is buried or covered.



<article title="The Engineers Club of Toronto" author="">THE ENGINEERS' CLUB OF TORONTO.

THE regular meeting of the above club was held at the Rossin House on Tuesday, May 1st, at which there were present Messrs. Tully, Patton, Canniff, Lambe, McDougall, Johnson, Roy, Withrow, Gaibraith, King, Butler and Chipman.

The secretary reported that the special committee appointed at the last meeting to make arrangements re club rooms had interviewed Mr. Home, the proprietor, and Messrs. Gregg and Gemmell, ot the Association of Architects, and that the committee was informed that the plans for the rooms would be fully completed at an early date, when they would be submitted to the Club for approval. A draft plan was submitted showing the proposed sub-division of the floor into rooms.

A resolution was carried that the draft plan submitted for consideration by the architects be changed as follows (I) That there should be a landing in the stairway and no "winders" ; (2) Skylight to be build over stairway ; (3) Platform and blackboard to extend the

full width of the room; (4) Fireplace in engineers' room; (5) Alcove in engineers' room ; (6) Ventilation, heating and lighting arrangements to be shown.

The following topic for discussion at next meeting was selected " Freight Tariff on City and Suburban Tramways," by Mr. Jas. McDougall.





<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

AN Ontario architect who recently visited Winnipeg has given a glowing description of the climate in that city in winter. During a stay of several weeks the sun never failed to shine brightly every day. Owing to the clearness of the atmosphere the blue sky flecked with white clouds, seemed miles further from the earth than in eastern Canada. Nowhere else, save in Italy, is the atmosphere said to be so well adapted to the proper display of architecture. Shadows are strong and clean cut and mouldings and other features of buildings stand out with perfect distinctness. Light colored materials are considered best adapted to this climate, and are being employed in some ot the more important works now in course ot construction, notably the Bank of Commerce and the Dominion Bank, one being built entirely of terra cotta of a warm shade of brown, and the other of Ohio gray sandstone. While the atmosphere in winter is extremely frosty, it is said to be entirely free from moisture. It is consequently well adapted to the use of stone, which in the eastern

provinces must be used more sparingly on account of the destructive effect of moisture in the air.





<article title="The Commercial Value of Art" author="Elzner, A.O.">THE COMMERCIAL VALUE OF ART.*

By A. 0. ELZNER F.A.I. of A.



ART is one of the greatest factors of civilization, and probably the oldest and most powerful. It is the very first refining instinct that becomes manifest in the savage it is the great force that carries him upward through the successive stages of enlightenment until he becomes a great nation, and the last to remain, tong after a nation or a people has passed from splendor and prosperity back again into the obscurity of antiquity. It is an open book wherein we read men's thoughts and deeds, their rise, prosperity and decline. It is a faithful record of the triumph and failures of humanity, of its joys and sorrows. Rightly understood, it is thc very soul of our existence. It glows as a halo about all creation appeals to and summons our full nature, and inspires us to lofty efforts, if we will but recognize its ringing message—that Beauty is truth, and Truth is Love.



Some of you probably read the account of the manner in which Gibson first succeeded in having his sketches of the American Woman received. He was young and modest and when he had made a couple of sketches, left them anonymously in the editor's office of a newspaper. They were not appreciated, and were, of course, consigned to the waste basket. Again he left new ones, and again they were destroyed. This continued for some time, until ii was finally thought they really might have some little merit after all. So they were published, and soon attracted attention But still the artist remained unknown, although he continued to leave his sketches. Finally he presented himself at the office as the author of those pictures of women, and now he is famous the world over, and his sketches command an immense premium. What is the result ? Think of the thousands, yea millions of people who enjoy them, and are better men and women for it then think of the material influence exerted by reason of their publication.

Firstly, Gibson himself is making a great deal of money, by means of which he could, if he would, do much good in the world.



Secondly, the publisher's business thrives on account of their popularity this means the necessity of increasing his facilities, employing more hands, who welcome the boom with a full heart. It means further, that more paper and ink stock is needed on account of increased circulation, and forthwith the mills are taking larger orders, much to the benefit of those depending upon this branch of the trade, arid the railroads doing better business, due to hauling the extra weight of stock.



And yet Gibson is only one of hundreds and hundreds of artists working in this manner, and whose influence extend far into the channels of trade, yielding support to hundreds of thousands that are engaged in some occupation whose very existence is dependent directly or indirectly upon the work from the fountain head. Such may be common laborers, mechanics at trades, machinists, engineers, draughtsmen, clerks, manufacturers, shopkeepers, dealers, landlords and bankers, brokers, real estate men, railroad magnates, and poor architects—when the publishing journal makes enough money out of the clever paper to erect a new building for itself, as was done in the present instance. I refer to "Life," which recently completed a splendid house of its own, and is probably now selling its paper very largely among all these people, who are enabled to support it by virtue of the reflex action of its own success.

Let us now analyze a case of rather different character. I was invited recently into the rooms of a firm that makes a business of interior decoration—notably for fine dwellings. This firm naturally could not exist at all were it not that the public taste had developed a demand for beauty and refinement in our homes, and in fact to such an extent that experts are required to take complete charge ot the whole interior. This is supposed to be the proper thing—but without intending in the least to disparage the skill of the artist, I would say that, on general principles, it is a very dangerous step to take, unless one feels himself utterly devoid of artistic ideas. For a home should be all that this beautiful term implies, and a home, in order that it may be beautiful, should reflect the individuality of the occupants and should above all be expressive of comfort and ease. Now these are peculiar terms and capable of various constructions. Primarily, comfort a home, means the perfect adaption of its parts,

*Address delivered before meeting of The Cincinnati Chapter Architects,

