<doctype type="text">	206	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND	BUILDER



city. Such a memorial would form a fitting contrast in character to those already placed in Queen's Park to commemorate the death of the volunteers who fell in action at Ridgeway and in the Northwest Rebellion. It would also add interest and dignity to the approach to the Park and Legislative Buildings. The designs for the memorials should be obtained by competition, limited or otherwise, as might be considered conducive to the best result.

<article title=" German Cement Combine Competitions " author="">

German Cement Combine Competitions.



FOLLOWING the example of their British confreres, the German manufacturers of Portland cement propose

to organize a combine to restrict the output to the average quantity sold during the past three years with a fixed allowance for improvements and for new factories. The present output of the German factories is about six and a half million tons, while the consumption amounts to only four millions. New factories are also being built, with a capacity of two and a half millions. The British, Canadian and American manufacturers are thus likely to be saved from the price-cutting competition which must have resulted from the efforts of the German manufacturers to dispose of their large surplus production in the foreign markets.



ATTENTION IS called to students' competitions, particulars of which are



printed in this number. The busy

season is about to close. The long winter evenings are almost here. The students' opportunity for study and self-improvement is at hand. The student who is alive to his future interests will make profitable use of his time and opportunities this season. It is by placing one's effort's alongside those of others, that one is able to judge of his knowledge, abilities and progress. Every architect should feel an interest in his students. One way of manifesting that interest would be to call their attention to these competitions and encourage them to enter. Will every Canadian architect who may read these lines lend his co-operation in this direction? If so the success of the competitions will be assured.



AMONG the international congresses held in Paris during the last summer was one on "The Teaching of

Drawing," which opened on August 29th and closed on September 1st. As the result of a full discussion of the subject, first in separate sections and afterwards in full assembly, the following conclusions were reached. (i.) That drawing should be made a compulsory subject in general education. (2.) That the initiative of the teacher and the individuality of the student should be encouraged to the fullest degree possible. (3.) That the artist and workman should be brought into closer contact by the former devoting greater attention to the requirements of the trade for which he designs and by providing for the latter a more liberal art education. (i.) That the architect requires a more scientific training and the engineer a more artistic training in order that the two professions may work in closer contact with each other.



THE return of the Canadian contingent from South Africa reminds us that the war is now drawing to a close and

although it may be some time before it is entirely over, trade there is just beginning to resume its former shape. There is little doubt that as soon as security to

The Teaching of Drawing. Opportunities for Trade Expansion. <article title=" The Teaching of Drawing. Opportunities for Trade Expansion " author="">

Shingles. <article title=" Shingles " author="">

those commercially engaged can be depended upon, a very considerable expansion in trade may be expected. Tariff rates in the two states which have recently been annexed to the British Empire were formerly almost prohibitive, so that when this new field can be added commercially to that already known in Cape Colony and Natal, the market should be one worth enquiring into. Another change in the Empire is to be made on January 1st., when the Australian colonies are to be federated into one Commonwealth which will necessitate a revision of tariff rates as each colony had its own tariff. It would therefore probably be a suitable time for persons interested in the expansion of trade to enquire into the chances to be found in this field for Canadian products.



IT has been interesting to watch the struggle for popular favor between the different varieties of shingles. Our observations lead to the conclusion that the white pine shingle is losing ground, and that its field is gradually becoming more limited, In the western part of Canada, for instance, preference is given to the red cedar shingles, while in eastern Canada the white cedar shingle is largely used. In Ontario the white pine shingle may be said to still hold the market, but even in this province it is meeting with severe competition from other varieties. One of the reasons for this encroachment on the white pine field is the comparatively lower price of cedar shingles. Another reason which has been advanced is that the quality of the white pine shingle is deteriorating, and that even the clear butts sometimes have worm holes in them. It is unlikely that the manufacturers of white pine shingles will endeavor to materially improve the quality of their production, as the high price of pine stumpage makes it necessary to convert into shingles only that portion of the logs which will not make merchantable lumber. It is a significant fact also that the red cedar shingle as now manufactured is a much better article than that which was submitted to the eastern trade a few years ago.



THE disastrous explosion which recently occurred in a wholesale drug warehouse in New York, has called

attention to a source of danger which appears to have been to a large extent overlooked. True, the building regulations of most of our cities contain a regulation prohibiting the storage of any considerable quantity of explosives within specified districts. Such a regulation appears to have existed in New York, but its enforcement was not properly looked after, and the present disaster to life and property is the result. This occurrence should lead to an investigation by the municipal authorities of Canadian cities, to learn if the provisions of the building by-laws in this particular are being observed. The liability of insurance companies for damage arising from explosions of this character also enters into the question. We observe that the standard insurance policy in New York provides that the insurance companies shall not be liable for loss caused by explosions of any kind, unless fire ensues, and in that event for the damage by fire only. The plate glass insurance companies have refused to assume liability for damage to windows within the area damaged by the explosion. It will thus be seen how important are the interests hinging upon the proper enforcement of regulations for the prevention of storage of explosives within the central districts of towns and cities.

Storage of Explosives.

<article title=" Storage of Explosives " author="">