<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER                     viii





LEGAL.

A CASE UNDER THE WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION FOR INJURIES

<article title=" A CASE UNDER THE WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION FOR INJURIES " author="">

ACT. —A machine, perfect in itself is, if applied to some purpose

for which it is unfitted, defective within the meaning of section

3, subsection I, of the Workmen's compensation for Injuries Act

(R.S.O., ch. 160.)



To state in the defence that notice of the accident has not been given, and that the defendants intend to rely on that defence, is not sufficient. Formal notice must be given in accordance with the provisions of section 14 of the Act. In deciding this particular point the Court applied one of its previous decisions (Cavanagh vs. Park, 1896) reported in the Ontario Appeal Reports, Vol. 23, page 715. In that case the Court held that the provisions of Section 24 of the Workmen's Compensation for Injuries Act, 55 Vic., ch. 3, an Ontario Statute, are not complied with by me rely setting up as a defence that the notice of action relied on by the person bringing the action is defective, or that person against whom the action is brought must give formal notice of such an objection not less than seven days before the hearing of the action if he intends to rely upon it.—-Canada Law Journal, Vol. 36, page 421.

<article title=" THE INTERPRETATION OF "OWNER" UNDER THE MECHANICS'

LIEN Act.—" author="">

THE INTERPRETATION OF "OWNER" UNDER THE MECHANICS'

LIEN Act.—Upon an appeal from the judgment of a county judge, reversing his judgment, the Court of Appeal for Ontario held, that a person is not an "owner" within the meaning of the Mechanics' and Wage-earners' Lien Act, arid as such liable to mechanics' lien proceedings for work done or materials placed upon land in which he has an interest, unless there is something in the nature of a direct dealing between the contractor and the person whose interest is sought to be charged. Mere knowledge of, or consent to, the work being done or the materials being supplied, is not enough; there must be a request, either of an express nature, or implied, from circumstances, to give rise to the lien, In this same case a judge of the High Court of Justice held, that sections 41 and 42 of the Act, limiting "the cost of the action under the Act" to twenty-five per cent. of the amount of the

judgment, besides actual disbursements, do not apply to the costs of an appeal from the decision of the judge or officer trying the action. The Court appeared to think, without however so deciding, that the costs of such an appeal are within the scope of section 45 of the Act. Canada Law Journal.

<article title=" EMPLOYER'S LIABILITY ASSURANCE " author="">

EMPLOYER'S LIABILITY ASSURANCE.---A firm of contractors brought an action against an employers' liability assurance corporation to recover it of the premium paid by them to the corporation for an employers' liability policy which had been cancelled, and also for indemnity under the. policy in respect of a workman's claim which arose while it was in force. The facts, shortly stated, were these: Thc defendant, corporation, had its head office in London, England; its chief office in Canada, at Montreal; chief agency for Ontario, at Toronto, and a local agency at Hamilton. The local agents of the company, without

authority from anyone, upon the request of the assured firm, and after some correspondence with the chief agent for the company in Ontario as to other changes, which had been refused to the knowledge of the assured firm, altered an employer's liability policy which had been sent to them (the local agents) for delivery to the assured firm. Thc alteration consisted in making the policy comprehend the workmen at a place other than those places named in the policy. After this alteration had been made the local agent handed the policy to the assured firm who paid him the premium. The local agents then sent the premium to the chief agent for Ontario, and advised him at the same time of the alteration made. The power to make any changes in the policy did not rest in the local agents. nor in the chief agent for Ontario, but only in the manager and Chief Attorney for Canada, who was not notified of the alteration. The trial judge held that thc defendant company could not be held to have authorized the alteration and were not bound by the contract as altered. (1900, Ontario Reports, Vol. 31, page 666).

<article title=" EFFECT OF A MECHANIC'S LIEN ON MORTGAGE INTERESTS " author="">

EFFECT OF A MECHANIC'S LIEN ON MORTGAGE INTERESTS.— The following points have been very recently decided by a Divisional Court with respect to the effect of a mechanic's lien on mortgage interests in the property.

In order to find the interest of a mortgagee in an action to enforce a mechanic's or wage-earner's lien under the Mechanics' and Wage-Earners Lien Act, such a mortgagee must he made a party to the action within the 90 days mentioned in section 24, subsection 1; otherwise the lien absolutely ceases to exist as against such interest. Thc decision on this point follows the decision in the cases of the Bank of Montreal vs. Hoofer, reported in volume 10 of thc Ontario Appeal Reports, page 529, and of Cole vs. Hall, reported in volume 13 of the Ontario Practice Reports, page 100 Wide and comprehensive as is the language used in subsections 35 and 36 of the Act, it was not intended to make so radical a change in the procedure as to enable a claimant (plaintiff), who has not constituted his action with the necessary parties, and who cannot make them parties after judgment on a reference as to incumbrances on the property, to bind them by serving them with a notice of trial under those sections.

In this same case the court also held, one of the judges dissenting, that a mechanics lien attaches to thc increased value, if any, in priority to a mortgage, as soon as lumber which to be used in the construction of a building upon the land, is placed upon the land, and before the lumber is incorporated into thc building. And when the lumber, paid for by the mortgagee out of advances under his mortgage, was removed by the owner to a mill to be planed, and the mill—owner sold it to satisfy his charges and paid the balance to the mortgagee, the Court held, that at most the act of the mortgagee amounted to a conversion of the lumber, or proceeds of its sale, to his own use. The Mechanic's Lien Act provides no machinery enabling the Court to assess damages against anyone in such a case, so as to give lien-holders the benefit of the amount of such damages.





CANADA FOUNDRY COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO, ONTARIO