

<doctype type="text;plate">Lambton Mills, Ont.—Sketched by A H. Howard.





CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER'S

<article title="Students Competition for a Suburban Bicycle Club House" author="">STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR A SUBURBAN BICYCLE CLUB HOUSE.

SEVEN sets of designs were received in this competition. Owing to a misunderstanding they were not passed upon by a committee of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, as was our intention. The president, Prof. S. H. Capper, has, however, furnished us with his personal notes on the drawings which are printed below. These notes are arranged alphabetically and do not indicate the order of merit of the designs. The awards are based upon the accompanying report of the committee of the Ontario Association of Architects:



REPORT OF 0. A. A. EXPERTS.



We place " Kenilworth in the first place, although his elevations have badly disregarded the instructions as to fitness for reproduction, being too timidly drawn; he wants to cultivate a more vigorous line. But we consider that on the whole his plans and elevation bespeak a larger grasp of the subject. There is more suitability to their purpose in the elevations. Roofsand wall spaces have more inviting breadth and restfulness than most of the other designs. The plans show better disposition of the various rooms with regard to their different functions. The ground floor hall has its lounging space, fireplace, etc., better arranged to achieve their purposes; would suggest that gallery of gymnasium should be connected with billiard room to give more continuity to whole. The external access to former somewhat isolates it.

"Spes" is placed second, although his drawing entitles him perhaps to first place, displaying considerable firmness of touch, marred however by much indecision in the matter of his deeper shadows which are very undecided in their direction, and not at all suggesting the construction. The indication also of shrubbery is very childish. The plans are considered secondary for reasons as follows: Ground floor hall, though large enough, has chimney in a most pretentious position, not the cosiest or most serviceable, being too much in the thoroughfare to various rooms. The reading room we consider would be better a storey higher. The apartments devoted to the ladies want connection, and their toilet conveniences badly disposed. His billiard room omits one table. It is questionable if the gynasium would be well placed, with its noises, on the top floor, although "Spes" would be handicapped to account for his great roof if not allowed so to place it.

"Dinah" is placed third, although there is much to be commended in his. design. We believe his idea of utilizing the basement and the first floor under and over yerandah is the proper one for a frame structure such as

a bicycle club. The first floor and basement can thus be planned to suit their requirements, and if this results in somewhat limiting the rooms of ground floor still it must be remembered that the verandahs of ground floor are a vital necessity of a summer club, as valuable as rooms. To criticise we consider ground floor hall is too unstudied and not inviting or effective in giving impression of hospitality. Hall seat no one would sit on from choice, being unlighted. As to kitchen and dining room on first floor, although not customary, it might be good. There is fine corner room for dining room which would have good outlook. We consider basement billiard room would have poor light and the access to same somewhat tortuous. Bicycle room not large enough and entrance to it poor. Rendering of perspective quite effective except glass of windows which lacks suggestiveness of depth.

"Forget Me Not" placed fourth, is a very quiet good line drawing, not we think, however, suggesting boy's club, but rather ladies school or convent. The verandahs, we think, like some of the other designs, are much too tall to give proper impression of cool and shade. Shingled columns are open to criticism and certainly moulded capitals to same are incongrous, Plans are not well considered. Basement space badly laid out. Ground floor hall lacking in lounging space. Dining room and kitchen in poor relation to each other. Not good position for reading room, with entrance off dining room.

"Mayfly" There is commendable sobriety about these elevations, somewhat in colonial style. We do not think the angles of roof well chosen, and lack vigor. The draughting is neat hut timid. Would recommend study of good book on rendering in line to author of this design. While the columns of verandah may be satisfactory in appearance, their capacity is not sufficiently utilized, the verandah being narrow and so tall as to lack shade essential to such a feature. The whole building is somewhat high in appearance for purposes of suburban club. Bicycle entrance well arranged but not near enough to main entrance. Dining room is too small and the passage way to billiard room is not good and would be dark, and the billiard room is smaller than called for.

"Vadis "—placed sixth—The elevation strikes one as having height at the expense of breadth. The ceiling of the verandah is somewhat too high to he useful and the design generally is lacking in characteristics of suburban designs. The construction is somewhat of a style that is passe, but is in accord with much English work, and shows fair grouping for that style of a building. '[he basement is well laid out, but the bicycle accommodation is inadequate. There is neither refreshment room or kitchen provided as required, the omission of which spoils an otherwise compact plan.

Marcus "—placed seventh—The elevations bespeak inexperience and the rendering is very speckled. A study of some good work would show the author where he is deficient ; on the whole his work is promising, showing, as it does, bold projection of eaves and good grouping of windows. Like most of the others, the design is not sufficiently suggestive of cosiness, which ought to be a feature of a club house. The verandah is much too meagre—also the front entrance. The one good feature is the combining of gymnasium and bowling alley. The lavatory accommodation is inadequate. The plan throughout shows want of experience, giving practically no accommodation for lounging and refreshments,

