

<doctype type="text;ad">PAINTING OF HOUSES.

<article title="Painting of Houses" author="">There seems to be some tendency to do away with the use of a distinctive color for the trimmings for outside painting. I have noticed a number of houses, recently painted, in which a light shade of green or gray has been used over the entire house, body, trim, and even the sash, though the outside blinds have been painted a bronze green, the only contrasting color used. Sometimes the sash are a lighter shade or else white. The effect is very quiet and restful and in strong contrast with the gingerbread combinations of numerous colors that were so prevalent a few years ago. Indeed, even where more than one color is used the treatment is in most cases severely simple, as a rule a general light tone being employed. For example, an old fashioned Colonial house on a prominent street corner in Newark, whose tall, Ionic columns running the entire height of the house have made it quite a landmark, has just been painted a light buff, the trimmings, including these columns, being a somewhat lighter shade of the same color, just enough difference in tone to be noticed and no more, while the sash were white. The effect is remarkably pleasing. There is also a growing tendency to go back to the old fashioned white house with green blinds, which certainly seem peculiarly adapted to locations where the house is halt hidden by heavy trees, or for village streets, where green branches over-arch the roadway, and green patches of lawn lead up to the houses. In general it may be said that the use of trimming colors darker than the body color of the house has almost been abandoned, the few cases where this is done looking singular and old fashioned. It seems proper, too, that they should be lighter in color, because as a rule they are projecting surfaces, and it would seem contrary to reason to paint a projecting surface with a receding color, yet this is what is done when the trimming color is darker than the body.

<article title="Art Museum Project" author="">ART MUSEUM PROJECT.

The proposal to erect in the city of Toronto a public art museum has taken definite shape. At a meeting of persons interested, held a fortnight ago, the following committee was appointed to take steps to form an Art Museum Association Messrs. B. E. Walker, J. B. Murray, Prof. Mayor, G. A. Reid, and E.F.B. Johnston. This committee was authorized to appoint a provisional council to prepare a constitution and to apply for a charter. The members of the provisional council will be the charter members of the association, and the action taken by them will come before a meeting to be called at a later date by the convener of the committee, Mr. G. A. Reid.





<article title="Character Building" author="">CHARACTER BUILDING.

What is all the world doing at once? My answer is, Building. I admit that a large part of them, probably the great majority, do not know it, and have never thought of it. Yet building they are, and have ever been, and ever will be. Ay ! and not only are they builders, but they are builders of that which they love the best, and in which way they have the nearest interest; they are builders of themselves. In this great and universal trade there are no trades unions and no strikes. There is no distinction of employer and laborer. Bankruptcies and failures, I fear, there are many. Be that as it may, let every man high and low, rich or poor, young or old, the loftiest genius and the veriest dunce, the most careful husbandman of the gifts which God has entrusted to him, and the most profligate and abandoned gambler----let them all know, at all times, and in all conditions and circum stances, they are builders, and are builders of themselves.





The Georgian Bay Portland Cement Co., of Owen Sound, have decided to increase their capital stock from $95,000 to $250,000 and to enlarge their plant to double its present capacity.



Samuel Cabot, of 70 Kilby street, Boston, Massachusetts, manufacturer of an insulating and deafening Quilt," calls attention in a booklet to several school houses in different paris of the country where the material has been used with marked success. As before noted in these colums, the material is made of eel-grass quilted between layers of manila paper or asbestos, as the requirements may demand. The character of the buildings shown in the booklet mentioned indicate that nothing of an inferior or questionable character was employed.





Metallic Roofing Company, Limited.  TORONTO