



<doctype type="text;plate">are covered with thick matting prepared from reeds and is quite equal in design to much of the Japanese. matting. The roof is maintained beautifully smooth and straight on the under side. Fig. 4 is another splendid example of the highest class of raupo whare. The lower edges of the large boards are exquisitely cut and the lower ends are also good. The teko-teko or finial is quite characteristic, as are also the great carved upright posts. The lintels and architraves of the door and window are not so well executed as the rest of the work, but the plinth at the base of the raupo wall thatch is capital The window and door are modern and speak for themselves. The verandah is about 4 ft. 6 in. wide and a straight round log rails it from the outer ground space and gives it an increased air of completeness.

The most advanced dwelling was the Whare puni. An excavation from two to four feet in depth was first made, usually on a dry, sandy place, and the walls and roof were built over this basement and the excavated earth was banked up against the walls on the outside. Down the center ran a sort of path about 4 feet wide, distinctly marked with wooden kerbs; on the right and left the people made their beds, sleeping with their heads to the outer wall and feet to the passageway, in the center of which stood the fire place, which consisted of a hollow scooped out of the earth. In this hollow were placed stones heated at a wood fire burning outside the house, and it is surprising how intensely warm the building thus heated sometimes becomes. I passed one very wet night in a large house then belonging to a now long deceased chief of the Ngatimaniapoto There were about thirty-five natives assembled there, all of them smoking, women as well as men. The stone fires were maintained vigorously, the doorway closed and mats and rugs piled up in heaps. I bore the intense heat until the perspiration poured from me and I was half suffocated and reeling with giddiness, while the Maoris seemed to enjoy what was to me an aggravated Turkish bath. I slept on the verandah, preferring the rain to asphyxiation

The Pataka or raised store houses were the show places of a village, and on these were expended the greatest labor and skill. Every portion of the gable ends was richly carved, the figures illustrating mythological legends, the significance of Which is almost lost. The influence of the Pakeha or white man is shown in some of the work of the early part of the century—in one instance the Teko Teko wears a low crowned bell topper; the effect is most ludicrous. The Pataka was always set on stilts to raise the building about four feet off the ground, erected in fact on the same description of foundation as bears the ordinary frame or timber house of the white New Zealander. The Pataka being merely a place in which food was stored out of reach of the once numerous native rat, was necessarily not a large building. Fig. gives a fair idea of the usual proportions. This Pataka has a history, being originally the property of Haere Huka, a chief of the Arawa, and was erected on the shore of the lovely Rotoiti lake. The sideboards and inner fronts were executed about 1825 ; the large boards and Teko Teko are probably a few years later. Haere Huka, the original owner of the Pataka, is well known in Maori history as the treacherous murderer of Hunga, a chief of the Ngatihana tribe, at Parihaka, Rotorua, on Christmas day, 1835. This incident and the blood thirsty war that followed it and lasted until 1840 is fully related by W. J. A. Wilson in his life of the Whahawa.

Fig. 6. This is a particularly large specimen of a Pataka and the carving is peculiarly bold in character and deeply cut, the eyes are all of pawa shell and the woodwork painted with kokowai. The eaves are formed by enclosing the feet of the rafters with an elaborately carved fascia board and a plain soffit board, and it is curious to note that the colonial builders have adopted this manner of finishing the eaves of their timber houses, merely adding gavlanized iron eaves spoutings spiked to the fascia, and ugly mill brackets beneath the soffit, and is, with a few trifling variations, almost the universally adopted method in these islands. In fact, it is not too much to say that the Maori as an architect was a much better artist than his white successors are.

Fig. 8 and 9. Carved front of a Pataka.



Fig. 10. Two doorways of Patakas; carved wall slab. Two very small Teko Teko. The broad bladed instrument is a ko or spade, the other objects are spears.

Fig. I I is the most ancient piece of native carving known to exist in this part of the island. I have been unable to ascertain what it represents or what purpose it filled; the carved ground behind the figures is pierced. The wood is black with age and the eyes have all fallen from their sockets.

Fig. 12. Carved entrance to a Whare puni.

Fig. 13. Carved prow of a canoe.

A Maori war canoe when fully manned must have been a fine sight; even now a race between three or four canoes with fifty or sixty paddlers in pairs, all stripped to the waist and dipping their paddles in remarkably precise time about fifty strokes to the minute, each stroke accompanied by a gutteral Hugh ! Hah ! and excited by the song of the chief who stands in full costume in the stern, every man digging away with wild energy, throwing the foaming water from his blade, each canoe seems to tear along ; first one gains a trifle and then another, until one crew perhaps in rather better condition than the others slowly forges ahead, the old chief stamping his feet and yelling encouragement to his men, who spurt with a splendid vigor, their paddles flashing like one in the sun, once in every second. The other canoes, still urged madly along, fight desparately for second place. The winners slap their chests and wave their paddles and one obtains a fleeting glimpse of the old fighting temper for which this dying race was once so famous.

It was perhaps in their canoes the Maoris best displayed their mode of carved decoration ; the prows and stern posts are wonderfully delicate ; the double spirals being pierced, the effect is very light and lace like. The origin of the double spiral was two snakes, as may be seen by examining ancient examples, in many of which the heads of the snakes form the eye of the spiral, the heads being finished with mouths, teeth, and pawa shell eyes. These snakes have a mythological origin which has been gradually lost as the snakes become more and more conventionally treated. Comparatively early

