<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT	AND	BUILDER



<article title="Visit of the London Builders to Cleveland" author="">VISIT OF THE LONDON BUILDERS TO

CLEVELAND.

WE are indebted t Mr. Geo. 8. Gould, secretary of the London Builders' Exchange, for the following interesting account of the recent visit of the members to Cleveland, as the guests of the Cleveland Exchange.

Last year the Builder's Exchange of Cleveland held an excursion to Port Stanley. The London Exchange invited them to London for noon-day lunch and a drive through the city, and then returned with them to Port for the balance of the day, where they gave us a splendid afternoon's sport, and a banquet in the evening at the Fraser House. The only amends we could make at that time was to give them a lesson in the art of base hall. They demanded satisfaction, and obtained from us a promise to visit them this year, so on the 24th of July last about 70 of our members with 6o ladies left Port Stanley at 11 p.m. on the steamer Urania for Cleveland, arriving there the next morning at 6 a.m. Their committee met us at the wharf and escorted our party to the Weddell House for breakfast. From there we visited their Exchange rooms in the Chamber of Commerce building, where they occupy the whole of the third floor, and have utilized every inch to the best advantage. For Exchange purposes it would be simply impossible to improve their lay out or furnishing. There need be no delay in reaching their rooms, as they have four elevators, and in a very few seconds you are landed in their corridor; from there you obtain entrance into the main room. This immense floor space is divided into sections, large or small as desired, and rented to manufacturers, who place their wares there as exhibits, and architects and proprietors make a practice of coming there and making their selections for building purposes. Here we have sample brick of all kinds as well as laid up work, terra cotta, beautiful displays of marbles, fancy iron work, builders' hardware, wood mantels, grills, parquet floors, etc., in fact there is almost everything to be found there that is used in the construction and ornamentation of buildings. There are also a number of small spaces rented by the members and fitted up by them as offices where they transact their business during the day. They have also private rooms where plans are figured on, consulting room, a board room, president's private office, secretaries' office, lavatories and telephone room. They keep two secretaries permanently employed, and a page boy in livery. On the ground floor of the building is a large auditorium where they hold their banquets. After we had inspected the rooms and registered they placed us on cars for a trip to one of their parks about 9 miles east. On our return to the rooms again we were tendered a formal reception and luncheon by the Exchange. At I p.m. we all took cars again for Scenic Park, where a programme of sports was participated in by the members of the two Exchanges. We would like to forget all about the baseball match, but—--well, they had their revenge. the tug of war heavy team they won. The tug of war light team we won, and the rest of the honors were about evenly divided.

The Cleveland Builders' Exchange Committee consisted of Arthur Bradley, W. J. Warden, XV. B. Green, C. C. Duschel, W. H. Gick.

The London Exchange Committee was composed of:

Samuel Stevely, chairman ; Thos. Jones, secretary Ed. Martyn, John Hutkins, H. Stratfold, Win. Smith, Geo. Everett and the President.

On returning to the city we were taken to the Hotel Stilson, where a sumptuous banquet had been prepared. About 300 sat down at the well filled tables. Between the courses several patriotic and other songs were ably rendered by Ruthven McDonald, of London. After ample justice had been done to the viands the acting president of the Cleveland Exchange who was in the chair, in introducing an appropriate toast list, gave expression to the great pleasure afforded their Exchange in meeting so many of the London members and their ladies in Cleveland.

When the London Builders' Exchange was toasted, Mr. Samuel Stevely, chairman of the general committee, called Mr. Arthur Bradley, past-president of the Cleveland Exchange, and Mr. Win. Tytler, president of the London Exchange, to the front, and in an appropriate speech presented them each with a handsome gold medal, the gift of ex-mayor J. D. Wilson. of London, (who was unavoidably detained from being present) given as souvenirs of the very pleasant reunions held in Canada last year and in Cleveland this year. The recipients feelingly responded. After the postmaster of Cleveland had responded to the toast of the ladies in a glowing tribute to their worth, we had to retire in haste as the boat was waiting. So terminated one of the pleasantest days' outing we have ever enjoyed. Accompanying our party as the guests of the Cleveland Exchange were the Mayor and Col. Culver, the U. S. consul of this city, and Ald. McCulloch, of St. Thomas.





<article title="New Plumbing Regulations of Halifax, N.S." author="">NEW PLUMBING REGULATIONS OF

HALIFAX, N. S.

The City Health Board of Halifax, Nova Scotia, have recently revised and amended in many important particulars the regulations governing plumbing work in that city. These amendments. which are now before the governor-in-council for approval before coming law, are as follows

Sections 33 to 52 both inclusive of the rules of the city board of health hereby amended, as also the rides previously amending the said sections, are hereby repealed and the following substituted therefor

33.	A board of plumbing examiners is hereby constituted, to consist of the City Engineer and the city inspector of plumbing. The board shall be called together by the City Engineer (who shall be chairman of the board) at such times as the board of health may direct.



34.	No person shall do or perform any plumbing work as a master plumber in die city of Halifax unless he is duly licensed to perform the same and is registered as such in the office of the board of works for said city, and the person obtaining such licensee shall bc known as a "Master Plumber" and shall pay for said license to the Board of Works the sum of ten dollars.



35.	To entitle any person to a license under the next preceding section he shall be of the full age of twenty-one years and have a place of business as a plumber in the city of Halifax, and shall furnish to the board of plumbing examiners. sufficient evidence that he is himself a practical and experienced plumber, and his license as a master plumber when issued shall be kept in a conspicuous place in his place of business.



36.	Every person before doing any plumbing work or business in the said city for or on account of himself or any master plumber shall be a practical and experienced plumber and furnish the board of plumbing examiners sufficient evidence that he is capable of properly doing and performing plumbing work in said city, and if the said board is satisfied of his competency to perform said work they shall cause his name to he registered in the said office of the board of works and give him a certificate of competency as a journeyman plumber, after which he shall be at liberty to do such plumbing Work, but not before.



37.	Every person desiring a license as a master plumber or as journeyman plumber shall file a petition in writing with the clerk of works, giving the name of the applicant, and if the applicant is

