	<doctype type="text">150	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND 



while against it you have sewers too large, for if this was to be adopted we should have two sewers, one for sewage and one for storm water. Chances of sewer air to enter houses and buildings from various causes, some of which are traps of fixtures becoming unsealed by evaporation, capillary attraction, defects in material of trap, or in some cases owners running water to protect them against frost while building is vacant, or should some break-syphon become choked and allow trap to syphon.

Allowing that some of the traps have become unscaled and soil pipe terminus becomes choked from hoar frost, sewer air must enter the house as it cannot escape otherwise. Then again, when buildings are of uneven height, one soil pipe of a low building may he discharging sewer air under a window of a tall building, and it would he useless to run long lengths of pipe above the roof as they would close up with hoar frost. These and many other reasons might be called disadvantages, and thc one or two in its favor called advantages—should they he placed in the scales, the omission of main trap would not be in it. Even allowing that some of' the before mentioned disadvantages might he present when main trap is in drain, you would only have your own sewage to contend with, and should building become vacant there would be no sewage, and storm water would keep main trap sealed. Some people claim that main trap becomes foul this should not he if trap is made arid set properly, for there is the same amount and sometimes more water to keep it clean than keeps the drain clean. All things considered, I think it very bad policy under the circumstances, to omit main trap.

W.	H. MEADOWS,



Plumbing Inspector.



MONTREAL, Aug. 13th, 1900.



DEAR SIR,—In answer to your enquiry to the advisability of placing a trap at the entrance of the drain or soil pipe into the building I would say that it is desirable as a preventative from sewer gas entering the house through any leak in the joints of the soil pipe. Of course there must at all times be an air inlet on the house side of the trap so as to allow a free flow of air through the soil pipe and thus procure ventilation of the pipe

If all soil pipes of a town run through the roof and have all their joints secure the trap can be dispensed with and thereby procure ventilation of the sewers over the housetops and also save the cost of the trap. There is also no doubt that the simpler the drainage system is made the better find more efficient it is, and less chance of syphonage, provided that it is sanitary.

In the event of the trap being done away with I would suggest that all drainage be placed tinder a compulsory pressure test, as neither the smoke or peppermint test are altogether satisfactory in my opinion.

Yours truly,



J.	RAWSON GARDINER. MONTREAL, Aug. 13th, 1900.



DEAR SIRS,—I have always insisted very strongly on the necessity of an intercepting trap between the house and the main sewer arid then thoroughly aerating the house system by fresh air inlets and the house soil pipe, carried the full diameter, up to three or four feet above the top of roof, I do not object to water and illuminating gas being laid on to the houses, but I decidedly object to lay on sewer gas also.



If the main drainage system was properly and sufficiently ventilated there would not he so much need of the intercepting trap, but I know of no system which does this perfectly, and we certainly have not got it in Montreal.

Very truly yours,

ANDREW T. TAYLOR.



Mr. J. W. Hughes, the well-known plumber of Montreal, refers us to his views on this subject expressed, as chairman of a committee on sanitation, in a report to the American Health Association. This report, which deals with the subject in a clear and comprehensive manner, is as follows

SEWER VENTILATION.



Any of the special subjects mentioned in the foregoing title of a special committee appointed at the last annual meeting of the American Public Health Association are of sufficient importance to merit the attention of a special committee, but they are at the same time so intimately connected one with another that they cannot well be separated, as plumbing calls for drainage and both for ventilation. An exhaustive treatment of any one of the combined subjects would require a volume and be unsuited to the

purpose of our convention; therefore I will confine myself to one portion, namely, the ventilation of the plumbing system of a building, or more correctly, that part of a plumbing system that serves for the conveyance of the house wastes known as sewage and that are to he finally disposed of as far as any particular building is concerned, when they reach the public sewer.

it has for some time been accepted as an imperative requirement of' a properly planned plumbing system that provision he made for a free circulation of air at all times through not only the main internal sewer of a building but also through the smaller branches known as the waste pipes; in other words, that there be no dead ends, but that each and every part of a properly planned system of sewers for a building he constantly swept by a current of air, and carrying out this principle, provisions are made in thc planning of up-to-date public sewerage systems for the ventilation of same. The private sewers and waste pipes of a building, forming as they do but a part of the general system should, in my Opinion, be treated as a part of the whole, and the attempt to cut them off as is (lone by fitting what is known as the intercepting trap is a mistake. First, because it interferes with the basic principle of the water carriage system for the disposal of sewage, which is that the sewage should, in the most rapid manner possible and without obstruction, he Carried from its source to its destination, yet thc advocates of the intercepting trap place an obstruction (in other words a miniature cesspool) just at the point where it will do the greatest possible injury, and obstruct the rapid carrying away of the sewage, and defeat at the start the main principle on which the system is based, namely, the rapid removal of sewage and its carriage, by an ample supply of water, to its destination.

The advocates of the intercepting trap claim that the improved forms of this cesspool offer very little obstruction to the flow. Such a Contention is absurd, as if they did not obstruct the flow, catch and hold the sewage, they would not be traps. Again it is claimed that the improved traps are continually washed out or scoured To a certain extent this is true as compared with the older forms but let any one who has had occasion to open the cleaning eye of one of these traps, that has been for some time in use, speak of the conditions found, and he must tell of stored up putridity, sickening odors, and a condition of things unsanitary, not to be found even in the main sewers of the streets, and certainly not to be found in any other portion of the pipes in a building where the sewage has had an unobstructed flow. My second charge is, that it completely defeats any effectual general system of sewer ventilation by preventing free circulation of air through the whole system of main sewers, and that part of them consisting of the building sewers. To offset this in part, what is known is the fresh air inlet is placed between the intercepting trap and the building. This is a pipe brought to the surface and fitted with a suitable terminal. The proper name of this pipe is a " stink outlet," as when a fixture is used, the rush of water from it must force a portion of air out of the air inlet, and then it of necessity becomes a stink outlet, and as a rule in cities this pipe must be so placed as to make it a dangerous nuisance either to the wayfarer, or if at a distance from the footwalk, 10 the inmates of the building with which it is connected, as the foul air escaping from it gains access to the building it is proposed to protect, through doors and windows. " But," says the advocate of the intercepting trap, "would you advise arranging pipes so that the air of the street sewers would have free passage through the pipes in a building? To this my reply is, yes. And there is no other safe plan. People who live in populous districts must bear, each and every one, his part of the risks as well as share the benefits of the whole. No one living tinder the conditions imposed by the concentration of large masses of people on a limited area can escape, and the principle of the greatest good to the greatest number must apply. The advocates of the intercepting trap do not deny the necessity of sewer ventilation, but they attempt to provide for it in detail instead of as a whole, and so defeat the object they wish to attain. They will tell you that the street sewers must be ventilated by having perforated manhole covers placed at regular intervals along the line of street sewers—that is, cut off the house from the street sewers, by means of the trap, but let the main sewers have free and open connection with the street.

Now as the streets of a town are the sources from which the buildings derive their greatest supply of fresh air, my claim is that such a course is wrong and insanitary. Given pure air in the streets and there must be pure air in the buildings—local cause of air pollution being, of course, excepted. Do away with the trap on the private sewers; continue the interior sewers

