

<doctype type="text">would not wish to belong to an association having a tariff binding on its members, for everyone was aware that human nature was only human nature. He thought all the information procurable should bc obtained, both from the United States and England.

Mr. Wickson said one reason why the tariff they were looking at should not be adopted just as it stood was that there was provided a special rate for monumental or decorative work, " a special rate in excess of the above." That, he thought, was altogether too vague. In the case of a man who wanted an elaborately fitted up store it only gave the information that there would be a charge in excess. That was not enough, it ought to state from so much to so much more, so as to give a more precise idea.

Mr. Langton said he would move that the resolution be amended to read as follows " That the Association adopt a tariff of fees as a guide to members in making charges for professional services, the tariff to be drawn up by a committee named by the President, which committee will report to the Council, and the Council shall have power to enact this tariff."

The resolution as amended being seconded by Mr. Denison was then carried.

Mr. W. R. Gregg inquired if there was any prospect of the tariff being adopted within the year ? Had the Council power to enact a tariff?

The President replied that he thought they had.

The notice of motion by Mr. S. H. Townsend, to the effect that "Every year the Association place a mark of distinction upon a certain number of houses approved for excellence," was then taken up, and a letter from Mr. Townsend, explaining his unavoidable absence from the meeting, was read by the Registrar.

Mr. Gordon then moved for the appointment of a committee to consider the matter.

Mr. Darling said he was entirely opposed to the proposal he thought it was a mistake from beginning to end, and he pointed out the absurdity of every little country town being stuck all over with tin labels like those of an insurance company. He thought if it was desired to do something to bring architects into contempt this was the very thing to accomplish it. Who, he asked, was going to be the judge of these houses, and to say that this or that was a good house, " designed by John Jones, architect."

Mr. Wickson thought the plan was one of the best an(1 quickest ways of interesting the public in good architect tire.

Mr. Langton said that he did not all agree with Mr. Darling. The proposal might present difficulties in working out, but he did not think it was at all fair to compare the proposed mark with the tin label of an insurance company. It might take the form of a stone let into the building, which by virtue of its own design would command respect. As to the question who was to be the judge in the matter, if this Association could not tell what was a good house he would like to know who could.

Mr. Darling wanted to know why the proposal was limited to houses? He thought the principle of the thing was utterly wrong. lie thought it was .only in cities like London, Paris and Berlin that such a project could be carried out. He thought a proper committee could only be got in such places.

Mr. Wickson said that was only a matter of detail. He had known competitions where the competition was decided by the competitors. He thought the Association could decide. lie thought the scheme was a good one. They all knew that sometimes a badly designed house would catch the public, and yet, if they were told it was not a good thing they would be more careful about forming their opinion.

Mr. Denison thought the proposition if carried out would defeat the very object for which the Association was formed, to create a feeling of fellowship among architects. If members here and there were singled out, whose work might happen to be in fashion at the time, or who had, as it was called in municipal politics, "a



Mr. Langton :—No, we have none of that.

Mr. Denison, continuing, thought that by picking out work here and there, and saying of it, "This is the

genuine thing, none other need apply," a great mistake would be made. He thought the public were the persons to judge, and he thought, notwithstanding all that was said of the stupidity of the public, that in nine cases out of ten you were safer in their hands than in the hands of a committee. He thought every building ought to be let speak for itself.

Mr. Wickson said if the architects were not the proper ones to educate the public in such matters as this he would like to know how they were going to be educated; where else would they get their education in such matters.

Mr. Langton expressed his entire dissent from Mr. Demson's view that the public in this country were the best judge. He quite admitted that the architect's business was, as Robert Louis Stevenson said, "to please the bourgeois who carries the purse," but it did not at all follow that in doing this he should do what was unpleasing to himself. Because the public taste was bad was no reason why they should work down to it, but they should rather seek to educate the public taste up to that which is good. The proposition if carried out would afford a good opportunity of educating prospective clients in the lump, by bringing prominently before them work that was really good. lie had been told the other day by a member of the Association as a good joke a remark that he had overheard in passing a group of ladies and gentlemen on the street. They were standing opposite a typical piece of claptrap design, close to which was a quiet but good piece of work by a member who was then in the room. The remark heard in passing was "How can anyone build a thing like that (pointing to the better building) when he can get a nice house like this! "(pointing to the other). Would not a mark on the better house have had some effect here to influence opinion?

Mr. Wickson thought Mr. Darling must have taken to turning "handsprings" of late. If he remembered rightly the last time this proposition was before the Association Mr. Darling quite approved of it. He thought if the convention adjourned for lunch Mr. Darling would come round to that view again.

Mr. Darling said that in nine cases out of ten public opinion would be found to be right. He did not mean to say that it did not go wrong in isolated instances, but where it had crystallized it was almost invariably correct. The instance cited by Mr. Langton was merely the isolated case, where a single individual had gone wrong. if any labelling was to be indulged in it would be wiser to begin with buildings like Toronto University and Osgoode hall, but not with modern work. He did not think, however, that there was any necessity for such a course.

Mr. Denison said those in favor of the proposition had better go one step further, and put a label on every building designed by a member of the Association.

Mr. Aylsworth said there was a limit to all these things. If the proposition were adopted it should be on condition that no mark be placed on any building that was not at least twenty-five years old.

Mr. W. R. Gregg said he entertained strong objections to the proposition, because he considered it impracticable in Toronto, where they were all hunting so earnestly for a living that it was quite a common practice when an architect was being employed by some one for another architect to hunt out the employer and insinuate to him that the man he had was not just the right man for the work, and that he himself might do better. It had been proved in committees that that kind of thing had been resorted to in Toronto. With such a state of things existing they could not trust each other to carry out this proposition. it needed some one like Prof. Ware, of New York, some one who had gone through the work and become a professor in a college and could be trusted. Even Prof. Ware got criticized. Another objection was to be found in the fact that a building might he erected and bear this mark of distinction for ten or fifteen years. Then it might be necessary to make some alteration or addition to it, and the original architect might in the meantime, by reason of being on the wrong side of politics, or some such thing have lost his position, and the addition be designed by another architect, and he of such a character as to completely change the effect of the whole building. Now, in a case of that

