<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	ix



<article title="Possibilities of House Cooling" author="">POSSIBILITIES OF HOUSE COOLING.

Nowhere in the world have so much thought and energy been applied to the perfecting of methods of heating dwelling houses as in the United States, and the people here, says an exchange, are probably the best warmed people of any in a similar latitude on the face of the globe. For relief from the extremes of hot weather, however very little has been done here, and, in fact, it is by no means certain that there is a feasible method of cooling small houses. Of course, large places of entertainment, where there are blower systems, can be readily tempered in hot summer weather, but the private house does not offer such an easy problem from an economical standpoint. The matter has been given somewhat more attention abroad, and an interesting paper was presented at a recent meeting of the Heating and Ventilating Congress in Munich by Dr. Bruckner, who explained that the most feasible means of cooling were through ammonia or carbonic acid, which took up heat as they expanded. He likened ammonia to a sponge, which, expanding in a warm atmosphere, took up the heat, which could be thus carried away and squeezed out of the ammonia by compression outside. The

same thing is true of carbonic acid, though ammonia was preferred as being cheaper to work and also in case of leakage being instantly detected. In operation the ammonia gas was compressed in a machine and cooled, and thus brought into liquid form. On being allowed to expand it falls to a very low temperature, and may then be used either direct as a cooling agent or through the medium of salt water. For ordinary house cooling ribbed pipes through which the cold liquid is passed were used. Machinery is required, of course, to accomplish these several ends of compression and distribution, and this is an almost insuperable objection to the employment of such a method in a private residence, except in those palatial ones which include power plants for elevator service and lighting. Dr. Buckner described, however, one house in Germany which had a regular system of cooling operated by a 3 horse-power electric motor. The house was in Frankfort, and the system has been working for five years, salt water being cooled and carried through pipes in the ceilings of the dwelling rooms, the ceilings being perforated with narrow slits through which the air as it was cooled fell into the room. Being an electric motor it was easily handled, and, in fact, the only attention given to it was by the woman cook. It is estimated that the entire outfit cost about $5,000, and the power for running it was estimated at about $75 a year. The smaller charges incidental to the machinery were not included.





Canada Foundry Company, Limited

TORONTO, ONTARIO.



J. F. Pease Furnace Company, Limited

TORONTO, ONTARIO.