<doctype type="text">BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTER.

No. III.



<article title="British Columbia Letter" author="">THE want of places of amusement and resort in the towns of British Columbia is very noticeable, and is found not only in the new but in the old towns as well Vancouver possesses an opera house with excellent appointments, but beyond this and a couple of small music halls of scarcely questionable character, there is nothing ; there arc no assembly rooms, neither is there a choral hail, or for that matter any hail whatsoever of a public character the so-called city hall is merely an indifferent bad market place, converted by somewhat primitive means into a series of rooms that remind one rat her of loose boxes for the accommodation of the civic officers and staffs, the building having proved a failure in its original business exclusive of the opera house, there is no place in which a great meeting of the citizens can he held, and curiously enough, the need of such a place does not appear to be recognized.



The public free library, though recently greatly improved, does not compare favorably with similar institutions in other places of equal importance there is no art gallery, museum of any sort, art or technical schools.



In Victoria we find a small natural history museum housed in the provincial government buildings nod under the control of the agricultural department, so Victoria cart scarcely claim an undivided interest in this, her only jewel of the description, for in other points the capital is certainly no letter provided than is her younger and less wealthy sister on the mainland.

The British Columbian public, while claiming to be an advanced and go ahead community, betrays a strangely complete indifference to matters of this sort. The explanation offered is the well worn one always trotted out when one ventures to criticise anything on this continent, '' we are so young, you know.'' But this tiresome cant falls to the ground if comparisons be instituted between these and other very young and far more remote places it is obviously unfair to compare little towns such as Victoria, Vancouver, New Westminster and Nanaimo with places of the saute size in England, Germany or France for instance, or with the Australian towns of similar importance, but either Tasmania or New Zealand may fairly he said to have enjoyed no advantages of age or proximity to great arid wealthy communities over these British Columbian places ; in New Zealand we find every town whose inhabitants number more than a very few thousands is fairly well provided with museums, art gallery, art schools, public library and town hall, each of these being more ot less well equipped with collections of the different descriptions, for the possession of which the people are usually in the main more indebted to the patriotic generosity of private individuals who laid time foundations of these invaluable institutions in the earliest days of that distant colony titan to the wisdom of their elected rulers nothing has yet been done on these lines for any town in this province, old or new. The people of both Auckland and Christchurch possess priceless collections of native weapons, implements, carving and so forth, good, useful collections of pictures, which include many works by famous men of the past as well as of the present these and other treasures, such as blackletter bibles (there are no fewer than six Caxtons in Auckland), blackletter books, illuminated missals and manuscripts, examples of wood engraving, cutting and printing, prints, etchings, painting on ivory and china, sculptures, coins, bronzes, and so on—in Auckland these are housed in a building, the cost of which, amounting to nearly $150,000 without the site, was time posthumous gift of one man the late Sir George Grey, time famous pro-consul, donated his magnificent private library and works of art, together valued at $400,000, to the sante city during his life time, and a Dr. McKelvie established a fund which provides something like $6,000 annually for the purchase of British paintings the Auckland Art Society's annual exhibition is one of the social events of each season ; the public library, too, is splendidly equipped and maintained. Contrast this with the state of affairs iii Victoria, which is of the same age as Auckland, or with Vancouver, which will probably soon have as large a population. In New Zealand we see a keen appreciation of the educational value of museums, galleries, art schools and public libraries; here we find their absence or inadequacy scarcely' known or noticed ! Possibly the only work of art (save the mark!) which the people of Vancouver may claim to be their very own is the galvanized iron travesty of a blind-folded Justice soldered to tire summit of the tin dome of that arch architectural caricature, the Courts of Justice.

The Arts, historical and Scientific Association of Vancouver

appears to have enjoyed a successful season during 1899 The membership numbers 51 nine meetings were held during the year exclusive of 5 public meetings, the attendance at which, however, was not very large. On February 9th Rev. L. Norman Tucker read a paper on " Historical Quebec"; on March 9th one on "Canadian Poetry" was given by Ven. Archdeacon Pentrath; a musical program was rendered on the April; a conversazione was held on October 10th Rev. Prof. Whittington delivered a lecture, illustrated by diagrams and maps, on " 700 Years of Work and Wages in England."

Numerous additions to the collection of the Association have to be recorded, notably some specimens of Roman pavement presented by Miss Kilby, and a number of photographs of Egypt, Constantinople and Athens, of Greek architecture, and of Italian works of art, all presented by Madame A. Aalberg.

During the year the museum has been reduced to order, everything having been labelled by a sub-committee. Tire financial statement shows a balance to the good of $77, and tire city made a giant of $100. The secretary, W. H. J. de Forest, expresses in his annual report a hope that a more suitable house for the Association may soon be found in connection with the free public library.

The Association appears to devote little attention to the arts, probably because it is found that things historical and scientific embrace a sufficiently wide domain. Owing to the lack of a public. art gallery, we are precluded from receiving the benefit of even the briefest intercourse with any painters, architects or other artists who may visit our city for a few days. Those painters who sojourn with its for a season and wish to exhibit their works have to do so in a manner which is wholly unsatisfactory. Quite recently a Royal Canadian Academician was indebted to the courtesy of a druggist for permission to exhibit his sketches of tire coast among the tooth brushes and sponges displayed in the store window. Another well known R. C. Academician showed his paintings in a store devoted to photography and picture frames certainly a more appropriate place than the other, but it is not creditable to a city of 35,000 inhabitants that it should not possess a salon, studio, or even a suitable room to place at the disposal of visitors more or less distinguished in the world of art. Our city fathers appear to be too deeply immersed in acrimonious personal disputes or in the cares of ward politics to give in rich thought to such trifling matters as "painting and poetry, but surely if a fair proportion of the citizens are really of a higher intellectual level than the squabbling ones who usually ruin the city hall in these parts,. the deficiencies noted would be quickly remedied?

Sir L. Alma-Tadema, R. A., has emblazoned out the walls of his studio this device " As the sun colors flowers, so art colors life." How little color then must there be in the vast majority of lives ! John Ruskin says "All great art is praise." We have a city full of churches, is it invidious to ask " where is the art ?" Echo would indeed answer, Where?

Sedding, in a paper read before the Portsmouth Church Congress in 1886, thus replies to his own question, " What is Art ?" " I answer, Art is the embodiment and communication of' man's thoughts about man, nature and God. It is man's way of decorating his existence and of ministering to time glory of Iris Maker. Art is both the treed of man's nature and its highest product art is, I say, a necessity of man's nature, it is his speech ; and ordinary speech, the utterance of his ordinary thoughts and emotions, is a necessity, so too is the utterance of iris inspired thoughts and emotions, through the medium of art, a necessity. Look through the world's history and from beginning to end man is revealed as an artist, a promoter of art. . . . Art is man's speech in inspired moments, time voice of time imaginative qualities in individual or in race, a voice so tell-tale, so expressive in its manifestations, that the expert treed not be told the origin of a piece of art brought to his notice, need not he told the land of its birth. Even if it be of remote antiquity it carries its mark, a type of form, a pattern that recalls dead symbols, a trick of handiwork by which its source is traced home and in tire art of a race we have not only its imaginative voice but the key to the dominant traits, the temperament, the conditions of the people."

Were the civilization of tins country now to be abruptly terminated in what estimation world the antiquarians of succeeding ages hold the " dominant traits, the temperament the conditions oh this people," as evidenced by their archaeological remains? In spite of systems of electric trolley cars, of electric lighting, and of telephone communication (with their attendant forests of hideous poles), our "handsome," "solid," even "magnificent" blocks, as tine ubiquitous reporter very modestly describes them

