



<doctype type="text;plate">Si. Davids, Ont.—Sketched by A. A. Martin.





<article title="Architecture in Manitoba" author="">ARCHITECTURE IN MANITOBA.

By A CONTRIBUTOR



IN reviewing the progress of the building art in Manitoba, the tender age of the province appeals to our consideration. It was only the other day, June 23rd, 1870, that the Dominion government bought these lands from the Hudson Bay Co. for 300,000 pounds sterling and entered the province into federation. The population then being 11,965, of which 5,694 were French half-breeds, 4,076 English half-breeds, 1,614 whites, and 581 Indians, it now is over 250,000.

Architecture being to some extent a sensual gratification, was not studied by the early settler, who was satisfied with the humblest kind and cheapest form of building, be it constructed of logs or lumber, as long as it served the purpose of habitation, though not calculated to withstand the severity of the long and trying winters. To this day some of these old buildings are still extant, but are being rapidly replaced by more modern structures, for, architecture, which may be said to be one of the first steps in the great march of civilization, appealing to the eye and affording the best scope for the parade of pomp and splendour, received more patronage and resulted in a better class of buildings, more noted, perhaps, for their simplicity, symmetry and solidity than their architectural beauty or purity of design, and in many instances, the incongruity of the composition suggested at least an imperfect acquaintance with the first principles of architectural design. This is not altogether the fault of the designer, hut attributable to the economy, or rather, parsimony of his client, whose crude taste has not been properly trained to better judgment in the matters architectural. This prevalent desire to obtain cheap buildings has resulted in contractors entering into competition with the architects, and owners of property have given them considerable encouragement. This procedure saves the architect's

fees, but it is open to question and future history whether such buildings are cheaper; This state of things is due to there being no western association of architects, which would have the tendency to make an organized association of architects more honored and their services more remunerative.



The province throughout is waking up to the fact that more attention must be paid to the art of building, and in the cities and towns the building by-laws are being revised, being brought up to date, and, more important, being enforced. Winnipeg has followed the safe example of older cities and has appointed a building inspector from whom permits must be obtained.

The severity of the winter demands greater attention paid to the warm construction of buildings than perhaps any other country, and has exercised the constructional ability of local architects to no small degree, but with very favorable results.

During the last year or two several fine buildings have been erected in Winnipeg, notably the Manitoba Trust Company, the Bank of Commerce, and the Dominion Bank, and though the credit of the designs falls to eastern architects, they are an acknowledged and gratifying addition to the architecture of the city.

The present year indicates further progress, in such important buildings as the C. P. Ry. hotel, a new Y. M.

C.	A. building, Merchants Bank, and others in the city, while the whole province predicts an unusually active season in building operations.



<article title="Needed Improvements at Toronto Industrial Exhibition" author="">NEEDED IMPROVEMENTS AT TORONTO

INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION.

At the annual meeting of the Industrial Exhibition Association of Toronto held recently, Mr. J. 0. Thorn, manager of the Metallic Roofing Company of Canada, urged upon the board of directors the necessity of erecting new buildings which would afford proper accommodation to manufacturers and exhibitors in other departments. Mr. Thorn stated that, owing to imperfect accommodation and unsatisfactory treatment, 90 per cent. of the implement manufacturers had decided not to exhibit, and for the same reason the manufacturers 01 stoves and heating apparatus had also unanimously decided to refrain from exhibiting until a suitable building is provided. The fact that the Ontario Society of Artists have, for years past, endeavored to have proper provision made for art exhibits, was also mentioned.

Architects and others interested in architecture will coincide with the following expression of opinion regarding the necessity for a more artistic treatment of buildings which may be erected in the future on the exhibition grounds "There is certainly a strong feeling that in the erection of any further buildings a little more regard for the architectural effect would benefit both the exhibition and the exhibitors. In the various continental exhibitions of late years, the attention given to the designing of the buildings, no matter how inexpensive, has been very great ; the results, temporary and permanent alike, have been very marked. A number of the present buildings to my mind resemble packing cases more than anything else."





Mr. Geo. Polly, who goes to Vancouver as the representative of the James Robertson Co., Limited, of Toronto, was handsomely entertained by the firm and presented with a well filled purse on the eve of his departure for the west.

