	<doctype type="text">174	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER



<article title="Province of Quebec Association of Architects" author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

THE annual convention of the Association was held

on September 3rd and 4th in the Association's rooms,

	112	Mansfield street, Montreal. The President, Prof.



S.	H. Capper, presided. Among the members present

were the following Messrs. Charles Baillarge, A. M.

Sigouin, G. E. Tanguay, J. P. Ouellet, P. A. Lefort, C.

Dufort, J. 0. Turgeon, A. T. Taylor, A. Raza, L.



Lemieux, G. A. Monette, J H. Lebon, E. Maxwell,



Alcide Chausse, A. II. Lapierre, J. S. Archibald, Raool



Lacroix, Jos. Venne, J. R. Gardiner, W. E. Doran and

M.	A. Hutchison.

PRESIDENTS ADDRESS.



Professor Capper, the retiring President, in the course of his address, dealt with the subject of the University education of architects for their professional career. Professor Capper said



The training that a student can obtain at a University is necessarily of a special kind it leans to the theoretical side it can never supersede the practical training acquired in an office and on the actual work, as it rises in material construct ion. But it is not a question of one training at the expense of the other both are needful in every profession it is the same and in our own profession, with its noble traditions extending back almost to the dawn of our civilization, the scientific and aesthetic side of our training cannot be neglected without crippling, and often stultifying, our work.

Why is it that we see around us in this comparatively young country so many poverty-stricken designs? Why should we have to bewail artistic feebleness work that is weak, faulty and bad worse still, much that is pretentious and meretricious at times, positively frantic abortions in architecture?



One cause, at least, is to be found in the lack of definite training in design, during the years when a student is getting his first insight into the work of his chosen profession.

I do not refer to the sins of the speculative builder, whose intolerable " designs afflict one on every hand. But take a glance at church architecture.

Quite recently I travelled through part of England and Northern France, making my way back to Canada. And, as I stood

on the steamer's deck coming up our magnificent St. Lawrence, I could not but contrast the appearance of our Canadian country churches with the old work on the other side.



Age. it is true, and historical association will invest many a commonplace building with a certain charm. That will not, however, suffice to explain the difference in total impression produced, and I am bound to say I do not feel that the work in church architecture on this side, in spite of the very large that must have been spent, can hear comparison artistically with the quiet, unaffected utterly unpretentious dignity and charm of similar but older work in France and England.

Yet we ought in these modern times to be able to do as well, nay, better than our fathers did. In a new and young country, there ought surely at least to be found a freshness and vigor of design sufficient to give character and value to architectural work for it is character that makes our work impressive.

I am far from wishing to overlook much satisfactory and able architecture. But why is it that too much of our work in Canada to-day is incontestably less effective than it ought to be? I am persuaded that it is due, in many instances, to inadequate training on the aesthetic side.

There are some, I know, who oppose such training as theoretical and academic, and, therefore, worse than useless there are others who say such training stifles genius there are even others, I am afraid, who are in blissful ignorance that training on this side is needful to a modern architect at all.

I therefore earnestly ask this association to consider carefully on behalf of the younger men, the question of the best training, at the outset of their career, for their work in life.

I am myself most strongly convinced of the vital need of just this so—called theoretical, academic and unpractical training. I have spoken of our profession ;is many-sided: I know of no profession that is more so and this, the side of artistic expression, that is, t he side that must perforce appeal to one and all who see our work and experience the impression produced by it, is in some ways much the most enduring, the most characteristic side of our art. And I have sought consistently to emphasize and promote and develop such training in the fullest measure, convinced

that therein lies the true function of a University training—not to attempt to supersede in the slightest the absolutely essential training in the office, on the scaffolding, in actual practical work, but to supplement that all—important training by the equally important education on the scientific and aesthetic side, which cannot be acquired in offices or workshop which can only be acquired by academic study, but without which an architect is but half fitted for his calling.



The Council submitted the following report, referring to the work performed by that body on behalf of the Association during the year



TENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF COUNCIL



GENTLEMEN,—Ten years ago, when a few fellow-members of this city, moved by a concourse of opinions and wishes, often expressed in private, undertook to unite the volitions and direct not only the studies but also the future aims of the profession, in its own interest of course, but principally to give more security to the public, the idea was accepted by some with mistrust and by others with an open spirit of hostility.

A body of serious and influential members of the community accused the architects of illegitimate ambitions and secret aspirations towards thc formation of a new Order of Labor Knights in order to increase the already exorbitant fees which the powerful Association collects from that poor and honest class called speculators and jobbers.



As adversaries of the idea were to be found among the very founders of the Association, it is not to be wondered at if the building public, always impressible and nervous when their interests are at stake, should have felt diffident.

We must acknowledge that among the promoters of this project, who worked so earnestly for its success, who did all the preliminary labor, so difficult and sometimes so unpleasant in organizations of this kind, there are some, we might say all who admit that there is more, much more, to be done, before the idea will be found acceptable to everybody.

Nevertheless, such as it stands at the present time the Quebec Association of Architects has received many adhesions to us project has met with great encouragement in its field of action on the part of the most eminent societies. The R. I. B. A., the Central Society of Architects of France, the Royal Institute of Antwerp have all honored us with their correspondence and invited us to correspond on all subjects of actuality.

La Construction Moderne (an architectural review from Park), in an article signed by the eminent architect and writer, Charles Lucas, has even thought proper to give part of our Constitution as a model for the regional societies of France. We have been specially congratulated for having agreed on a fundamental basis and for having obtained from our Government a Charter which enables us to accomplish more in the near future.

As to the interior details of the administration the Council of the Association has endeavored, and succeeded to a certain extent, in organizing the Library Department. As already stated at the last annual meeting we have made an arrangement which enables us, under certain conditions, to have access to McGill University's Architectural Library, Westmount's Municipal Library and the library of the Association of Arts.

The Library of our own Association contains 181 volumes, the value of which you will be able to judge by consulting the catalogue which will soon be distributed.

The rooms of the Association have been regularly opened to the members, except during the vacation months of July and August. It is to be regretted that a very limited number of members availed themselves of the opportunity. The Council going out of charge begs to suggest that students following an office be supplied with a special card giving them free entrance to the library.

The inauguration of the rooms of the Association took place on the 30th October. 1899 On this occasion Prof. S. II. Capper gave a very interesting lecture, illustrated with stereosopie views, before a large number of architects and invited guests.

The Association had been invited to make a Canadian exposition of Retrospective Architecture at Paris, but unfortunately the time was too short to organize a decent exposition. The idea of a local exposition had also been suggested but did not succeed, the members being too busy with the works of the season to have any time left to organize it properly. This idea, however, has been held over until the present meeting with more or less success as you will be able to judge for yourselves.

Thanks, we will not say to the just demands of the Council of the Association, but rather to the good sense of the public, the idea that the Inspector of Buildings should be an architect has

