<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	227

<article title=" Competition for Exhibition Buildings " author="">

Competition for Exhibition Buildings

Provinces. It is desirable that early action be taken in this direction.



THE Toronto Industrial Exhibition Association have sent out a circular inviting architects to submit competitive

designs for a new main building and several subsidiary buildings to be erected on the exhibition grounds to meet the requirements of the proposed Dominion exhibition next year. The cost of the main building is estimated at $106,000 and of the lesser buildings from $5,000 to $15,000 each. To the author of the accepted design for the main building a prize of $250 is offered, and to the authors of the accepted designs for the smaller buildings prizes of $40 and $50 Architects are required to submit plans, elevations, perspective, and a brief specification — practically a set of working drawings. The prizes are totally inadequate in view of the requirements, and would barely cover the cost of preliminary sketches. The Exhibition Association should be aware that the best architects will not enter a competition on such terms, and therefore any designs which they may receive will be the work of the less skilful designers. Had the first prize been in proportion to the other prizes, it would have amounted to $1,000, which would have been a very modest sum. If new buildings are to be erected on the exhibition grounds—and few will deny that there is need for something better than the existing ones the aim should be to put up structures of artistic appearance and perfectly adapted to the requirements. The individual buildings should not only be well designed, hut the several buildings should be so arranged and designed that when constructed they will present a harmonious and pleasing effect. This result can only be accomplished by having some skilful architect lay out the general arrangement, and control, to some extent, the character of the designs. It will be remembered that this was the method pursued when the Chicago exhibition buildings were erected, and it was entirely justified by the result. It would be wise for the Association to place the designing of the smaller buildings in the hands of the architect whose design may be accepted for the main building, or if the various buildings are to be designed by different architects, then there should be consultation between them regarding the general arrangement of the buildings and the character of the designs. Unfortunately the competition has not been framed on proper lines, and it is hopeless to look for a satisfactory outcome. Even with the meagre prizes offered, a better result might have been secured if more time had been allowed the competitors. The one satisfactory feature of the competition is the fact that as the result of representations made by the president and members of the Ontario Association of Architects, it has been decided to have the plans which may be submitted judged by experts to be appointed by that body.



THE subject of the application of color to architecture is one which has often times been discussed. An experiment

in this direction is now to be made in connection with the buildings in course of construction for the proposed Pan-American Exhibition at Buffalo, New York. These buildings, like those at the Chicago and Paris exhibitions, will be constructed of steel and covered with staff. It has been decided to color the exterior of the

The Application of Color to Architecture, <article title=" The Application of Color to Architecture " author="">

 buildings. The work is to be done under the direction of Mr. C. Y. Turner, of New York, who is said to have worked out a color scheme which promises to give a satisfactory effect. The predominating colors will be ivory tints for the walls, with decorations in delicate shades of blue and green. All projecting features, such as domes and minarets, will be gilded. The buildings, which are strongly Spanish in design, are roofed with metal stamped to represent Spanish tiles, and painted a dull rich red. The effect of these metal roots is all that could be desired, notwithstanding that the metal is extremely thin, and would not stand the action of the weather for a much longer time than the period over which the exhibition will extend. In order to secure the desired color effect, small models of the principal buildings have been prepared. These are placed on a platform, laid out to scale, representing the exhibition grounds. The wall spaces on these models are covered with strips of paper painted to the desired shade of color. We presume that the coloring matter will be applied, as at Chicago, by means of a spraying apparatus. The result of this experiment will be watched with interest by architects. It does not seem probable, however, that it will have any decided influence in encouraging the use of color to a greater extent than at present on buildings of a permanent character. Even in the favorable climate of Italy, color is not applied to the exterior of buildings, except in a few instances where colored mosaic is used. The application of color to a stone building, for example, would be entirely out of place, and would greatly detract from the dignity of the structure. This has even been the effect where stone of two or more shades of color has been employed in the construction of monumental buildings. In domestic architecture, however, color is being employed to a greater extent than formerly, and when judiciously used often adds to the beauty and interest of the building. Special training and care are, however, necessary on the part of the architect to secure this result.

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

Preparations for the annual meeting in January are in progress. Several interesting papers have been promised. The suggestion has been made that the meeting should be made coterminous with the Exhibition of architectural drawings by the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club. An added inducement would thereby be offered to architects outside of Toronto to participate in the proceedings. The Association's new rooms, which by that date will be completely furnished, should also be a source of attraction to outside members. It is understood that an agreement has been reached between the association and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club, by which the latter organization will enter the Association as a body. This accession to its membership from the ranks of the younger men in the profession, should greatly benefit and strengthen the association.



QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

Would you kindly give us a price per yard for blasting and taking out of ordinary granite rock out of pit say 12 feet deep and 12 feet wide, also price for surface blasting.

Answer—We estimate that the cost of blasting and taking out granite rock from a pit 1 2 feet deep and 1 2 feet wide would run from 3.50 to $4 per yard, and the price for surface blasting from $2.75 to $3 per yard, according to the nature of the material.

