<doctype type="text;plate">	28	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND 



<article title="On the Architects Part in his Work as Exemplified in the Methods of H.H. Richardson" author="">ON THE ARGHITECT'S PART IN HIS WORK, AS

EXEMPLIFIED IN THE METHODS OF H. H.

RICHARDSON.

When an architect sues for his fee and his drawings are brought into court as evidence of the work he has done, the opposing counsel at once proceeds to make the discovery that the drawings have not Ben made by the architect at all but by a draughtsman. Investigation of the draughtsman's salary and estimation of the length of time taken by him to make thc drawings which are shown in court reveals what seems like a scandalous disproportion between the cost of the drawings and the fee that is asked for their use. To the jury it appears as if the man who made the drawings did the work and the time he took to make the drawings represents fairly well the time that should be charged for; nor are they disposed to be at all indulgent in a mater which appears to them perilously near a system of sweating the draughtsrnan.











PLAN OF CITY HALL, ALBANY.



(Autograph Sketch by H. H. Richardson.)





Both counsel know better; but they are not so sure about it that the opponent's counsel need feel any scruple about raising the objection for the chance of what there may be in it, or that the counsel for the architect can clearly explain to the jury that there is nothing in it ; that an architect's work is not to be measured in that way.

I propose to illustrate the architect's position by an account of the method of work of H. H. Richardson, an architect who collected $50,000 in fees in a year, and who never made one stroke of the drawings upon which these fees were based.

In taking Richardson as an example I am taking a man who was par excellence an architect. His office was, above all things, a place where original work, or to use his own phrase, his "own work " was done. From the beginning, in the plan which was his conception of the idea contained in the problem, to the details of

*paper by Mr. W. A. Langton, presented at the annual Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, January, 1900.

finish which were in accordance with his taste, it was his own— so much his own that when the rush of enthusiasm for his work produced imitators all over the country, though it was thought at first that thc American style had been founded, it was soon seen that the charm was in a personal quality that could not be caught and that the style apart from the man was nothing.

How were these designs produced? One would suppose that he must have drawn everything himself; to the extent at least of the essential proportions and features, if not the mouldings and ornaments.

The extent of his drawing was a plan scribbled on a sheet of note paper; often done in bed, where the state of his health obliged him to spend much of his time, and where he had the best opportunity for thought. A plan two or three inches square embodied his idea. The ultimate result of his study was inked in over the mass of soft pencil marks with a quill pen; and sometimes principal dimensions were figured. That was

usually the end of his work on paper.

There is in Mrs. Van Rensselaer's life a sketch for the Harvard Law School which shows an elevation also, but I do not think that he often defined the elevation in this way.

This note went to the head draughtsman who worked in a room apart in constant consultation with Mr. Richardson. The nature of that consultation was to a great extent criticism mercy and the suggestion of leading ideas; but never, I think, so definite as to supersede thought on the part of the draughtsman. Thc first criticism of the kind that I heard has remained in my memory. It was just after some big works had possessed the mind of the head draughtsman with ideas of grandeur. He was at a table near me designing the entrance to a house at Albany when Mr. Richardson passed and, after looking over his shoulder for a moment, said,

Cest la delicatesse qu'il faut maintenant mon ami," (it is refinement we want now) and went away. It was delicatesse he got. The fenestration of this house was in charge of another draughtsman whom Mr. Richardson kept rubbing out his windows all morning until they came right and were accepted with the remark "there is nothing like rubbing out." The only case in which I worked from one of these sketches was a sketch plan for a large apartment house. The sketch came to me on a piece of note paper showing two large bays in front running through all floors.

This was the

design. The living rooms connected with the front were indicated clearly

an interior court yard was shown and the living rooms connected with it but the back was a mere

scribble with

"service" written across it, and as far as I recollect, such guides as "lift," " dust " and perhaps one or two more hints of thc peculiarities of the service department of a flat.

Usually these original notes did not appear in the office but were guides for the head draughtsman alone, who made from them small scale sketches for the client. When the matter was settled the small scale sketches were put into the hands of one or more draughtsmen usually a pair, one in charge, the other assisting. When the actual work was done many hands might ink and trace even better hands than the original men who did the drawing (as we understand the word) sometimes dropped their work, f it could wait to take a hand in wping off a job which could not. Thc specification was usually written by the senior of the responsible draughtsmen, and one of this pair often acted as superintendent while the work was in progress, especially if the work was out of town. For larger work there was a larger gang than two, but the principle was the same; everybody was responsible. Mr.

