<doctype type="text;ad">

ing from the ridge of the metal roof about 4 ft. above the top of the chimney or other elevated projection, its lower end being connected to a piece of iron in the form of a saddle, soldered to the metal roof. To this the top of each rain pipe is joined, or, where the gutters are below the roof, special tinned iron strips connect the two. It is said that each rain- water pipe 4 in. diameter is equal in capacity to an iron rod 9-16 in. diameter. The connection between the pipe and the earth is made as follows Above the elbow portion, a galvanised socket is fitted, and to this is soldered a flat bar which is led directly to the nearest water pipe or to the earth. The form which seems to give the best results, he said, is constructed of a pipe driven into the ground so that its perforated end rests in moist earth ; its upper end is left about 6 in. below the surface, so that it can be watered artificially or by rain. To assist the collect on of moisture a larger sleeve is placed outside, furnished with a perforated top and set flush with the gutter. With slate or wooden roofs, bands of tin plate or galvanised iron are often placed underneath the slate covering on the rafters of the roof, being connected at the top with the '' air terminal" conductors, and below with the gutters and rain-water pipes as previously described ; in the case of a Mansard roof the sheet metal or flushing is also connected to the system.

Mr. Hedges was called in, in 1898, to report on the condition of the lightning conductors of St. Paul's Cathedral. He was informed that they were put up in the year 1872, having taken the place of the original system erected under the advice of the Royal Society about 144 years ago. The conductors were throughout of 1/2 in. stranded copper. Four of these conductors passed from the iron supports of the cross down the outside of the dome branching into eight conductors which were cross-connected by the railing of the gallery. Lower down they were united together and carried down to the ground. Each tower had two conductors with a cross connection, and there was also a single conductor passing over the ridge of the choir to earth on either side. In the metallic connection with the cross there were several iron straps passing down inside to the level of the gallery, where the ends apparently disappeared in the stonework. This, in Mr. Hedges opinion, constituted a danger. The statues on the three sides of the building were not protected. The earth connections were also most unsatisfactory. These had originally been laid in a brick sewer passing around the building but in alterations since executed, earthenware pipes had been laid within the sewer, the

brick sewer being no longer employed, and the conductors were therefore left either resting on the top of the earthenware pipe or placed within them so that they were insulated from earth. The joints were in all cases wrapped and not soldered. -

The plan of re-arrangement recommended by the author, taking into consideration the large amount of copper cable already disposed about the building, was to run three new cables from the metal-work of the framework supporting the cross to the roof of the dome (making interconnection with the iron supports of the structure); there connecting them with the eight existing conductors and reuniting them at the base of the dome to the existing system, which was to be increased by running a new 1/2-in. seven-ply copper cable on the top of the parapet entirely round the building. From this horizontal conductor, aigrettes, consisting of five pointed copper rods, were teed at intervals by means of special brass boxes tinned inside, into which the cable was placed, the aigrettes first secured by binding, and the whole united by running in hard solder. Great difficulty was found in securing new earths. One set of conductors was united to the hydraulic main supplying the power to the organ, and the other to the 8-in, water main. This connection was made by cleaning the outside, then wrapping the strands of the conductor around it, and then enclosing the whole in a metallic clamp which was filled with molten lead and screwed up tight. An additional earth was made by means of a perforated wrought-iron pipe furnished with a steel shoe, which was sunk to the requisite depth to secure moist ground. The stranded conductor was dropped into the pipe, soldered to a lead cap on the top, and shielded from electrolytic action by wrapping it in a lead tube. The pipe has a bend at the upper end, projecting above the ground and closed by a plug so that water can be poured down. There are other earths of ordinary copper plate buried in a mixture of charcoal and broken electric light carbons, and the old system of conductors, as well as the new, is attached to all the new earths. It is also proposed to establish connection with the ends of the rain water pipes where they look out of the stone walls, down which all the conductors are laid.



Mr. Jos. H. Williamson, who for nearly eighteen years has been the business manager of the Manufacturers Advertising Agency, New York City, has severed his relationship with that company to connect himself with the old established Viennot Advertising Agency, No. 524 Walnut street, Philadelphia, as its business manager. Mr. Williamson will be glad to welcome his many friends at any time at his new address, either at the office in Philadelphia or at the New York office of the Viennot Agency, No. T27 Duane Street, Graham building,





THE IMPERIAL VARNISH & COLOR COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO, ONTARIO