



<doctype type="text">divergence from the true snake forms is well exemplified by the carving of the feet of the bargeboards of the Patakas in Figs. 5 and 6, and the development may be observed in the feet of the bargeboards in Fig. 4. The latest and highest development of the form is indicated in the quartered and pierced spirals in the canoe prow, Fig. 15, which is considered the finest specimen in New Zealand.

The Maori war canoe (Fig. 14) Toki-a-Tapiri was built by the Ngnatikahungunu tribe located between Gisborne and Napier about 1835. It passed into the possession of the Ngatiteata who dwelt on the shores of the Mannkan harbour, the bar at the entrance of which is one of the most wild and desolate, as well as dangerous, in this country. It was here H.M.S. "Orpheus" was wrecked. The canoe was taken from the Ngnatiteata in 1863 by a detachment of the colonial forces under Capt. Lloyd during the Waikato war.

The over all length is 80 feet, greatest beam 7 feet the hull, top streaks or wash boards and all the carving are of totara, a comparatively light timber straight in the grain and very durable in water and of a rather rich red color.

The method of constructing a great canoe may be of some interest. Firstly, a suitable tree was not to be discovered without much search in the forests, and the position of the tree when found had to be carefully considered, for a stick about 100 feet long and 8 or 9 feet in diameter is not easily taken out of the woods by a handful of simple folks who knew not of greased ways or timber shoots. The giant of the forest was laboriously laid low by relays of men armed with stone axes, and was minutely examined when fallen, for if seriously "shaken" another tree must be found and all the work recommenced. Should, however, the great trunk pass inspection it was cleared ot its branches and removed to the village. The hull was then roughly lined out and hollowed partly by burning and partly by dubbing with stone axes. The hull having been completed the wash boards or Ranawa had to be cut from trees almost as great as that which provided the hull. The labor of working these down to the required thickness, especially if carved from end to end as in this instance, must have been immense. Holes had to be bored through the Ranawa and through the sides of the hull, through which the flax lashings were passed to bind them together, and the magnitude of this minor operation is better understood when it is explained that the only implement of the nature of an auger was a stick armed with a piece of quartz.

Then followed the carving of the figure head (Fig. 16), and of the stern post (Fig. 17), and as these were cut out of solid slabs and only a little could be done at one time lest the timber should split, years often passed before they were completed. The thwarts or Taumanu were prepared and firmly lashed to the gunwale on each side.

The work of preparing the flax fibre was always performed by the women, who also plaited the sleeping mats and made the baskets in which the provisions were carried.

Lastly, the seams and holes through which the lashings passed had to be caulked with the feathery down obtained from the head of the native bullrush (the ranpo), and the whole canoe painted with kokowai, and the canoe was ready for sea. The paddles, usually made from a hard, tough scrub, were well shaped, smoothly

finished, very handy to use, and sometimes the ends of the handles were carved. The ends of all the thwarts of the toki-a-tapin were carved with heads, and gratings cunningly formed of straight pieces ot Manuka about an inch thick laced together and resting on cross pieces, enabled the paddlers to keep their lower limbs and their belongings well above any water that found its way in through leaks or dashed over the sides.

One of the most striking features of the canoe here described is the delicacy of her lines and the slight but well defined sheer. As sea boats these vessels behaved excellently, and long voyages were frequently undertaken on these rugged and storm beaten coasts.

Fig. 18 gives us an example of another well known treatment of figure head.

To properly illustrate and describe all the various phases of Maori art is a task which would richly reward who so might undertake it, but my aim has been merely to show that Maori art possesses much of interest in itself and was ot no mean order in its way. I am obliged to omit the examples which mark the ingenuity, patience and skill expended upon minor articles of domestic use, such as feather boxes, walking sticks, water vessels, combs, knives, fishing gear, eel traps, nets, wearing apparel and arms of wood and stone, personal ornaments of jade, stone or wood, and scores of other things which help to prove that the natives of these islands were cultured in their tastes to a degree quite surprising in a people addicted to cannibalism, engaged in perpetual warfare and sunk in gross superstition.



<article title="Cost of High Buildings" author="">COST OF HIGH BUILDINGS.

MR. Richard Pelham Bolton read, recently, before the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, some interesting- statistics in relation to the cost of high office buildings and their equipment. Including a moderate amount of exterior ornament, the cost of a building sixteen storeys high, with steel frame, and, of course, fireproof construction throughout, and inclusive of plumbing appliances, elevators, boiler-plant, pumps, heating apparatus, electric light wiring for isolated service with switch boards, engines and generators, is, in New York City, from thirty-six to forty cents per cubic foot, measuring to the outside of the walls. Higher buildings cost proportionately more, and, of course, any sum may be spent on exterior enrichment. About one-seventh of the entire expense is in the boilers and engines, heating and lighting apparatus and plumbing. These must be of the very best type it the building is to be profitable, for the saving of the repairs required for inferior apparatus, and the economy of fuel which can be secured by using triple expansion pumps and compound engines, represent a large proportion of the balance of income left over after deducting taxes and mortgage interest and necessary expenses. Even in the matter of fuel, a little forethought is a valuable investment. Nearly all the high New York buildings have coal-bin capacity only for two or three days at most, and many of them must have coal delivered every day. Under such circumstances, the cost of their coal is greater, while they are at the mercy of sudden strikes, or heavy snowstorms, which may expose them to the dilemma of paying extortionate prices for fuel, or damages to their tenants. In the Bowling Green building the capacity of the coal bins is four hundred and twenty tons, and this fact enables the managers to save about ten cents a ton, on an average, in the cost ot their coal, and, probably much more, indirectly in the assurance of an ample supply.

