 <doctype type="text;ad">ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Mr. II. R. Cluff, a well known contractor, died in Ottawa recently.

Mr. P. Lacroix, building inspector of Montreal, has tendered his resignation.

The bricklayers in Hamilton have decided to ask for 38 cents per hour as wages, to take effect July 1st.

The Maritime Clay Works Co., of Pug-wash, Nova Scotia, have purchased from the government a locomotive and rails for the equipment of a railway to connect their works with their clay deposits.

Mr. John Higman, president of the Ottawa Master Plumbers' Association, was recently presented with a loving cup by the members of that association. Mrs. Higman was given a beautiful tea service.

Mr. Edward Gold, of Vancouver, B. C., has been granted a patent in Canada for a wood preserving compound, consisting of crude petroleum, lime, asphaltum, cement, brimstone, crude creosote and ashestos mixed together and heated in a vessel and applied to the wrapper, which is wound on the timber and then treated to a covering of sand.

In the Review of Reviews for April the new phases of the situation in South Africa are editorially discussed, while the department of '' Leading Articles of tile Month

summarize various points of view relatives to the war and its probable Outcome.



The board of arbitrators in connection with the suit brought by the Bishop of Nicolet against Paquet & Godbout, contractors, of St. Hyacinthe, for damages owing to the collapse of the Catholic cathedral at Nicolet, have given their decision. The contractors are condemned to refund the Bishop of Nicolet his actual outlay on the building, amounting to $42,-299.59, but the Bishhp's claim for $12,000 damages is not allowed.

Hand—Railing Simplified " is the title of

a valuable work, by Fred T. Hodgson, architect, of Collingwood, published by Wm T. Comstock, 23 Warren street, New York, The book treats the art of hand-railing on the Sectorian system, being a novel method of finding the curves, bevels, cuts and ramps for hand-railing over circular and elliptical stairs. This method, it is pointed out, does away to a great extent with the mystifying lines and references necessary to build a hand-rail by any of the old systems. Bound in cloth, the price is one dollar.

THE CANADA PAINT COMPANY LIMITED, TORONTO AND MONTREAL



THE PEDLAR PEOPLE, STEEL FRONTS, MONTREAL, QUEBEC



