<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER   231



and often without a formal pattern, and not merely in color. Whether by instinct or tradition they have marvelous appreciation of true form and proportion.

A man aided by a child constructs a gigantic jar as we build a house with no other instrument than the hands and a spatula; an amphora of extreme height, and presenting beautiful corners, is produced. On the borders of the Nile females with their children make alkarazas so eloquent in form as not to need the aid of color to command admiration. With Orientals the sense of the beautiful shows itself in all things.

Flat ornament is the most natural and obvious means of decorating solid surfaces, and this in conventional form. The source of this appropriateness is to be found to reside, so to speak, in the moulding or carvings of natural forms as something simply imitative, and, therefore, with all the labor and ingenuity exercised of no high order of art, and therefore not conforming to an imposing position.

In many branches of art the designs are drawn direct from nature. The designers of textile fabrics may be seen with a group of flowers freshly gathered from a garden in small vases before them arranged so as to present some novel or pleasing effects which are transferred in modified form to their patterns. The same colors or precisely the same forms may not be reproduced, but the flowers and the portion of the group dealt with are artistically wrought out.

Sometimes the flowers that serve as models for decorative metal work are pressed between boards so as to present an aspect to some extent conventionalized for treatment in his bas relief. This method of securing the original of patterns has for ages been adopted in the east, and serves to account for some of the really exquisite transformations that we witness.

Many forms of the ornamental class are not naturally supplied. Such is the Greek fret series of squares, one within another, interior lines being brought up at intervals, thus getting rid of the mere square. Arabic decoration, though very ornamental at first sight, was in reality based on extremely simple combinations. Celtic art with its mystic interwoven strap-work and grotesque monsters is chiefly formed of the higher geometrical curves and right lines, and is perhaps, the most difficult to analyze. Natural forms unless distorted, are seldom introduced in Celtic art.

It is a curious fact, that some of the choicest patterns of apparently eastern origin, of the eastern carpets, have been reproduced from the paintings of old Flemish masters—Van Eyck—Mernling, and others, and the Florentine artists, such as Shirlandage and Montegna. So also with hangings, table covers and other similar products. Some of these painters simply give divisions of color and main outline of the patterns, and in place of angles substitute curves; others, like Holbein, delineate even the very stitches.

In a design of varied character the desirability of introducing a few points of resemblance between the forms, thus establishing certain affinities, provides a contribution to decoration. The securing appropriateness in the ornamentation is another requirement that has its influence in fashioning ornament. The ox heads and festooned garlands carved on the friezes of Roman temples had a practical value as betokening sacrifice, whilst in other public buildings they would have been stupid and vulgar.

Consonance or agreement with the general design is a primp element of good ornament, and it is just be-







cause this consonance is not found in ornamentation of a different purpose that the ornamentist finds so much in bygone art that cannot be utilized. The introduction of an opposing tone in colors to impart unity of effect, is a leading element in color design. The upholsterer who brings together two colors—say yellow curtains with green covered chairs—will wisely repeat the green in the curtain in a narrow strip, to harmonize with the chairs. Contrast usually involving alternation, some of the most beautiful effects of form are obtained through their connection. To the contrast of form and color decoration owes some of its happiest inspirations. A further source of beauty in ornament is derived from the prevalence of one quality in color, or of a given size of form over another.

It is noticeable that all that is lovely in landscape is produced by contrast of tone, not color—by the bright green of young shoots against the dark, sombre green of the older wood; by the gay birch with its bright leaves against the dark green pine, cedar or hemlock, and these against the deep blue sky as a background. The present advance of decorative art is largely due to more attention being paid to contrasts, and to their more skilful manipulation.

The circumstance that the mind never draws the line too close between use and ornament, has led to articles of vertu in the precious metals to the blending of both in structural forms, and with little conventionalism as regards ornament. An instance occurs to me in a silver standard consisting of a stalk with the leaves of a honeysuckle gently folded around the stalk at irregular intervals, and a flower here and there showing itself between the leaves. The richness of the material justified the labor and ingenuity expended upon it. Similarly, on vases of precious metals, nature, leaves, foliage, flowers and stems may be imitated as closely as one pleases in relief, or as undercut work, if only care be taken that it shall fill up a defined and bordered space.

In the Arabesque style of foliage and tracery there is a mild freedom which pleases the fancy, partly because no actual natural forms are portrayed, whilst yet they are suggested in the flowing outlines, in the lightness with which the ground is touched, and yet transformed in effect and the way in which the sight is lured to traverse over the whole surface. But as a means of decoration, Arabesque is to be used charily; it has indeed the charm of repetition, but where uniformity is equal the beauty of forms is in proportion to their variety. The harmony established is by analogy of size, color and form, but affinities may be carried too tar. The true law of harmony is conformation and divergence.

The collected experience of artisans of the past constitutes a leading source of ornament. Carvings and mosiacs, figured tissues, stained glass, metal work, even paintings and architectural treatment of decoration supply a fund of artistic instruction, not for reproduction, but suggestive of new combinations.

The course of ornament, renewing at intervals of time features of previous periods, with new characteristics super-added, has its counterpart in seeds transplanted to new soils and climes, the change resulting in new developments that in some respects are wholly new. Thus, the growth of new features in the art of ornamentation is continuous and everlasting. One new design suggests another, and the chain lengthens and broadens as time advances, each race of mankind following that style of ornamentation that seems most suited to the peculiar qualities of its mental structure ; indeed, it has been hinted that a man's liking for this or that style of ornament may be taken as an evidence that he descended from the Aryan, Semitic, Turanian or Celtic stock, according to the style he admires most.

