<doctype type="text;plate">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER     39







lift the two end vehicles off the road, and on the other hand, at a re-entrant angle or angle less than 180° the two end vehicles would be supporting the load, and the girder would be actually lifting the two inside vehicles oft the road, and of course in this case the weight of the vehicles lifted off the rails would be added to the weight of the griders or the load carrying trucks, which would be overloaded and disaster ensue

Further, there is the consideration of the three or four  truck vehicle when travelling over a curve with superelevated rail. 'Take a case of a rigid girder, when travelling on a four-truck vehicle, when passing over such a curve. It is assumed that the girder is supported and fastened at the two centre bolsters only, but that it is simply testing on the two end bolsters.

Fig. 5 will show the position the full lines showing the inner vehicles, and the dotted lines the end vehicle. The centre lines are shown of both sets of vehicles, arid as the center line of the girder is rigidly straight, it will be seen at once that the end vehicles will lift the ends of the girder, together with the inner vehicles, every time a curve with canted rails is passed over.

Further, there is yet the consideration that the connection of the bolster to the waggon is only at its centre or point of swivel, and at no other place. If the wind is taken into account together with a large cant in the rails, a considerable overturning tendency has to be dealt with. For this the sole connection at the swivel is not quite satisfactory, and some holding down link at the ends of the bolster should be made, at least in the case of very deep girders. The case of the usual load of rails on these trolleys need not be considered, as the rails are neither so rigid nor stacked so high as the girder on edge.

Fig. 6 gives an idea of such an attachment ; of course the links or attachment should be made so that the bolster has full liberty to move sideways upon its bearings. Great care should be taken to oil or grease all parts that require it before the journey is made.--Building News.



<article title="London Builders Exchange" author="">LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

The second annual dinner of the London Builders' Exchange, was held at the City Hotel, London, on the evening of the 7th inst. The occasion was marked by a large attendance, much enthusiasm and good fellowship. The newly elected president, Mr. Win. Tytler, presided. Occupying places of' honor beside him were his worship, Mayor Rumball, Colonel Holmes, Colonel Culver, United States Consul, Captain Robson, M. P. P. for East Middlesex, Colonel W. M. Gartshore, E.A. Roberts, secretary of the Cleveland Builders' Exchange, Wm. Jeffrey, expresident of the local exchange, H.C. McBride and Thomas Jones. Among those present were noticed W. Chamberlain, A. Stewart, W.P. Brown, J. Young, G. Craddock, W.T. Pace, L. Boss, C.H. Gould, J.S. Lunley, D. Ferguson, C. Ferguson, W.D. Willis, H. Edmonds, S. Willis, R.G. Wilson, I. Quick, R.H. Berry, C.T. Element, J. Adair, T.A. Parkinson, E. Fritzgerald, G.L. Gould, F. Martyn, J. Logan, J. Calhoun, A.M. Legg, R.H. Hessel, John Bryan, J.J. Foot, R.H. Pring, H. Sing, J. Sullivan, S. A. Thompson, J.H. Ryan, W.T. Hayman, A. Dowell, H. Hayman, J.W. McIntosh, J. Fenn, A. Irwin, G. Fox, C. Percy, Geo. Everette, R. Waide, W. B. Walker, D. J. Cowan, Geo. Buskard, H.

C.	Simpson, S.M. Stewart, T. Burnett, S. Stevely, J.A. Stewart, W.H. Angus, E. Kerrigan, J. Whittaker, T. R. Wright, F. D. Macfie, T. W. Copp, T. Gerry, J. Purdom, J. Burnett, R. Skelly, W. H. Winnett, G. Taylor, H. Stratfold, G. Howe J.W. Tucker, T. Robinson, T. A. Jones, T. R. Howard, George Mortimer, G. H. H. Platt, D.H. Gillies, A. Burnett, A. Nobbs, W.E. Tambling and G. Trambling. Regrets were read from Henry Martin, president of the Toronto Exchange ; the president of the Cleveland Exchange ; and John M. Moore, H. Matthews and F.H. Farncombe, of London.

In rising to propose the toast to Her Majesty the Queen the president expresses his pleasure at witnessing so large a turn out, not only of builders but of citizens in other walks of life. He referred also to the success which has attended the organization of the London Builders' Exchange and the benefits accruing therefrom. The new form of agreement which has been adopted

has been found to be very satisfactory and present relations between the architects and contractors were of a cordial character. The year 1899 had been a fairly prosperous one for the building trade and the outlook for the present year was promising.

Following the singing of the National Anthem, Col. Culver, U. S. Consul, responded on behalf of "The president of the United States."

The toast to "The Legislative Assemblies " was coupled with the names of Capt. Robson, the newly elected member for East Middlesex.

Col. Holmes replied on behalf of the "Army and Navy" Col. Gartshore for ''Our Boys at the Front" the Mayor for "Our City," And Winnett for " Our Mercantile Interests" and Messrs. H.C. McBride and Geo. Craddock for the ''Ontario Association of Architects."

After Messrs. S. Stevely, J. Burnett and J. Jones, had spoken briefly for the local Exchange, Mr. Roberts secretary of the Cleveland Builders' Exchange was called upon to respond to the toast to the "Sister Exchanges. " In doing so he gave a very interesting account of the progress of their Exchange which numbers about 260 members and has an exchange hour every day from 11 to 12. Reports for the whole state of bids wanted, bids received, and the amount of the bid when it can be got are bulletined daily. Another Feature they have lately introduced is a monthly dinner for the members of the Exchange and invited friends at which they make a point of having some interesting question relat  



MR. WILLIAM TYTLER,

President London Builders Exchange.





ing to the building interests discussed in a vigorous manner and it has had the effect of bringing out some good debaters. He gave a very pressing invitation to the president and officers of the London Exchange to attend the banquet and ball of the Cleveland Exchange to be held on the 23rd inst., and said they were also anticipating with pleasure the return visit of the London Exchange to Cleveland in the summer. At intervals during the evening some capital songs were sung by Messrs. John W. McIntosh, H.R. McDonald, Captain Robson, M.P.P., H. C. Simpson, and Harry Stratfold. Mr. D. Murray also gave a violin selection which was well received.

The gathering dispersed at midnight, having spent a most enjoyable evening.



<article title="Mr. William Tytler" author="">MR. WILLIAM TYTLER.



The subject of the accompanying portrait, Mr. William Tytler, of London, Ont., has just been elected president of the Builders' Exchange of that city. Mr. Tytler is a native of Aberdeen, Scotland, where he served his apprenticeship and gained a thorough knowledge of his trade. Some years ago he came to Canada and commenced business as a contractor in London, where he has established for himself an excellent reputation for good workmanship and upright dealing. The London Builders' Exchange have wisely recognized his abilities, and will benefit by his services in his present capacity as president of the Exchange.

