

<doctype type="text">A SUMMER HOUSE ON THE LAKES.

<article title="A Summer House of the Lakes" author="">The summer house on an island or point in one of the back lakes is an institution so well established that it has ceased to be satisfactory in the crude simplicity that distinguished the first experiments. People do not now play at temporary barbarism as they used to. There is as good boiled linen to be seen at the evening meal in a well-kept house on the lakes as there is in town. People have discovered that all the joys of an out-of doors life are possible without dispensing with the niceties of ordinary refinement, and yet the houses in which the summer is passed are such as in many ways to contradict this tendency and to interfere a great deal with the comfort of a household composed of ladies and gentlemen who, however great friends they may be, do not want to be in constant sound of one another night and day, and hardly able to avoid keeping track of one another's private movements.

With tight joists, wide apart 7/8" flooring and partitions of matched boards, a bedroom ceases to be a private apartment. It is merely a cubicle with enough protection to fend off sight, but with none against sound ; and to take precautions against being heard merely adds the indignity of stealth.

The question of expense, of course, is concerned in that of the simplicity of the building ; but, in the first place, the time has come to spend a little more money— it need not be much more upon these houses and, secondly, there is a great deal to be done by mere attention to plan, without involving greater expense.

The life is so much an out-of-doors life that the location of the house must be part of the plan, not only for the ordinary conditions of relation to the sun and to the view, but because certain functions that are usually performed inside the house will now be performed outside of it. The bathrooms are out of doors. They cost nothing in themselves, and there is no question of expense connected with their being made comfortable. But there is plenty of room for planning with the condition that the bathing places and the house shall be considered as one piece, and arranged so that the approach to the gentlemen's bathing place may be from the gentlemen's rooms, and that to the ladies' bathing place from the ladies' rooms, so that there may be no danger of rencontre between pyjamas and dressing gowns on the way to the morning bath. Pyjamas are a perfectly respectable attire. Traders in the South Sea Islands transact their business thus habited, and if some member of the more dressy professions would start the same fashion for July and August " in this Canada of ours" he would deserve well of his countrymen. Dressing gowns also, when caught in at the waist and adorned with a Watteau pleat, are nothing more than tea gowns more highly flowered and surmounted by hair differently piled up from the method that obtains later in the day. The final cause of the large horsecloth check that makes pyjamas splendid, and also of the greater though more imperfectly apprehended elegance of dressing gowns is no doubt the chance of their being seen ; but such chances ought to be limited to fires, fits, burglaries, and other nocturnal catastrophes, In their essence they are symbols of retirement, and to rashly expose them to the light of day and the sight of eyes is to withdraw the veil that makes the sanctuary. Modesty may be unassailed, but reverence is tampered with ; and it is time that the principles of house planning were applied to the summer house and

its surroundings so that outside the house as well as within it there should be a men's quarter and a women's quarter, in approaching which either sex may have no need to dodge the other.

Within the house as well as without this would be the system of greatest convenience, and overcome most effectually the disadvantages proceeding from the necessary flimsiness of construction in a cheap house. Men's quarters over the boat house is a satisfactory arrangement, but it tends to make the boat house taboo to the women except at certain times. Separate wings for the bed rooms, each giving towards its own quarter, is the obvious solution of a house which is spacious without being substantial. All elaboration may be concentrated in a central living hall with a fireplace. In proportion as a building is compact, it must be more substantial in order to be more comfortable. A double floor with felting between would do much to do away with the noisiness and want of privacy in a small house ; and something should also be done to the partitions. This is the burlap period of architecture and burlap could be of great service in killing the resonance of wood.

In placing a summer house the paramount consideration will be the view, but the question of aspect has its usual importance, and as usual there are considerations of both cold and heat ; for the inevitable cold wave that comes at intervals in the summer, and is so welcome in town, affects the idle dwellers in a summer house as it does the idle fly. They come out after breakfast to crouch in the sun and thaw their numbed faculties ; and it is essential that they should have a sunny front as well as plenty of shade. Indeed the sunniest aspects should have the largest exposure of the house, because it is from that quarter that the breezes of the hot days come, the only breezes that we cannot do without. There is not much danger of darkening the hall too much by wide verandahs, for its wall surface should be mostly doors and windows, and in any case, where people are so much out in the sun and air, a house is chiefly welcome as a cool dive, free from glare. What house lite there is in the day time goes on chiefly on the verandah, and it must be not only wide but many sided so as to give not only shade at all times but shelter from all breezes. This puts the kitchen side and the bedroom approaches obviously to the north. There is no sun there, and the breeze from that side is rare, and not welcome when it comes. The three remaining sides are all pleasing aspects at some time of the day or in some kind of weather, and in choosing a site they should have recognition as the best aspects for the front part of the house.

The greater part of the problem of planning a summer resort is site, and if the architect, when there is an architect, could only get in at the point of choosing site, he might achieve perfection. A good site for a house is apt to have a somewhat unpromising appearance from the water. A good deal of rock and a few trees, though not much to look at, make an excellent place to look from. A house that looks from it will have free outlook and will get all the air that is going, while its presence makes the spot to be no longer unadorned. A fine old bluff well above the water is tempting, and of course has advantages when one gets there ; but the labour of getting there many times a day kills the advantage. A house must not be too far from the water, with which the occupants want to be in constant touch ; and alter all, though a

