



<doctype type="text">ence assemble, when the dampers are changed, fresh air from outside brought in, and the return air sent directly into the ventilating flues.

Perhaps a few facts as to results will be of interest. A short time ago the mercury on Saturday marked 5° below zero, with a high wind blowing. Steam was raised after dinner, and the fan started at 2.15, the temperature in the building being 25. At 3 o'clock, or forty-five minutes later the mercury had risen to 58. The heat was kept on until about 10 o'clock that evening, when fires were banked and left until next morning, when a two hours run raised the glass to 72°, and the speed was reduced. Under ordinary circumstances the school room is left until the close of the morning service, as a two hours run is sufficient to bring it to any desired temperature.

From present appearances it looks as if this plant should be placed in the front rank of modern heating and ventilating outfits, and it reflects great credit upon the contractors, Messrs. Geo. W. Reed & Co., of Montreal.



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

A four years course in landscape gardening has recently been established at Harvard University. It will include the study of architecture, the artistic treatment of natural forms, practical horticulture and aboriculture.

x x x

The City Solicitor of Toronto has stated that the City Council have power to appoint an inspector of elevators, under sub-section 6 of section 541 of the Municipal Act. He suggests the importance of also passing by-laws to regulate the construction and use of elevators.

x x x

The Ontario Society of Artists have selected for the Ontario Government the following paintings by Ontario artists to be placed in the halls of the Legislative buildings at Toronto T. M. Martin's "Blue Grouse"

R.	F. Gagen's "The Vanguard of the Coast" ; C. M. Manly's "The Valley of the Teigh" ; F. S. Challeners' "A Fisherman's Home," arid W. A. Sherwood's "'[he Morning Paper."

x x x

The Assessment Commissioner reports that the number of vacant houses and stores in Toronto is less than one-half the number recorded a year ago. During 1899 there were erected factory buildings valued at $1,000,000, dwellings valued at $800,000 in addition to repairs and alterations costing $300,000. This is a good showing.

x xx

The measure which is now before the Dominion Parliament providing for government regulation of the sanitary conditions surrounding workmen employed on railways and other public works ought to have the support of members on both sides of the House. This measure may be regarded as the result of the recent disclosures concerning the conditions attending the construction of the Crows Nest Pass Railway.

x x x

Considerable interest will be taken in the doings of the Commission to whom has been entrusted the expenditure of the grant of $6o,ooo per year by the Dominion government for public improvements at Ottawa. The first step has just been taken in determining to establish a number of handsome boulevards. King street, from North of Rideau street, to the river, is to be improved in this manner. The beauty of Nepean Point will, I fear, be seriously marred by the excavations now being made for the railroad roadbed connececting with the Interprovincial Bridge which is to span the Ottawa river at this point.

<article title="Students' Department" author="">_____ STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

SEVEN sets of drawings have been received in the

CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER'S STUDENTS' COMPETITION for a Suburban Bicycle Club House. These drawings are now in the hands of the Committees of Award appointed by the 0. A. A. and the P. Q. A. A. At the time of going to press the report of the judges had not come to hand ; but it will appear in our March number.



<article title="Planning a Stable" author="">PLANNING A STABLE.

IN considering a few main points in stable planning says a writer in the National Builder, the thing of most importance would seem to be that a stable should be planned with respect to the points of the compass, the same as a house and for the same reasons. Sensible people like to live on the sunny side of the house. horses and cows like it as well, and it is positively cruel to animals to locate the stalls on any other side but the south, for it is always possible to do this much. How careful some persons are about selecting a site for the house where it will be dry and sunny, and why should they not be just as careful about selecting a site for a barn? Badly constructed stables are never economical, and in many cases a little extra money spent on them will repay itself in the better condition of the animals that have to inhabit them. I have always held that a barn poorly ventilated will cause the loss of more money in a few years, by the poor health of animals, than it would cost to build a dozen ventilators. I have not built a single stable for the past fifteen years without putting in one or two ventilators. There should be a ventilator from the stable, and where possible, one also from the hay loft. The best way to arrange the stable ventilator is to inclose the shaft from the loft door up to the root outlet. I am at work at the present time on a stable in which I am placing two ventilators. In this stable I have built the ventilators from the loft floor up to the roof, with an opening into the shaft from the loft by means of a door about four feet from the floor, which, when opened, will afford loft ventilation as well as stable. Under the shaft I will place in the loft floor a trap door on hinges. In the floor I am using 2 inch matched yellow pine. Under the stalls the beams will be blocked for a fall of 2 inches to gutter, and a '8-inch matched floor laid. This I intend to have covered with coal tar and lay oak strips cut from 4X4 timber, by one sawing to make two pieces 3X4 at one end and 1x4 at the other. These strips I will lay about 3/8 of an inch apart, with the 3-inch end towards the gutter, so that the horses will stand on a level space. By this method the stall floor will be elevated 2 inches above the stable floor ; the gutter is sunk so that its top is only 1 inch above the beams. This gutter will lead to a manure pit, which will be located convenient to the stable door, and be constructed water tight. The stall partitions are to be made of 2-inch plank let into the grooves cut in the stall posts. The partitions will be 5 feet high, with iron guard to keep the horses from annoying one another. There are many more points that ought to be given in this letter, as I have not covered half the ground I intended when I started out ; but I am making this too long, so will close and give the rest some other time.

