<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Students Department" author="">STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

THE publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite from architectural students and draughtsmen in Canada, competitive drawings for a Suburban Bicycle Club House, The building to be erected on a lot 6o' x 150' in size, to have a southern exposure, and to cost not more than $6,000. It should contain bowling alley, billiard room for six tables, gymnasium, card rooms, reading and other rooms, necessary for a bicycle club. Provision must also be made for social entertainments, such as kitchen, etc.

Competitors are required to submit drawings to 1/8 scale showing south and east elevations of building, or it lieu thereof, a perspective from 14 scale plan drawn at an angle of 30 degrees to the picture plane ; also plans to 1-16 scale of all floors, including basement, graphic scale to be indicated on each sheet. Competitors are also asked to state briefly the materials proposed to be employed in the construction of the building.

Drawings must be made with pen and PERFECTLY BLACK INK on white paper or cardboard. No BRUSH OR COLOR WORK WILL BE ALLOWED. Drawings should be so arranged as to admit of photographic reproduction in the illustration pages of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. The size of each page is 7 x 10 inches. No set of drawings must occupy more than two pages.

Competitors must send in their drawings under motto, marked " Students Competition," and addressed to "The publishers of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building, Toronto," prior to o'clock p.m. on Monday, February 12th, 1900. Each set of drawings must be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing on the outside the author's motto and enclosing a card giving his full name and address.

The merits of the designs which may be submitted in this competition will be judged by a committee of the Ontario Association of Architects and of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, whose decision shall be final. For the benefit of competitors, the judges will be requested to give a detailed criticism of each plan.

Three prizes are offered, as follows To the winner of 1st position, $10 ; to the winner of 2nd position, $5.00, and to the winner of 3rd position, one year' s subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



The right is reserved to publish any or all of the drawings.

NOTE.—Competitors are required strictly to observe and comply with the above instructions and conditions.



NICHES

THE abundant use of statues by the Romans led to the adoption of the niche—a feature unknown in Greek architecture-—as a convenient mode of inserting them within the surface of walls and thereby decorating them at the same time space was gained in interiors where if otherwise placed they would have taken up room. Niches frequently occur in Roman temples and baths, and were occasionally decorated with a frontispiece of small columns, with their entablatures and pediments, but were generally left plain and were for the most part semi-circular in plan, in which they usually terminated an arch or semi-dome, after the manner of a tribune or large recess, of which the niche was, in fact, a miniature copy. Niches, however, are very frequently rectangular in plan, and were also exhedrae, or recesses, in which case the latter formed arches vaulted hemicylindrically.

<article title="Personal" author="">PERSONAL.

H, R. Woodley was recently appointed plumbing inspector at Rat Portage, Ont.

Mr. E. J. Lennox, architect of the new Municipal Buildings, Toronto, was recently presented by the employees under his control with a handsome marble clock and an appreciative address.



The new Minister of Public Works for Ontario, the Honorable Frank Latchford, was recently tendered a banquet at the Russell House by the Citizens of Ottawa. There were present upwards of three hundred citizens, representing all classes and interests in the community, and many kind things were said of the guest of the evening.



Mr. W. H. Law has been appointed chief engineer and manager of the Hamilton Bridge Works Company, Hamilton, Ont. Mr. Law was formerly manager of the Central Bridge Works at Peterboro, and has had a long and valuable experience in this line. He is also an experienced civil engineer, and will undoubtedly fulfill with ability and satisfaction his present position.



Mr. James Smith, of the firm of Smith & Gemmell, architects, Toronto, has just entered upon his twenty-first year as Secretary-Treasurer of the Royal Canadian Academy, and is busy preparing for the annual convention, which will be held this year in Ottawa in February.



Samuel Walker, who was for seventeen years general foreman of the Grand Trunk Railway shops at Point St. Charles, has accepted the position of general foreman of the Dominion Bridge Company's works at Lachine. He was the recipient of a presentation at the hands, of his late confreres.





LEGAL.

JAMES CONNOLLY vs. THE DETROIT BRIDGE AND IRON WORKS



Co.—The plaintiff who was employed by the company on their works on the new Victoria bridge at Montreal, sued for $1,999 damages for having his leg crushed by a car on which iron beams were being conveyed to the position where they were wanted. The Lower Court dismissed the action on the ground that the plaintiff had been guilty of negligence in not blocking the wheel of the car. Messrs. Justice Tashereau, Lorange and Lemieux, of the Court of Review confirmed this decision.



HAVEN V. HUGHES—Judgement by Chief Justice Burton, in the Ontario Court of Appeal, on appeal by plaintiff from judgment of Boyd, C., dismissing action with costs. Action for injunction tore-strain defendants from trespassing upon certain land and taking stone therefrom. The plaintiff claims the sole right to quarry tinder a lease from defendant Troup, which he asked to have reformed if necessary. The defendants purchased the land subject to the lease, and contended that, properly construed, it was only a license to quarry 50,000 cords of stone and no more, which they are willing to allow plaintiff to do. Held, not a case for specific performance. There is plenty of stone to cover the plaintiff's contract in addition to what defendants are taking, and their submission gives him all that he can ask for. Appeal dismissed with costs.

GREENWAY V. GARDINER.—Judgment by Justices Armour and Falconbridge in the Divisional Court at Toronto, on appeal by defendant from judgment of junior judge of County Court at Middlesex in favor of plaintiff in an action in that court for $141, balance of the price of a heating apparatus put into defendant s house by plaintiff, under a contract which required that the furnace should heat the house up to 70 degrees when the temperature outside was 10 degrees below zero. The defendant's counter claim for $290, amount paid for putting apparatus in proper condition was dismissed. The defendant contended that it was not sufficient that the thermometer should once have registered 70 degrees when it was 10 degrees below zero outside, but that it should be shown that the furnace was reasonably fit to heat the house. Held, that guarantees such as these in this case are to be construed reasonably according to the interest of the parties, and the more strongly against those giving them Cadill v. Carbolic Smoke Co. (1893), I.Q.B.D., 256. The proper and reasonable construction is that the furnace if fed and managed as such heating apparatus is ordinarily and managed, would give 70 degrees of heat when the weather was 10 degrees below zero outside, and heat the rooms containing radiators to such degree. This being so the evidence is clear beyond reasonable doubt, that the apparatus did not answer the guarantees. Appeal allowed with costs. Plaintiff to have judgment in court below for $14' with costs, and defendant to have judgment there on her counter claim for $290 with costs. Plaintiff's judgment and costs to be set off pro tanto against defendant's judgment and costs.

.