<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" FIGHTING FIRE IN HIGH BUILDINGS " author="">

FIGHTING FIRE IN HIGH BUILDINGS.

In Ainslee's Magazine, former Chief Bonner of the New York fire department, has an article on fire fighting, in which occurs the following passage:

"The steam fire engine, while very complete in all its appointments, has almost reached the limit of its useful capacity as an all-round apparatus for general use. The engine of the present day is also deemed inadequate on some occasions to combat successfully with fire in these tall buildings, when great power and forcing capacity are required, and the question of an auxiliary plan, with an abundant supply of water, has been brought before the city authorities for consideration. The plan suggested is the underground pipe system supplied with high pressure service, and laid expressly to withstand the severe strain likely to be placed on it in any section of the city, and is recommended as the most feasible auxiliary to the present system. With this plan of underground pipes, tested to a high pressure (such pressure to be maintained by pumping machinery) and an abundant supply of water, either cistern or salt, we could not only cope with any fire that might occur in the highest of our office buildings, but with those as well that are used for warehouse and mercantile purposes. There is an imperative need at the present time for just such a system in many sections of our city to enable the department to cope more successfully with fires."



The firm of Wallace Bros., Sussex, N. B., has done a large amount of building in that locality, In recent years they erected the Sussex Academy, which cost $6,000, the Sussex exhibition building and annex, the brick block in which the bank has been located and many residences. Business has been increasing with them steadily, and the firm's name is now well known.



ARCHITECTS!

The Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club desires to have your names and addresses for the purpose of sending you one of their illustrated " Annual Exhibition Catalogues."



ERNEST R. ROLPH,



Secretary-treasurer,

Bank of Commerce Bldg,

TORONTO.



EXHIBITION:

January 26th to February 9th, 1901.

JOHN WATSON-ARCHITECTURAL IRON WORKS

MONTREAL



CLARE BROTHERS & COMPANY

PRESTON, ONTARIO

