<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	175



been accepted and you are all aware of the changes for the better which the present incumbent has made since he came into office.

The proposed Building Regulations which had been prepared some years ago by the Council of the Association has at last, after many trials, come before the City Council of Montreal. Without wishing to prejudge the case we believe that all the aldermen who have any experience in construction are in its favor, while those who delay its adoption are not so much against the principle of New Regulations (they admit that a New Regulation is needed) as against certain details which can easily be arranged if the City Council takes into serious consideration such an important study.

As to the intricate question of members in arrears and of unqualified parties who practice illegally, measures have been resorted to of which we will not now speak because they are of a private character, but the Association may rest assured that the day is not far off when this question will be regulated in a satisfactory manner.

The examinations held during the year have been specially interesting both by the number and quality of tile candidates. The examination papers remain in the archives of the Association, where they will form a very interesting record.

At the suggestion of the R. I. B. A., and through the medium of one of its members, Mr. A. 'I'. Taylor, former president of our Association, a Board of Examiners of the eminent Institute has been organized in Canada. Our president, Prof. S. 11. Capper, Mr. A. Raza, former president, and Mr. A. T. Taylor, acting also as secretary, have been appointed examiners for the Province of Quebec. Two other members, completing the Board, are chosen among the members of the Ontario Association.

In the absence of the rich traditions of honor and integrity which prevail among the European Architects, the Association felt keenly the want of a code on professional ethics, arid at the last annual meeting a commission was appointed which is now ready to make its report. It is to be hoped that all unite will to give force of law to a measure of such importance which will complete and give more force and stability to tile tariff of fees which has been distributed in the course of the present year.



All the members of the Association should endeavor to observe strictly this tariff in order to give it force of law by custom.

It has already been proposed by the Builders' Exchange to form joint commissions, whose purpose would be to study, in order to render them more comprehensible and more useful, certain customs, certain relations, in order to facilitate the regulation of questions arising between organizations interested in the construction industry, and also to define the different responsibilities.

Two members of this Association have resigned Mr. E. C. Larose, who is now practising in Ontario, and Mr. J. A. Dechamps, who has decided to transfer his activity to another field of labor.

The Association has at present 123 members, of whom two registered since the last annual meeting, after passing the necessary examinations.

There was no general meeting during the year, but there were 3 special meetings and the regular monthly meetings of the Council.

S.	H. CAPPER, President.

G.	A. MONETTE , Secretary.



REPORT OF QUEBEC SECTION.



G.	A. MONETTE EsQ., Architect,



Sec. "P. Q. A. A.," Montreal.



SIR,—The undersigned, officers of the Quebec Section, P. Q. A. A., hereby have the honor to submit to the Council of the Association the following report for the year 1899-1900.



On the 27th of December last, the Quebec architects met at the City Hall, for the purpose of electing their officers for the ensuing year, M. G. E. Tanguay presiding. M. G. E. Tanguay has been re-elected President, arid M. Jos. P. Ouellet, Secretary. The latter has also been appointed Treasurer of the Quebec Section.



M. Thomas Raymond, who had withdrawn from the Association has come back to it, and is again a member of the Quebec Sect ion.



Nothing of special importance have been done this year by our Section.



The Quebec architects, together with their Montreal confreres, have discussed, compiled and submitted to the Council their opinions regarding a certain Code of Professional Ethics, the adoption of which is not done yet, on account of the importance of the questions discussed, arid the difference of opinions on many points.

During this year again a new effort has been made towards the approval of our Schedule of Charges (somewhat modified) by

the Lieutenant Governor in Council, so as to make it law. All the Quebec members were unanimous in approving that Schedule, as modified, and a copy of same has now been distributed to all the members of the Association, who have bound themselves by their signature, to observe it in all points.

Besides these questions of genera! interest for the Association, the Quebec Architects have several times met to discuss others, rather local, but by no means less important for them; the consideration of which is still progressing.

The above respectfully submitted.

Jos. P. OUELLET, Sec. Q. S.

EMILE TANGUAY, President Q. S.

Quebec, July 17th, 1900.



The treasurer presented his report which was found to be satisfactory and adopted.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year President, G. Emile Tanguay, Quebec first vicepresident, Jos. Venne, Montreal ; second vice-president, W. E. Doran, Montreal ; secretary, G. A. Monette, Montreal ; treasurer, J. S. Archibald, Montreal councillors, Prof. S. H. Capper, A. T. Taylor, Alcide Chausse, E. Maxwell, A. H. Lapierre, Montreal, and J.

P.	Ouellet, Quebec; auditors, C. Dufort and J. H. Lebon.

The new President having taken the chair it was decided to hold the next annual meeting of the Association at Quebec, on a date to be fixed by the Council.

A recommendation was made to the Council to consider certain changes in the by-laws and report to a special meeting of the Association.

The second day of the convention was devoted to a visit to the electrical power generating and transmission works of the Lachine Rapids Hydraulic & Land Co.



SHALL THE MAIN DRAIN TRAP BE ABOLISHED.

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



The proposed abolition of the main drain trap is not, in the opinion of the writer, in the public interest Tile object of such a change is to better ventilate the public sewers, making the plumbing and drainage systems of our houses serve as ventilators. There can be no doubt of the effect of such a change on the pub. lie sewers—they would be ventilated to perfection. Another advantage would be the abolition of the fresh air inlet pipe, which, without a trap, would not be necessary, and for which it is sometimes difficult to find a suitable position.

There is one point upon which I am unable to come to a decision, not having any data on the subject ; it is this —will the better ventilation of the public sewers so purify them as to render harmless the air which passes through them ? If it will, then there can remain no valid objection to the change. But assuming that sewers are foul and dirty and that consequently the air passing through them is also foul, the change could riot be made.

The chief danger of such a system is that it depends for its efficiency to exclude sewer gas from our houses, on the perfect construction, arid maintenance in perfect condition, of the drains and plumbing, for these will then have become conduits to carry off the foul air from tire sewers, and any defect, such as a broken closer, a broken drain, dean-our screws carelessly replaced or forgotten entirely, and soil pipes frozen over where they terminate above tine roof in very cold spells, will cause tire building through which they pass to become, as it were, a part of the sewer ventilation conduit to the detriment of the occupants thereof.

Vacant houses may also serve as sewer gas conductors to adjoining houses (in a row or block of houses). Tire traps become unsealed by evaporation, or are emptied to prevent freezing, thus permitting the free escape of sewer gas into the house, from which it may be forced into the houses occupied on either side by the difference in atmospheric pressure, caused by tire heating of the occupied houses this being facilitated by tire freezing, or partially freezing over of the soil pipe terminus above the roof.

A case occurred a few winters ago which well supports this theory. A builder had, late in the year, completed a fine pair of semi-detached houses, iii which the main drain trap had been omitted (which is permitted under the city by-law tinder certain conditions), and because of such omission was unable to sell or rent them during that winter. The traps of the various fixtures were empty to prevent their being frozen and burst, and every time he invited a prospective buyer or tenant to inspect the houses, they detected sewer gas anti were so alarmed that the inspection seldom proceeded further.

If the private drains must serve as sewer ventilators, it should be done as described in the Public Health Act, namely, by a pipe continued up the front wall of every building without any connection to it from the inside of building. Where it is desired to avoid the disfigurement of building fronts, this pipe might be allowed to run up the inside of front wall, the main trap being placed between this vent pipe and the house, or just inside the wall of building.

BENJAMIN KIRK,

Plumbing Inspector.

