

<doctype type="text">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Ventilation and Heating of Public buildings" author="Bryce, P.H.">VENTILATION AND HEATING OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.*

By P. H. BRYCE, M. A., M. D.



In my addresses to you in thc several past years, I have endeavored to deal with some practical subject in public health work, which you as engineers and architects may be expected to have to deal with. We have drained the ground upon which we were going to build a house ; we have carefully considered the source and means of preserving its drinking water in a wholesome condition, and have also set forth in some detail the several means which modern science has supplied for properly dealing with the excretal matters which, as sewage, require removal from such a human habitation.

To-day 1 propose to deal with another feature of the sanitation of this house, viz., that of the house-air and means whereby it may serve the requirements of health to its inmates.

It is safe to say that while there has been progress in the work of constructing buildings and in the mechanical appliances for heating them, and even ventilating them, in many individual instances during the past fifteen years, yet there is probably no branch of public health work which has shown so little progress in its systematic development in Ontario as of those methods of heating and ventilation, which even in the most general way, have official sanction and are governed by either legislative or municipal regulations. If one were to seek for an explanation of this it would probably be found First, in the very nature of the problem. It must be remembered that the moment life in buildings with closed sides began in climates requiring artificial heat, I became artificial. "The wind bloweth where it listeth" arc the words of the Teacher, applicable to the free movements of the outer atmosphere only, and all attempts to confine air and heat necessarily cause a departure from nature's methods and convert the problem of supplying the dwellers in houses with fresh air into a question subject to the limitations of a secundam artem. A second reason is that from thc very nature of the complex life of any population living in populous centres, there arc not in Ontario as yet any regulations fixing in any definite way the size, mode of construction, or number of inmates of houses, except where it is stated under the Factory Act that

Section 15. -(2 ) 'A factory shall not be so overcrowded while work is being carried on therein as to be injurious to the health of the persons employed therein."

'(3) Every factory shall be ventilated in such a manner as to render harmless so far as is reasonably practicable, all the gases, vapors, dust or other impurities generated in the course of the manufacturing process or handicraft carried on therein, that may be injurious to health."



As the Act states, however, these necessary and reasonable provisions shall not apply where persons are employed at home, that is to say to a private house, or a room or place which, though used as a dwelling, might by reason of the work carried on there be a factory within the meaning of the Act, and in which the only persons employed are members of the same family dwelling there.

It is further provided in the school regulations that public schoolrooms shall have an air space of not less than 250 feet per pupil, with a superficial area of at least 12 square feet, a uniform temperature of F., and provision for a change of air three times every hour.

And a third reason is the lack of well-defined methods of ventilating public buildings, readily applicable to different buildings, arranged so as to secure at a moderate expense an adequate supply of fresh air in such a manner as to be free from draughts.

It will thus be seen that the problem of maintaining house air in a condition of purity necessary to make it in some degree comparable to that of the outside air is in practice a difficult one, judging from results; but nevertheless, when it is remembered that an adult man requires 3,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour, introduced into his living room in order that such air may be maintained at a point where the carbonic acid produced by combustion in the lungs shall not exceed six parts in 10,000 of air, it is apparent that the evils due to lack of ventilation in private dwellings, public buildings and factories, are one of the most serious sanitary questions existing in our communities. The adoption of some artificial or mechanical means for the purpose of introducing fresh air into dwellings is commonly termed "ventilation," and depends upon some method whereby the air of a room may be removed and replaced by outside air, which owing to its free movements, always maintains practically the same constitution. This is understood when it is remembered that air moving at the rate of five miles an hour, or that of the gentlest breeze, will renew the air over a space of a foot square 26,400 times. In warm weather ventilation is easily possible by doors and windows,

but in cold weather air must be introduced into rooms through ducts, having been previously warmed by a furnace.

From the standpoint of the public, there is no doubt that apart from a lack of knowledge of the directly injurious effects upon health of residence in badly ventilated houses, and of the existence of practical means of remedying the evil, the prime difficulty is that die individual recognizes by the eye no difference between the indoor and the outdoor air. He can recognize closeness on coming into a foul atmosphere from outer fresh air, but this closeness is looked upon as inevitable, and the deadened sense of smell soon fails to recognize the foul odors. Moreover, thc methods of heating and constructing houses vary so greatly that badly distributed warmth in houses makes people more anxious to confine the heat produced than to introduce fresh air.

Amid the questions of economy to the householder, of thc architects who are specially sought out because of their ability to give a fashionable outside to houses, of competition amongst the innumerable manufacturers of furnaces, boilers, grates and stoves, all of which are of course modelled upon the latest scientific principles, it may bc well to recall some of the laws underlying what seems so simple, and yet proves to be one of thc most difficult practical problems which sanitarians, architects and engineers are called upon to deal with.

To maintain the human body in a state of health, it must not only bc supplied with an amount of fool requisite for supplying it with energy for work, but it must also consume an amount equal to thc task of maintaining the body at a temperature of

98.4 F.	As bodies lose their heat both by radiation and conduction, it is plain that non-conducting clothing plays an important part in preventing an undue loss of body heat but common experience tells us that for persons employed at sedentary occupations in-doors, an air temperature of 6& to 70° F., is necessary to comfort and health. Further experience tells us that thc air of the room must not be in too rapid movement, probably not more than a half-foot per second, and must further be, as nearly as possible, as warm near the floor as 6 feet above it. With the atmosphere in temperate climates ranging in winter from between 30° F. and—20° F., it is plain that the amount of heat required to keep the air of a house warm, will depend (a) upon the construction of the dwelling, (b) upon the number of renewals of air per hour, and (c) upon the character of the heating apparatus employed. As regards the construction of a house, it is necessary that the walls be made of materials which are poor conductors of heat, that they may be so built that moisture will not readily get into the interstices of the materials, as with soft brick, unpainted boards, and damp foundations; and that they will be so well built of close materials that air currents will not blow through them. How essential that building materials be poor conductors may be learnt from the notably different conductivities of different substances for heat. Thus, a wall of wood of equal thickness would be three times better as a non-conductor, than one of brick. It is of equal importance to remember that air confined in a close space is ten times as good a non-conductor as wood, hence the important part played by double windows, glass being ten times better as a non-conductor than wood.

As regards the required changes in the air of the room, it is plain that as this will depend on its size and the number of its inmates, the amount of air to be heated will be simply that required to supply the ideal 3,000 cubic feet per hour to each adult inmate; while the heating apparatus to be chosen will be that which most readily transfers its heat with the smallest loss to the air supplied to the dwelling. While it may be said that, in theoretically discussing ventilation, we need not regard by what method the air to he supplied to a room is heated, yet in practice, the question is a most important part of any system. When carbon or its compounds, whether as coal gas or wood is consumed, it produces heat by the union of carbon with oxygen, while hydrogen at the higher temperatures if present, unites with oxygen to form water vapor. In combustion every pound of carbon forms 3.7 lbs. of carbonic acid, and emits heat enough to raise the temperature of 87 lbs. of water from 62° to 212° F. and every pound of hydrogen produces 9 lbs. of water, and emits enough heat to raise 417 lbs. of water from 62° to 212 F. For the purpose of estimating the value of any fuel, it is most convenient to estimate the number of pounds of water which can be raised by any given weight of fuel; though 1° F. or from 32° to 33° F. which is termed a heat on thermal unit, and which is roughly applicable for every degree from 32 to 212° F. Experiment has shown that lb. of carbon produces 13,000 units of heat and lb. of hydrogen produces 62,500 units. What then is apparent is that economy in heating means that the largest possible number of units of this heat, in

