<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="New Solar Prism Glass" author="">NEW SOLAR PRISM GLASS.

We have been shown a sample of a new prism or reflecting glass, manufactured and patented by the Solar Prism Co., of Cleveland, The manufacturers claim it to bc better than any other now in use. It is quite natural to suppose that, considering the demand for such glass, some one would improve on the glass now in use. They claim it to be the best, and principally on account of the projections or prisms being a quarter of a circle, the curve having better reflecting qualities than a straight line. There is also a cone in the center of each square which is a great light producer and adds very much to the appearance, as it relieves the monotonous squares. The Solar Prism Company are also making this glass in geometrical forms of various designs. The N. T. Lyon Glass Co., Limited, of Toronto, are the agents for Canada.





NOTES.



The British America Paint Company, recently organized, has



purchased the Victoria and Vancouver factories or the Canada



Paint Company.



Incorporation has been granted to the Dominion Fence Company, capital $750,000, and head office in Toronto. The company will manufacture and trade in iron and wire fences, metallic roofing, and siding.



The MeClary Manufacturing Co., of London, Out., have elected officers as follows John McClary, president W. M. Gartshore, vice-president and manager George MeClary, treasurer J. K. H. hope, secretary.



The Thomas Robertson Company, of Montreal, are placing on



the Ontario market their ''Sirdar" hot water boiler, and have appointed Mr. George Craig, 88 Bay street, as their Toronto agent. This boiler has been selling for some time throughout the eastern provinces, where it has been given a very favorable reception.



Mr. T. C. Larney has formed a syndicate to develop the marble deposits in the vicinity of Shoal Bay, near Vancouver, B. C. It is said that the marble of this deposit is superior to any yet found in British Columbia, and that it will prove a great acquisition to the beauty of the buildings of the coast cities. The syndicate have opened an office in the Fairfield block, Vancouver.



We have received samples of "Chin-Chin' and "Pelican" waterproof drawing inks manufactured by Mr. Harry Steuber, of London, England, whose announcement will be found in our advertising pages. These inks are recognized as of excellent quality, and are used and endorsed by architects and by leading schools and colleges everywhere. The Art Metropole, Toronto, is the Canadian headquarters for these inks.



Messrs. John McConnell and Charles E. Levey, late of the Consolidated Plate Glass Company, have recently formed the Canada Plate & Window Glass Company, and have opened an office and showrooms at 9 Richmond street east, Toronto. They will carry in stock a complete line of mantels, fire-places, grates, tiles, and mosaics, as well as plate and window glass and ornamental leaded work. Mr. McConnell is manager and Mr. Levey secretary of the company.



An Ontario charter has been granted to the Grey and Bruce Portland Cement Co., of Shallow Lake, Limited, with a capital of $199,000. The company has secured options on five hundred acres at Shallow Lake, opposite the works of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Company. Three hundred acres of the property are said to contain deposits of the finest clay and marl necessary for the manufacture of cement, and it is proposed to erect works with an output of five hundred barrels of cement per day. The head office of the company is to be in Owen Sound, and the directors are: James MeLaughlan, Owen Sound John George, Port Perry



J.R. Spence, Wiarton Joseph Young, Park Head and J. F. Campbell, Hepworth.





THE F. D. CUMMER & SON CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO



THE ACETYLENE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, LIMITED, LONDON. 

ONT

MICA BOILER COVERING COMPANY, LIMITED.

MONTREAL, QUEBEC.  TORONTO, ONTARIO : LONDON, ENGLAND