	<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND



blood from dry bones. BUILDER long shall we continue, and what are the influences which hold us from the fat and marrow? To-day the evil, especially in America, is the architectural school. The instructors are not architects. The pupils have too much instruction and too little guiding. Their minds are crammed with a knowledge which will prevent the natural growth of any problem which may confront them. The development of the memory is forced but the mind, like the source of its supply, the Roman ruin, is left overgrown with acanthus weeds and blocked with egg and dart moldings Why spend years learning the steps by which the Gothic passed from the Greek, when the essential quality of its art is in the fact that it got rid of the Greek, and not that it retained any of the Greek influence ? If we can imagine a medical school where none of thc instructors is or ever has been a practicing physician, with the writings of Claudius Galen for a text-book, we will have a just comparison.



The painter no longer paints in the Renaissance or Byzantine style as he did fifty years ago. He paints in his own style, and we now begin to hear of the American style or school, which means simply that he paints as an American sees America, with an American's pride and patriotism. When an American builds as an American sees America, then and not until then will we have an American style.



If we cease to try to express character by the use of different styles, a method which is now universally adopted—a method which is governed by association, thc lowest form of expression



—if we throw off the yoke of precedent and stop copying the works of other nations and other times, if we form an American style, what will it bc? If we judge of our future by the works of those nations who recognize no architectural rules, thc new American style is clear. We will never have a great ecclesiastical decoration the Protestant church is against the use of pictorial symbols. We will never have a great historical style in

the sense the Greeks possessed it ; we are not hero worshippers. We may not record the acts of ourselves nor our contemporaries, as did the Egyptians. First and foremost we are an agricultural people. We love flowers and foliage plants. We inherit a taste for the woods and chase. We are a manufacturing people. We are interested in our history and in the sciences. We take comfort in our religion. We may, then, expect a decoration evolved from these subjects in the proportion of their prominence. Owing to our love of novelty and our inventive genius we will not develop one line, but will use whatever we find in any which contains decorative quality. We will not continue to use in building after building one or two plants, as did thc Egyptian or the Persian, but, like the builders in the Gothic period, choose for ourselves those things which best express the character we seek.

We will have a colored architecture, for we, as a nation, love color. We who hold the painter and sculptor in high esteem will evolve an architecture which will give them the opportunities that they so rightly deserve. It is now impossible for a modern painter to place himself in the spirit of painting what would harmonize with any of the ancient styles of architecture. There are, at present, technical difficulties to overcome. It is necessary, in order to produce the numerous complicated drawings which constitute the plans of a building in the time allotted by our rapid age, not to mention thc economy required to prevent financial failure, 10 observe a system. This condition is not, however, prohibitory to the forming of a new style. for it has been successfully overcome in many large and notable buildings.

If the schools would develop the true designing power of our pupils, and train them in the conventionalizing of natural forms, the step would be an easy one. There is no field of artistic study so open to success as this one, for this architecture is sure to come it is now well under way. We are now in the transitions period. Modern thought is showing itself here and there on our public buildings. Here and there, in domestic architecture, a frieze, a mantel facing or a stained-glass window is designed and executed in decorative character without the use of precedent, and with nature as the model. On the exterior of the new Congressional Library at Washington are carved, with great truth, typical heads of all the different races. Not only is this of far greater interest than the repetition of so many lion heads, but it is a valuable record in stone of the world's position to-day. At the entrance and in the rotunda of the Marquette Building, in Chicago, we have excellent examples of this new style. The Auditorium Hotel is filled with frescoes representative of American Life In nearly every building some of the art has forced itself in.

The Colombian Exposition was full of American art in spite of the understanding among the architects that the work should all b e classic. The Court of honor was full of American ornament.

So thoroughly was this ornament conventionalized and ennobled by eliminating all except the highest quality, that it held its place well with the best productions of classic art. Had the Fair been held ten years earlier, two huge lions would have taken the places of the charming statues of Plenty and Industry. Had this feeling been carried throughout, we should have shown to the world that we are independent leaders in art as well as in the sciences. As it is, we have shown a beginning and given a foretaste of what our architecture will be when we again put ourselves on exhibition before the nations of Europe.





<article title="Ontario Association of Architects" author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

THE Council of this Association, as empowered by the convention, has prepared a tariff of professional charges, which is now being printed for distribution. It has also been arranged at each member shall receive a number of copies as soon as they are ready. The tariff is printed below. It is based upon that of the American Institute of Architects, and thus endorsed by the practice of the leading body of architects in America.

The rooms of the Association in Toronto will not be opened until September, but committees have been formed to arrange for monthly meetings and classes, and the question of a suitable opening will also be considered. An Educational Committee has been appointed which will consider the whole question of education of students in technical subjects and design, and make arrangements for this work next winter, In this connection the council is desirous of having every member comply with the requirements of the Ontario Architects' Act, which requires the registration of students.

The library is still in the office of Mr. W. A. Langton, Canada Life building, and he has kindly consented to act as librarian until the new rooms are ready for

occupancy.



Mr. A. M. Weir has passed the second examination with a percentage of marks which would entitle him to honors in a University examination.

Mr. C. H. C. Wright, instructor in Architecture in the School of Practical Science, and Mr. Fred T. Hodgson, who has long been well known as an editor of architectural journals in the United States, but who is a British subject and permanent resident in coiling. wood, have been admitted to membership in this

association.





ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM CHARGES—ADOPTED APRIL 14, 1900.



(Based upon the Tariff of the American Institute of Architects.)



i.	For full professional services (including supervision) five per cent. upon the cost of the work, excepting that a percentage in excess of this may be charged when the work costs less than a certain sum below which a commission of five per cent, is not remuneration, which sum may be fixed at $5,000 for simple work and $10,000 for work of a more complex character.



2.	For factories, warehouses, and other plain work of a like description, a charge of from three to five per cent., according to the nature of the work.



3.	For partial service, or in case of thc abandonment or suspension of the work, the charge for partial service is as follows:



Preliminary studies, one-fifth of the full commission as above, Preliminary studies and general drawings and specifications sufficient for estimate and contract, one-half of the full corn. mission as above. Preliminary studies, general drawings, specifications and details, four-fifths of the full commission as above.

4.	For monumental and decorative work, and designs for furniture, a special rate in excess of the above.

5.	For alterations and additions, an additional charge to be made, and also an additional charge to be made for surveys and measurements incident thereto.

6.	An additional charge to be made for alterations and addi-

