<doctype type="text">



BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTERS. No. IV.

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTERS. No. IV " author="">

PROBABLY the most important event that has yet taken place in the provincial world of art is the first annual exhibition of the Arts and Crafts Association which was held in Vancouver at the Alhambra Hall on 24th, 25th and 26th of Sept. In the absence of the association's patron, His Excellency the Governor General, the exhibition was declared open to the public by the Mayor. Several hundred visitors were admitted during the period mentioned. Somewhat more than three hundred exhibits were catalogued, and of this number far too great a proportion belonged to pictorial art

architecture, design, furniture, carving and so forth were all too thinly represented, but some exceptionally good collections of photographs, several good examples of photography, of stained and painted glass and embroidery and some really excellent painted china invested the crafts section with considerable interest.

Dealing with the subjects in catalogue order the first screen was devoted to the work in oils of Mrs. Marcus Lucas whose clever sketches in the impressionist school deserved much of the favorable comment made on them ; a small low-toned picture of Botany Bay, N. S. W., and a delightfully hazy morning in Burrards Inlet being perhaps the best of this member's exhibits. W. M. Forrest's amazing industry is proved by a vast amount of work. We think he would do himself greater justice if he devoted his capacity for downright hard labor to a more sympathetic treatment than to such prolific production in a somewhat stereotyped manner ; his technique is too hurried and there is frequently a photographic effect noticeable ; the color and motion of water is happily caught in several sketches.

W.	Ferris, who is another great worker, contributed many pretty subjects, nearly always well chosen, but not so frequently pleasing in color, which is too dense, particularly in the forest shades. Mrs. Watertall's study of still life was in many respects excellent and we shall expect to see a marked all round improvement in this lady's work ; the other exhibits in oil were mostly very amateurish, and in too many instances were merely copies of no great promise.

Of the water colors, it was generally conceded that Mr. T. W. Fripp's drawings simply stood alone, being the only work which may be said to be really representative of the genuine old school of water color painting and following the traditions of this truly English art in some of W. Fripp's warm, broad, sunny effects,

notably in a charming little sketch of Southwold, and near Streathy, on the Thames (England), one recognizes the influence of a great master who for nearly half a century was closely connected with the water color society.

Mr. Mower Martin, R.C.A., was well represented by nearly a dozen sketches and drawings, executed with much vigor ; the rather hard contrasts offered by the white, snow-topped mountains and the black green timber is scarcely true to nature, for there is always a haze, a mist, an atmospheric softening, as it were, even at sunset when the contrasts are most markedly hard ; that Mr. Martin does find this softening effect is proved by some of his work, deep and rich in tone and color and certainly not lacking atmosphere ; a little bit of wet cloudy April sky with patches of wet soft blue breaking through is a charming piece of sky, rock and tree ; and a brilliant and luminous sketch of a siwash canoe silhoutted against a western sky out of which the sun has disappeared is admirable. Mr. Ferris' screen of water colors is chiefly made up of sketches in and around Vancouver, many pretty bits of sky and water, but we would suggest that he subordinate his foregrounds far more than he does at times, and that if he stippled less and washed or stained more he would gain both in breadth and transparency. This same lack of transparency is apparent in nearly every exhibitor's work. Water color should not be applied as an opaque, and the use of body color is entirely contrary to the traditions of the art and its best traditions ; if it is desired to work in opaque mediums, why not adopt oils, pastels, tempera and so forth? The greatest beauty of water color is in its transcendental transparency of effect, which is never obtained in any other medium— the use of body color with water color is to acknowledge the want of ability to work in a legitimate manner.

Among the other exhibits in this class Miss McClung's "Fruit and Flowers" and Mrs. M. Garney's work in the same direction must be accounted much superior to the rest. Why does not the first named artist turn her attention to decorative painting, to which fruit and flower subjects are so peculiarly adaptable? A portrait study of a head by Miss Marstrandt was far and away the best black and white exhibited. The color of the neck cloth too closely approaches the tan of the flesh and mars to some extent the moulding of the chin we should have referred to this lady's sketch in oils of a Chinese servant which shows considerable decision in treatment. Miss Marstrandt's second sketch in oils, a bit of a Lulet we think, is crude in color and harsh in treatment.

A capital piece of carving (W. F. Coulfield), of a chain of Dolphins leaping through a brokenand following sea is boldly carved in English oak. A table with an inlaid top (W. Campbell), shows much technical skill and is certainly a handsome piece of work rather crudely designed, the legs being quite trivial and overladen with meaningless detail, but the workmanship throughout is first rate. A good type of quaint old Somersetshire table, known as a "court table," made in cedar by W. Bowman from a detail by the President, was almost the only other exhibit. in furniture. A fire screen designed by W. j. Bloomfield and executed in wood and leather with photographic decoration by Mrs. Ellis is admirable; the drawing the chief's head on the leather hanging is not quite in keeping with conventional treatment of the wood frame ; the drawing of the head should have been

