<doctype type="text">

demands of the people is clearly demonstrated by the almost constant growth in attendance. The present year is the largest yet on record, the attendance being about 220.

It is interesting to learn that the graduates of the School of Practical Science are finding employment in connection with the development of the natural resources of the country, and that many of them are now occupying responsible positions. A glance at the calendar shows that of the 263 living graduates of the school, about 75 per cent. are employed in Canada, while the remaining 25 per cent. are scattered over other parts of the world.



PROFESSOR GALBRAITH.



The head of this admirable institution, Professor John Galbraith, is 'a son of the late Thomas Galbraith, of Port hope. well known to every Scotchman in Canada as the Canadian agent of the " Scottish American." He was born in Montreal on September 5th, 1846, and educated at the Port Hope Grammar School and Toronto University. At the latter he took several scholarships in mathematics and general proficiency, and graduated in 1868 with the degree of B.A., securing the gold medal in mathematics and the Prince of Wales' prize for general proficiency. In 1875 he was granted the degree of M.A. He studied engineering under Mr. George A. Stewart, chief engineer of the Midland Railway, and was admitted as a Provincial Land Surveyor, lie was employed for some ten years in railway construction work on the Inter-colonial Railway, the Midland Railway, location of the Georgia n Bay branch road, and exploratory surveys for the C.P.R. He was also employed for some time in the Portland Co.'s locomotive shops at Portland, Maine, U. S.,and did consulting work in hydraulic engineering, receiving the appointment to the chair of engineering in the School of Science in the fall of 1878.

Professor Galbraith was one of the founders of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, serving for five years on the council of that body. He is also an associate member of the Institute of Civil Engineers of London, England.

As Principal of the School of Science, Professor Galbraith has labored zealously, and to him is due much of the credit for the high degree of efficiency which has been attained. At the outset he had an object in view. This was to fit the student for active professional work by giving him a thorough training in scientific principles rather than by attempting to give him a so-called practical training. It is along this line that the efforts of the school have been concentrated, and the wisdom of such a policy seems to be borne out by the results. If one were to Enquirer from any of the co-workers as to the secret of Professor Galbraith's success, the reply would probably be that it was due to his great qualifications in the direction of organizing the work at the school. As remarked by an intimate acquaintance, "he is a wonderful organizer."

After having completed his 21st year as head of the school, the proposed banquet to be tendered him is a fitting tribute of respect.



Geo. Bathy, of Wallace, N. S., is erecting a large brick factory in conjunction with his quarries. Formerly quite a depth of clay has had to be removed in order to reach the stone and this has been a serious drawback. The removal of this clay, which is fine material for brick manufacture, will result in stopping stone.

SOURCES OF ORNAMENTATION. <article title=" SOURCES OF ORNAMENTATION " author="Thodoson, Fred">

By FRED THODOSON, MEMBER 0. A. A.



BEFORE proceeding with this essay, it may not be out of place to ask of ourselves, what is meant by ornament ? Ornament, I should say is any design which may be added to any object with a view of making that object more beautiful or more interesting, but which would not he of special interest by itself. Ornament, then, is something introduced to give interest to an object other than it would possess without it. It is very important then, to bear in mind that the interest of ornament is, on this account, relative, and not absolute, because upon that consideration depends the truth of the views we may take regarding the proper adaptation of ornament. If we looked through the various classes of ornament, we should find that there were two divisions into which they are merged in regard to their application—- that is, they were employed either to diversify or give interest to a surface otherwise uninteresting, or that they were applied to emphasize some part of the object ornamented and especially to emphasize function and to draw attention to the most important part or parts of the object. The first named class might be distinguished as '' surface ornament," the latter as " functional ornament," or ornaments raised above the surface, or in relief.

The poet Keats has beautifully told us, that '' a thing of beauty is a joy forever," a trueism every intelligent being will accept without argument, but, we are compelled at this point, to propound another query, and ask " What is beauty ?" A confessed difficulty lies at the very threshold of such an inquiry, We are at once confronted by an appeal to individual taste. A Chinese or even a Japanese will acknowledge no overpowering emotion in the presence of the noblest relics of Grecian antiquity—the Venus of Melos, the Cupid of the Vatican, or the Psyche of the Museo Barbonico. But he will rave about '' golden lillies," or a mutilated doll, with slanting eyes and a pimple instead of a nose. Therefore, we may be told, the emotion, amounting in some instances almost to physical pain, that stirs the cultured individual on a sudden glance at the grandest relics of the Phidian age, is conventional. It is only the product of his education. The Venus of Milo is a bit of marble ; and a huge bronze Kylin an embodiment of all that man can pile together of the terrible— might stir the same emotion in us, if we had been differently trained from infancy. In arguments such as these there is enough of truth to constitute a respectable fallacy. in all phenomena that affect mankind we have to consider the external as well as the internal action.	The objective, if it have any independent existence, cannot he conceived independently by the human mind. Subjective and objective are as inseparable as convex and concave or vice and virtue; the one is necessary to the other. If we speak of any phenomenal action, we have to imply the mode in which that action affects the human organization. Light is to us nothing but an abstract and most puzzling term, apart from our daily optical experience. Music is divine language to the person blessed with a musical ear ; while it is an unknown tongue, or simply a noise, to a very large proportion of mankind which is destitute of that native faculty. And therefore, with regard to beauty, which we may regard as the visible expression of the highest excellence, any appreciation of its lustre must depend on the

An essay read before the Fortnightly Club, Collingwood. Ont., Nov. 21st, 1900.

