<doctype type="text">	82	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DIFFERENCES IN ESTIMATING AND CAUSES OF THE SAME.

<article title=" DIFFERENCES IN ESTIMATING AND CAUSES OF THE SAME " author="Shay, M. F.">

By M. F. SHAY.



Among the many perplexing questions presented to a master painter there is none that requires so much thought as the question or problem of estimating correctly. It must be distinctly understood the master painter is not entirely selfish, and the desire to do justice to the party seeking an estimate on work is many times paramount to the interests of the painter.

In the first place although not selfish he naturally feels when a complex or difficult job comes his way to be figured on, he would like to do the work. Then there is a certain kind of work in the job that he has always regarded as a kind of specialty of his on account of doing some of that work prior to going in business for himself. lie feels that if the owner is to have justice done to his work he is the man that must do it. Again, the feeling is on him that in order to (10 this work and for the owner to get that justice that he must pay for, it is necessary for him to make a low figure on the work, for he has been informed that Mr. A. is going to make an estimate on the work, and he is afraid of the laughter of Mr. A. and other competitors if he figures too low. On the other hand, if he figures high he receives the ridicule of the owner and his friends. So between two fires, as it were, he is in a quandary, and at times, when all is over, it would have been some more money in his pocket if he received the ridicule.

In talking over this matter of estimating on work with men who are in the business, it is refreshing, to say the least, to hear their different opinions given in regard to the estimate of master painters who are in active business. The consensus of opinion is, however, that there is but a small percentage of men doing business to-day that know how to make an estimate on our work. This is not through a lack of' knowledge of the business, however, for it has been proved many times that the most practical, or, in other words, that the very best workmen are not the most successful in the painting and decorating business.

That there is something in this which has not received much attention at our many meetings and conventions is my purpose to demonstrate to you. I would state right here that. no better subject for discussion or argument could be brought before a meeting than differences in estimates and the causes leading to the same.

I have a very vivid recollection of a good piece of advice given me by a dear friend upon entering the painting business. It ran in this way '' When you figure on a piece of work be careful and do not base your estimate on a day's work you can perform yourself. You will do a wiser act by basing your estimate on the amount accomplished by your employees." I have never forgotten the advice so given, and many times, when estimating and acting on my friend's advice, I have congratulated myself when informed that my figure was too high, or that Mr. B. could figure closer than I could, and that he had been awarded the job.

In looking over the ground, if I might be allowed to use the expression, the man or firm who always aims to get the lowest figures do not at all times prove to be the most successful, either in reputation or financial standing, and the opinion of those who claim to know is that the man who aims to strike a medium is generally the

Paper read before Massachusetts Society Master House Painters and Decorators

most successful, and he is certainly respected by his competitors.

Many of you will say, and with reason, too, that if we were to strike a medium all the time we would not get any business ; we would lay around our places of business and trade would go by'. There, I think, is where you are mistaken, for if all men were to try and arrive at that point there would be little variation in estimates for doing a certain specified work. In making an estimate I would advise all of you to figure on work just as it is specified, and pay no attention to verbal instruction that is often gratuitously given when figuring plans by an interested bidder ; for you can rest assured that when specifications are written the owner or his agent will try pretty hard to have them carried out, regardless of the opinions of others whose interest caused them to give advice to the contrary when you made your figures.

This is a great cause of difference in estimating. and it is based on this very fact The architect, if questioned in regard to specifications. will inform you that he will have them carried out to the letter ; the contractor or builder will say You suit Mr. A., the owner, or his agent, and I will be perfectly satisfied."

I have known master painters who have acted on verbal instruction to get beautifully stuck in trying to carry out a contract not wholly in accord with specifications, but entirely so with verbal instructions they have received, and strictly so, for the money they have been paid, for the material furnished and the labor performed.

Is it a matter of surprise that many men get tired and weary of the strain in trying to do an honest and fair business when confronted with ways and means like this? I suppose it is another illustration of the survival of the fittest," but this is not. all applicable in this particular trade, as the very men who become disheartened and discouraged are better qualified and better equipped practically to carry on the business than are many who are to-day doing a successful business. The latter are men, you must understand, who are willing and prompt to decline verbal instruction when estimating on work they propose figuring on doing the work in accordance with specifications as they are written. I believe nearly all men are perfectly honest in figuring on work, but they differ on what we will call the point of view in which they look at it.

I have seen men looking around the outside of a house ; in fact, pace the distance around and guess the height and put in an estimate on that basis. This is to me rather a poor foundation for basing an estimate. Another will call and guess that three of us can paint this side down in a day, three for the opposite, two for the rear, and, say, four for the front—twelve days for one coat, twenty-four days for two coats ; and there are twenty pairs of blinds will allow four days for them. Now, to get at the amount of stock required he guesses again that it will take about 35 pounds of lead and colors to make the necessary tints. Then the question arises, How much oil will he use? He happens, luckily, to think he is using lead that requires seven gallons of oil to the hundred. Then he wants some Japan. By the time he has all this detail figured out another painter has been along, measured the house, put in his bid, and possibly has made a start on the work when the detail painter comes along to put in his estimate.

On another job a master painter will make an estimate by comparison. He will say to himself or party he is

