<doctype type="text;ad">

At the annual convention of the Canadian Manufacturers' 



Association held recently in Montreal, Mr. C. S. Osman, of the Albert Manufacturing Co., Hillsborough, N. B., was elected vice-president for New Brunswick.

Rapid progress is being made with the erection	of the works or



the National Portland Cement Co., at Durham, ()nt. The buildings will be or steel, with walls of cement and will be fireproof. Contracts for he machinery have been awarded, and the plant is arriving

daily. The works will be operated by electricity		and will have a



capacity of 1,000 barrels per day.



Skill in Building, according to Professor Aitchison's second

lecture on St Peter's recently delivered before the Royal Academy, is commonly reckoned by the ratio of the points of support to the whole area of the building. Guilt gives the ratio in the Pantheon at Rome as 0.232, and those of five other cathedrals are, St. Peter's at Rome, 0.261; St. Sophia at Constantinople, 0.217 Florence Cathedral, 0.201 St. Paul's at London, 0.170 St. Genevieve at Paris, 0.154 All have large domes. The area of the points of support of St. Peters is 59,308 square feet, while the whole area of the Pantheon is hut 34,328 feet, which affords some idea of the relative magnitude of the two structures.





Lincrusta Walton

(The Sunbury Wall Decoration)

	Solid in Relief.	Solid in Color

Artistic Decorations for Walls and Ceilings. Will stand any climate and never wear out.



For Price Lists, Illustrations, Samples, Etc., write to





Fred Walton & Co.,

1 NEWMAN STREET LONDON. W.

 Limited

Sole Manufacturers an Patentees.

New high relief material for Ceilings and Friezes, is Firm in Relief and Light in Weight.

Beautiful as Plaster at much less cost. A large assortment of cheap patterns in low relief.

Canadian Agents

ARTHUR LAURENT, John St., Quebec.

F.	T. BAGSHAVE, Assinnboine Block, Winnipeg.





Elevators, Enclosures and Cars Iron Stairs of every description

	Ornamental Railings for Offices	and Banks,



Fire Escapes, Etc.



Columns and Castings of all kinds.





John Watson & Son,

Architectural IRON Works



59-63	Dalhousie Street,

	Phone, Main 4189x,	Montreal Que.













Don Valley Brick Works

ROBERT DAVIES, Proprietor



UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT. PLANT INCREASED. CAPACITY GREATER THAN EVER.



Fine Grade Pressed Bricks in Standard Colors.

	Vitrified Paving Bricks.	Ornamental Bricks for Mantel Purposes.

	Foundation Bricks.	Stock Bricks.

Examine our Foundation Brick before specifying stone.

A cordial invitation is extended to visit he yard. WORKS, DON VALLEY. OFFICE, 34 TORONTO STREET, TORONTO









Combination Union Valve Elbow

	Patented January	30	1900





For Hot Water

Is more elegant in design than a Valve or an Elbow. It is quick opening (Qr. turn) and adjustable to either end of the radiator. It has a true curved, full sized water way which reduces friction. It is neatly and compactly made of valve metal and packed ready to use. It has rough body, with finished trimmings and is nickel plated all over.

Operated with the foot. Costs no more than a



valve. Every one warranted.





THE ROBERT MITCHELL CO., LIMITED - MONTREAL

	Sold to the Trade Only.	Sole Licensees for the Dominion of Canada	Send for Discounts.