<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

<article title=" LONDON BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

THE third annual meeting of the above Exchange was held on Jan. 21st.

The board of directors presented in their report a resume of the business transacted during the year, and offered some suggestions for the welfare of the Exchange, which were approved and adopted. Their report concluded with an expression of sorrow at the sudden prostration of Queen Victoria and the hope for her speedy recovery. The valor of the Canadian volunteers who went to South Africa in defense of the Empire was also referred to, and approval expressed of the proposal to erect a suitable memorial to the memory of those who died while on the expedition.

Subsequently, having approved of these sentiments, the Exchange referred to the incoming board the question of setting apart a sum from the funds of the Exchange towards the erection of a soldiers' memorial.

The following are the officers elect for the present year Thos. Jones (of Messrs. Jones Bros.,) president

John Nutkins, vice-president; Geo. Howe, 2nd vice-president ; Geo. S. Gould, secretary-treasurer. Direct-











































ors Win. Tytler, E. Fitzgerald, Ed. Martyn, John Whittaker, Win. Jeffery.

THE NEW PRESIDENT.



Mr. Thos. Jones, who has been chosen as president of the Exchange for 1901, is one of the most successful contractors in the city, and is well qualified to advance the prosperity of the organization over whose affairs he has been called to preside.

Mr. Jones came to London from the old country when a young man. After working at his trade of carpenter and joiner for a few years, he in conjunction with his brother John, commenced business about 20 years ago as contractors and builders, Under their good management the business rapidly developed until today they stand second to none in this line.

Having large interests at stake, Mr. Jones was induced to serve as alderman for some years, and while in the council looked after the interests of the rate-payers so Faithfully that he was repeatedly requested to become a candidate for Mayor. Up to the present the requirements of his business have prevented him from complying with this request. Undoubtedly however, in the near future he will be the worthy occupant of the Mayor's chair.

TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE." author="">

The annual meeting of the Builders' Exchange of Toronto was held on Monday, January 21st, in their new quarters, Yonge street arcade.

The following members were present J. B. Thomson, Geo. Gore, R. Hewitt & Son, Edwd. Gearing,

Win. Forbes, Geo. Henry, J. C. Gilchrist, C. Reeve,

A.	P. Steward, J. H. Morrison, Mr. Macdonell, J. F.



Lyon, F. Saunders, Jos. Russell, R. Chalkley, Thos.

Cannon, jr.; Robert Harrison, Fred. Beharriell, F. E.

Phillips, Chas. Davies, J. M. Faircloth, Jas. Bather,

Geo. Morley, D. Robertson, Jno. Maloney, W. D.

Hutson, Ben. Brick, Win. Holbrook, Wm. Booth, Jas.

Crang, J. B. Vick, S. Hughes, R. G. Kirby, Thos.

Robinson, J. C. Russell, Jno. M. Gander, H. W. Johnston, Mr. Hoidge, Geo. Duthie, Thos. Murray, W. F.

Payne, J. C. Bayliss, Jno. Lucas, Jas. Wickett.

The 2nd vice-president, Mr. J. B. Thompson, occupied the chair.

The treasurer's report showed the finances to be in good shape.

The directors' report showed that the Exchange had increased in membership during the past three years, and fully warranted the renting of more extensive quarters.

The election of officers for 1901 resulted as follows President, Thos. Christie ; 1st Vice-President, Jas. B. Thomson ; 2nd Vice-President, Joseph Russell Treasurer, David Williams. Directors, R. G. Kirby, J. M. Faircloth, Jas. Crang, John Logan, Geo. Duthie, W.

J. Hynes, Ben. Brick, John Vokes, Win. Pears. Auditors, Geo. Clay, Frederick Holmes. Representative on Board of Industrial Exhibition, H. Martin.

A vote of thanks to the retiring officers was unanimously adopted.



USEFUL HINTS.

The manufacture of asphalt paper pipe is outlined in a recent patent issued to Mr. Albert S. Dixon, of Los Angeles, C. J. A continuous strip of paper is run through a bath of maltha, then through a bath of asphalt, and finally spirally on a mandrel, wire being wound between the convolution of the paper at the same time.

REMOVING RUST AND GREASE SPOTS FROM MARBLE.— Rust spots on marble, says the Painters' Magazine, are usually produced when articles of iron are laid upon the wet marble or allowed to rest upon marble in a humid atmosphere. These spots penetrate rather deeply, as marble is very porous, and can be removed only by rubbing the marble deep enough to obliterate the spots and then repolish the surface. As even the weakest acids will destroy marble, such radical treatment cannot be thought of, or oxalic acid would be the proper remedy. Grease spots from paint, oil, or from touching with dirty hands can be removed by applying to the surface a stout batter made from equal parts of slaked lime and white pipe-clay mixed with water, or calcined magnesia and white pipe-clay will also serve the purpose. This batter is applied in a thick layer all over the surface and allowed to remain for two days, during which time it must be frequently moistened with water and only allowed to dry after the two days are over, when it is removed by wiping it off with a soft cloth. Then the surface is polished with a piece of soft leather and the finest bolted whiting. Artificial marble, however, cannot be treated in this way, as this article will not stand it.

