<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	117

 PERSONAL



The sons of the late Thos. Haskins, who was for many years city engineer of Hamilton, have recently had erected a memorial window in St. Thomas Church.



Mr. Thos. C. Sorby, architect, of Vancouver, B.C., is writing a series of articles on ''Domestic Architecture in England During the Middle Ages," for the American Architect.



Mr. W. H. Law, late chief engineer of the Hamilton Bridge Company, has been placed in charge of the structural iron department of the Canada Foundry Company, Toronto.



Mr. J. 0. Marchand, of Montreal, who has just completed a course of study in architecture at the Ecole Des Beaux Arts, Paris, has distinguished himself by winning a competition in design over the heads of 400 rivals of all nationalities. He has been awarded a first-class medal, and his work has been purchased for the library of the school.



Mr. Henry B. Gordon, of the firm of Gordon & Helliwell, architects, of Toronto, has gone to Corea, having received a commission from the King, to supervise the erection of a new palace, hospital and other important buildings. He expects to be absent at least a year. Previous to his departure his many friends tendered him a complimentary banquet at McConkey's and presented him with an illuminated address.



Mr. G. F. Todd, landscape architect, of Montreal, spent a few days in Toronto recently, and was a guest at the weekly luncheon of the Ontario Association of Architects. He had also an inter— view with the Mayor regarding the improvement of the Industrial Exhibition grounds on the lines suggested by the 0. .A., and the laying out of central squares, and such like methods of improving the appearance of the city.



An English paper states that Mr. Edwin 0. Sachs, the architect under whose direction a series of valuable tests of fire proofing materials is being conducted in London, is not vet thirty years of age, but has already started four times at the lowest rung of the ladder—not as a necessity, but as a means of instruction. As an architect, lie started by working as a bricklayer for four months. As an engineer, he worked in the smithy. To under— stand stage construction he became sceneshifter at halt-a-crown a

night for four hours' labour ; and, lastly, to learn everything connected with fire and its prevention, Mr. Sachs joined a fire brigade for six months in Vienna, afterwards serving in Berlin.



<article title=" SASH CORD " author="">

SASH CORD.



Too little attention is paid to the small item of Sash Cord. A poor quality rough cord wears out in a very short time and requires the services of a carpenter, while a good smooth solid braided cotton cord wears for many years.



In order that users of sash cord may always feel sure of getting a first quality cord, having the very best reputation for man)' years, the Samson Cordage Works adopted some years ago as a trade mark the "Colored Spot," appearing at intervals in the cord. This is used only in their first quality cord, which should be specified as '' Samson Spot Cord." The manufacturers will be glad to furnish copies of tests made by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and full information together with samples.





Mr. W. 1". Tallman, who for some years was engaged with his father in the manufacture of brick, at Beamsville, Out., has gone to Edmonton N. W. T to assume the management of a brick-making plant about to be put into operation there by Messrs. P. Anderson & Company. It is expected that the plant will commence operations this month. It will be located between Strathcona and Edmonton on a line of railway now surveyed. The plant will be quite extensive, having a capacity of 50,000 bricks per day, and although there are three other plant s in the town, it is anticipated that all the brick manufactured by the different plants will be required for construction in Edmonton and vicinity. No stone is procurable within a distance of one hundred miles, and as a result brick is used for foundation purposes. in the town of Edmonton alone it is estimated that 4,000,000 bricks will be used this year. It is probable that, in addition to common brick, the company will manufacture sewer pipe, sidewalk brick, and if the clay should be found suitable, pressed brick also. In Mr. Tahlman, the company have secured a manager whose ability and experience warrants the prediction of successful operations.





 CANADA FOUNDRY

COMPANY, LIMITED,

(SUCCESSORS TO ST. LAWRENCE FOUNDRY COMPANY OF TORONTO)









Engineers, Founders and Machinists





STRUCTURAL IRON AND STEEL WORK

Beams, Channels, Angles, Tees and

Cast Iron Columns always in stock.

WRITE OR 'PHONE FOR ESTIMATES AND PRICES