<doctype type="text">32	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of vestibule into porch is a serious defect, and takes away from the usefulness of the floor space. The general character of the design is simple and pleasing and shows an appreciation of the natural use of materials employed. It also has a domestic feeling, which is appropriate. The rendering, though somewhat rough and careless, is fairly effective.

"The Imp" shows a cleanly executed drawing, without exhibiting much knowledge of effective line work, particularly in the shadows under porch and the trees in the distance. The plan itself deserves special mention, being probably the best sent in, the steps directly opposite the doorway leaving the octagonal space available for use, without being interrupted by the traffic to the front door.

"Ajacks" (Ajax?)—This plan would be improved by giving more projection in front of house, but is radically defective in that traffic from steps to door leaves balance of floor space of little use. As to design, the idea is good, but not backed up by sufficient display of knowledge of classic details, as shown by omitting abacus of caps in elevation, and although the Ionic order seems intended, the cornice is altogether too radical a departure from accepted forms.

GRANT HELLIWELL

	JOHN GEMMELL		0. A. A. Committee.

	A.	H. GREGG



The names of successful competitors in the competition for porch are :—"In Haste" (Mr. Wilfrid A. Gag-

Temple Building

non, 509	,, Montreal), awarded first

place ; "Gains," (Mr. D. W. F. Nichols, 28 Toronto street, Toronto), awarded second place "Dodeka," Mr. W. F. Sheppard, 28 Toronto street, Toronto), awarded third place.—Editor C. A. & B.]

<article title=" ORGANIZATION OF STUDENTS " author="">

ORGANIZATION OF STUDENTS.

AT a meeting held a fortnight ago an organization of the architectural students in Toronto was effected, and the following officers appointed President, D.

W. Nicholls ; vice-president, E. H. Russell ; secretary-treasurer, A. M. Weir, 225 Clinton street.

A second meeting was held on the 5th inst., when after disposing of some routine business, the students attended in a body the lecture given by Mr. Kelsey under the auspices of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club.

A third meeting was held on the 2nd inst., when a small summer cottage was set as the subject for design by the members, Mr. J. P. Hynes acting as critic. At this meeting it was decided that the members would attend and support the studio work under the auspices of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club. It was also decided to request the editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER to give greater attention to the Students Column in that publication, and that the club would support any competition for students which might from time to time be conducted by the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER.





A method of keeping track of the names of the colors in a tin color box is to paste upon the flap each of the labels. The colors and labels will bear a relative position to one another. When the case is used this idea is a good one but a better scheme is to paste the label to the pan, then the color tells its own name.

Draughtsmen experience an annoyance sometimes by having their Indian inks upset. This bother may be overcome by making a little wooden stand in which are bored a number of holes comparing with the number of colored inks used.

MR. F. S. BAKER.

Mr. F. S. Baker, first vice-president of the Ontario

Association of Architects, has recently been elected a

Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects.

Mr. Baker is the first Canadian to receive this honor.

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

A special general meeting of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects was held last month in the association's rooms, 112 Mansfield street, when several amendments to the by-laws were adopted. The chair was occupied by Mr. Jos. Venne, the vice-president. There were present: Prof. Capper, Messrs. Alcide Chausse, J. S. Archibald, A. H. Lapierre, L. A. Amos, C. Dufort, M. Helbronner, A. C. Hutchison, G. N. Hutchison, Raoul Lacroix, R. P. Lernay, Quebec,

J. P. Ouellet, Quebec, George W. Wood, Eugene Payette and Alp. Venne.

Before proceeding to the business of the evening











































this resolution was passed, read by Prof. Capper, all members standing

Resolved That the Province of Quebec Association of Architects expresses its deep grief at the sad tidings received of the death of Victoria, Queen and Empress, the beloved sovereign of this Empire, recording its profound sense of the national loss that has befallen all who share in the noble heritage bequeathed to her people by her long and blameless life of beneficent constitutional rule.''

The date of the annual meeting was changed from September to January, which was considered to be a more convenient date, as the books of the association are closed on December 31st. The council will meet twice a month, first and third Tuesdays, instead of once, as heretofore. Examinations will take place both in Montreal and Quebec, if there are candidates in each

place.	_________________







The twenty second annual exhibition of the Royal Canadian Academy of Art will be held in the galleries of the Ontario Society of Architects, Toronto, on April 12th. An effort will be made to send a representative collection of Canadian art to the Pan American Exhibition at Buffalo.



Mr. Richard Dinnis, the well known builder, of Toronto, delivered a lecture on the 8th inst., in the Beverley Street Baptist church in that city, on Rambles in Italy." The lecture, which was illustrated by stereopticon views, was highly interesting and greatly appreciated.

