<doctype type="text">200	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

will be found handy in loading and unloading stuff. The total cost of a factory of this kind, including machines described, a 70 horse power engine, line shafting, belts, good blower system dry kiln and all











































buildings complete, will be somewhere between eight and nine thousand dollars. Machines and engine to

be up—to—date and new.	We will be pleased to hear

from experienced factory men on this subject.		Per—

Imps some useful suggestions as to machines and placing them, can be offered to S. McV.

<article title=" LAYING HOUSE DRAINS " author="">

LAYING HOUSE DRAINS.

A drain may be watertight, but if not properly laid, deposits will occur, and, sooner or later, a stoppage will result. The main drain should be straight and laid to a regular gradient. Before breaking ground, it is necessary, says an English builders' journal, to strain a line 01) the surface over the intended site of the drain. By so doing, when the bottom of trench is reached, there will be no need to cut under at different parts of the trench in order that the line may strain clear of the sides. The width of trench should not be less than 2 feet.

The trench being excavated to its approximate depth, the next thing is to fix an interceptor, for from this we must determine the fall. Before fixing the interceptor. that part of the drain that connects the trap to sewer must. be tested for clearness by passing rods through. In fixing the interceptor, don't fix it at a dead level, but with a slight fall to sewer ; it assists in passing solid matter quicker through the trap.

From the inlet of this trap we now take our fall for the main drain, which should be about one in forty, or

in.	in 5 feet. Sometimes, however, there is only just sufficient depth from the trap to the upper end of drain for a slight fall, and this has to be evenly distributed throughout the length of drain. To know how much we have for a fall we must take a level along the surface of ground from the point above the trap to the upper end of drain, measure down from level to bottom of inlet of trap, also from level to bottom of drain at upper end. Deduct the depth of upper end from the depth at lower end, and the remainder will give the amount of available fall. For example, suppose the interceptor is 3 feet below surface, and allow 11 feet below surface at upper end, and the length of

drain is 100 feet, then 3 feet 1 foot 2 feet, thus we have 2 feet fall. Now 100 feet 2 feet gives us 112 In. in 6 feet 3 in. Now get a straightedge 6 feet 3 in. long, nailing on one end a piece of board 1/2 in. thick, and place this end level with the lower part. of inlet. of the trap, and at the other end you drive a peg in the middle of trench so that the straightedge can rest upon

it.	By noting when level will he the proper height of the first peg, continue throughout the length of drain, the pegs standing 4 feet 6 in. above the bottom of trench for concrete. The branch drains need not be of the same gradient as the main drain. They generally come up sharper from the junction to the gully or fixture. The proper way to determine the fall is by fixing the gully temporarily in its proper position, also the junction with its branch inlet well above the bottom of trench. A line or straightedge from inlet of junction to outlet of gully will be the gradient level for concrete.

Concrete is next laid in to level of pegs in fact, ruled oil to top of pegs, so that the pipes, when laid, shall be even on the top. When the concrete is set., the next thing is to drive a long chisel by the side of the interceptor and another at the upper end of drain

then strain a line from these two points at the height of centre of sockets. All is now ready for laying the pipes the most important part of which is making the joints.



In making and finishing joints proceed as follows



Tap each pipe for soundness before laying, rake out a little concrete near the joint of pipe so that the hand can be got well under the socket fill in the socket of pipe with cement all round flush with the bore of pipe



then insert the spigot end, forcing it well against the shoulder of the socket, causing the cement to 1111 out the joint in every part. Do not finish the joint at once, but proceed to lay another pipe, taking care that the inside of pipe is cleared after making every joint. By the time the second pipe is in position tile first. joint will be getting stiff fall back on this joint and form a ring of cement well sloped all round it. Lay a third pipe, and then finish off the first joint by

ironing '' it well with the trowel, leaving it neat and clean. In fixing a gully or closed trap yon cannot clean the inside of joint. as in a straight



pipe ; you must either make the joint from tile out side caulking it first, or a ball made of rag with string attached must first be inserted in the drain before fixing the trap. The joint is then made in the usual manner, taking care that the end of string is placed in tile trap before fixing, so that the rag ball can be pulled through the trap at the completion of joint, clearing away any superfluous cement. inside. Sometimes under the floor of house a joint will come just where it is awkward to get at. To get over this, take two pipes, placing one in t lie of her vertically and make the joint in this upright position ion. When the joint t is hard the two pipes can be laid as one only sufficient cement t to be gauged for one joint at the t time and it is as well to test tile cement in the bag by thrusting your bare arm into it.

It should be comfortably	warm.



In some cases the Joints are first caulked with h gasket, and the cement added afterwards, but generally and



preferably the joints are made with cement alone, for this reason The sockets are about 1/4 in. in depth, arid, in inserting the gasket the depth becomes less,

with a corresponding	reduction in the	volume of	cement

