<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	213

priatencss to buildings designed in this particular style, is as clearly apparent as is its misapplication to buildings of every class. The man who paints white his gothic fronted house on the strength of the pleasing impression made upon him by the effect of white paint on the broad overhanging eaves of his neighbor's residence, will suffer a severe disappointment. Like many other good things white paint is '' all right " when put in the right place, but is '' all wrong " when placed otherwise. Just here comes in the difference between the trained and the untrained architect or painter—the one knows with certainty what materials and methods will secure a pleasing and satisfactory result, the other guesses at it, and misses more often than hits the mark at which he has aimed.





Mr. Harry Hems, the well known sculptor, of Exeter, who was in South Africa last year, contributes to the British Architect some impressions of the building materials and methods in use in that country. Under this head he says :—" The bricks at Cape Town were the most rotten things I ever saw in my life, and the building, for that matter, more particularly outside the actual capital, is precisely as bad. Buildings appear to be carried up rough, cheap, and very nasty, the wretched bricks being laid in clay mortar, and then their faces slobbered over with plaster. Foundations are built of stone rubble ; also with so called mortar, which is, pure and simply, clay. Stores and large business places are carried up with the same horrible bricks just as roughly as humbler edifices, the walls afterwards being covered over with red plaster, and then pointed down to imitate proper brickwork— all artificial and a sham ! There appears to be no recognized Building Act or by-laws. The municipal authorities have a few simple regulations and rules, but they are practically totally ignored. Fiar clay, I am told, is to he found on the Cape Flats and the kaolin in the Cape district, but I confess to never having seen

it.	On the other hand, in Natal—' the Garden Colony'—

—splendid red bricks are to be seen in many parts. At Pietermarizburg I was much struck with the excellence of the bricks and the capital manner in which they appear, almost invariably, to be laid. At Makeking, in Bechuanaland, I found the bricks mostly in use to be simply sun-dried- --made of a mixture much like Devonshire " ccb "—and each measuring about two feet by one foot by one foot. The Post Office, for instance, at that gallant little place is built of these big unburnt bricks. As one gets farther north the cost of building materials naturally increases. At Bulawayo, at the time I refer to fair bricks could be procured for 70s. a thousand ; whilst at Gwelo, rather more than

100 miles further on towards Salisbury, the same kind of brick cost £6 a thousand."



Scientists connected with the Dominion Department of Agriculture have been working upon what promises to be a very interesting discovery, namely, that all objects in nature are covered with a very thin coating of liquid air. It appears, according to this idea, that the walls of houses, the furniture of rooms and the ground over which persons walk are all spread over with a thin film of air in this highly concentrated state. The basis of this theory is the fact that any solid has the property of condensing upon its surface gases or the vapors of liquids, such as the water vapor of the atmosphere. If the wall of the room is touched with the

finger it encounters, not the wall itself, but a film of gas that covers it. This film is not composed of one gas however, but of several, the molecules of which have adhered to the surface of the wall. In addition to the water vapor there are oxygen, nitrogen and carbonic acid gases. Taking them all together they go to make up something which would probably, if one could analyze it, be indistinguishable from liquid air. These gases, together with more or less water vapor, say the scientists compose the air of the room. The molecules are darting about in every direction, and as they come in contact with the wall some of them adhere to it. Countless numbers of them together, it is held, form the thin film described. To get rid of the thin film of liquid air, it is stated, one may employ heat, and by raising the temperature of the wall the coating of gas may be thinned gradually until it is entirely driven off.

<article title=" THE NECESSITY OF CARE IN EXCAVATING " author="">

THE NECESSITY OF CARE IN EXCAVATING.

The importance of careful work in excavating and reinforcing old foundations and preventing all chance of under-mining them when disturbed is demonstrated, says the Engineering Record, by a recent accident to a building on East Thirty-fifth Street, New York. A new cellar was being carried down about 10 feet below the rubble foundations of the brick side wall of a four-storey brown stone front residence. The excavation was made up to a vertical plane in the face of the existing wall through very soft rotten stone which could be crumbled in the fingers. No sheeting or underpinning was attempted, and no support was given to the building except by some horizontal cross-braces between its side wall and the adjacent building on the next lot, reaching across the excavation, and some of them bearing against the middle of the wall between floors. The side of the excavation caved in, leaving a sloping bank with a steep angle running back several feet into the basement of the house and carrying out about 20 feet of the footing and a section of the wall above, about 10 feet high in the middle. Fortunately the wall was of such good construction that the bricks arched and carried the upper part over the opening without causing the collapse of the whole building. Pairs of long steel I-beams were immediately set as needle-beams to carry the wall above the break, and were supported on vertical wedged shores from the bottom of the excavation and on jackscrews set on longitudinal sills on the basement floor 10 feet or more back from the wall so as to be beyond the crumbling edge of the bank. The wall was thus held until underpinned.



TORONTO ENGINEERS' CLUB.

<article title=" TORONTO ENGINEERS' CLUB " author="">

The Club has resumed its weekly luncheons and has changed the day from Saturday to Monday. At the regular meeting on December 5th a discussion will be held on " Wireless Telegraphy" introduced by Mr. T.

R.	Rosebrugh, of the School of Practical Science. At the meeting on the L9th of December, Mr. W. H. Tatton, Chief of the Railway Signal Service, will give a paper on " Interlocking Railway Signals."

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

A water color class has been organized under the direction of Mr. C. M. Manly, the well known water color artist. The class will meet in the Association rooms every Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Quite a number of persons have already joined. The first meeting was held on the 23rd inst.

The weekly luncheons in the Association rooms every Tuesday have been successfully continued throughout the summer, and since the close of the vacation season, the attendance has steadily increased.

