<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	'49

MONTREAL PLUMBING BY-LAW.

<article title=" MONTREAL PLUMBING BY-LAW " author="">

Following are the full provisions of By-Law No. 215, of the City of Mont real, concerning plumbing and the drain— age and ventilation of buildings, as adopted by the Council of that city on June 12th last —Sect. i —No person, firm or corporation shall, after the

first of September, 1901, engage in or work at the business of plumbing, either as. a master or employing plumber, unless such person, firm or corporation, has received a license or certificate therefor in accordance with the provisions of this By-law relating to these as hereinafter contained.

I ) The word Master Plumber," as used in these regulations, shall be deemed to mean one who employs p1-ac— tical plumbers or journeymen plumbers, and who keeps

a shop or piace of business for which he is held to pay

a business tax to the city.

(2)	Any person engaged in or working at the business of plumbing, prior to the passing of this By-law, and desiring to engage in or work at said business, either as a master or employing plumber in the City of Montreal, shall on or before tile first of September, 1901, apply to the Board of Examiners hereinafter provided for, to be examined as to his qualifications, for such business.

(3 ) In ease of a firm or corporation, the examining and licensing of and granting a certificate to any one member of the firm or the manager of the corporation, shall satisfy the requirements of this By-law.

(4)	There shall be a Board of Examiners of plumbers, consisting of the Building Inspector or his assistant, the Sanitary Engineer ( who shall be a member of the Board ex-officio ) , and a licensed master plumber of at least ten years practical experience,to be appointed by time City Council, for the term of two years at a tone. Said third meinlier to receive as compensation for his services a sum not exceeding five dollars a day of actual service.

 The said Board of Examiners shall then appoint a chairman, and designate the time and place for the examination of all applicants desiring to engage in the business of within the City of Montreal. Said Board shall examine said applicants as to their practical knowledge of plumbing, house drainage, amid plumbing ventilation, and shall submit the applicant to some form of practical tests, and if satisfied of the competency of the applicant, shall so certify and issue a lice.nse, authorizing him to engage in the business of plumbing in Montreal, either as a master or employing plumber.

(6)	The fee for a license shall be five (lollarsi for a master or employing plumber, and said license shall be  renewed yearly, on tIme payment of one dollar.

PLUMBING, DRAINAGE AND VENTILATION OF BUILDINGS.

<article title=" PLUMBING, DRAINAGE AND VENTILATION OF BUILDINGS " author="">

Sect. 2.—Every master plumber shall lie required to register his name and place of business at the office of the Board of Health, and to give notice at time said office in ease of the removal of his place of business.

(1)	. An official list of such plumbers, recognized by tile Board of Health, shall lie posted, once a year (luring tile mouth of May, and copies thereof shall lie furnished to those who may ask for the same.



(2)	. It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on the trade of plumbing in time City of Montreal, unless licensed or registered as above.



3 )	Every licensed master plumber shall lie held re— sponsible for all tIme acts of ins agents or employees, and any licensed plumber who neglects or refuses to comply with tile provisions of this By-law, may have his license suspended or cancelled by the Board of Health, in which case lie shall be barred from obtaining a permit to do any work durimig such length of time as the sai(l Board may deem proper.

Sect. 3.—All plumbing and house drainage, and ventila—  tion in the City, shall be made an(l constructed iii accordance with the following rules, which shall lie binding on all partics concerned.



(1)	. No drains shall be made, or plumbing work done in any building, until a permit to do so has been obtained from time Sanitary Engineer.

2 ) .	No alteration of drains or plumbing work ill any buildimig affecting its. sanitary condition shall be under— taken before givimig notice to the Sanitary Engineer. Forms of application, and specification for the drains and plumbing work of a new building amid for alteration of time same in old buildings, will be supplied by the Health  Department. 

93 ) .	Pipes, drains and plumbing work shall not be covered or concealed from view, until approved by time Inspector of the Board of health, who shall examimme time same within two legal working days, after notice that they are ready for inspection.

4) .	Time immaterial used shall be of good quality amid free frommi defects, amid time work shall lie executed in a thorough amid workmanlike manner.

Sect. 4.- The arrangement of time soil, waste and ventilation pipes shall be as perpendicular and direct as possible.



i ) .	The soil, drain, waste and drain ventilation pipes shall lie exposed to view, ready f,ir inspection and for comiveniemice in repairing.

2 ) .	when necessarily placed within partitions or recesses of walls, soil, drain, waste or ventilation pipes shall lie covered with woodwork, so fastened with hinges or round headed screws, as to be readily uncovered.

Sect. 5.—Every house or building shall he separately amid independently connected with time street' sewer, imi front of such house or building, or with such other sewer as shall lie designated by the Board of Health.

Sect. 6.—Interior house clraimms when above ground shall be of extra heavy east iron pipe. When laid under ground, draimms shall he of east iroum or vitrified clay pipe, and shall have a fall of at least 1-4 iimch to tIme foot. Where water-closets discharge into them, the pipes shall be at least four inches amid not more than six inches in diameter and be laid in a straight line if possible. All changes in direction shall be made with curved pipes when of cast iron, andl with Y pipes when of vitrified clay andl at least one clean-omit length shall be provided at each change of direction.



In all cases of soft ground, vitrifiedl clay pipes must be laid upon at least four inches of comicrete.

Sect. 7.—No liricks, sheet metal, earthenware, or chimney flue, shall he used as a sewer ventilator, or to vemuti— late any trap, drain, soil or waste pipe.

Sect. 8.——Soil pipes shall be of cast iron of the weights specified in section 15 and shall extend at least 2 feet above the highest part of the roof, or coping, undiminished mum size, and in no case shall they lie less than 4 inches in diameter; where the soil ventilating pipes conic within 15 feet of any windows, open lauvres, or other openings, they muse be carried miii 5 feet ah)dmve top of such window or opening.

Soil, waste and vent pipes, in an extension, shall be carried above the roof of the main building when they are closer than 20 feet to tIme windows of the main building.

Sect. 9.—All traps shall lie adequately protected frommi syphommage or air pressore, by vent pipes of a size not less hami one and a. half inch in diameter ventedl by tIme open air through time roof, unless where antisyphomi traps or other approved devices are used.

Sect. 10.-Joints of sewers amid soil pipes shall he gas amid water tiglmt.

Sect. 11 .—When stacks of pipe are required for sinks only, they shah lie carried through time roof and lie Im(it less than 2 inches for 4 simuk-s or 3 inches for over that number hint tIme portion above time roof, in all cases, must be 1 inch greater diameter than that below time roof.

Sect. 12. When head pipes are used to connect fixtures with vertical soil or waste pipes, or to connect traps with vertical vent pipes, they shall miot be lighter than 6 It's. sheet head to the square foot. All such pipes shah lie properly supported to prevent sagging.

Sect. 13.—There shall be no traps iii connection with vertical soil or waste pipes.

Sect. 14.- All pipes shall be sound amid free from holes or cracks.

