<doctype type="text">78	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the sideboard in another ; had it been possible to put the door also in a corner it would have been still more convenient, for in a small dining-room it is in the corners that there is a little space to spare.



The narrow Hampstead building plot, having a southern aspect and the best prospect to the south-east dictated the general arrangement of the house and the placing of the best room at the south-east corner. This room is spanned by two arches to carry the wall of the study over ; within one of them is placed the fire recess with seats and fitment, thus using up all the space under the stairs to add to the size and character of the room, while the stairs themselves, which are shut off from the vestibule by a door, are also open to the room, the quarter-landing forming a small gallery overlooking

it.





The staircase is such an essentially interesting and decorative feature in a house that it always seems a pity to shut it off in a mere passage, and the space under and around it may be made to add so much to a room













































both in size and individuality. In old houses the charm of such features is well recognized, for the favorite view, alike for the artist and the photographer, is that which contains some peep of stair from the hall, some gallery, balcony, ingle or deep window recess. When the most is made of such advantages as can be claimed for the bare square room, they seem but a poor compensation for the loss of character and charm.

Over the hail in this house are placed the client's studio and bedroom, the two being so combined that both may have the benefit of the whole air-space, bookcases and curtains screening off the bedroom portion. Double doors and double windows are fitted to this room, for perfect quiet both by day and by night is essential, and further to secure this, ventilation is obtained by means of two fire-places with an air shaft built in one of the stacks.

But I must pass on now to cottages, the second part of our subject. I propose to regard as a cottage any house in which separate accommodation is not provided for servants.

To cottages then all that has been said about the advantage of securing a good living-room, even at great sacrifice of other conveniences, applies with additional force. For not only is the total space at our command usually less, but the number of functions which the living room has to provide for is greater, many of the functions of a kitchen being added to it. To combine the comforts of a living-room with the convenience for work of a kitchen will tax our skill in planning, and as the space we can give becomes less our care in the disposal of it must become greater.



Let us again proceed by way of example, taking a rather large cottage designed for a client who wished to live a quiet, simple life, yet on the scale that would allow of his enjoying the more necessary comforts and refinements (see illustration pages). The site is near a small Derbyshire town, and consists of a mound used by the outcrop of some shale grit. The site seemed to demand a simple oblong house with plain open roof kept as low as possible, forming a sort of ridge on the step-sided mound.

The western end of the building naturally becomes the living-room, having plenty of window in the desired













































direction. There is a window to the north to command the best of the view—not a large one certainly, but one so placed that it is natural to look through it from, the outer door, placed there that it may be possible to enjoy the charm which a door opening direct from a room on to a sunny garden always gives. Such a door must, however, be so placed that while the peep out is obtained the comfort of the room is not destroyed. Here we have gathered the two doors and the stair foot together in a narrow part of the room out of the way, leaving all the rest of the space comfortably to occupy. The fire is placed on the north wall, in a deep recess.

To this one good room is added a kitchen for the more dirty work, fitted with a small range, a good cupboard for coats and hats by the entrance, a coal-place and larder. Upstairs are four bed-rooms one being rather narrow has a bed-recess taken off the larger room to help it, and as it is over the low ceiling of the ingle it gets the advantage of extra height under the sloping roof, and thus the low ceiling, which adds so much to the feeling of cosiness in an ingle, is made to help the bedroom over. Where some such arrangement as this is not possible, we sometimes utilize the space between the low ceiling and the floor above as a

