

A CANADIAN ARCHITECT IN KOREA.



The friends of Mr. H. B. Gordon, of the firm of Gordon & Helliwell, architects, Toronto, who left Toronto in June last for a temporary residence in Korea, will be pleased to learn of his safe arrival and good health. Korea, as our readers are aware, is a peninsula jutting out from the northern part of China. The capital, in which Mr. Gordon makes his headquarters, is Seoul. here is the centre of the missionary work in Korea, conducted by the American Presbyterian Missionary Society, in whose employ Mr. Gordon is at present, having been commissioned to design and superintend the erection of a number of buildings for the Society, including a hospital and houses for the missionaries. Mr. Gordon writes that sketches of several of these buildings have already been prepared, but not finally approved. He is at present in China in connection with proposed improvements to the Society's property there. Of the native architecture of Korea, as represented by the hotel in which he is quartered, Mr. Gordon writes as follows

"The hotel is a one story Korean gentleman's house built in Korean style. The compound is enclosed by a wall and has a gate house—nothing very stylish. The buildings consist of the main part built around a court or garden and the servants' quarters built out separately. The walls are a strong frame resting on stone work, and the spaces in frame filled in with 4 1/2 inch brickwork in two colors, viz., red and dark grey. The roof is the strangest and strongest combination of posts and large beams, with rafters made of round beams, covered with small pieces of wood and about 6 ins. to 1 foot of mud, and then roofed with tiles. The spaces between the rafters and the inside walls are plastered and then the whole thing papered. The house

looks quite picturesque from the outside and very quaint within. There are very few two story buildings here, except the foreign houses and the palaces. It is not considered etiquette for a common man to live in a two story house."



KING ALFRED WAS AN ARCHITECT.



The Manchester Society of Architects have presented to the Free Reference Library of that city a chaplet to be hung below the statue of King Alfred, accompanied by the following explanatory notes by the president

It is not generally known, perhaps, that King Alfred was an architect. William of Malmsbury, in his 'Chronicles,' speaks of him as 'not only a lawyer, ruler, mathematician and poet, but also a complete architect.' Of course we know that he rebuilt London, and also really built the towns of Winchester and Dorchester. He was, in fact, a real architect as well as a great many other things. It struck me, as President of the Manchester Society of Architects, that it would be a nice thing to honour his memory, and the society has sent the chaplet, which is made of laurels to indicate his victorious character, and white flowers to indicate his high morality. The society declared that the chaplet should be accompanied by the statement that it was from the President of the Manchester Society of Architects as a token of high respect for the memory of the great monarch, who was the pioneer of English architecture.



A correspondent writing from the newly opened district of Temiscaming in Northern Ontario, states that deposits of a peculiar blue clay have been discovered suitable for brick making, as welt of clay specially adapted to the manufacture pottery and sewer pipe. It is said that capital is being raised with which to establish a pottery.





CANADA FOUNDRY

COMPANY, LIMITED,

(SUCCESSORS TO ST. LAWRENCE FOUNDRY COMPANY OF TORONTO)









Engineers, Founders and Machinists





<doctype type="ad">STRUCTURAL IRON  AND STEEL WORK

Beams, Channels, Angles, Tees and

Cast Iron Columns always in stock.

WRITE OR 'PHONE FOR ESTIMATES AND PRICES