<doctype type="text">54	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

and underwriters are content to expose enormous stocks to the frail protection of sheet glass, or plate glass of large area which may he shattered on every storey in an instant, allowing the heated gases, if not the flames, of an adjacent fire to cause instantaneous ignition on several floors simultaneously.

The severity of our climate in winter presents a difficulty in the application of he water curtain. It is necessary to use what is called the dry system, the piping being kept free of water till it is required.

Among the other external appliances for reducing fire risks may be mentioned stand-pipes, which are carried up to the roofs of tall buildings, with attachments near the sidewalk for connection from steam fire engines or city pressure.

The provision for fighting an external fire from the roofs of the Eaton establishment undoubtedly saved those premises during the progress of the Simpson fire in Toronto in 1895. The internal hazards cover a large range 

Probably the greatest fire loss is occasioned through large undivided areas, not only horizontal but vertical. Until strict and undeviating rules are enforced reducing the area of all compartments containing inflammable material or goods the fire loss will be abnormal. The



structure itself may he built of the most approved fire resisting materials but this will not save the contents. In fact there is danger that the burning of the contents, it great enough in volume, will wreck the building or so seriously damage it that extensive repairs or reconstruction will be involved.

It is equally necessary for the reduction of the fire loss that staircases and elevators should be entirely enclosed and Lilt off from the building by fireproof walls and automatic fireproof doors.

The height of buildings has a direct relation to the proportion of fire loss. It is practically impossible to control a serious fire with present appliances in a building of more than four storeys, or say 45 to 50 feet in height. Buildings of greater height should be built of fire resisting materials, divided into compartment of restricted area, and equipped with automatic sprinklers.

	The partitions forming these compartments	to he

thoroughly effective, should he constructed of brick walls stout enough to stand the hardest usage. The openings in these partitions should he protected with automatic fireproof doors, double for absolute safety.

Thin partitions of 4' terra cotta blocks or concrete on expanded metal in fireproofed structures are sufficient under certain conditions, such as for the sub—divisions in office buildings and places where large accumulations

of inflammable material are not permitted.		These

partitions, as usually constructed, are often a delusion. They have wooden door posts, heads and transoms and sometimes wooden sill pieces which may burn out and wreck the partition. Frequently all the hall partitions in an office building have large openings in the upper third or fourth of their height, filled with ordinary glass which offers no obstacle to the spread of fire between the rooms and halls. To be effective the glazing should he of wire glass in metallic frames, and the framing and doors of metal or protected wood.

The abolition of hollow floors and partitions would greatly reduce the fire loss, as all concealed spaces become flues for the rapid carrying of fire and smoke from one part of a building to another

The strapping of floors arid ceilings for the removal of the foul air from buildings heated by certain descriptions of hot air apparatus has furnished one of the most glaring examples of hazardous construction which it is possible to conceive. The whole building, under this method, is honeycombed with a network of concealed and continuous spaces, and but a spark is needed to reverse the current and carry the fire, almost instantaneously, to every section of the structure. Happily this system of ventilation is becoming obsolete, and none to soon as far as safety from destruction by fire is commenced.

The abolition of hollow construction and the adoption of solid floors and partitions is entirely feasible in all hut exceptional cases, and even in these certain pre

cautions in the way of fire stops could be introduced. All external wood bracketing, cornices and other

exposed woodwork, especially at considerable height, should he abolished ; as good an effect can be obtained with metallic moldings secured to wrot. iron bracketing or frame work.

In the so-called fireproof buildings too little attention is paid to the protection of the girders and columns. The floors are usually of a most solid description, but the parts referred to, which receive the first and greatest impact of heat have frequently but a thin veneer of fire resisting material which breaks or scales off permitting the heated gases to warp and twist the structural members, to the destruction or distortion of the building.

The fire loss could be reduced by constructing each floor as a watertight unit. '[he damage to the contents of lower floors by water only must constitute a large proportion of the fire loss.

It must not he forgotten that the inflammable wood trim and the contents of the best fireproof building ever constructed will burn if ignited. Few fires would spread if the first pail of water could be applied at the opportune moment.

One of the very best means of reducing the fire loss is the automatic and early application of water. This is accomplished by the installation of automatic sprinklers. Every foot of the premises to be protected should he covered making the spread of fire almost impossible under any but the most extraordinary circumstances.

Another important method of reducing the fire loss would he closer inspection of alterations. Frequently an otherwise safe risk is made a very bad one through structural changes in after years, sometimes made by or for tenants or others unacquainted with or careless of the original scheme adopted to make the hazard a safe one.

To sum up, "the best. means of reducing the fire loss" lies largely with the fire underwriters who should en— courage the best class of fire resisting buildings by adopting specially low rates for such, with penalties or increases for every infraction of well defined rules in connection with standard methods of construction and equipment.

The standard building carrying the most favorable rates should be absolutely fireproofed in every particular. The walls should be of brick or- terra cotta, the columns; girders, and beams should he amply protected with terra cotta of good thickness, having- air spaces, and so secured that displacement will he impossible. Little or no wood should be used for floors and trim.

The building should have no large unbroken areas; brick or terra cotta partitions should divide it into sections of moderate size. Stairs and elevators should he completely cut off from the rest of the building with fireproof enclosures and doors. Floors should not be pierced with well holes. Exterior openings on areas, lanes, etc., should be protected with wire glass in metallic sashes or with tin-covered shutters, and those on street frontages with rolling metallic shutters or water curtains. Stand-pipes should he run from sidewalk to roof. A sprinkler equipment should he installed, and each floor should be made a water—tight unit. If the building is of such a height that the city service will not protect the upper storeys a special pumping plant should he installed with stand pipes and hose on every floor and on the roof.

An ascending scale of rates from a very low minimum rate should he adopted, placing adequate penalties or fines in proportion to the departure from the standard of safe building.

High buildings not fireproofed or protected by s sprinklers and shutters should be discriminated against by extra high rates.

Buildings having beams and joists of wood should have open construction, avoiding closed spaces. The joists should be heavy and set a good distance apart, carrying heavy plank floors. All spaces caused by furring out or strapping should have frequent cut-off or fire stops. The areas should be divided as in fire resisting buildings, but with even greater care and of less size. Elevators and stairs should also be similarly cut off.

