<doctype type="text">86	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

































































<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

INTERCOMMUNICATION.

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance.)







In answer to J. McD's question in the ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for March, Mr. John Hanrahan, of Toronto, submits the following























Let X Y be width of verandah, and Z Y be the plan or base line of hip. A G will represent ogee rafter. Draw any number of lines parallel with wall line the more there are the more exact will be the curve of the hip rafter. Draw lines at right angles with line Y Z, where intersected by parallel lines.



Make A A equal to A A

	BB	BB

CC"" CC



&c., which will give the points for curve of hip rafter.





F. E. K. asks:	Can a plastered wall in a building be blackened so that it can be used as a blackboard? If so, how can I prepare a paint to be used to paint it?

ANS:—A good mixture for a wall blackboard can be made by using one pint of shellac varnish to which is added six drahms lampblack, one drahm ultramarine blue, three ounces ground pumice stone, and two ounces of finely ground rottenstone. If too thick to spread on easily

with a brush thin down with alcohol until the right consistency is obtained. Two or three coats will be needed to make it work well. This is perhaps the best mixture in use for this purpose, but, without the wall has been well prepared beforehand, it makes but a sorry excuse for a blackboard, as the plaster will fill with cracks and the black coating will eventually chip off.





W.	T. replying to Peter McL. sends the sketch shown at Fig 2, and writes "I submit my plan of laying down a sill on stone foundation for a balloon frame. It is simple and cheap, being only a 2 x 6 inch.































joist laid on its flat. The joists rest on this and the studs are cut flat-footed and toe-nailed into it. When the studs come down alongside the ends of the joists they may be nailed to the joists and toe-nailed to the sill as well. This will make a strong job of the whole work."



W.	F. D. writes A drain, to be laid from the back to the front of a house, is 72 ft. long and fall of

