<doctype type="text;ad">

RECESSES IN ROOMS,

<article title=" RECESSES IN ROOMS " author="">

Several circumstances belong to recesses which tend to modify their character. Besides those of plan, elevation and section there are others, one of which is that of relative size, as compared with the rest of the plan. Ordinary shallow recesses—which kind might be distinguished by the name of blank recesses, since they are little more than breaks in the wall and do not at all affect the general plan of a room—hardly belong to the subject, since they admit of scarcely any variety. By recesses we here mean those which come under the denomination of exhedrae, tribunes, alcoves, and afford considerable additional space. In plan these may be either curved or rectilinear—that is semi-circular (like the tribune of a Roman basilica——or segmental or

polygonal or rectangular, in which latter case the plan may be either a parallelogram or so deep as to be a perfect square. Neither are these the only varieties of plan, for in each instance a recess may be either simple or expanded, or even wider within than the breadth of the corner towards the room. it the plan be curved it is usual to make the elevation in the form of an arch, either plain or decorated, in which latter case it is sometimes the practice either to continue the archivolt without any impost or to make it rest upon the entablature or capitals of pilasters. Elevations of this class, however, are only astylar; it is when columns come to be introduced into them that alcoves admit of so many combinations and so much variety of design. The usual mode is merely to separate the recessed part of the plan from the rest by a single line of columns, or rather by only two columns, forming a distyle in antis

—that number being seldom exceeded, but is by introducing columns behind and within by extending the recess either literally or in its background —by admit

ting light into it from above—that novel and scenic effects may here be produced almost without number. As regards utility and convenience, it is unnecessary to point out the advantage attending a deep alcove for the sideboard in a dining-room, communicating immediately with a staircase for the attendants, but alcoves and recesses add also to the commodiousness of other apartments—libraries, drawing rooms, etc., —affording nooks for study or conversation apart, similarly to the spacious bays and recesses of that kind in Gothic

 mansions 





Once a shrewd contractor found himself at the same inn with a rival who always trod close on his heels. He was followed about and questioned incessantly and gave vague answers. Within half an hour of sending in the prices for the job to be contracted for he went into the coffee-room and sat himself down in a corner where his rival could not overlook him. There and then he filled up his tender, and as he rose from the table left behind him the paper on which he had blotted

it.	As he left the room his rival caught Lip the blotting paper, and with the exulting glee of a consciously successful business man, read the amount backwards.

Done this time," was the mental thought, as he filled up his own tender L5 lower, and hastened to deposit it. To his utter surprise the next day, he found that he had lost thc contract, and complainingly asked his rival how it was, for he had tendered below him.

How did you know you were below me ?" '' Because I found your blotting-paper." '' I thought so. I left it on purpose for you, and wrote another tender in my bedroom. You had better make your own calculations next time."





	DR. ROBERTSON, PRESIDENT.	J. S. McCANNELL, MANAGING DIRECTOR.









Milton	ARCHITECTURAL TERRA COTTA

	BRICK MANTELS	FLOOR TILE

high-grade Pressed and Orna-	

Our products have a wide repu-              mental Bricks in red, buff, 

yellow, salmon, brown, and	Pressed	tation and are specified by

		leading architects.



special shades.



THE MILTON PRESSED BRICK 00., LIMITED

	Works and Head Office: MILTON, ONT.	Bricks





 KNECHTEL WOOD	SOUTHAMPTON,

 TURNING CO. ONTARIO

________MANUFACTURERS OF

MOORISH FRET-WORK,

SPINDLE GRILLES,

	                          EMBOSSED MOLDINGS,

NEWELS and BA LUSTERS,



DOWELS Etc.





TURNED AND TWISTED

MOLDINGS.