<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



fifty pupils and giving 240 cubic feet, or 4X4X15 feet to each, it is found that 2,000 cubic feet per pupil per hour will keep the carbonic acid at 6 parts per 10,000. In order to supply this, 100,000 cubic feet of air per hour must be passed into each room whose cubic capacity is 1,000 feet. This means 8 changes per hour. To supply this an inlet shaft 2X2 1/2 feet is required which delivers air at 6.94 feet per second. It is found that air coming into the room at this rate at a point above the head say 7 feet from the floor with the mouth of the delivery duct at an angle of 45 degrees, will cause the air to distribute rapidly laterally, while the vis a tergo, or head, and the temperature at say 8o degrees Fahr. will cause the air to rise arid be propelled across the room, where reaching outer walls it will be cooled and will descend and return at a rate not exceeding 2 feet per second along the floor towards an exit shaft which should be at the floor near the inlet. To favor even distribution the windows should be double and the walls non-conducting as far as practicable. In order that this work be done the air must be previously warmed. in the cold air room of the basement and forced into the shaft by a fan or drawn in by heated extract shaft. The met hob provides a very important means of supplying outer air as it is warmed, with an opportunity of receiving moisture in the cold air room from broad and shallow evaporating pans supplied with water automatically by a ball—float and valve. To illustrate the importance of this point, some figures may be given. It will be remembered that as air expands with heat, its capacity for moisture increases. The percentages of moisture at different temperatures have been calculated. Thus at



& Fahrenheit Moisture 0.09 per cent.

32		0 37 of 1 per cent.

	42		0.56

		=	0.81

	6		1.17

			1.68

	8	=	236

	92	=	328

			4.54



Thus the relative humidity of air more than doubles with every twenty degrees, proportionately increasing with increasing temperature. Now, it will be further noted that air in motion practically never becomes saturated as it passes over moist surfaces, but takes up probably 75 per cent of saturation. Hence, outer air at o degrees going into a room, we shall say, at 90 degrees, will at 75 per cent of saturation have taken up ten grains of vapor, or it will hold thirty times as much moisture as that in outer air at zero. In other words, the 100,000 cubic feet of air hourly introduced into a school loom should be supplied with 1,000,000 grains of water, as vapor, or it would actually take up through evaporation 13 gallons of water hourly. As however, the moisture from the breath of children en yields very notable amount of moisture, we may say ten gallons of water ought to be provided hourly. This amount seems enormous, and would seem to actually use up heat. But the heat is never lost, it is only latent, and the service rendered by the moisture e is apparent. If the air goes into the room too dry and I am informed by Mr. Stupart of the observatory, the air of the house heated by an ordinary hot air furnace, has a relative humidity of not more than 25 to 35 per cent even with a good evaporating pot, it is apparent that the air must, from every available source in the schoolroom, seek its moisture. This it gets from walls and furniture, but especially from the mucous membrane and skin of pupils. Now assume that this 100,000 feet of dry air becomes even partially saturated, and I have found it in a school room heated with Smead Dowd furnace, at 50 Per cent of saturation, it is apparent that it will in an hour have removed a large amount of moisture from the bodies of the pupils. But to evaporate one pound of water requires nearly 1,000 units of heat, and hence it is apparent that even if two pounds of water were given off by the breath and bodies of fifty pupils per hour, 2,000 heat units would be utilized. But very much more is lost by insensible perspiration. Now the

practical point is this, that since the body temperature is 98.4 degrees F., it is apparent that the air of a room does not warm the body, but only prevents the loss of heat aided by clothing, with too great rapidity and as evaporation produces cold, the lower the air is the more rapid the loss of heat by evaporation, and hence the constant experience that in rooms with dry air a temperature of 70 to 75 degrees is required to prevent a sensation of cold, whereas if lie air held more vapor much less loss of heat would take place by evaporation and the sensation of cold at 60 degrees F. would not be as great as in the other case at 70 or 75 degrees. Indeed, we all know that in English text books a temperature of 60 degrees F. with the common fire-places of that country is set down as a normal house temperature, due to the moist air constantly brought into the room by the draft. I have dwelt upon this point at some length, because I am convinced that more injury is being caused by the abnormally dry atmosphere of our houses than from any other cause.

This matter of reducing the temperature of a living room further bears a very important influence upon the question of economy in heating. If we assume that outer air brought into a cold air chamber is at 15 degrees F., then it will require every hour in the school-room referred to, some 10,000 heat units to raise it to 70 degrees F. or 55 degrees or nearly 25 per cent. more fuel is required than is necessary to raise the air to 60 degrees, if the heat rendered latent by evaporation be not considered. As some 35 pounds of coal per hour with a loss of 20 per cent. by the chimney is theoretically required to heat a room up to 70 degrees under the conditions we have assumed, it is apparent that the matter is a most important one for consideration.

In this connection, it seems of importance to refer to the part played by radiant heat as an adjunct to room beating. All are

aware of the effects of the heat from a grate, hut we are not so conscious of the effects of the heat radiated from steam and hot water pipes. We speak of heat waves and are aware of how relatively different are different liquids, solids and gases, in their power to absorb rays of hear, and that amongst gases, the oxygen and nitrogen of the air are non-absorbers of heat, whereas, as Tyndall informs us, the absorption of heat waves by water vapor is the chief agent in preventing the earth from becoming barren from the loss of the heat absorbed by the earth during the day. Probably from 10 to 15 per cent. of the heat radiated from the earth is absorbed by the water vapor within 10 or 20 feet of the earth's surface. Such air, too, plays an important part in the absorption of' heat in the air of a room when the air has its proper amount of moisture while further the penetrating powers of the heat rays from radiators and grate fires by which the bodies of occupants are warmed, are well known. Another point of importance in this connection is the fact that a white wall reflects the heat to a much greater degree than dark walls, although riot absorbing heat readily itself, and the black steam pipes are much better radiators than if painted white.

We have dealt with some of the physical laws entering into the conditions affecting the heating of tile air of rooms, hut I have frequently thought that the construction of our houses, which usually have open stairways on three storeys, might be dealt with in a much more economical manner than is usually practiced. Most of us know that in a single room, say on the ground floor, the heat near the ceiling is 10 to 15 degrees higher than at the floor, and for the same reasons the air of the lower floors constantly ascends as by a funnel to the upper rooms. In such cases the remedy applied usually is to have a hot air register or a hot water radiator in each room.

Some of our economy hot air furnace manufacturers have, however, seized upon a familiar fact, namely, that by drawing off the air at the floor by a down draft shaft leading to the warm air chamber around the furnace, not only is the air led more equably in each room, but the warm air is kept near the floor of the room and they have with much success solved the problem of equal distribution of heat and economy in the use of fuel. The fatal defect in the system is, that they are re-heating the air already breathed and violating the very first principles of introducing pure air by a fresh air duet in the having rooms. Now, it appears to me that we may make use of time principle of maintaining an equable distribution of heat in the manner referred to, while at time same time utilizing the fresh air shaft by arranging floor chiefs so as to head the foul air from the room into the ashpit of tile furnace, with a damper which will turn this foul ,air into the smoke flue as a cheque draft in mild weather. Indeed I have had this done with much success in the Mission church referred to, insuring a very good ventilation with) an excellent distribution of heat in an oblong building.

With regard to the question of moisture, not only can a series of shallow pans in the heating chamber of a hot air furnace be supplied, but evaporating pans under each register may, with advantage, be utilized for still further supplying moisture to air which is abnormally dry.

But dealing with the problem as regards the most practical method of heating a private house and at the same time supplying fresh air there would seem to be no question but that the heating within hot water most completely supplies the several requirements. In the sleeping rooms radiators may he placed, while the window is drawn down, and a draft prevented by a drawn blind fulfills every requirements For the living rooms each should be supplied with a radiator, while fresh air would be brought into a cold air room in which is a series of radiators over which shallow

pans are placed within an automatic supply of water while there will be delivered by the indirect method an ample supply of fresh) warm air with adequate moisture for maintaining the air of tile room at a normal humidity.

The question of steam heating for large buildings naturally must be considered and in) time matter of economy of installment heaves little to be desired. But except as a means of heating fresh air to be supplied by ducts with a fan, it presents all the difficulties of lack of ventilation and dryness of air which have been already referred to. When thus utilized with small radiators in rooms as supplementary heating in very cold weather, if probably is the most readily applicable of all methods, but the disadvantages of heating houses by radiators are numerous, and cannot be said to be a desirable method of heating, while defective in the total absence of adequate ventilation and supply of moisture. Equability of temperature is not possible, while the cracking due to condensed steam is most undesirable. Probably time ideal method of heating such large buildings is that where steam pipes are used for heating cold air to be delivered by fans within adequate exit shafts, while the steam is carried to coils

placed in tanks of water at convenient points for each suite of rooms, from which hot water pipes are carried to time coils or radiators which heat time sever-al rooms as a supplementary means of heating. I have however, referred to some of time many difficulties no doubt experienced by all, and have touched upon some of the possible remedies. One however, must recognize time difficulty of having remedies applied. In too many cases we have to take what is in the market, and as I witnessed last year, in some specifications for school buildings time details were left so indefinite that it seemed likely to become a question of what furnace manufacturer could satisfy a trustee that he could get enough of heat into the building, and not whether they would be ventilated when heated. It does seem)) very essential that at any mate in public buildings not only should there lie laws defining certain necessary conditions before school buildings, &c., could be constructed, but that as in Massachusetts inspectors should be employed to examine the proposed methods of heating before they be installed.

