<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	201

when added, and should there be a long run of 6 in. main drain with a good fall, when the water test is applied you have a pressure of a ton or more forcing the joints. Now, by using cement alone in this way, a butt joint is formed in the socket of each pipe, so that when the water is applied it does not penetrate the joint beyond the bore. of pipe, thus reducing the pressure on each joint considerably.

Manholes and inspection chambers are now generally constructed in a new system of drainage. Should there

air that was in the drain previously to charging cannot escape, so the water remains constant in the gulley. In order to charge the drain one of the branch inlets must be unsealed, or a piece of compo. pipe, bent so as to pass the water seal in the gulley, must be inserted. This allows the air to escape. The drain being found correct and the pipes covered with concrete, the next thing is filling in. Never use a rammer, at any rate, not for the first 2 ft. or ft., for it stands to reason that though the soil may be moderately fine, yet the































































be a manhole in front, or where the interceptor is fixed, and no inspection chamber at the back of the house, it is best to continue the main drain to the surface of ground, with an easy bend for clearing' purposes, fixing a stone on the top.

The drain completed, the next thing' is to test it by fixing' a stopper at the interceptor, or the first pipe if































in a manhole, and filling the drain with water. Should the branch inlets be sealed off, a difficulty will arise.

 pour in a pail or so of water, and all at once the water rises in the gulley to the top and there remains. This is a good sign, and shows that the drain is air and watertight, and is brought about by the fact that the

weight of rammer coming over joints conveys a force on the pipes which is best avoided. Use water for filling in lower part of trench.

A few words in reference to the iron covers of manholes and inspection chambers may not be out of place. Always treat the cover as a trap, for practically that is what it is or should be in order to prevent the smell of drain escaping and possibly finding' its way into the dwelling. The manhole, as a rule, is built outside the house,, so that the cover is trapped by rain or other surface water ; but when the manhole is inside, the groove or channel in the frame must be filled with soft soap, or oil, or sand, &c., in order to form a permanent seal when the cover is laid on. There must be a fresh air inlet at the lower end of drain and an outlet at upper end. Outlet is generally taken off a soil pipe and continued up the building clear of windows.



<article title=" THE QUALITY OF STONE USED FOR CONCRETE " author="">

THE QUALITY OF STONE USED FOR CONCRETE.



Of all the uses to which stone is put in the present day, few are of greater importance, sax's The Quarry, than the manufacture of concrete. Whether used for ordinary building purposes, for great engineering undertakings, or for the manufacture of the many varieties of artificial stone and paving-slabs, concrete manufacture is destined to form a very large part of

