<doctype type="text">20 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BUILDING IN TORONTO " author="">BUILDING IN TORONTO.



The total value of buildings for which permits were granted in Toronto during 1900, is placed at $1,957,274, being $50,000 less than 1899, which was the best year since 1892. The sum of $988,000 was expended for warehouses and factories, indicating a substantial growth in manufacturing and population and an increased demand for dwellings, of which a large number will no doubt be built next season.



USEFUL HINTS.



In finishing white maple, use only one coat of varnish, in order that wood shall retain its whiteness; and let this bc the lightest copal, of good body.



A stain to show at its best must exhibit a tone of color which comes from a combination of the color of the wood and the pigment or stain used, on

the same principle as glazing and graining. Hence the more transparent the color used, the better the stain.

Red Stains FOR Wood- For the production of red stains for wood the 'Allg. Tischler Zeitung gives the following directions in reply to the question of a correspondent:—Since the stains have, as a rule, a bleaching action oil the wood, the latter may generally be colored red without special preparations. If, however, the wood to be stained is not light-colored, it is advisable to bleach it previously. For this purpose, lay the wood for about one-half hour in a bath of 2 parts lime-chloride, part crystallized soda, and 48 parts water. After the bleaching lay the wood, to remove the adhering traces of the chloride, in a solution of part sulphurous acid, in 10—12 parts water and wash it off with clean water. Now place the wood in a solution of

part Marseille soap, in 54 parts water, or rub it with it and apply aniline red (fuchsine) in a sufficiently diluted state so as to produce the desired shade. Fuchsine (crimson), coralline (high red), and cosine (amaranthine), belong to the aniline colors which are dissolved either in alcohol or water.

