<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XIV. —No. 162.	JUNE, 1901.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Plan and Section Proposed " Salle Des Fetes," W. S. Maxwell, Architect.

Design for Residence in British Columbia—R. M. Fripp, F.R.I.B.A., Architect.





ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Small Suburban Houses—(Illustrations accompanying Paper by Mr. Searles-Wood before the London Architectural Association.

Canadian and Russian Pavilions, Glasgow Exhibition.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Two Photogravure Plates Proposed Salle Des Fetes,— W. S. Maxwell, Architect.









CONTENTS.



Editorial					121-22-23

Decoration Methods and Materials 			.

Montreal Correspondence				1 27

Brick Immersion Tests				1 27

Accidents to Reservoir Dams					28

Plumbers' Work in Dwellings			129-130

Builders' Exchanges and Their Benefits 			130

Intercommunication -			131-132

Stresses in Footings	133—134

A Concrete Chimney	[35

An Effort to Secure Uniformity in the Size of Bricks 	137

Manufactures and Materials	139

Legal	141

Building Condition 	44

Relative Value of Fire Resisting Materials	.	.	144







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.



PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

Edmund Burke

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.





The Evil of Strikes































<article title=" The Proposed Art Gallery in Toronto " author="">



The Proposed Art Gallery in Toronto.

As the result of a lengthened strike of Belgian glass workers, for a greater

increase of wages than the manufacturers could afford to pay, the trade of these manufacturers has gone to other countries, a once prosperous industry has been lost to Belgium, and ruin has come to those whose means were invested in it. The competition engendered by the emigration of large numbers of the strikers to the United States, is said to threaten the life of the window glass artist in that country.



It was announced not long ago that $30,000 for this building was in sight, leaving only $20,000 to raise to make

half the cost of the building ; and it was contended that, when the half was raised by voluntary contribution, the city ought to supply the rest. This is a reasonable proposition, and it suggests the possibility of the whole scheme being put through in time for the Duke of Cornwall and York to lay the corner stone. The city's subscription, once agreed upon, is but the stroke of a pen. It is only the $20,000 of voluntary subscription that need take any time, and it need not take much time. It is not hard to find in the city of Toronto one man who is able to give $20,000, nor two who can give $10,000, nor four who can give $5,000, nor even twenty who can give $1,000. There is hope for the accomplishment of such a purpose as getting the memorial to Queen Victoria advanced far enough

for her grandson, and our future King, to lay the corner stone. The fashion of giving has not been in vogue among the original rich of Toronto. Perhaps it was not so much their fault as the fault of their times. Rich men had not discovered what is now being discovered, that one of the blessings of wealth is the power to give. Can there be a greater enjoyment of wealth than the power to say that there shall be an Art Museum in Toronto ? Several gentlemen have already decided to say this, with an emphasis proportioned to their means ; and if the committee, who have the project in hand want to get a sub—committee who will put the matter forcibly before other gentlemen of means, we would suggest that they ask the present subscribers to form such a sub-committee. They have a right to ask others to subscribe and will be able to persuade others to taste what, if one may judge from recent examples, is the latest enjoyment of rich men the pleasure of giving.



The Toronto Guild of Civic Art has been trying to move the civic authorities in the direction of an improved

plan of the city, towards which all extensions and improvements may work ; so that every piece of work undertaken in the way of laying out new streets in the suburbs, or opening tip new streets in the old part of the city, may tend towards the accomplishment of a definite scheme which will make Toronto a fine city.

Re Beautifying Toronto.

<article title=" Re Beautifying Toronto " author="">