<doctype type="text;ad">118	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BLAIS VS. THE GURNEY-MASSEY Co.—" author="">

LEGAL.

BLAIS VS. THE GURNEY-MASSEY Co.—This ease came up before Justices Gill, Mathieu and Loranger of the Court of Review, Montreal, on the 9th inst. The defendant inscribed in review from a judgment which maintained the plaintiffs action and condemned the defendant to pay $400 damages. The case arose out of the purchase by the plaintiff from the defendant, in the fall of 1899 of a steam—heating apparatus, styled in the defendants catalogue, Gurneys Bright Idea Water Tube Steam Boiler.' The plaintiff had entered into a contract with the Fabric of the parish of Ste. Martine, district of Beauharnois, for the installment of a heating apparatus, to heat the parish church. The defend— ant published a catalogue in 1897 in which the particular apparatus purchased by the plaintiff was represented as having a heating capacity of 2,400 square feet of radiating surface, equivalent, as appeared by the evidence of experts, to 7,200 linear feet of one-inch pipe, the price of which was $686. In 1899 the defendant published another catalogue, in which it appeared that the heating capacity of this apparatus was reduced to 1,800 square feet, equivalent to 5,400 linear feet, and the price was reduced to $6oo. After the apparatus was installed it was found that it would not heat the pipes and the rest of the system with which it was connected. The plaintiff protested the company defendant, and called upon it to replace the apparatus with one of a capacity of 7,200 linear feet, as stated in the catalogue of 1896. The defendant refused to do this, alleging that it sold the apparatus according to the catalogue of 1899, wherein the capacity was guaranteed to be only 1800 square feet that the apparatus had that capacity, and if it did not heat the pipes of the church sufficiently, it was owing to their too great extent. The court below decided in favor of plaintiffs pretension as to the catalogue, hut rejected his claim for damages to reputation, and reduced his demand of $647, for replacing the heating apparatus, to $400, and this award appearing to the Court of Review to be well founded, the judgment was con fumed.







A prominent insurance adjuster makes the statement that a large majority of the recent fires in the city of New York have resulted from imperfectly insulated electric wires. He says that this is due to the fact that the contractors for electric wiring employ boys and inexperienced men to do the work, rather than be obliged to pay for the services of experienced electricians, and that the vibration and settlement of walls frequently destroy the insulation where proper preventives have not been employed. He adds : It, therefore, behooves architects to specify that none but thoroughly competent and experienced workmen shall be employed, and they must not trust entirely to the electrical contractor, but examine the work themselves with the same exacting care that they devote to work done by other builders."



	DR. ROBERTSON PRESIDENT	J. S. MCCANNELL, MANAGING DIRECTOR







Milton	ARCHITECTURAL TERRA COTTA

	BRICK MANTELS	FLOOR TILE



High-Grade Pressed and Orna

mental Bricks in red, buff,		Our products have a wide repu-

yellow, salmon, brown, and	Pressed	tation and are specified by

special shades.		leading architects.





THE MILTON PRESSED BRICK __________

	Works and Head Office:	00., LIMITED B

_______	Bricks

MILTON, ONT.



1-16-inch thick made of steel galvanized, can be bent or twisted to any shape, thin enough for fine joint, strong enough for any

purpose, the best tie for brick or s one walls nothing better for fastening brick or stone veneer to wood buildings Sample free Agents wanted.



J. D JOHNSTON, Newport, R.I., U.S.A,



















CABOT'S

CREOSOTE SHINGLE STAINS

The Original and Standard Shingle Stains are made only by SAMUEL CABOT, of Boston, Mass. Every package bears his trade mark, and every gallon is guaranteed. Used and proved in every climate for nearly twenty years. Also



CABOT'S

	Sheathing and Deafening	"Quilt"

the most perfect insulator of heat and deadener of sound on the market. Decay, moth and vermin-proof, and uninflammable.



Samples, Catalogue and full information upon

application to the manufacturer r his



CANADIAN AGENTS:

ANDREW MUIRHEAD, 82 Bay St , Toronto.

SEYMOUR & CO., Montreal

C.	C. HENSHAW, Vancouver

F.	H. BRYDGES, Winnipeg.

W.	H. THORNE & CO., St. John

E.	D. ADAMS Halifax.

A New Idea in Stairs and Car Steps

 Architects Why not specify The Hamilton Improvement for Stairs

	and	Slipping

	Patented in United States and Canada.	Patented in United States and Canada.

Write or Phone for Particulars.

	PHONE 8788	H.J. HAMILTON, (93 York Street) Toronto, Can.

Please mention this paper when corresponding with advertisers.

WIRE_LATH

The only perfect Lathing, for the reason that the Wire is completely embedded in Mortar and CANNOT RUST. It is the only Lathing that will stand the test of time.





THE B. Greening Wire Co.

(LIMITED,)



Hamilton, Ont. · Montreal, Que.

