<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ter, but nothing must be taken off the back of the purlin. In some cases it is advisable to double caulk, in order to save the sectional area of the purlin as much as possible. I find there is a tendency to forget the caulking in rough framing this, however, is important, and must he insisted on ; especially when the purlin. is at right angles to the rafter. In joggling in braces, etc., the shoulder should always he at right angles to the thrust, and if the joggle is long it should be twice shouldered for the same reason given above in mortising never cut away more than is necessary. In fixing the bolts in a truss the bolt should in almost every case be fixed at right angles to the hi-section of the inside angle of the two timbers to be bolted together.

An excellent roof which I saw fixed on a building is constructed on the king-post principle with the addition of a hammer beam ; the need for this beam being obvious in this particular case. The main principals are constructed with rafters, collars, braces, ashlars and hammer beams, with iron tie-rod and king-bolt. The feet of the rafters are, with the ends of the hammer beams, framed into a cast-iron shoe, through which the tie-rod passes ; the rafters are framed together in a cast-iron head, and the king-bolt passes through and suspends (he tie-rod. There is a seat or collar cast on each side of this head to carry the ridge, which is bolted through it on each side. From the hammer-beam there is a curved strut framed into the wall-post and beam resting on a stone corbel. The intermediate principals have no tie-rod or king-bolt (these are replaced by a king-post), and the collar is braced to the rafters ; the iron head and shoe remain. The collar is strengthened by straps to king-post and ratters. In this truss there is a short tie-bolt passing through the hammer—beam and holding in the longitudinal beam. This latter runs the whole length of the building and the hammer-beams of all rafters, principal and common, are framed into it.

The purlins are housed and tenoned into the sides of the principal rafters. This is necessary, because hacks of all rafters lie in one plane. The common rafters are all framed in trusses and caulked into purlins and notched over ridge and plate. The framing pieces of the plates are so arranged that every alternate rafter shoes on top, the others being bird's-mouthed to the plate. The reason for this is obvious after my previous remarks about purlins. The common rafter truss consists of rafters, collar braces, ashlars, and hammer beams, and alternate long cross-braces, with a short collar between. In framing the plates the principal hammer beams are notched down over the inner plate, while the outer plate passes by almost clear of the cast-iron shoe. The hammer beams to common rafters lie on the top of the plates. The roof is also counteracted diagonally, the slate battens being nailed to these rafters.



We have several times had occasion to say something upon this subject, but again we want to point out a field which it will pay to cultivate— gas ventilation. It requires very little gas indeed to move a relatively large quantity of air. There does not seem much reason why schoolrooms, assembly halls, offices, smoking rooms, dining rooms and restaurants, and many other places should not use gas to ventilate them economically and  successfully

A PNEUMATIC HAMMER-SAW.

<article title=" A PNEUMATIC HAMMER-SAW " author="">

We show a rather novel application of the pneumatic hammer. On the end of the piston rod of the machine is placed a saw blade which is reciprocated rapidly, approximately to 1,000 strokes per minute, and in this way a pneumatic saw of very handy construction and rapid work is made available. Here is a portable hand







































saw, which may be placed in any position and which, without exertion on the part of the operator, is capable of doing rapid and economical work. This saw can be operated by a boy when used for common work. It should be useful in pattern shops for cabinet work, and for wood carving. We have been informed that this machine is in practical operation in a packing house in Chicago, and that it is used there for the purpose of sawing ham bones.

<article title=" EARLY USE OF A BUILDING BALANCE " author="">

EARLY USE OF A BUILDING BALANCE.

An interesting explanation has recently been given of the methods used by the architects and builders of the early cathedrals to determine the equilibrium of the arches and supporting columns. The various problems connected with their construction were solved by a graphic method, which involved the use of the Abu— wage," or building balance. This consisted of a flexible cord in the form of an inverted arch, passing over pulleys at either end, the cord being drawn into an equilibrium polygon by weights suspended at various points along the cord, each proportionate in position and amount to those which the arch would be required to carry at its various points. By means of weights connected with the cords passing over the pulleys at each end the system was supported and the horizontal force also measured. From the curve thus obtained the various elements could be readily calculated and a reliable method of construction devised. The system was employed by the so—called master builders, who were included in a guild that extended over Europe during the Middle Ages. Through this guild the traditions and higher knowledge of the building art were confined to a few masters in each country, and there is ever)- indication that they were endowed with more than mere artistic feeling- and intuition in carrying out their constructions. The graphic method described was used before 1585, but previous to that time it is hardly thought to have carried with it any special knowledge of the laws of statics.



A company has applied to Congress for leave to lay underground pipes in the streets of Washington, the U.S. capital, for the purpose of distributing cool air through residences and business establishments. The air will be pumped through a refrigerating plant.

