<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	85



their product and have established a large and lucrative business in selling asbestic wall plaster and have acquired a right of property in said words. The appellants prayed for an injunction to restrain the respondents and their agents from further selling any goods or materials under the name of asbestos wall plaster, and that the respondents be condemned to pay $1,000 damages. The plea of the defendants was to the effect that the appelants could riot by the alleged trade mark obtain the use of the words

asbestic wall plaster,'' and the Government of Canada could riot give them the sole right to use said words that respondents had sold asbestic wall plaster " long previous to the 3rd February, 1896, and since, and have the right to make use of the words asbestic wall plaster,' the word ''asbestic " being merely an indication and description of the article sold by respondents. The plea was maintained and the action dismissed, the court being of opinion that the words asbestic wall plaster" were descriptive of the materials of which the compound consisted. In appeal the judgment was held to he well founded, and it was confirmed.



A decision of importance to contractors was given by Judge Morgan at Toronto recently, in the case of Walker & Craig vs. Ellis and Allridge. The plaintiffs are builders, Mr. Ellis air undertaker, arid Mr. Allridge a foreman builder. On February 15, 1899, the defendants covenanted to pay $600 if one R. Smith failed to build four houses on the east side of Markham street Toronto, in accordance with certain plans and specifications be fore November 10, 1899. Smith did not complete the buildings within the time, arid the plaintiffs tried for the amount of the covenant. It appeared, however, that the plaintiffs had taken the contract away from Smith and given it back to him in air altered form, without giving the defendants sufficient notice. The Court held that although tire defendants were liable tinder the original  contract, its alteration had relieved them of such liability.

<article title=" HAAK V. O'LEARY " author="">

HAAK V. O'LEARY.—Appeal by plaintiff in the Divisional Court

Toronto from judgment of Meredith j., iii favor of defendants in action, tried without a jury at Ottawa, brought under the Work— men's Compensation Act. The defendants were constructing a sewer, and their employees were in tire habit of descending arid ascending at each end of the sewer by means of ladders. The

plaintiff, an employee, was directed by the foreman to do certain work at a part of the sewer where lie had never before been, and after completing the work attempted to ascend to tire surface by means of a ladder which he saw arid supposed was a means of ascent. Owing. it is alleged, to several of the rungs at the top having been removed, the plaintiff fell to the bottom of the sewer and sustained the injuries complained of. The evidence shows that tire rungs had been removed by tire foreman to prevent employees using the ladder really to prevent "loafing," hut so that the lower part night he used to reach arid prime a pump hanging on the wall some distance from the bottom of the sewer, and thus the ladder was designedly made hazardous arid dangerous. The defendant having completed his work and seeing the ladder by the light of his torch, naturally arid properly attempted to ascend by it, and it was a defective way, etc., within the mearing

 of the statute, more especially because defendants failed to sup-ply light in the sewer. The foreman was negligent in riot warning the plaintiff. Baker v. Smith (1891), A. C. at p. 334 Denny v. Montreal Telegraph Co., 42 U.C.R., Caldwell v. Mills, 21 0. R., 462 Headford v. McClary Co., 24 S.C.R. per Strong C.J.C., at p. 292, and Heaven vs. Pender 11, Q.B, D. 509 were referred to. The court held that the ladder by which plaintiff attempted to ascend was not a "way' provided by the defendants so far as the plaintiff was concerned, within the meaning of the Workmens Compensation for Injuries Act, and there was no invitation to plaintiff to use tire ladder, hut the plaintiff was making a foolish and reckless attempt to get out when he tell arid was injured. Appeal dismissed with costs.



LES SOEURS DE LA CONGREGATION NOTRE DAME AND DAME MARIE

<article title=" LES SOEURS DE LA CONGREGATION NOTRE DAME AND DAME MARIE " author="">

ANN CLARA SYMES ET AL—Argument in this action was recently heard and decision thereon given by Mr. Justice Curran in the Superior Court at Montreal, as follows: Plaintiffs and defendants are adjoining proprietors of lots of land facing on Notre Dame Street. The premises of defendant are built on the line at the rear. Some years ago they opened one window after another facing on the property of plaintiffs. These windows have riot been constructed, in any way, according to tire rules laid down in the Civil Code, so as to prevent a view upon their neighbors property. Plaintiffs their action to force defendants to close these eight windows. Defendants appeared in tine suit, but in-

stead of pleading they have filed admissions, virtually covering the allegations of plaintiffs' declaration. They state, however, iii justification of their illegal acts, that the health officer of the city has forced them to make the openings, so as to afford light arid ventilation to their tenants. This pretension cannot be maintained. The Civil Code, article indicates how windows are to he constructed in a wall immediately adjoining any neighbors property. To get a direct view upon a neighbor article 536, enacts

"One neighbor cannot have direct views or prospect windows, nor galleries, balconies, or other like projections, overlooking the fenced or unfenced land of the other they must he at a distance of six feet from such land." If defendents need, absolutely, to get light, arid ventilation, they cannot obtain such at the expense of the legal rights of plaintiff,. They must build according to law, or change their present constructions, so as to come within its provisions. Judgment will be entered for plaintiff ordering tine closing of tine windows within 15 days from the rendering of the present judgment arid costs of suit against defendants.



PERSONAL.



Mr. Geo. W. Gouinlock has been appointed a member of tine Council of the Ontario Association of Architects inn place oh Mr. Eden Smith, resigned.

Mr. W. H. Carrick, vice—president and manager of tine Gurney Foundry Company, of Toronto, is our his way to Europe where he will spend two or three months in the Company's interest.

Mr. J. S. McCannell, managing director of tine Milton Pressed Brick Co, accompanied by Mrs. McCannell, attended the recent convention of the National Brick Manufacturers' Association at Old Point Comfort.

Previous to taking his departure to his home in tire far west Sergeant A. Sproatt, a member of the Strathcona Horse who has recently recovered from illness in South Africa, was in company with some of' his military comrades, entertained at dinner at tire residence of iris brother, Mr. Henry Sproatt, architect,  ameson avenue, Toronto.

Mr. Joseph W. Wright, of' Messrs. Bennett & Wright, plumbers, Toronto, arid family accompanied by Mr. J. M. Taylor, manager of the Dominion Radiator Co., arid Mrs. Taylor, will sail for Europe on tine 26th inst. They will spend three mouths or more iii visiting places of' interest on the continent, return— rug home by way of Great Britain Born voyage.

Mm'. H. B. Gordon, of the firm of Gordon & Helliwell, architects, Toronto, has been commissioned by tine Board of Foreign Missions of the United States to design and supervise tine construction of central headquarters for tine missions in Corea, including houses for tine missionaries a church and hospital. Mr. Gordon expects to sail from Vancouver for Corea on May 6th and to spend a year on the island.





COLORED CEMENTS.

<article title=" COLORED CEMENTS " author="">

La Ceramique says : Tine qualities required in the colors mused to color cements are Tire property of thoroughly mixing that of not decomposing under the action of lime, and that of resistance tin the action of light These colors should mix completely with tine different compositions of which cements are made up, the cohesion of which they diminish. The means of testing them are to mix them with a certain quantity to a given quantity of slaked lime. Care must be taken riot to use low—priced materials containing salts of lime and barytes, which give to the objects which contain them, especially when damp, a very aspect, which has a very bad effect. The colors for cements should resist tine action of chemical alkaline agents. When washed by soda they should riot he impaired after a day of this treatment. Those which mix well are unassailable try chemical alkaline agents arid resist the action of light fairly well. The best means to assure one's self of these qualities is to color a plane surface arid to cover certain parts with some opaque bodies and to expose the painted surface to the sun's rays or some time. The most common red is jeweler's red, or brown red, composed essentially of peroxide of iron inn the proportion of eighty-five per cent, at least. Red ochre (calcined) is less recommendable The ochres, composed essentially of peroxide of mn-on and alumine of lime, constitute tine yellows. These diminish very slightly the cohesion of cements. The ochres have also the advantage of being the less expensive yellows. Sienna earth (not burnt) may also rank inn this category. Ultramarine is the blue most employed, but it is well to correct the reddish reflection it has, especially in artificial light, by adding to it fifty per cent, of sea green. These three primary colors serve to compose the secondary shades-orange color, violet, green, etc. nevertheless the lime—resisting colon's riot always permitting certain mixtures, one has recourse to chrome greens, ultramarine (already mentioned). arid number. For the gray—blue t inns very good results are obtained with graphite.

