<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	129



PLUMBERS WORK IN DWELLINGS.

<article title=" PLUMBERS WORK IN DWELLINGS " author="">

This was the subject of a most interesting lecture delivered at Carpenters Hall, London, Eng ., recently, by Mr. A. Buchanan. It formed one of an organized series of Sanitary Building Construction 

Mr. Buchanan defined plumber's work as the preparing for and fixing of sanitary fittings and connecting them with drains. Such work, lie pointed out, must be very carefully done in order that the gases arising from sewers, which are so deleterious to health, may not be allowed to enter the house. Of course, if proper and adequate ventilation could he given to the sewers, than, is to say if there could be a shaft at every ten or twelve feet, no accumulation of gas could take place, and the sanitary arrangements would not need to be so carefully designed and carried out. But it is found impracticable to ventilate sewers at such short intervals.

The lecturer then gave some particulars of lead, the metal chiefly used by the plumber, illustrating with lantern slides the methods of its preparation lead is principally found mixed with sulfur. Tie ore yields about 75 per cent. of metallic lead, and is red riced by roasting and refining in a reverberatory, furnace. The chief characteristics of lead are these It is a bluish grey color, malleable, ductile, tough, flexible, of little tenacity, gives a drill sound when struck with a hammer melts at 618.8 degrees Fahr., contracts on cooling, oxidizes rapidly, alloys with other metals, and has a specific gravity of 11.

36.

For plumbers' work lead is east or rolled into sheets of varying thickness, and is known as 3 lb. 4 lb., lb., up to 14 lb. lead, according to the number of pounds per foot Super. Cast sheet lead is harder than rolled lead and is slightly crystalline in structure It is subject to air halls, is of uneven thickness has a tougher surface and should not be used of lighter weight than 6 lbs. per foot super. Milled lead is not crystalline it is softer, more homogenous more ductile, arid can be had in larger sheets s than the cast lead. This is the lead which is now almost universally used for plumbers' work.

Lead pipes are now generally made by hydraulic pressure, and can be obtained from 3-16th in. to 6 in. in diameter and of almost any substance. The apparatus is called a squirting machine The lead is run into the machine and when in a semi-fluid state pressure is applied, causing the metal to issue through the dies, a rod or mandrill forming the hollow pipe Large pipes are sometimes turned up from sheet lead, the seam being either burnt or soldered. In the first process the edges of the lead are fused together by a fierce flame iii the second they are joined by solder. A soldered pipe is not so reliable as the drawn or burnt description and eventually although not perhaps for a hundred years, the joint is likely to become oxidized and give away.

Plumbers' solder consists of two parts of lead to one of tin it melts at 110 degrees Fahr Soldering is carried out as follows The surfaces and edges of the pieces to be joined are scraped with a shave-hook, and as solder will only adhere to the clean metal, the bright surface is immediately covered with tallow or some such material which acts as a flux and prevents the surfaces becoming oxidized before the solder is applied - The wiped joint is usually soiled, that is, covered with a mixture of lamp— black arid size, before the shaving is done. This enables the plumber to prepare the surface to exactly the size required to be covered with solder. The metal is their poured or splashed on, and is manipulated by the plumber with a small pad of lustrium called a solder cloth. This has the effect of raising the temperature of the lead to such a point that tire tin in the solder combines with the surface of tire lead to be joined The solder is then shaped and tire joint finished.

Sometimes a heated copper bolt or bit is used 10 melt the solder in such eases solder with a lower melting point is used. As the solder flows these copper-bit joints must be horizontal, or nearly so. Wiped joints can be made in almost any position.

Blow-pipe joints are similar in shape and appearance it copper-bit joints. But the heat it obtained from a jet oh flame forced by a column of. air on to the joint. A blow-

pipe joint is considered to he much stronger than a copper-bit joint, as a greater heat is used in the process. joints are produced by burning the joints in a very fierce flame, which melts the joints together at the seam. This is a process which is not often followed on tire building

it is more suitable for shop work.



Lead pipes with soldered seams should nut lie encased in plastered walls.. The action of lime our lead converts it into creosote, and soldered joint seems to hue affected more quickly than the lead, particularly in the presence of moist air.

Soil pipes may lie made of either lead or cast iron. To conform to the L.C.C. by-laws they must if of iron, have socket joints, though probably flanged joints would be equally effective. The metal should lie at least 1-4 inch thick, arid have large sockets to admit of at least 1-4 inch packing of lead. The iron pipe should be treated by galvanizing, or some similar process, to prevent too rapid oxidation. Lead soil pipes are usually in 10 ft. lengths, arid they are usually joined by the wiped joint. The vertical soil pipe is fixed to tine walls by means of tacks soldered on to the back of fire pipe at intervals of 3 ft.. or 3 ft. 6 in. These tacks should lie of heavy lead, the metal about the holes being much thicker than the rest.

To bend a lead pipe the throat or inner part of the bend is heated, the outer part being kept cool. The pipe is then bent, causing the inner Part to collapse it is their dressed out, thus thickening the lead at that point The part is then again warmed and 1 burnt and the bossing is continued the operation being reheated until the required shape has been obtained. In tire ordinary course the throat becomes much thicker than other parts of the pipe, but a good plumber will dress the lead until he has worked this excess evenly over the surrounding parts. To see that the pipe is of the same diameter throughout, halls or bobbins of wood are forced through by the aid of a mandrill, but great care must hue exercised to avoid breaking the pipe. Bends are sometimes made by hydraulic pressure and sometimes by shaping two pieces and soldering the seams.

Branch soil pipes should enter the main pipe with an easy curve in tire direction of tire current tine joints being wiped. Soil pipes should lie carried up above the roof or 3 ft. above any window, and should lie covered with a cowl to prevent do down-blow.

Soil pipes are connected to iron drains by means of a copper or brass thimble or sleeve which is slipped over the pipe and wiped our at the ton. The connection is made water—tight by spun yarn and blue head being run inn amid caulked. In connecting soil pipes with earthenware drains it is not usual to pass tine lead pipe through tire thimble, winch is simply wiped on to the lead pipe, the joint between the thimble and tine drain pipe being made with cement Sometimes a little silver sand is mixed with the cement to prevent. it expanding.

		Lead pipes do not require painting.	Probably if this

were taken into account head would be found more economical than iron which needs repainting every year or so.

According to the L.C.C. by-laws all soil pipes must lie fixed outside the building Inn many ways this is a wise rule, thought it has its disadvantages. During a severe winter, it is riot an usual thing for soil pipes to burst owing to leaky taps allowing water to trickle through

amid freeze before reaching the bottom.		The risk of fault'

joints is tine most important reason for placing tire soil pipes outside, bunt when one considers that in 'lead pipes

the e joints are soldered and are practically as strong as the pipe itself, the chance of leakage is remote.

To prevent the ingress of sewer gas and bad smells to the house a water trap is necessary under each fitting. A good trap should have a water seal of not less than 2 urn, It should lie self cleansing, that is to say, the inner surface should be scoured each time it is flushed The contents of the trap should be forced out and clean water left after each time of flushing. The mouth of the trap should be larger than the train itself, so that time flush may enter with sufficient force to remove any deposit. All lead pipes should be fixed inside the house and immediately under tire fitting.

After showing on the screen several kinds of traps and explaining their characteristics, the lecturer discussed the

