<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	155

<article title=" SOME PRACTICAL WALL PAPER HINTS " author="">

SOME PRACTICAL WALL PAPER HINTS.



lo paper over kalsomine a great deal of trouble is experienccd in having tile paper adhcre uniformly to the wall, says the Wall Paper Bulletin. This annoyance can readily be overcome by treating the wall before commeneing to hang paper. Much depends upon thc condition of the kalsomine, whether hard or sound, cracked and scaling, or soft and chalky. These sevcral conditions call for different treatment. As a rule, however, it is best to carefully remove the old kalsomine, either by scraping or sponging. If it is soft and shows no signs of scaling, a coat of glue and alum size, made two parts glue and one part alum by weight, mixed rather thin and flowed on plentifully and well brushed into the surface, will likely bind the surface sufficient to hold the paper. If the kalsomine is hard and not scaling give it a coat of two parts each of linseed oil and turpentine, one part Japan and 4 oz. glycerine for each gallon of the mixture put on warm. If the kalsomine is scaling in either ease it is risky to paper without first taking it off. If you size the walls and leave the kalsomine on it is a good idea to serape the edges around the windows, doors, baseboard, etc., for half an inch or so while wet to hold the edges of tile paper and also to lap the edges of the paper instead of butting them.

It is not generally known that oil and grease spots can be removed from the most delicately tinted wall paper without seriously marring it. Some French chalk powdered in cold water should be applied to tle spots and permitted to remain for at least twelve hours. The chalk can then be brushed off. If the grease spots still are visible put on more chalk, place a piece of brown paper on this and press for a few moments with a warm flatiron.



Wall paper can be fairly well cleaned with stale bread crumbs. Remove all dust from tile paper with a feather duster and rub the paper downward with a large piece of bread, touching at each stroke about half a yard of paper. Care must be taken that the paper is not stretched by contact with the crust of the bread, neither must the stroke be made in a horizontal direction. When rubling down, care should be taken to cut away the soiled part of the bread as often as necessary.



<article title=" PERMEABILITY OF MATERIALS " author="">

PERMEABILITY OF MATERIALS.



The action of humidity upon building materials with respect to the permeation of gases has been carefully studied and is an important question for architects. It has been conclusively proved that this permeation is in the inverse ratio of the degree of humidity affecting the material and in some instances may be reduced almost to zero. It will be both interesting and instructive to sum up some of the separate items of valuable information which have been furnished by the results of experiments and tests. If a thin wall he well soaked with water externally the quantitv of air which will traverse it is only o of that which would pass through it if it were dry. For a thick wall the proportion tinder similar circumstances will be

0.5.	In materials of a fine grain the effect of humidity in nullifying tIme permeable action is strongly accentuated. For instance, calcareous tufa, containing pores of comparatively large dimensions, will lose much more than half of its permeability under the action of humidity, whereas bricks of slag are almost completely deprived of it.

Ordinary mortar parts with a large proportion of its permeability when exposed to excessive damp, but concrete and cement after a prolonged immersion become near ly impermeable. The common brick, which greedily absorbs water, yields it up with equal celerity, but returns to its normal permeable condition but mortar, on the contrary, dries gradually and slowly. Cold damp air, so frightful a source of cvii, does not easily traverse dry ma terials, and when wet materials are exposed to frost their permeability is greatly reduced in proportion to the degree of their hardness and compactness. Another point is worth bearing in mind respecting the passage of air through building materials. If dry air be caused to traverse a porous body in a state of congelation it increases its permeahilitv, but if moist air be substituted the effect is exactly the contrary.

EGYPTIAN STONE WORKERS.

<article title=" EGYPTIAN STONE WORKERS " author="">

In a recent speech, Lord Cromer alluded to the lack of skilled artisans amongst the Egyptians. In illustration of this point he mentioned that during his recent visit to Assuan he was struck by the fact that the contractors for the barrage had been obliged to import several hundred Italian workmen, as no Egyptian stonemasons were to be found who were capable of cutting hard granite. This is somewhat remarkable in a country so famous for its ancient granite obelisks, many of which are of huge size, and could only have been extracted from the quarry and worked by native skill. The obelisks remain, but tIme lapse of centuries has seen time decay of the industry which produced theta.



TO INTENSIFY BLUE PRINTS.

<article title=" TO INTENSIFY BLUE PRINTS " author="">

In a recent issue of the Photographisches Wochenblatt is an article advocating tlie use of peroxide of hmydrogen for giving greater intensity of color to blue prints. It will be remembered that a blue print is not as intense on leaving tile washing water as it is after some 24 hours exposure to air, an effect assigned to oxidation. To remedy this, it is suggested that a few drops of peroxide of hydrogen be added to the water, to increase the rate of oxidation. The scheme is also useful when the paper is old and gives veiled prints. In ease the sensitized parer has tnt-ned a greenish blue, it should be over printed until a decided image is visible. Then a little washing soda solution should be added to the washing water, but it should be used sparingly. The washing should be repeated until the whites are clear, and then the prints should he given a final wash in water to which a small quantity of peroxide of hydrogen has been added.



USE OF CONCRETE FOR FOUNDATIONS.

<article title=" USE OF CONCRETE FOR FOUNDATIONS " author="">

The American Association of Railway Superintendents of Bridges aimd Buildings have published an important report on time use of concrete for foundations, eulverts, bridge-piers, abutments and arches. In general, tIme opinion of the railway-bridge engineers decidedly favors Portland cement for concrete in place of natural cement. Not many years since, American engineers, in view of the troubles which frequently followed the swelling or cracking of Portland cement as manufactured at that time, preferred for permanent work the natural cements but the best Portland cement of the present day is, they remark, a very different material from that of ten or fifteen years ago, and work executed with it can be relied upon to a degree formerly unknown. Some of the contributors to the report point out that nothing but the best imported cement is satisfactory for commerete. The cost of Portland cement concrete for railway work, seems to be now about tlme same everywhere in the United States, making allowance for local variations in cost of stone and sand, ranging from 28s. 6d. to 35s. sterling per cubic yard, with an average, perhaps, of about 32S. 6d., and there seems to be little difference in cost between hand and machine mixing, the former being cheaper for small work, and the latter for large on a large scale. In regard to quality, the railroad engineers find no praetiea.l difference between the hand-mixed and machine-mixed concrete, the machine-mix- iimg being, perhaps, a little more regular, but any carelessness in machine-mixing involves worse consequences than in hand-mixing. As between wet and dry concrete, meaning by flue latter a concrete on which water can be brought to the surface only by heavy ramming, the railway engineers prefer a moderately dry material, such as will not quake tinder tIme rammer, but on which water will show after a few minutes' tramping. Concerning concrete work in freezing weather, again, the practice of the engineers does not quite support the theories. It is often averred that freezimig does not injure Portland cement concrete hut nearly all thie railway engineers l)refcr not to do concrete work when the thermometer is below 20 degrees Pahr. In any case, they find it much more expensive in cold weather, and even whemm the sand and water are neated time concrete is unsatisfactory, inclining to crumble on the surface.

