<doctype type="text">

MARBLE IN BRITISH COLUMBIA.

Nothing shows in a more striking manner the general prosperity the country is enjoying at the present time, says Stone, than the vast amount of elaborate construction work already undertaken or planned. In all of the large cities great structures of stone are go-

striking commentary on the growing favor of stone for building material. One such instance is so notable as to call for some comment.

In the little town of Nelson, British Columbia, there is to be build a business block, costing $200,000, to be constructed entirely of white marble quarried in the

<article title=" MARBLE IN BRITISH COLUMBIA " author="">



























































up, many of them costing millions of dollars. The smaller cities are following their lead and it is not surprising that there should be complaints of a lack of stone in many quarters. A record of the notable stone





















































buildings planned, or in process of construction in the smaller places, that have heretofore contented themselves with brick and frame structures, would furnish a

Kootenay region. it is to be erected with English and French capital, and the money is already available A little over a year ago Mr. Ernest Mansfield, of Nelson, purchased the marble quarry of the West Kootenay Brick and Lime Company, opposite Kaslo, on Kootnay Lake. This produces a marble of high grade, and Mr. Mansfield purposes to open the quarry on a large scale. In order to demonstrate its quality, both as a building stone and for interior decoration, it will be used entirely in the construction of this block at Nelson. Plans have been prepared by Messrs. Cane & McDonald. The building will be 50X120 feet, and the front will be of finely dressed and carved marble. The columns, cornice and architraves will be of polished marble. An arcade will be run through the centre of the building with entrance through a massive arch, with polished columns on either side. Large light wells will illuminate the centre of the building, and these will have moulded and fluted pilasters of polished marble which will run the full height. The staircase will also be of polished marble. No other material but this will be used in the interior. The party walls will he of rock-faced marble and the rear elevation will be of bushed marble with rock-faced pilasters, From this brief description it will be seen that the building will be by all odds one of the most elaborate and striking to Found in the province.

As yet little has been done in the way of quarrying in the Canadian provinces. That there are valuable deposits of stone is certain, and with improved railroad facilities quarries will doubtless be developed and worked. The great Northwest territory is yet in its

