<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	115

MANITOBA CORRESPONDENCE.

<article title=" MANITOBA CORRESPONDENCE " author="">

(Continued from page 104.)



to each set of rooms leading from the main entrance hall, so that when the hall door is closed the suite is quite shut off from the rest of the building. The question of good ventilation and plenty

of sunlight are matters which the designers of such buildings should well consider. Disease may lurk more in structures of this kind than in private houses it the question of sanitation, light and air is not well considered and provided for in the construction.

An attempt was made some time ago to form an architectural association here but for one cause or another it fell through. An association of this kind is much needed and might be made very useful. We can all learn very much from one another and a general rubbing up of ideas at monthly or other meetings would do any of us good and add much to our usefulness. One thing we might consider is that there should be some standard by which any one desiring to practice as an architect could or should be measured.

Some contractors are in the habit of drawing sketches or getting plans and then offering to put up the buildings. This is a bad practice, and as a rule it leads to a poor class of buildings (architecturally speaking) being erected, and is a loss to the legitimate architect who would be commissioned in most eases to

prepare the plans and superintend the work. We have known cases where buildings designed by an architect have been almost duplicated in the way referred to. Imitation ma be the sincerest form of flattery, but it is not a paying thing for the architect, nor is it fair or right.

It seems a very difficult matter to get the architectural profession placed on a proper basis. The members of other professions such as Lawyers, Doctors, Dentists, etc., are allowed to protect themselves and the public, while architects gel no protection or legalized standing. Combines seem the order of the day but an architectural combine seems to be out of the question up here, for the present at any rate.

The Parks Board have taken charge of the City Hall square and are planting extra trees and intend to lay out flower beds. This is a move in the right direction. They have also charge of all boulevarding in the city and will plant trees on a definite plan, charging the cost up to the owners. This will beautify and improve our streets, as trees add much to the appearance of street architecture.

NOTES.



The foundation for J. G. Hargrave & Cos store on Main St. is well under way.

Progress is being made with the foundation of the new Merchants Bank building and some good work is being done.





The Canadian Bridge Co., Limited Walkerville, Ontario.

N'IANUFACTURERS, OF









STEEL BUILDINOS ROOF TRUSSES

Railway and Highway Bridges and Structural Steel and Iron Work of all descriptions

Estimates furnished upon application.

Address head Office at Walkerville, or



HENRY F. DUCK, Resident Engineer, 603 Temple Building, Toronto.









Hamilton Radiators

For

Hot Water

and

Steam



Are the production of the best mechanical skill to be procured. Unexcelled in QUALITY, DURABILITY, and EFFICIENCY.

Made with all iron to iron joints—no packing of any kind.

Used in hundreds of the best and most expensive buildings in Canada

	Manufactured by ...	Correspond with us before deciding on your method of heating.





THE GURNEY, TILDEN COMPANY

Hamilton, - Canada.	LIMITED

TORONTO OFFICE	134 Bay Street.

EASTERN AGENTS: H. R. Ives, Montreal, Que., and The Star Iron Co., Montreal.	CATALOGUE FOR The ASKING

WESTERN AGENTS: The Gurney Stove & Range Co., Limited, Winnipeg, Man.