<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

is well known when hollow, if of any length, wrought iron is superior relatively to cast. Whether in beams or pillars, the common form is the rectangular section, the base being extended with webs to give a larger ground surface, as flanges were common with castings. If the box section is plain, then internal riveting has to be reckoned with, and this is more expensive than where this can be done wholly from the outside. The simple form of beam for lighter work comes under the latter head.

The outline need not be flat. With the same scantlings greater strength is given by the arch or there may be the flat top and the curve below with lattice work between. The structure may again he a double flat girder with the same connections. This system tends to avoid excessive rigidity, and brings into play the qualities of wrought iron for withstanding tension while admitting of infinite variety of design. The manufacture is much the same throughout. The plant is the all-important question for rapidity of handling and size of work. Some designs may lend themselves more to one maker's capabilities than others, and the tendency must be to specialise and keep to standard patterns, whereby the machines are best suited to exactly what they have to accomplish. This ensures cheapness and quality.



<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">

USEFUL HINTS.



In glazing a greenhouse it is advisable that the glass should only be bedded in putty, front putty being- entirely dispensed with this is found by practical experience to he the better plan. Well paint the rebate with lead and oil, then run a layer of putty made from whiting and boiled oil, to which a little red—lead may be added. Cut the glass in tight to size and well rub down to bed, and sprig along the edges, after which give the edges and rebate three coats of good oil colour. The reddish putty contains a portion of red lead this putty, which sets very hard and is very durable is tint used for ordinary glazing owing to the extra cost, but is used chiefly by hot-water engineers and boilermakers for making joints Fish oil putty is much approved of for green houses by some authorities 

Asbestos will stand heat as long as any known substance, (unless it be platinum, which is far too expensive for use on a large scale), and is practicaly indestructible by means of heat. But there is probably no better material than firebrick, specially made for the purpose, and known in the trade as '' blast furnace firebrick," Bricks and tiles made of fire—clay can be rendered more lasting by giving them a coating of plumbago, charcoal and silica (pure fine quartz sand) intimately mixed together. Asbestos powder made into a thick paste with liquid silicate of soda, and spread over firebricks, prevents the bricks from cracking or being burned away. This paste hardens quickly, and can stand any amount of heat.

GREEN ENAMEL FOR VENETIAN BLINDS.—The majority of green enamels and other green pigments if placed in exposed positions to catch the full rays of the sun, fade in an extraordinary short time, this being particularly noticeable on venetian blinds. The under-mentioned recipe for enameling venetian blinds has been found very durable when exposed to the sun's rays, as well as exterior work requiring a durable, glossy finish. Mix together 7 lbs. zinc white, lb. zinc chrome, lb. Brunswick blue, ¼¼ gal. church oak varnish, 1 pint Japan gold size. Mix all well together to a uniform consistency and thin down with American turpentine. The above makes a sea green and dries hard with an excellent gloss in about 12 hours. It may also be used with advantage on bric—a—brac, garden seats and other work requiring a hard surface.

CONCRETE--In mixing Portland cement for concrete the essential rules to remember are that (1) the broken rock, used as an aggregate, should not be stronger or weaker than the cementing material (2) the interstices between the broken

of rock only occupy about thirty percent, of the volume of the measured rock (3) there is no need to have more cementing material than will just till these spaces ; (4) a mixture of one

part of sharp sand and one part of Portland cement will make a mortar which when thoroughly set, is as strong and hard as granite. a mixture of six parts of broken granite, one l)art of sand, one part of Portland cement, all by measure, is said to give the strongest concrete

PETRIFYING LIQUID FOR BRICK WALLS.—This useful preparation, says the English Decorator, is used chiefly on the walls of breweries, damp cellars, and most work requiring a hard glossy surface which will withstand the bard wear as scrubbing with water, etc., and afterwards retain its brilliance and not fall from the walls It is also used with advantage on the walls of stables, dairies, and other outhouses where the painter finds any difficulty in making ordinary paint adhere to the damp walls, and is sometimes used for to arrest the decay of brickwork in damp walls. For this class of work it is made colorless, as not to alter the appearance of the walls. This preparation is quite simple to prepare as may be seen by the following recipe, as made by an eminent firm of manufacturers. First procure 28 lbs. of zinc white ground to paste in boiled oil, 56 lbs. of pale resin, 1 gal. thick boiled oil, ½ gal. pale oak varnish, gal coal tar naphtha, half gal. ordinary boiled oil, and 6oz. newly slacked lime. Melt the resin in a suitable vessel over the fire or by means of a water-bath, then take well away from the fire and allow it to cool somewhat then add the naptha very steadily, constantly stirring, then add the thick boiled oil and lime. In another vessel place he zinc white and break tip with a small quantity of naptha then thoroughly mix the contents of the two vessels while still warm, it should then be allowed to cool down when the other ingredients should be added. In mixing the naphtha, care should be taken to mix well away from the fire as the naptha gives off a heavy vapor which is highly inflammable. The above dries with a surface like enamel. It may be made white by omitting the zinc white and a gallon of naptha If a red brick color is required omit the zinc white and replace with venetian red and red oxide ground to a paste with boiled oil or varnish. Should the proportions be too large reduce according to quantity required. This preparation dries hard with a brilliant gloss in about 8 to hours, and may be washed, scrubbed and submitted to heavy usage a few days after it has been applied. A gallon of the above may be prepared at a cost of about 3's and will be sufficient to do 6o square yards one coat.







NOTES.



London requires 1,300,000,000 bricks a year.

Some quarrymen prefer gunpowder to dynamite, for the reason that the shock is more widely and evenly distributed when the former explosive is used than it is with the latter. Advocates of gunpowder say that dynamite exerts too strong a force in the immediate region of the explosion, and breaks the stone into useless pieces.



A Bill now before the British Parliament, and which has received its second reading , provides for the permissive registration of plumbers. In introducing the Bill Lord Glenesk expressed the belief, that, although not compulsory, it would tend to bring about greater reliability and better work on the part of plumbers.

The German Portland cement manufacturers are said to be feeling the loss of the American market, as the United States produced are able to almost cover the entire American demand Hitherto the Baden fact ones have been compensated by large home inquires, but recently owing in part to the bight price of money there has been a decline in building operations.

The publishers of the Dundee Courier have sent twelve delegates chosen by popular vote to the United States and Canada with the object of investigating labor conditions and methods o workmanship as applied to their particular trades. Mr. Frank Harris, of Bowness, will study pottery conditions and trade Mr. Kenneth McKensie, Inverness, upholstery, woodwork, etc. Mr. George Nutley, Kingston Hill, Surrey, painting and decorating and Mr. Thomas Fleming, Peebles, building.

At the half yearly meeting of the National Association of Builders, of Great Britain, one of the speakers quoted statistics obtained from official sources, showing that annually a limited number of trade unions connected with the trade spent something like £60,000 on strikes and disputes, and 772,018 on management expenses, the latter an average of $5,000 each. The journal of the Association takes this as a text to do a little preaching upon the necessity of better organization by the employers, and especially the strengthening of their hi financial position.

