<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



STOPPING THE SUCTION IN PLASTERED WALLS.

<article title=" STOPPING THE SUCTION IN PLASTERED WALLS " author="">

Where glue size will not stop the suction in walls or ceilings, a varnish size is the best remedy. Take good hard oil finish of copal varniah and thin it down with an equal measure of turpentine, or if this be too heavy, use two measures of turps to one of varnish. The condition of the surface must guide you in preparing the size. It must be so thin that it will dry flat, or very nearly flat. You must also see that the size is dry and yard before applying the paint, otherwise it may crawl or crack. See our answer in these columns to 0. L. P. on the subject of a size for plastered walls, which may guide you in the matter of applying the glue size at the proper time and stop suction more effectively.



For painting over tarred surfaces or timber which has been treated with creosote, mix the pigments with as follows. If the tarred or creosoted work is to be painted white, procure 14 pounds of pure zinc white in paste and mix with it 1/2 pints of boiled linseed oil, 1/2 pint of deodorized or coal tar naphtha and pint of cheap oak varnish. Mix well and apply two coats in the same way as ordinary paint. Any paint may bc prepared in a similar manner by using the above proportions of materials, omitting the zinc write and replacing with a strong staining



paint ground to a paste in oil.

Bookkeeping FOR Joint Stock Companies A practical and comprehensive realize on the organization forms and bookkeeping entries required to meet the varying conditions of Joint Stock Companies of all kinds, together with an analysis of the Dominion and Ontario Acts governing such corporation, by David Hoskins  Chartered Accountant, Principal of British American Business College, Toronto, and Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ontario. Published by the Federated Business Colleges of Ontario, Limited, Toronto, Price, $1.50.

The author of this work has, we are pleased to see, avoided the error into which most writers of bookkeeping texts have fallen namely, that of arranging the matter in such a way as to necessitate a large amount of mechanical work being performed before any practical benefits can be obtained; on the contrary, his explanations are so clear and concise and so excellently indexed that the busiest of men can obtain full information on any of the many technical points of joint stock company bookkeeping or law, in a surprisingly short time. The whole subject has been treated in a thoroughly practical and business-like manner and shows a masterful grasp of the entire range of company accounting. The chapters dealing with the conversion of business concerns into Limited companies and the Amalgamation of Companies are particularly good ones, while the many illustrations of Financial Statements used by the leading Canadian mercantile and manufacturing institutions cannot fail to be of great value both to the business man and the accountancy student. A first-class idea, in this book is that of including the questions set on the examinations of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ontario. Mr. Hoskins is to be congratulated on his important addition to accountancy literature.





To relaequer old brasswork, first boil a strong lye of wood ashes, which you may strengthen with soap fees put in your brasswork, and the lacquer will immediately come off, then have ready a pickle of aquafortis and water strong enough to take off the dirt, dip in the article, and wash it immediately after in clean water dry it well and lacquer it.



The Standard White Lime Co., Toronto, has been incorporated with a capital of $300,000, to manufacture lime, sandstone cement, etc. The provincial directors include D. D. Christie and R. E. Nelson, both of Guelph, Ont., and Thos. Christie, Toronto.







ACADEMY OF ARCHITECTURE AND BUILDING.

1742 Chouteau Ave., St. Louis.



An institute for the technical education of building tradesmen and draughtsman. Students may commence at any time. Graduates are assisted in obtaining positions as draughtsman superintendents, foremen, etc. LESSONS BY MALL for home instruction. Send cents in slant is for a useful book of interest in self-instruction. Mention the CANADIAN ARCHITECT when writing.



Principal H. MAACK Architect.

)	Stair Scale ($1) No dividers.

Author of a	No Figuring

)Joist and Raiter List (Inc), each month 

WIRE LATH

The only perfect Lathing, for the reason that the Wire is completely embedded in Mortar and CANNOT RUST. It is



the only Lathing that will stand the test of time.





The 13. Greening WIRE 60.,

(LIMITED,



Hamilton, Ont. - Montreal, Que.

For Sale.



The Manufacturing Rights patented in Canada, of a valuable appliance extensively adopted by Electric Lighting Companies and users of high steam pressure in Great Britain. Full particulars from WOOD & GREGORY LTD., Dukes Road, London, England, w.c.







Please Mention the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





when corresponding with Advertisers.







CABOT'S

CREOSOTE SHINGLE STAINS

	The Original and Standard	Shingle

Stains are made only by SAMUEL CABOT, of Boston, Mass. Every package bears his trade mark, and every gallon is guaranteed. Used and proved in every climate for nearly twenty years. Also



CABOT'S

Sheathing and Deafening "Quilt"

the most perfect insulator of heat and deadener of sound on the market. Decay, moth and vermin-proof, and uninflammable

Samples, Catalogue and full information upon

application to the manufacturer this



CANADIAN AGENTS:

ANDREW MUIRHEAD, 82 Bay St., Toronto.

SEYMOUR & CO., Montreal.

C.	G. HENSHAW, Vancouver.

F.	H. BRYDGES, Winnipeg.

	W.	H. THORNE	& CO., St. John

E.	D. ADAMS Halifax.

A New Idea in Stairs and Car Steps

 ARCHITECTS		Why not specify The Hamilton Improvement for Stair

	Car Street	and avoid	Accident through SI Shipping. g



































Write or Phone for Particulars H. J. HAMILTON, (93 York Street) Toronto, Can.

PHONE 8786.

