<doctype type="text;ad">



Mr. Kay Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that this question of ventilation that has been discussed, goes beyond the limits of what is practical. The idea of taking a cold air duct and putting it under the furnace What would be the consequences? Why, the fire would be uncontrollable, you would be roasted out. The moisture in the air would be burned up. I think there is a great deal of common sense in the use of an interior cold face when it is placed near the front door. The air at that part is cold; every time the front door opens there is a great deal of fresh air comes in which goes down t lie cold air pipe, so that there is plenty of fresh air supplied in the course of a day. I find by experience that warm air ducts must be on the inside, in some internal partition, in a brick partition ; if we have not a brick partition we must make them out of tin.

The President In regard to that point of too large an amount of supply of air to the furnace, you need not use all the air, but divert part of it into the smoke pipe.

Mr. Gordon I don't know, Mr. Chairman, how long time on wish to devote to this discussion, and I think it is proper at this stage to very enthusiastically and heartily move a vote of thanks to Dr. Bryce for the very Instructive and practical paper which he has given us. In common with a great many others here I have been thinking of my past sins and making promises that I am going to do better in the future, and that in itself is a good thing for the doctor to have secured. I am sure we will all remember the impetus he has given us. I am impressed with the large amount of moisture required. I have been trying for two or three winters in my own house a plan of supplementing the evaporating pan at the furnace, (which, by the way is nearly always placed too low down to render efficient service) by suspending ordinary two quart tin cans under the floor registers and having them filled each day. It is astonishing with four or five of these in a house, what a large amount of water you can evaporate. How— ever, I was just thinking, in fact I was speaking to the doctor before coming in here of the way in which the



present generation seems to be enfeebled arid subject to disease more than our fathers and grandfathers used to be. We have our houses built so much better than they used to ; we fit our sash so much tighter we try to save fuel in that direction, and make our houses as hot as possible. We put in hot water heating apparatus, and in many cases without any indirect radiators and fresh air inlet. I have been insisting (even with small apparatus) on having at least one indirect radiator under the hall. I have been trying a plan of putting a pan over the indirect coil under the hall and a water pipe brought there, so that by turning the tap a little every day that pan could be kept full. But since I have been learning- of the immense amount of water required, I have been considering it would not be desirable to have upon that a ball cock, so as to keep the pan automatically filled.

Mr. Belcher seconded the vote of thanks. I am a friend of Dr. Bryce. I noticed that he spoke of the low

	of diphtheria in my native	-	may

rate	-	country. Possibly he n

recollect that the winds are from the west and they blow from the Atlantic right over the country. Of course w get the moisture from the ocean saturated with salt. and that coupled with the fact. that we have no furnaces, and there are no heating apparatus but the fire-places. may account for it. Where in every room there is fire-place, and the fire is kept burning in every room, it is impossible to get heat without at the same time getting ventilation and an abundant supply of fresh air which in Ireland is moist.

Mr. Baker In attempting to speak to this immense question, I Find my mind in a most chaotic state indeed. The paper I think is the best paper we have ever 1-lad. It is practical from beginning to end. We cannot fail to understand it. It brought out, for my part, the points I have been t trying to get at through reading, and has condensed for me a great many books. Taking the tables which have been put upon the blackboard by Dr. Bryce, in the first column we find that a person who is run down should take a sea trip as we see that the air in mid—ocean contains only .06 bacteria per cubic meter. Following that down I am staggered by the figures, when in the city of Paris 36,000 bacteria per cubic meter are given off by an old house. Now that should be advertised ; that is a point for us, sir. We have a reporter here, and he should devote a column to that. It makes it clear that we should not live in an old house, that we should have a new house ! Taking the next paragraph on the black—board it would appear that we ought to live iii wooden houses if we are to live economically. I also would think that perhaps a wooden house would be more wholesome to live in. It is very interesting to note the different points brought out there of the different powers of conducting heat, of the several materials. Passing on to the question of moisture, we have another peculiar proposition, that is this We find that in London since artificial means of heating- rooms other than fire places have been introduced, the ratio of diphtheria cases has greatly increased owing to a sufficient amount of moisture riot being slip— plied. Now it has been pointed out to us that the residents of Ireland who have only fire-places are all in old houses. The individual who lives in the old house has more moisture and more microbes, while the man who lives in a new house has less moisture and fewer microbes ; a choice of two evils with the benefit of the doubt in favor of the new house; henceforth we should see that he gets the necessary moisture. Dr. Bryce referred to painting of radiators. I think we all know that bare iron radiates heat more than that which is in any wax- finished outwardly I remember on one occasion when I traveled lip to the park to speak to Dr.  Bryce on this question of heating and ventilation, he de— scribed an ingenious device which he had successfully used to equalize the temperature of the air throughout the room ; if he has time perhaps he will describe it to you now, as I am sure you would be interested.

The President We have this motion before us. I know Dr. Bryce will recognize that although it is a formal motion, it is one that is sincerely made. I am



Canadian Industries and Canadian Products are taking the lead the world over. Why

should not Canadian Varnish do so at home ? When making out the



specifications for your next building, remember that



The Imperial Varnish & Color Co.'s Limited



HIGHEST=GRADE ARCHITECTURAL VARNISHES

are designed for first class work, and are not surpassed by any of a foreign make. Try them. Put up in tins with our brass seals                  



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY

	TORONTO	T

he Imperial Varnish & Color Co., Limited

Ontario, - Canada