<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

MESSRS. H. & S. LOWE, CHARLOTTETOWN, P. E. I.

Among the largest building firms in the maritime provinces is that of H. & S. Lowe, of Charlottetown, P.E.I., and they are now by far the largest in that province.

Mr. Win. Lowe came to the island in 1830 from his native home in Norfolk, Eng. He had learned his trade



<article title=" MESSRS. H. & S. LOWE, CHARLOTTETOWN, P. E. I." author="">



































MR. HENRY C. LOWE.



in the old country, and took up building when he arrived.

His two sons, whose portraits we publish with this article, learned their trade with him and went into partnership 25 years ago. Mr. Henry C. Lowe is the senior of the firm and is 52 years of age. His brother, Samuel Lowe, is but two years younger.

Both are married, and live in a pleasant new double residence most comfortably finished and tastefully fur-







































MR. SAMUEL LOWE.



finished, on the corner of Hilisboro and Heuston streets. The firm has enlarged its business from time to time,

until it now employs a large number of men permanent

ly.	They are intending to acquire in the spring a large and well equipped wood-working plant in the city, which will give them much better facilities.

They have constructed some of the largest and most important buildings in the province. Some that might be mentioned are the Cameron block on the south side of Queen's Square; the Rogers building, Queen St.; St.

Paul's Anglican church, in Queen's Square; and the brick Roman Catholic church at Fort Augustus, which cost $20,000. The two first named were done in the past two years. They remodeled the interiors of the First Methodist and St. James' Presbyterian churches in the city, and have erected a large number of fine residences in the immediate vicinity of their own home. They were the builders of the pork packing buildings, which they secured in a contract of $50,000. The contract for these structures, which were briefly described in the December issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, was signed in May, 1897, and they were turned over complete in November of that year.

Last summer the firm erected nine dwelling houses, a brick church, an extension to the Davies hotel, an hotel at Stanhope, and other buildings. The Stanhope hotel, which was of wood and cost $6,000, was wanted for the tourist trade. It was put up, plastered, painted and turned over for use in 21 days.

Work was recently begun on enlargements and repairs to the city drill shed which will cost about $10,000. The firm are now completing a residence for E. H. Beer which is costing $2,000 ; also one for Robert Palmer at same cost. They have just begun work on the new Apothecaries' hall or Desbrisay building, which is a $14,000 contract. The firm feel confident that building will be good during the coming summer and are preparing for good orders.





INTERCOMMUNICATION.

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. we do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance.]





A correspondent in Ottawa asks the following: "Is there any rule for determining of the number of seats required for the use of children—boys and girls—in closets built for Public schools ?" I am anxious to know how many seats would be quite sufficient for 300 boys and how many for 300 girls.



W. R. G., of St. Catharines, Ont., sends in the following query: "What are artificial cements and natural cements ? What are the usual tests for Portland cement? For what purpose is silver sand used in combination with Portland cement?"



W. B., of Toronto, asks for an explanation of the word "gesso." ''What it means, and if a material, for what purpose is it used ?"



T. W. R., Hamilton, writes asking us to explain what is meant by "secret nailing," and to describe the manner of doing the work. "I am," he says, "a new subscriber to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER and am much interested in its columns, having already obtained many good things from its pages, but having learned my trade in the old land I never heard the term 'secret nailing', therefore am anxious to know what it means.



T. V., Orillia "I am interested in a large stock of red oak and would like to know how it can be kiln dried without spoiling it, as I find the usual manner of kiln drying seems to honeycomb the stock and render it totally unfit for fine work. It looks all right when taken out of the kiln but the moment it goes through the planer it is full of pin holes and cannot

