<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	89

 HISTORY OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.*

<article title=" HISTORY OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="Langton, W. A.">

In the summer of 1887 some of the architects of Toronto agreed to meet together once a month to dine and talk over matters of professional interest. At the fourth dinner this Club, which by then consisted of twenty—four members, assumed a Constitution and a name, calling itself the Architectural Guild of Toronto.

The Guild soon became so active that when in the following summer the Minister of Education for Ontario, the Hon. G. W. Ross, wished to establish a Chair of Architecture at the School of Practical Science in Toronto, he invited the advice and co-operation of the Guild. A Committee of the Guild met the Minister at his office on October 29th. In the conversation which then took

place was suggested the advisability of the architects of the Province of Ontario becoming incorporated as a Society or Association with power to examine and license persons wishing to practice Architecture in the Province.

At the monthly dinner of the Guild held on November 8th, 1888, the idea was put into action V the appointment of a Committee to draw up a scheme for the formation of an Association which would be the first step to the attainment t of such incorporation.

The Committee consisting of the following members of' the Guild,- Messrs. E. Burke, S. G. Curry, Frank Darling, D. B. Dick, A. R. Dension H. B. Gordon, Henry Langley, W. A. Langton, E. J. Lennox, Wm. G. Storm, Walter R. Strickland, and S. H. Townsend, reported finally on the 14th, March, 1889.

On the 21st March, 1889, in response to an invitation from the Guild, sixty-two architects practicing in the Province of Ontario met at the Queen's Hotel, Toronto, and agreed to the formation of an Association according to the plan proposed, passing at the same meeting a Constitution and By—laws and electing officers as recorded in the minutes of that meeting.

At the instance of this Association a bill was brought before the Ontario Legislature, in the session of 1890, by which bill it was proposed that the use of the title

Architect " should be restricted to members of the Association and that, after a certain date sufficiently distant to allow a reasonable time for all architects then practicing to enroll themselves as members, admission to the Association should be governed by examination. The intention was to allow all persons who were making use of the title Architect at the time the Act became law to continue their practice undisturbed, but to require all future aspirants to the title to so qualify themselves, under the necessity of passing examinations in order to acquire this distinction, that the standard of professional attainment in the Province would in the course of not many years be raised ; and a finer quality of work, higher aims and a better style of practice prevail as the natural accompaniment of higher professional training.

It was a good scheme for a new country. In an older country the ancient buildings form standards of comparison beside which faults in modern design can be seen to be faults, so that every old building is a silent tutor of the public taste. But we have no such buildings. The public are led by the profession and the state of affairs gives rise to but little pressure to impel young architects to acquire such training in design as is necessary for the advancement of architecture in this country.

To legislators the measure appealed only as a pro— Reprinted from Vol. 1. of the Proceedings or the Association.

vision for the safety of the public and they thought this would be sufficiently provided For by giving a distinguishing title, different from the usual title, to architects who had passed the qualifying examinations of the Association; thus setting members of the Association apart as a special class of qualified architects. The bill was accordingly amended in committee so as to make the distinguishing title of members of the Association not ''Architect," as desired, but '' Registered Architect," and in this form it was assented to on April 7th, 1890 The effect of this change was to kill the movement as conceived—as a universal movement towards the advancement of architecture -and to leave the Association with a struggle before it to attain even the partial effectiveness of a voluntary and partial Association. It proved to be impossible to elevate an arbitrary title over the accepted title ; or in other words to degrade the title Architect by law without there being any other reason for its degradation.

If the charter members of the Association had been forced to pass a stiff examination, so that the legal title had from the start a real significance, the result might have been different; but as all practicing architects wet e of necessity admitted to the Association in order that no vested interests might be injured the select character proposed for the Association had no real existence, nor could it have any real existence until the ten or fifteen years should pass which were necessary to bring about the retirement. of the older charter members and an influx into the Association of young men who had won their membership by fitting themselves to pass the entrance examination of the Association. But this period was a longer time than the Association could be held together to no immediate purpose. The Act was for all practical purposes, in its first years, merely a law licensing practicing architects to call themselves Registered Architects. As such it had no influence with the public, and thus the only inducement that the general body of the profession had to support the title and the Association was gone indeed the most ardent workers for the advancement or Architecture had an objection to the title and did not use it, though they continued to support the Association in its aims and in the work which it still tried to carry on in the way of regulating competitions, testing material, procuring good building and fire by—laws and other public and professional matters, as well as meetings of members for mutual improvement, and annual examinations for students.

After the first Year students came forward in very small numbers for examination ; so that there seemed to be no hope of establishing even the select body of qualified men that. the Act, as passed, was fitted to provide for. But., even if it. could be established, a small select body would he of little use as a provision for the public safety. A select body is unnecessary for the sort of public safety which was aimed at by legislators—that is to say to secure the appointment of a competent architect for the construction of great works. Great works are never put into the hands of any but architects of known experience, and the public will select an architect for such works from the elite of the profession, whether they are marked off by an Association or not. On the other hand, for the sort of public safety that can be provided for by act of Parliament, a select body is insufficient, for it is in the diffusion of architectural training that Parliament can best help public safety, by making ordinary building throughout the Province both safe and sanitary and it can thus help also another matter of practical im-

