<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

PROTECTING BLUE PRINTS FROM MOISTURE.

<article title=" PROTECTING BLUE PRINTS FROM MOISTURE " author="">

If blue prints are liable to discoloration by rain or dropping water they can be protected by applying paraffin. The best way of applying it is to dip a number of cloths about one foot square in melted paraffin until saturated, in which condition the cloths can be stored. Then transfer the paraffin to the blue print by spreading a waxed cloth on a smooth surface, nonabsorbent preferred, putting the blue print on this, and a second paraffined cloth on top. Use a moderately hot flatiron to melt the wax and cause the paper to absorb it. The lines of the drawing are intensified, the paper does not shrink or become distorted, while at the same time it is translucent and water proof.

 ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION IN DUBLIN.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION IN DUBLIN " author="">

A novel scheme of practical education for intending architects has recently been inaugurated by the Architectural Association of Ireland, says a late issue of the Irish Builder. The scheme is one of technical demonstration to be held each Friday at the workshop of some leading firm connected with the building and decorating trades. Each trade will be taken in rotation, commencing with the bricklayer and finishing with the glazier, and at these demonstrations lie craftsman will he seen at work, and experiments will be conducted on the various materials used by him. Such practical instruction will be of great value to the student when practicing his profession in later years. It is to



the credit of this young Dublin society that it has drawn tip so advantageous a scheme for its members on lines which have never been so broadly tried on the other side, and also of the manufacturers and builders who have readily placed their time and plant at the associations disposal.



CHANGING THE COLOR OF BLUE PRINTS.

<article title=" CHANGING THE COLOR OF BLUE PRINTS " author="">

Anthony's Bulletin gives the following practical method of turning blue prints to a rich brown color A piece of caustic soda about the size of a bean is dissolved in ounces of water and the blue print immersed in it, in which it will take on an orange yellow color. When the blue has entirely left the print it should be washed thoroughly and immersed in a bath composed

of 8 ounces of water, in which has been dissolved a heaping teaspoonful of tannic acid. The prints in this bath will assume a brown color that may be carried to almost any tone, alter which they must again be thoroughly washed and allowed to dry.



Mr. J. J. Woolnough, a well known young architect of Toronto, has been elected on the executive committee of the Toronto Camera Club.

In Germany and elsewhere they line wells very often with

concrete bricks," molded so as to form complete members of a series. Curved bricks are nearly as cheaply made as straight ones, and the best bricks for the are as non-porous as can be. When the diameter of the well is known, there is no difficulty whatever in setting out the curvature of the bricks for the moulds, provided the shrinkage of the clay, etc., is properly allowed for.



OBITUARY.



We regret to chronicle the death from a stroke of paralysis of Mr. Alexander Fiddes, treasurer of the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association. Mr. Fiddes was born and served his apprenticeship in Scotland. For some time after coming to Toronto lie was employed as journeyman. In 1879 lie organized the firm of Fiddes & Hogarth, of which he was senior partner until the time of his death. His valuable services were recognized at the last convention of the National Plumbers' Association by the presentation to him of a Masonic ring, He was an active member of the Presbyterian church and the Caledonian society, and widely esteemed in business and social circles.



VALUE OF TRADE JOURNALS.

<article title=" VALUE OF TRADE JOURNALS." author="">

The trade journal is an advertising medium distinctly different from any ether. It is read exclusively, or practically so, by

people who are interested in the trude which it represents. The manufacturer who places an advertisement in a trade journal has the assurance that every copy is seen by people who could use his goods and who might become customers. Current Advertising.

Cassidy Oil want a wreath ax flowers, art' put on it He Rests in Pieces." Florist—Don't you mean ''lie Rests in Peace "? Cassidy I mane phwat Oil seed. This fur Casey, that was blowed nit in the quarry.—Philadelphia Press.





CANADA FOUNDRY

COMPANY, LIMITED,

(SUCCESSORS TO ST. LAWRENCE FOUNDRY COMPANY OF TORONTO)







Engineers, Founders and Machinists





STRUCTURAL IRON  AND STEEL WORK

Beams, Channels, Angles, Tees and

Cast Iron Columns always in stock.

WRITE OR 'PHONE FOR ESTIMATES AND PRICES