THE PEDLAR PEOPLE

OSHAWA ONT.

<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



PLUMBERS' WAGES IN TORONTO.

<article title=" PLUMBERS' WAGES IN TORONTO " author="">

After several weeks' consideration by committees representing the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association and the Toronto Journeymen Plumbers' Association, the following schedule of wages has been agreed upon

Clause I—That the hours of labor shall he from 8 a. in. to 5 p. in., with one hour for dinner Saturday from 8 a.m. to 12 noon.



Clause 2 That the minimum rate of wages shall he 27 1/2c. per hour the men now receiving 27 1/2c. to get 30c.: those getting 30c. to get 32 1/2 c. per hour, which shall he the maximum rate.



Clause 3 -All overtime to be paid at the following rate Saturday afternoon, time and a half from p. m. to 8 a. in., time

and a half; statute holidays and Sundays, double time.



Clause 4 —Wages to he paid before 5.15 p. m. on Fridays or I 2.15 noon on Saturdays on pay week, with a recommendation that every second Friday he pay day.



Clause 5 Time spent to and from out-of-town work during working hours only to he paid at usual rate of wages, and if travelling all night a sleeper berth to l)e provided by employer.



Clause 6—All expenses for hoard and fares on out-of-town work to he paid by employer.



Clause 7—1n ease of any grievance arising, said grievance shall he referred to a committee of live from each association ; committees to meet within three days' notice thereof, and to have lull power to settle disputes.



Clause 8 That no plumber, steam or gas fitter shall perform any labor pertaining to his trade or put in any material

supplied by or for any other person than his employer, who shall he a bona—fide master plumber, and a member of the Master Plumbers', Steam and (;as Fitters Association ; but no enforcement of this clause to take place before being sanctioned by a joint committee of the grievance committee of both associations. Three months will be given from date of signing this agreement before it shall he enforced.



Clause 9- The members of the Master Plumbers', Steam and Gas Fitters' Association 

THE

CANADA

PAINT

COMPANY

LIMITED



Oil Boilers

Lead Grinders

Color Makers

Oxide Miners

Varnish Manufacturers



WORKS AT:

	ST. MALO	MONTREAL



TORONTO





HEAD OFFICE





572	William Street, MONTREAL.





- SPECIAL - __

Architects are respectfully invited to specify the "AMBERITE" Varnishes for high class work, the DIAMOND GRAPHITE for Iron, and the Canada Paint Company's Creosote SHINGLE Stains for all work where roofing

stains are indicated.







THE



CANADA

PAINT

COMPANY

LIMITED

St. Lath

Pedlar's Expanded Steel Lath has a good key.



That's its strong point.



The mesh is very open.



That's what makes it's key so good.



Takes more mortar than others, to be sure, but this is an advantage, as the open mesh allows enough mortar to pass through to completely embed the lath, making it entirely fireproof.



Have you one of our large Catalogues? Gladly sent—express l)aid—on request, by mentioning the "Canadian Architect."

