<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	123



the buildings out to competition. The question was referred to the council to act upon as they should see fit. The council appear to have seen fit not to act upon it, but it is a question whether this was what the convention intended.

a fifth of furniture and fittings. The table will best be explained by reproducing it in extensor

<article title=" New German Schedule of Fees " author="">

New German Schedule of Fees

A new schedule of fees has been adopted in Germany, which affords interesting study. in the first place, it is

adopted not only by the architectural societies, but by engineers, constructive, heating, gas, water, electrical and mechanical, who appear to be united in one association with the architects. Fees are determined upon principles common to all the associated professions. Specialties have special sections. The liberality of the

principles upon which fees are computed is worth studying. In the matter of preliminary studies, a large view is taken of the importance of this part of the work, and more intelligent provision is made for proper payment than a hard and fast rule of 1 per cent. Where a commission embraces several structures of the same design, to be executed simultaneously, the fee is reckoned for supervision upon the whole cost, which is natural, and for other services according to the work done, which is also fair ; hut preliminary studies too get. consideration on the basis of total cost. When a commission consists solely of the preliminary sketches, the fee is to be increased one—half. Where preliminary sketches, agreeing with different programs, are desired, each is considered independently, in case of several preliminary sketches being desired for the same site and program, the full fee is estimated for the first, and compensation for the others is based on the additional work they require. In case there are no preliminary sketches, but the architect is called in at the stage of working drawings, (a strange case), the fees for working drawings and specifications are increased one—fourth. On behalf of the client, there are special provisions that all commissions or rebates will be turned over to him and that he may ask for expedition in the preparation of plans without incurring an extra charge. The client is to bear the cost of all contingent work, that is to say, of all surveys, measurements, examinations of foundations, etc. He is to pay the salaries of inspectors and superintendents, the expense of establishing and running a special office the cost of advertising and closing contracts, and that of measurements for the final estimates. The cost of engineering advice to an architect, or of architectural advice to an engineer, is also borne by the client. Work by time is $5 for the first hour, and $1 for each hour additional. For journeys $6 a day is added to the usual fees; but this charge can be made only once, i.e., if two or more clients are served by one journey, the $6 charge is divided according to the facts of the service.



With such handsome allowances for services beyond ordinary necessities, one would expect to find the ordinary charge kept rather slim, but it is not so. The method of computing the fee is by percentages upon a sliding scale of cost and under four heads of elaboration in the character of the work so that the fee increases as the proportion of finish in the work increases and decreases with the increase of total cost. The headings of degree in elaboration are not set forth in terms of the character of the work, hut in terms of the percentage of finish. There are four such groups, and

INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF GAS ON ASPHALT.

<article title=" INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF GAS ON ASPHALT " author="">

The fact has been established that the gas escaping from underground mains injuriously affects asphalt pavements on streets where such leakage of gas occurs. The first noticeable effect is checking of the surface of the asphalt. This is followed by general disintegration. Instances arc recorded in which asphalt paving contractors have declined to fulfill their agreements to keep roadways so affected in repair, on the ground that their destruction was not due to detects in workmanship or to ordinary wear and tear of traffic.

	MASTER Plumbers	CONVENTION.

<article title=" MASTER Plumbers	CONVENTION " author="">

The annual convent ion of the National Master Plumbers' Association of Canada will be held in the Temple Building, Toronto, on the 26th, 27th and 28th inst. The Executive will meet at 9.30 a.m. and the convention at 2 p. in. on the 26th. A large attendance is looked for, including representatives from the various Provincial Associations. Reports of the work done during the year will be



presented and discussed. The local plumbers and plumbing supply firms have appointed a joint committee to arrange for the entertainment of the visitors. On the 27th inst. they will be given a carriage drive around the city, and in the evening will be held the annual Association banquet. After the election of officers and completion of the business on the 28th inst., it is proposed to make an excursion by electric cars to some place of interest out— side the city, and there enjoy a musical program and luncheon. Strong inducements are being offered the Association to hold the annual convention next year in Halifax, Nova Scotia.

