<doctype type="text">212	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

by which the picture of the imagination, true in conception however unlike in minor details, is forever dissipated by an intrusive recollection of the present scene, to which time has usually brought a change which is at variance with its former state. In the case of Salem  street, Boston, along which Peter Faneuil and other distinguished colonials once went to church in silk truffles, the place now swarms with Jews, and the street seemed to be inches deep in a litter of paper. If such districts adjoined the beauty part in Boston as they do in many towns, so that one was conscious

their neighborhood, it could not but disturb the impression of elegance, which in Boston is unbroken. But it is only the English tourist who finds his way to the old town (though Christ church is well worth seeing). A person with an office near the Common, and a home in the Back Bay or the suburbs beyond, may live from one end of the year to the other, if he wishes, without contact with ugliness or uncleanness. If that is the end that is desired in the present agitation for beautiful cities, the general plan of Boston may be taken as an illustration of the truth that a city, like a house, if it is to be perfect, must have its working parts combined by themselves, and its living parts combined by themselves, as broadly as possible and in contact only where  necessary.



It is remarkable how Richardson's pre-eminence has been challenged by the general advance in architecture. The solidity and excellence of workmanship, for which he was once so conspicuous, have now become ordinary, and his refinement, which was real, but in the large way—the refinement of '' an oiled and curled Assyrian bull "—is surpassed, in the work of his descendants, by a refinement more in scale with modern life. In a great work like Trinity he still shows up in his greatness. It is a pity that the porch was not built, at the same time as the church, when Richardson was young and developing his style instead of when he was old (in growth if not in years) and his work was passing into the period, which comes to all original art, when development is at an end and degeneracy begins. The porch of Trinity is an off shoot, not of Richardson's growth but of his success, and more than anything in his own work resembles though in a better way, the work of his imitators.

It is worth nothing how the interior has been injured by the gloom into which it has been thrown by the use of Tiffany glass. The transmission of light appears to be a secondary consideration with the American stained glass worker. As long as the window is sufficiently translucent to show its color he seems to ask no more. The result in Trinity church is a loss greater than the gain of the windows which, from their unreligious character, is in any case doubtful.



One cannot conclude the notes of a tour in the big cities in the United States without some reference to the high development of the hotels. Bathrooms and fixed basins in connection with the bedrooms is an old story now, but still the greatest comfort.. The latest invention appears to be directed to means of communication between the bedrooms and the office. in one hotel we found on the wall a long list of possible requirements with a moveable pointer attached. Anybody or anything, from the manager to a glass of ice water, if one simply pointed at its name, forwith came

knocking at the door. The simplest and best arrangement was a telephone in each room. One had only to

speak in an ordinary tone of voice for what one wanted. The best of such an arrangement is the ease with which a party of travelers can communicate with one another. There is nothing to prevent an early morning explorer speaking from a telephone exchange a mile away to the rest of his party, in their bedrooms, about breakfast.

No invention will, however, make an American hotel comfortable until the one great invention has been made by which it will be made impossible for the heat to rise above a certain point. A procession of marble halls are of small comfort to the traveler as long as they are heated so that he is driven from his hotel to walk the street, a houseless wanderer.

W.	A. LANGTON.



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

BY THE WAY.

I was pleased to observe the protests made in the Toronto press recently against the advertising signs which this year began to make their appearance in Muskoka. Among the offenders of good taste in this direction was a prominent Toronto jewelry firm. Every visitor to the Muskoka Lakes should join in this protest against the commercial enterprise which in the pursuit of gain would destroy the beauty of one of Nature s masterpieces. The violators should be made to feel that the placarding of this beauty spot is calculated to alienate rather than attract customers.





'[he British architectural journals contain references to a series or tests of ventilating Cowles by a committee of the Sanitary Institute. A singular feature in connection with these tests is the fact that they are said to be a continuation of tests made under the same authority twenty-five years ago. Why they were not completed when originally begun, and why so long a period was allowed to elapse before they were revived, are matters regarding which no explanation is given. It is also singular that even now the tests are criticized as being of little real value owing to wrong methods of procedure and the failure of the committee to include Cowles and ventilators of modern design.

 

Old London Bridge, around which so many historical incidents and associations linger, is to be widened by 12 feet, to accommodate the ever-growing traffic. Statistics show that more than 100,000 persons and 22,-000 vehicles pass over this bridge each day. It is proposed to devote 9 feet of the extra width to the use of foot passengers. The bridge rests on the wooden piles of an older bridge, and soon after it was reared, in the 'thirties of last century, the foundations made an unequal settlement. The defect was put right, and the present architects are confident that the new burden can be safely added. The alteration is expected to occupy three years and to cost £100,000.

	x	x

In company with an architect I was examining and admiring a photograph the other day. My companion remarked that the excellent shading in the picture was largely due to the use of white paint on parts of the building. Out of this arose a conversation on the sudden revival of white paint for exteriors. This revival came as a natural accompaniment of the return to favor of the Colonial style in architecture. Its appro

