<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	151



IT the condition of the privy pit or cesspool for sewage, for which toleration is demanded, is in conformity with the following article, may issue the temporary permit hereinabove mentioned.

Sect. 31.-Every new privy pit shall be water-tight, of a capacity of 45 cubic feet the sides and bottom shall be constructed of cemented brick twelve inches in thickness and well cemented inside with hydraulic cement such vault may be constructed of cast iron, the shape or form of which shall be either circular or oblong without angles, and with a concave bottom it shall lie provided with a ventilation pipe at least 4 inches in diameter, extending from the pit through the roof sufficient ly high as to prevent inconvenience to occupants of neighboring houses; the seats shall h-ave a tight-fitting cover; it shall have an aperture opening exteriorly to allow of cleaning by pneumatic process, such aperture to be two feet by one and a half feet in size or else the flooring shall be air-tight arid shall have a tightly fitting trapdoor comminicating with the pit the top of the vault shall be one foot above thc level of the ground nothing shall be put into such pit, excepting human excreta

privies shall be located at a distance of 20 feet or more, should the Board of Health deem it necessary, from any house or street they- shall be emptied when the contents reach within eighteen inches of the top of the vault or whenever the Board of Health deem it necessary no offensive smell or gases shall be allowed to escape therefrom. But, in no case shall a privy be allowed within a

dwelling-house.

(1)	) In the case of privy vaults flow drained into a common sewer, they shall be isolated by means of suitable traps placed below frost and according to instructions from the Board of Health.

(2) . In the case of a new house being built, or one al— rcady existing being repaired, wherever there is a public sewer in the street, a water-closet shall be put in, to the exclusion of privy pits.

(3) . When a house is occupied by but one family, if there is already a water-closet in the house, no privy pit shall be tolerated on the premises.

Sect. 32.—No steam exhaust blow off pipe shall connect with a sewer directly, or any house drain, soil pipe, or waste pipe such pipe must first discharge into a tank or condenser.

Sect. 33-Cellars shall not be connected with the house drain, unless by a branch pipe, and by special permission of the Department, and according to plans approved of by thc Department.

Sect. 34.—A sub soil drain shall be provided when absolutely necessary, and shall be constructed and trapped to the satisfaction of the Department

Sect. 35.—No trap shall be permitted between the house drain and the public sewer, unless such trap shall have a hand hole for cleaning purposes, and a fresh air inlet pipe, the whole as may be decided 111)011 by the Department.

Sect. 36.—Drains in yards shall, in all cases, be trapped below frost, that is to say four Feet at least under ground.

Sect. 37.—The inspection of (trains on private property shall be under tile exclusive control of the Department.

Sect. 38.—Gas companies are obliged to place a stop cock to every main pipe.

Sect. 39.—Any person contravening any of the provisions of this By-law, shall be liable to a fine with or without costs, and in default of immediate payment of the said fine with or without costs, to an imprisonment the amount of said fine, and the term of said imprisonment to be determined by the Recorder's Court, at its discretion; but thc said fine shall not exceed forty dollars, and thc term of imprisonment shall not exceed two calendar months the said imprisonment, however, to cease at any time before the expiration of the period fixed 1w the Recorder's Court, on payment of said fine or fine and costs and where the infraction is continious, such infraction (luring each day shall constitute a separate offence.

This By-Jaw will go into operation on the first of September next.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER PLUMBERS AND STEAMFITTERS OF CANADA.

The sixth annual convention of the above Association was held in the Temple Building, Toronto, on June 26th, 27th and 28th. The chair was occupied by the President, Mr. W. H. Meredith, of Toronto. The following persons were in attendance at the meeting: —Thomas Moll, Ald. Lamarche, Capt. Joseph A. Giroux, Thomas Christie, John Watson, Montreal ; H. Hogarth, W. Mansell, W. H. Meredith, J. B. Fitzsimons, K. J. Allison, W. J. MeGuire, George Cooper, Alex. Fiddes, J. H. Wilson, R. Ross, Alex. Purdy, J. J. McKittridge, Toronto F. G. Johnston, John McKinley, H. A. Knox, Ottawa II. Mahoney, Guelph, Ont.; John II. Neclands, Barrie, Ont.; Frank Powers, Lunenburg, N. S.; James Boxall, Lindsay, Ont.; Adam Clark, J. Wallace, A. Rogers, Hamilton; Peter Shiells, Kincardine, Ont.; George Ross, Brockville, Ont.; S. King, Ingersoll, Out.; James Pennington, Windsor, Ont.; _ W. Sievewright, Petrolia, Ont.; Charles T. Bull, James Williams, St. Thomas, Ont.; M. B. Squires, Windsor, Ont.

On behalf of the City Council the delegates to tile convention were welcomed to the city by Aldermen Cox and London, of the reception committee of thc City Council. Mr. James Wilson, President of the Toronto Association, also extended a welcome to the visiting delegates. Mr. Hogarth, Chairman of the Reception Committee of the National Association, introduced the following gentlemen representing the supply interests Messrs. Fred. Somerville, W. C. Allen, Chas. W. Chandler, Alexander Fleming, Ontario Lead & Wire Company Charles J. Britain,  James Morrison Brass Mfg. Co.; A. A. McMichael, An(irew Mann, E. A. Rogers, The James Robertson Company W. L. Helliwell, T. B. Alcock, E. J. Brewer, Gurney Foundry Company Andrew Taylor and W. Taylor, Dominion Radiator Company H. W. Anthes, Toronto Foundry Company.

In response to the request of the President several of these gentlemen addressed the convention, wishing the Association success in its work and expressing the hope that its deliberations would result to thc advantage of thc trade as well as of the supply houses. Mr. J. J. McKittrick made the suggestion that the Association should draw up a model plumbing by—law for the guidance of the municipalities throughout the country.

The President in his report referred to the good feeling existing between members of the Association and the manufacturers and jobbers. lie pointed out tile necessity for systematic organization and thc appointment of a permanent secretary who should devote special attention to this work. the difficulty in the way of carrying out this suggestion was to secure tile necessary funds. The necessity of educating the members of the Association to do first-class work at a fair price and to avoid underhidding each other was also touched upon. The President expressed the opinion that the greatest evil in the plumbing trade to-day is over-keen competition among bidders, resulting in scamp work.

The Vice-President, Mr. John McKinley, in his report drew attention to the neglect on the part of city councils throughout Ontario to adopt proper plumbing and sanitary by-laws. This neglect, he claimed, was due to clefeets in the provincial laws. He suggested the appointment of committees to see that these defects are remedied, so that it will not be possible as at present for unskilled persons to engage in plumbing work.

Mr. Frank Powers) Vice-President for New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, reported that the past year had been a prosperous onc for the plumbers in the Maritime Provinces) and that the present outlook was promising. He stated that well—founded complaints had been made against the supply houses for selling to consumers, and suggested that thc Association devise means for dealing promptly with cases of this kind, To this end the formation of Provincial Associations was recommended. The benefits which would accruc from the. formation of such Associations would be an increase in the membership of the National Association, the privilege to members of attending quarterly rneetings, the securing of sanitary

