<doctype type="text">6	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL TRAINING FOR CANADIAN STUDENTS " author="Capper, S. H.">

ARCHITECTURAL TRAINING FOR CANADIAN STUDENTS.

By PROF. S. H. CAPPER.



THE question of the training best fitted to prepare the architectural student for his future career is one that is not lightly to be answered dogmatically ex cathedral In Great Britain in recent years it has aroused very widely divergent views ; and the establishment of the regular scheme of progressive examinations, by which alone admission can now be gained into the ranks of associateship of the Royal Institute of British Architects, met with very decided opposition from some of the architects who stand highest in their profession in England. It is only necessary to mention the name of Mr. Norman Shaw, R. A., who gave the scheme consistent and dignified disapproval, to prove that such opposition was neither petty nor factious in its essence, hut one of real principle. It was based upon the view that architecture is so essentially an art, comparable to painting and sculpture, that to subject those who would practice it to the rigid and fallacious tests of mere examination is to confound the substance with the shadow, and to substitute the mere externals for the essence, or ( at best) the means for the end itself.

It is nut necessary once more to discuss the endless arguments as to whether architecture is an art or a science or neither or both ; the discussion is apt to be barren, a mere beating of the air and cudgeling of words.

But to decide on the kind of training that will best lead the architectural student to achieve the highest results in his profession involves a very vital question to all who are entering upon the career. It is best answered by a practical regard for the nature of an architect's work.

A fully qualified architect is expected—and justly expected—to have a sound knowledge of construction and of the materials used by him in construction ; in the province of Quebec, at any rate, the architect is held legally responsible, along with the contractor, for a considerable term of years for the soundness of the construction employed and the quality of the materials used. Further, the architect is bound to know the principles of hygiene and sanitation, together with ventilation, heating, etc. ; very frequently, like a lawyer, he has to set himself to acquire very special knowledge for special cases. He has to have the technical knowledge and skill necessary to make himself perfectly explicit and intelligible by drawing and specification. And, finally, thus armed, he has to set himself to study each problem presented to him, to arrive at the best solution for it from a practical point of view under the conditions obtaining, and, while fully satisfying practical requirements, to design his building with aesthetic considerations ever present in his mind, and to produce a result which, when realized in actual construction, shall satisfy the eye and, so long as it endures, he a pleasure and satisfaction to the beholder.

The task is no light one ; the qualities needed for the achievement of genuine success are of no mean order. Even with natural abilities for an architectural career and a strong bent towards the work a student must, it is self-evident, exercise long patience and steady perseverance in training before he can feel himself fitted for his task. And it is well worth serious consideration how his years of training are to be spent to best advantage.

Of the subjects briefly indicated above not all are

of equal difficulty in acquirement. Some, such as the elements of architectural jurisprudence, of hygiene and sanitation, are readily enough acquired by no very great amount of study, aided by practical acquaintance with actual work in execution. Others, such as the technical knowledge required in specifications are hardly to be acquired at all except by somewhat prolonged experience and the industry that systematizes the results of experience. The principles of construction, though generally simple enough in ordinary practice, are to a large extent capable of severe mathematical development and in special cases cannot be rightly apprehended without the study of advanced applied mechanics. Hence a thorough knowledge of mathematics and advanced applied mechanics is essential to the architect who aspires to undertake and understand ---the more complicated applications of modern construction. The theory of structures and strength of materials, therefore, evidently form a subject much more suited for academic and theoretical study than hygiene or sanitation; while such a subject as specification-writing is only to be treated in the most general way as academic training, and must be relegated to the period of practical experience for acquirement in practical useful form.

There is, however, that side of the architect's work which is embraced in the term Design. The readiest definition of an architect is "the man who designs a building." And in design it is that architecture preeminently asserts its right to be called an art and to rank with the other arts that minister to the aesthetic needs of man. It is in design that an architect undoubtedly shows his own artistic individuality and power (or feebleness); in a sense all the other branches of his study and practice are but accessory to design ; they are the means to an end which the design expresses and embodies in permanent, vital form. Hence, certainly, design is from first to last the main and paramount subject for architectural training. To it and to the means by which it is to be explicitly conveyed—drawing or expression of form and modeling, or the realization of form and colour-study—the main portion of the student' energies must be devoted during his years of training and preparation.

Not, of course, be it understood, that these ''accessory" branches are in themselves unimportant or to be neglected. A practically-minded public is quite ready to take prompt cognizance of that, and to mete out blame unsparingly for even the suspicion of shortcoming. And the public is perfectly right. A building that is insanitary is ill-designed in a very vital way ; so is a building that is even inconvenient for its purposes the designer has not achieved the best solution of his task. And the public or (it may be) private client, having failed to get the best, is naturally dissatisfied and unamiably critical. The attitude of mind of an architect who is himself satisfied to leave these important issues in his design ill-arranged and only half thought out is not very readily to he condoned.

But it is ''to set the cart before the horse" to insist on these subjects as the main study of the modern architect they fall into their places easily enough to the man who is in earnest in mastering his profession; and it is a piece of false perspective to exalt them to the exclusion or detriment of the study of design more properly so-called. For they can be acquired comparatively easily ; but the aesthetic faculty requires long and laborious training; slow, perhaps, to waken, it continues to grow and develop and progress with steady cultivation almost in-

