<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	239

<article title=" AMERICAN AND CONTINENTAL HEATING PRACTICES AND APPLIANCES " author="">

AMERICAN AND CONTINENTAL HEATING PRACTICES AND APPLIANCES.

A writer who signs himself a member of the Royal Institution contributes the following on this subject to the London Plumber and Decorator

We are apt to look to America for improvements and go-ahead in heating, and we do not look in vain by any means ; but how few know, or even think, that on the Continent, in France and Belgium, and only a few hours from London, steam heating systems are erected in business premises and in private residences in a more advanced and perfect manner than America can boast of. in these countries so near home the valves to steam radiators can be worked to control the supply of steam and regulate the heat to the greatest nicety, whereas, in adopting American methods, the radiator valve has to be full open or quite shut ; regulation of steam supply and heat is not possible. These remarks refer to the ordinary methods practiced in each country. England, it must be said with regret, is, in a general sense, behind both.

America is the home of the radiator, and it may even have originated there. Certainly the practical and pretty designs came to England from that country, and two or three (no more) English makers were stimulated to set to work and improve on what had served our purpose in the past. They have succeeded in this, but radiators of American manufacture still sell in this country by the thousand feet for every hundred feet of the home made article. The lesson to be learned from this is that more can be done by our manufacturers, but it needs funds, skill and smartness all on a liberal scale.

We had radiators in England before America invaded our trade, and the same radiators are still made and sold, but they had simply to subside into the rear when the others came, and there they remain. The demand for radiators in this country is worthy of a big effort, for it is an established demand and must grow greater. Radiators must be of a style or character which will serve to make them pleasing, or, at least, not unsightly in nice rooms. It is in this that our rivals have succeeded chiefly.

The coming of the American radiator has been a blessing in disguise, quite apart from its stimulating our manufacturers. What it has done is to greatly stimulate the calling of the heating engineer. Residence work is now quite common and to be readily obtained, compared to what it was previously. The radiator has made this mode of affording warmth more

acceptable, and, not least important, it has made it cheaper for given results.

Not only has America sent us its radiators, but the valves and fittings, the '' trimmings," as they call them, have come also. They brought us the anglevalve and the union—elbow, two details to be grateful for, allowing, as they do, for very neat and inconspicuous connections at the radiators. They also brought us the floor plates and many little details which are gradually melting the average woman s opposition to a hot water heating plant in a house. It will not do to make the appliances and the work savor so strongly of the engineer's shop and the foundry. This has been a blight, dwarfing the growth of the industry ever since it originated. The Americans undoubtedly cured this.

It was America that we had first to thank and then to hate for the malleable fittings. They are pretty, strong, businesslike and of admirable shape. In the latter respect they are very superior to our wrought fittings. They tap them with a thread that stands up clear of the body metal, and this thread is tapped taper. It would be difficult to make a bad joint. In addition to ordinary shapes they gave us the 45 degs. branch, the bushing, the eccentric reducing socket, and ditto bushing, the close and open return bend, the male and female elbow and other things. What they have not given us is a guarantee that the fittings shall be watertight. It is simply distressing.

An English firm has remedied this, and are now making a very high quality malleable fitting which is reliably waterproof always, but how strange it is ! they have actually copied the two faults that wrought fittings have, and are obliged to have, and they have made the

price the same as wrought fittings. The three things making malleable fittings desirable are therefore absent, and it is reasonable to ask what. is to be gained by using them compared to wrought ? Simply nothing. Some unnatural people would say this was just like English manufacturers.

Like the radiator, the American boiler has stimulated our manufacturers, for we were sadly behind in getting a large area of heating surface in a moderate compass. A cast iron structure can have corrugated surfaces, heat absorbing pins, complicated flue-ways, and every conceivable means of catching the heat to an extent that is impossible with wrought. iron. In the past our boilers were wonderfully plain, and reliance was placed in carrying the flame up and down their sides, which were made as long as possible.



Academy OF Architecture AND Building

1742 Chouteau Ave., St. Louis.



An institute for the technical education of building tradesman and draughtsman. Students may commence at any time. Graduates are assisted in obtaining positions as draughtsmen, superintendents, foremen, etc. LESSONS BY MAIL, for home instruction Send 25 cents in stamps for a useful book of interest in self instruction. Mention the CANADIAN ARCUTTECT when writing.



Principal H. MAACK, Architect.

)	Stair Scale ($1.) No dividers.

Author of a )	No Figuring.

Joist and Rafter List (10c), ea y method

Book-keeping

For





Joint Stock

Companies

The









DUPLEX WALL AND JOIST HANGERS OUR SPECIALTIES.

Builders' Hardware

Artistic and up-to-date.



Constructional Hardware

Duplex Wall and Joist 

Hangers.

Post Caps and Bases, 1 Beams



Underwriters' Hardware

"Acme" Fire-Door Fittings

"Acme" Fire-Shutter Fittings

Stable and Barn Hardware

Stable Fittings (full line.)



Ask for Catalogue.

Do

OK For the use of Accountants, A TEXT

Book-keepers, Business Men,

and Advanced Accountancy Students.

—BY-—DAVID MOSKINS, C. A.

Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ontario.

PRICE -	- POST-PAID

Address:	DAVID HOSKINS, C A Curlier Yonge and McGill Streets, Toronto, Ont.

The Vokes Hardware Co., Limited TORONTO, CANADA.

