<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XIV. -No. 167.	NOVEMBER, 1901.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEET.



Residence, Toronto —Messrs. Symons & Rae, Architects.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.



house in Rosedale, Toronto.-—Mr. A. Frank Wickson, Architect.

Town Hall, Windsor, N. S—Messrs. Elliott & Hopson, Architects.

Photogravure	Plate.—Canadian Bank of Commerce, Winnipeg, Man.—Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Architects. Photogravure Plate.—Kirby Hall, North Side of Courtyard.







CONTENTS

Editorial	.	.	.	.	.				209-210

Notes of a Visit to Boston and New York			211—212

By the Way							212-213

The Necessity of Care In Excavating	. 	.	213

Toronto	Engineers Club	.	.	.	.	. .	213

Ontario	Association of Architects	. .	. .	213

Preservation of Steel Structures	.	. .	. .	214

 Intercommunications	.		.	 .			215—216

Method in the Shop	.	.		. .			216

Rites and Ceremonies Connected with Building		217—218

Acid Resisting Compositions				. 	218

Wood Dried by Electricity	.

New Way to Make Lime	— 218

The Painting of Shingle Roofs					218-219

The Wire Saw in Quarrying				219

Demolishing a Building by Biography				. 219

Testing of Stones used in Construction				219-220

Galvanized Iron				220-221

R cal Economy in Construction				21

Strength of Iron Tank				21

Fire Doors and Shutters				. 222

Practical Hints				22

Progress of Manufacture of Stained Glass				 223

Correspondence				 223

Students Dept			VII.

Recession in Rooms	I.





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

EDMUND BURKE,

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal



Safety of Elevators.

<article title=" Safety of Elevators " author="">



































<article title=" Methods of Designating Floors " author="">

Methods of Designating Floors

Methods of Designating Floors

An elevator in one of the principal office buildings in Toronto, dropped twelve or

fifteen feet the other day. The suspension cables became detached from their fastenings at the top of the shaft and fell in a heap on the cage. The passengers fortunately escaped injury, but as may be imagined, were badly frightened. Rumors are abroad of similar happenings at some of the great departmental stores of which no mention has appeared in the papers. A system of elevator inspection is supposed to be in force in Toronto, but these accidents would seem to indicate that its efficiency might and should be improved proved.



So much confusion exists regarding the order in which he different floors of a building should be named that some

leading Canadian architects have decided to fall in line with American practice and the ideas of the majority of their clients by numbering the different floors one, two, three, etc., beginning with the ground floor as number one. The practice here and in England has been to name as the first floor the one first above the ground floor. It is claimed, however, that probably 75 per cent. of architects' clients regard the ground floor as being the first floor. The result is frequent misunderstandings between architects and clients, requiring frequent explanations, and leading to delays where matters have to be arranged by correspondence. It is thought by some that the difficulty would be overcome by adopting the American instead of the English method. Where there are basements, the floor would be designated as the " basement floor," and the floor

 Workmen's Compensation Acts.

above as the first floor," counting from the from of the building. Local architects are by no means unanimous in opinion regarding the advisability of changing the method which has been in vogue until the present. The subject is an interesting one and of considerable importance to the profession, and might profitably receive discussion at the initial Conventions of the Architectural Societies.





The Workmen's Compensation Acts of Canada, fashioned after the law of Great Britain, are found to be not less

difficult of interpretation. In Great Britain all sorts of interpretations have been given by the Judges of the various courts, resulting in such a legal muddle, that there appears to be no certainty in the mind of anybody as to what an employer's liability under the act really

is. As evidence that the meaning of the Canadian law is equally obscure, it might be mentioned that the partners of a well-known legal firm not long ago spent half a day in discussing the interpretation of a particular clause. Much unnecessary litigation as well as injustice seems certain to be the result of the operation of this important law simply because proper care was not exercised in its construction.



Architects and persons interested in architecture outside of the profession, will rejoice to observe the more or less

successful attempts that are being made to give a character and interest to the design of factory buildings Such buildings need not necessarily look like huge packing boxes. They may be well adapted to. their purpose.

The Designing of Factories.

<article title=" The Designing of Factories " author="">