<doctype type="ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	67



MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

THE MARITIME CLAY WORKS COMPANY,

PUGWASH, N. S.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



During the past two years a new and modern brick making plant has been in process of construction in Pugwash, N. S.







































































This has now been completed and for some time has been turning out heavy shipments. It is undoubtedly the largest in the Maritime Provinces and is thoroughly modern in every respect ranking among the finest in the Dominion.



The natural advantages of the site were good and the clay and sand required were in close proximity, of the best quality and inexhaustible. There were old clay works here forty years ago and some of the old buildings still stand, but they were quite small.



Robert Brownell, of Truro, was one of the early promoters of this concern. The late Hon, Mr. Dickie, of Amherst, saw the ad-





























































vantages of the site and took up the work, furnishing until his death much of the means for construction. After that event the present members of the firm bought out the stock and plant and have since made great changes and improvements to the plant.



The present members of the company, incorporated in 1898, are Alonzo Smith and R. M. McDonald, both natives of Pugwash. They are both good business men and are opening up the business as thoroughly as it can be done.



The plant is located immediately across the river from Pugwash and is connected with the clay beds, one and a half miles distant, by a railway which is the firm's property.

The clay beds form a solid bank, twenty-five feet high and about a mile in length. The quality is extra good, some experts say among the best they have ever seen, and there is not a stone to be found in it.



The railway was constructed last summer and is fitted with a locomotive and good rolling stock. It terminates in the factory over a high trestle so that cars may be run up over the machinery and easily dumped. The sand is obtained from the harbor shore, a few hundred feet from the mill and is of clear and even quality in inexhaustible quantities.







































































The buildings and yards cover a great area and are laid out as conveniently as possible. The buildings are all of brick, and are covered with heavy galvanized iron roofs. The main building is of size about 75 x 100, including the shed for clay, etc. The engine and boiler rooms are attached, of a size 30 X 24. The engine is of So h. p., and there are three boilers, two of 75 h. p. each and One of 50.



There is some large and powerful machinery in the machinery building. All his apparatus came from Bucyrus, Ohio, and is of the latest pattern. The wire cutting machinery





























































has a capacity of 35,000 bricks per day. The dry press machine has a capacity of 20,000 a day, though it is not generally operated at that speed. The dry house is about 100 X 40 of 6 chambers and with a capacity of 40,000 per 24 hours. The exhaust steam from the engines goes into the dry house. A fan which will be put in this winter will increase the capacity to about 50,000.



The old wooden kilns at first used have been done away with. The plan of the new continuous kiln were obtained in California and is the only one of the kind in the Maritime Provinces. The size 15 164 X 52, and its capacity for the 18 days required for a



burning is 450,000.

