<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDEE

An Important Decision.<article title=" An Important Decision " author="">

tee that if properly managed it will develop into an enterprise ot vastly greater importance in the future. There were to be seen this year a number of exhibits from the United States in addition to those of Canada, a proof that the value of the Exhibition as a means of advertising is becoming more widely recognized The

presence of these foreign exhibits side by side with those of our own country, affords opportunity to make comparison between the quality of home and foreign productions. As a rule the result is a higher appreciation of the home article.





On the 22nd of July the House of Lords

gave an important decision in the case of the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants vs. The Taff Vale Rail way Company, namely that a Trade Union registered under the Trade Unions Act can be sued in its registered name, and the funds of the Union made available for payment of costs and damages where injuries have been inflicted by its authority The action was based upon illegal acts, namely watching and besetting committed by authority and direction of the executive officers of the Union In connection with the strike of employees on the Taff Vale Railway. This judgment of the House of Lords is in reversal of the judgment of the Court of Appeal which held that the language of the statutes was not sufficient to warrant trade unions being sued for darn— ages The first decision was rendered 1w Mr. Justice Farwell, whose judgment has now been confirmed by the highest tribunal, and who in giving judgment said

The contention of the defendant society implies that the I Legislature has authorized the creation of numerous bodies of men capable of owning great wealth arid of acting by agents with absolutely no responsibility for the wrongs they may do to other people by the use of that wealth and the employment of those agents."

Lord Macnaghten in his judgment said ' ' I have no doubt whatever that a trade union whether registered or unregistered may be sued in a representative action if the persons selected as defendants be persons who from their position may he taken fairly to represent the body." It therefore appears that a registered Union may be sued in its registered name, and an unregister ed Union through its proper officers. That the accumulated funds of the Unions can now be legally reached - and corporations who may have

by persons

suffered damage by interference with their employees, will have a wholesome effect in keeping the agitators trom continuing the methods of interference and perse— cution which have so frequently been practised in the past because they were exempt from legal process.



<article title=" THE DEVELOPMENT OF MUSKOKA AND A PRECAUTION " author="Langton, W.A.">

THE DEVELOPMENT OF MUSKOKA AND A PRECAUTION.

The erection of the Royal Muskoka Hotel has brought luxury to Muskoka at last, and has probably broken ground for a new order of things Hitherto Muskoka has been the poor man's paradise ; there he could live in a hotel with board partitions between the rooms sleep on a clanging spring bed, which substitutes sagging for softness ; and cat food in which he could feel the modified enjoyment which comes from the conviction that it will be cheap. The new hotel is of a different kind. It is a well planned structure ; spacious and, in a simple way, elegant ; and aims at that degree of corn-

fort which is indicated by the presence of the colored waiter. It is said that other hotels of the same sort are intended to be erected. We may therefore look for a change in the character of Muskoka. As surely as bad coin drives out the good so surely does the introduction of luxury strike at the existence of simplicity. We may look for improved buildings as a first symptorn; a demand for wooden buildings with some design about them. This is an interesting class of work which returns better results for the amount expended than any other sort of building, if it is carried out with due appreciation of the merits of the material We may however, look for the usual outbreak in the direction of imitation Whether it takes the direction of castles and baronial halls, or a romance (4 humility and imitation logcabins, there are examples to start from, and even text books for the rapid worker. We can only look on helpless, and to some extent hopeless awaiting these developments in design. But there ought to be no doubt about the question of sanitation. The Muskoka Club ought to embrace, as a matter of necessity, all dwellers in the Muskoka Lakes ; and should establish a rule, based upon the best science it can command, fixing a standard method of drainage from which there may be no departure. The foundation of life in Muskoka is the purity of the water; and this is assailed by the introduction of the sort of luxury that boasts, as this new hotel does, of its water service and drainage. It is popular to speak of Muskoka as a sort of Venice in the future ; but there is this essential difference between the islands of Venice and the islands of Muskoka that in the former case there is an eighteen inch tide which twice a day sweeps all the city refuse out to sea, and though the process is not always complete and there are complaints about the smells of Venice, makes the place on the whole clean and sanitary, With the land-locked lakes of Muskoka, though they are deep, the case would be otherwise. Nearly every island is occupied now, and many points. hotels are on the increase, and the exactions of competition soon require all hotels to be on a " modern" basis as regards drainage. Many cottages will without doubt follow suit, and the case will then be dangerous. The new hotel claims consideration on account of its '' septic tank," through which all wastes must pass before they are delivered to the water—and perhaps this is sufficient. But it is impossible to feel the same delight in the purity ot water into which the wastes of a populous hotel have been poured, no matter how scientific the sound ot the process to which they have been exposed. Moreover, if the process is one which requires attention—knowing the unresting energy of nature and the laziness of man, we douht.

If is not so much a question of the present case, where we may assume good management, as of the inferior class of hotel, upon which a system of drainage will be forced by the necessity of competition. Above all, when it comes to be a question of the insufficient labour (and often the volunteer labour) of a summer cottage there is no certainty about the operation of anything that requires care. The only safety is in a rule absolute, that no drainage of any kind shall enter the water. The land is the place for drainage. The thousands of Israel lived in safety in their encampments, under the simple rule that every man should ease himself at a place without the camp, and take a paddle with him, to dig there and cover that which

