<doctype type="text">204	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



infancy, but the mining industry is full of promise for the future. The local demands for stone have not been sufficient as vet to warrant the opening of quarries, but this will come with the development of the region, and then there may be an opportunity to seek a wider market for the stone. Most of the marble so far worked has been found in the more southerly latitudes, but there is no reason why a good quality of marble should not be found in the northern countries. Mention has been made frequently in these columns of an inexhaustible bed of white marble recently discovered on one of the Alaskan Islands, which the prospectors claim is equal to Carrara. A considerable amount of this marble has already been quarried and shipped to the Pacific Coast to be sawed. No report has yet been received concerning this, but the people who are back of it are experienced marble men and would not waste their time on a stone that was unmarketable.

<article title=" THE MARKET FOR PLUMBING AND HEATING GOODS " author="">

THE MARKET FOR PLUMBING AND HEATING GOODS.

Business in both the heating and plumbing lines is so far ahead of any previous year, says the New York Engineering Review, as to make it certain that 1901 is bound to beat all records. This is in spite of labor strikes and other minor disturbances to building operations. The result is a scarcity of goods which in some lines amounts almost to a famine.

In plumbing goods bath tubs are probably the most difficult to obtain promptly and of first-class make. This situation affords an opportunity for some manufacturers, who have not hitherto been recognized as producers of first quality goods, to get into the market in a way that would, under normal conditions, be impossible. The consequence is that some inferior goods will probably be used this fall in places where the high-grade article was really wanted, and could be had by the exercise of a little patience.

Radiator valves and other heating and plumbing brass goods have been in short supply, but not sufficient to interfere with the carrying out of contracts. Wrought iron pipe has been and still is, very scarce e, but even that will probably he forthcoming in sufficient quantities to permit the completion of the year's work.

Manufacturers of house-heating boilers are, as a rule, behind their orders, a few of them are seriously so, and in no cases are the stocks on hand excessive. This is of interest as bearing upon a mistaken idea entertained by some in the trade that there is likely to he a reduction this year in the price of boilers. The profits on this class of goods are not so large as to justify manufacturers in reducing them. While the old estimate of 100 per cent. for selling expenses has been greatly cut down, there is still a fixed expense connected with the marketing of heating apparatus as to render very inaccurate the estimates of those who, looking at the subject from an outsider's point of view, see a magnificent profit in the difference between the selling price of a boiler weighing 2,000 pounds and the cost in iron and labor of a ton of castings.

Under such conditions it is unfortunate that a trade paper should put forth the suggestion that the ruling prices of boilers are such as to make the present a propitious time for foundrymen not now engaged in making boilers to take up that class of work. It is a matter of history that when most of the boiler making in this country was being prosecuted at a considerable

loss, new manufacturers came into the field with a frequency that has not been seen in later years. Pro— motors may be encouraged by real or imaginary profits in a field within their Contemplation, but they are not often discouraged by reported losses, because the right kind of an inventor always has something in mind which will make his devise succeed where others have failed, and the right kind of a promoter will see possibilities which do not always exist.

At the same time it is unfortunate for the business that any talk should be put forth to the effect that there is a gold mine in store for those who will embark in new ventures in the manufacture of boilers on the basis of present prices. If the suggestion should be acted upon it would entail a positive financial loss to most, if not all, of those thus starting in a new field and it would seriously affect those already established, and would tend to bring back much of the former demoralization of the heating trade.

It is also an error to announce with any assumption of authority that there is to be a reduction this year in boiler prices, because nothing- is much less likely.

The dissemination of such '' news " misleads the trade and makes them hold back the placing of orders, with a resultant inconvenience and loss to themselves and to the manufacturers which can hardly be over -estimated. Modern business methods demand conservatism in such matters instead of the sensationalism which has prevailed in the earlier and more unsettled days of the heating- business.



LEGAL.

	NEW YORK AND OTTAWA Co. V. Collins BAY Rafting AND



F.	Co.— Judgment C.), by Chief J Justice Armour in the Court of



Appeal at Toronto, on appeal by plaintiffs from judgment of



 Street J. Action for damages few breath of Contract between the

<article title=" NEW YORK AND OTTAWA Co. V. Collins BAY Rafting " author="">

companies for the removal of the latter of the two wrecked spans a bridge of the former in the south channel of the River St.

Lawrence, just above the Town of Cornwall, and a direction to defendant Lesslie manager of defendant company, to endorse over a deposit receipt for $20,000, balance of contract price, and an order on defendant company to repay $5,000 paid to them on account by plaintiffs. The contract price was $25,000, and it is alleged the time for completion of the work has expired without it's completion. The question raised is whether under the contract and correspondence the work was to be completed in the tall of the year 1899 the defendants alleging that at the time of the contract the plaintiffs represented to them that the middle span of the bridge was broken, and could be raised whole, whereas it was broken, and in the attempt to raise it whole, believing it to bc unbroken, time was lost, and that they are owing to the representations and conduct of plaintiffs entitled to take

out the said span in the best practicable way, and that doing so will be a performance of the contract On their part, and that at all events they are entitled to be paid for their services in removing the south span, and altering the position of the middle span



so as to relieve defendants from claim for damages for obstructing the river channel, and they accordingly counter—claim. The trial judge construed the Contract as meaning that defendant company was to be paid $5,000 as soon as either span is removed From the channel and another $5,000 as soon as either span is put ashore and were entitled to retain the $5,000 already received or removal of the south span, and to judgment on their counter— claim, without costs, for $9,000 more for putting- it ashore, and dismissed the action with tests without prejudice to any action, save as to the $5,000 already paid, for any breach shown to have been committed after the commencement of this action. Held, Olser and Maclennan, J. J. A. dissenting, that upon the proper  construction of the contract the appeal should be allowed with costs and deposit receipt directed to be endorsed over to plaintiffs with costs. Counter-claim dismissed with costs, and costs of defendant Lesslie to be paid by his co-defendants.

