<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

A certain retaining wall was built of Louisville—cement concrete, faced on the top and front with Portland cement mortar. The weather was quite cold part of the time while the concrete was being mixed, and part of it must have frozen before setting had entirely taken place. The 2-in. plank form was left in position until the Spring, and about in. or in. of sand was placed on the top of the wall. In removing the form last Spring it was found that the body of the concrete, to all appearances, was in good condition. About six inches from the top however, the Portland cement facing was badly cracked and by sounding occasional spots were found both in the

400 feet in circumference and 25 feet wide forming a promenade, surrounds the dome at a height of about 100 feet. This balcony is reached by powerful lifts and wide stairways. A colonnade 200 feet long and 8o feet wide with floor of ornamental black and white marble, leads to the main entrance beneath the great dome.

Next to Great Britain, Russia occupies the largest amount of space. A grant of £30,000 was made by the Russian government, for the erection of buildings which are all designed in the old Russian style, put up by Russian workmen, mainly with the aid of short— handled axes.



































































Portland cement facing and in the hack of the wall, where there seemed to be a thin loose shell. Evidently these are surface defects, and the wall itself appears to be in good condition.

The writer believes that the foregoing tests indicate that concrete work with cement possessing qualities similar to those tested may be carried on safely during moderately cold weather by using proper precautions, such as warming the materials and the water, and by so protecting each layer of concrete that its top shall not freeze before the next layer is laid.



Note—The temperatures recorded are Centigrade.

<article title=" THE GLASGOW EXHIBITION " author="">

THE GLASGOW EXHIBITION.



The site of the Glasgow Exhibition comprises 73 acres intersected by the River Kelvin. The buildings, which were designed by Mr. James Millar, I. A., of Glasgow, cover an area of 20 acres. They are divided into three groups—the general industrial section, the machinery hall, and the grand hail for entertainment's. They are designed in the Spanish Renaissance style, oriental coloring the leading feature being the great dome 200 feet high and So feet in diameter, with four accompanying towers, each 160 feet high. A balcony

<article title=" A USEFUL CEMENT TESTING DEVICE " author="">.



Mr. W. F. Gorcham, an English cement works expert, has patented a device called a Flourometer for separating the flour from residue of cement, thus enabling the proportion of cementitious matter in the cement to be exactly arrived at. In this device, which is intended to furnish a means of test of quality of cement to architects and contractors, and other users of cement, air under a certain fixed pressure is supplied by an aerometer attached to the tube of the Flourometer. The cement is placed, in a fixed quantity carefully weighed, into a conical glass, and a central tube is brought into it, with the bottom edge cut in a particular way. Air is then forced down the central tube, and rising up through the cement, lifts through the vertical tube all that is light enough to be lifted by its current, which is then deposited in a special settling chamber. About 2 to 3 per cent. of the flour is lost, but the residue always remains intact to be weighed for proportion.



The first stone of Cologne Cathedral was laid on August 15, 1248, and the body of the edifice was not opened until August 15, 1848, 600 years later to the very day. It was not, however, until August 15, 1880 that the splendid structure was finally completed, having thus occupied in building the " record time of exactly 634 years.

