<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	105

INTERCOMMUNICATION 

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance.]





Wm. L. C :—Wishes to know if large pipes can be made by using Portland cement either neat or mixed with sand. '' I want the pipes to have socket joints, and to be not less than three feet long," he says, ''and I want a large number of them of various sizes.

Ans :—Concrete pipes of large diameter are frequently made and used in England for many purposes. In one instance, at least, pipes 2 feet 6 inches in diameter are in use in one place as a flume to carry water to run a large mill. The methods of making such pipes differ, but here is one of which the writer has some knowledge.

In diagrams, figs and 2, which are drawn to a scale of 1/4 inch to the foot, make molds out of 1/2 pine with joints like staves of a barrel, with hardwood dowels in the joints. Make One of the staves of







































the inside mould fig 2, shaded, with square joints so that it will draw out towards the hinge. Hinge it as shown ; you can trace the draw out stave from the opposite side when you are filling in the concrete, so as to keep it in its place. Hinge the outside mold, also shown in fig 2, and have the mould to open on the opposite side. Nail a circular batten, shown in fig 1, 2x3 inches around the bottom of the outside mould, and another on the top of the inside mould, which will form flush sockets in the pipes leaving a half inch space for cement jointing. Let the battens he about a quarter of an inch short at the draw out stave, in order to allow the mould to close. Lock the joint of the outside mould with a couple of hooks, tack hoop iron around the outside mould, the inside will not require it. Cast the pipes standing in a large tank, for they must be left in water for at least five days. The cement or concrete used for this purpose may be composed of two parts of Portland cement, two parts clean sharp sand, and three parts of fine gravel or crushed granite, granite not to be larger than a white bean. When removed from the tank, the pipes should stand in some shady place for a week or so before they are used, they will then give good satisfaction.



J.	O. writes :——I have a sink in which the waste from the kitchen runs into a 4 inch tile pipe to a cesspit over 200 feet from the house. In that distance the pipe has a fall of nearly 15 feet. The cesspit is walled

up with dry masonry. A very disagreeable odor emanates from the sink, and it is worse in winter than in summer. I have ventilated the cesspit, and put a ventilator over the sink, but the odor still continues. Can you suggest a remedy?

ANS -We suspect you have no trap in the waste pipe, and because of this omission, the warmth of the house in the winter increases the draft through the open sewer pipe, and thus increases a nuisance and danger that should not be tolerated under any plea. Put in a good deep trap as close under the sink as possible and as large as the waste pipe. Give it an occasional flush with hot water, and you will have no further trouble with sewer gas. If there is a good plumber in the neighborhood, it will pay you to have him examine the plumbing and to put in the trap.



Jas. D. writes :—I have a circular bead door frame to put in a 9 inch wall, the jambs of which are splayed outwards. The head is to be splayed in the same manner ; how can I lay out the head piece?



F.	H. :—Answering a ''young carpenter," in your last issue, I would say that the best thing for him to do is, to obtain one of the cheap works on stairbuilding, where he will find all his questions answered, and many other things about stairbuilding that he ought to know. I would especially recommend ' ' Stairbuilding Made Easy " price $1.00, which I presume can be got at the office of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

























































BUILDER. It would take up more space I am afraid than the Editor would permit me to occupy, to give a full answer to '' a young carpenter," so I will confine myself to describing the way to find out where to place the headers and trimmers to give sufficient head-room. When possible, there should not be less than 6 feet 6 inches between the tread and the back trimmer, though I am aware that sometimes the stairbuilder is compelled to move his trimmer over the well-hole to meet conditions on the second floor, but, when this can be avoided, it always should be. Sometimes, the trimmer is canted to give a little more head-room as shown in diagram, fig 3, but after all, this is only an expedient, and should be avoided. The diagram shows a stair rising for a 9 foot ceiling, which makes 10 feet, from top of lower floor to top of second floor. This requires 16 risers, each of which will be 7 1/2 inches high, The treads will

