<doctype type="ad">



ciation shall employ none but members of the Journeymen Plumbers', Steam and Gas Fitters' Union.

Clause 10—That no boy at either trade be allowed a kit of

tools until he has served three years at the trade.

Clause II—That the time for enforcement of this agreement takes effect from April 1 1901, and to stay in force until January 1 1904. In case either party to this agreement wishes to change, add to or amend the above, they shall be given at least three months' notice in writing prior to the termination of this agreement.



It is reported to be the intention of the Hamilton Bridge Co. to

engage in ship building.

In connection with the McClary Mfg. Co. is a sick benefit society, which is not compulsory, but to which over 450 of the employees belong. Their dues are 10 cents per week to those earning over $4.00 per week, and 5 cents to those earning under $4.00. Those paying 10 cents receive $3.00 per week for ten weeks, and $1.50 for a further 10 weeks, and if after that period they go back to work for four full weeks, they are entitled to the same benefits over again. Those paying 5 cents receive half of the above amounts. They also hold benefit concerts, the proceeds of which are used as a committee sees fit, for the benefit of those sick over twenty weeks. The receipts for the year ending January 31st last, were $2,180.60, and the disbursements $2,163.58 leaving a balance in hand of $117.02.

	THE	__





Preston Hot Water Boiler

possesses features which appeal to all classes







The Architect recognizes the fact that the VERTICAL CIRCULATION it employs is the only natural one. It increases the speed of the water flow and increases the Boiler's capacity.



The Fitter sees that in the SINGLE PIECE Boiler there will be no necessity for extra trips to "fix up" leaks. There can be no leaks where there are no joints to work loose.



The Consumer is attracted by the evident saving

in fuel attained by leading the fire around both INSIDE AND OUTSIDE of the water chamber.

Write for Booklet on Hot Water Heating to





CLARE BROS & CO. = PRESTON, ONT.



Canada's Leading Engraving House

UR long and varied experience in reproducing architectural work, either from original drawings, photographs or old engravings warrants us



in guaranteeing

	Perfect Satisfaction



THE LEADING ARCHITECTS

in Canada use our Engravings. They pronounce them equal to the best in the world.

Moore & ALEXANDER

	ENGRAVERS AND

	DESIGNERS...

		16 ADELAIDE Street West, TORONTO

	HALF-TONE REPRODUCTION FROM AN ENGRAVING.	                Phone 2158.