<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

 INTERCOMMUNICATION 

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries Sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance. 

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">





From '' Young Contractor" :—I have three or four houses to build in a small town, and the owner has not quite made up his mind about the kind of roof to put

on.	He hesitates between a shingle roof and a flat roof covered with galvanized iron. I maintain the flat roof is nearly as economic as a shingle roof and for street houses, is much better. Am I right ?

ANS. :—The cost of a good shingle roof covered with No. 1 white pine, with mortar on asbestos paper under the shingles, at the present time is very high, and when we take into consideration the fact that a shingle roof no matter what the pitch may becovers a greater surface than a flat roof, the comparative cost per square is no criterion to go by. A good shingle roof completed including rooting hoards, rafters, ridges and cornice, will cost on an average, $6.50 per square, while a good galvanized iron roof, including timbers, matched deck paper under iron flashings and finishing, will cost about $12.00 per square. But, it must be remembered, that a shingle roof will measure from one and a half to one and three quarters more squares than the iron roof would, which would make a considerable difference. Then again, there are no gables required for a flat roof, while a shingle roof, unless it is a hip-roof must have two or more gables, which adds materially to the cost of the shingled roof. In practice we believe, that for town houses, it is considered about as cheap to make fiat roofs as to build shingle ones, and the flat roof has many advantages over the saddle back, or the hip-roof.



From N. P. K. :—How many 1 inch panel doors should a good man fit and hang in a day of nine hours ? Also, how many mortice locks ought a man to fit and adjust to the same kind of doors, in a day of nine hours?

ANS. :—We do not know of any standard number of doors a man ought to hang in a day. Situations has something to do in the matter. If the doors are near together, and of the ordinary size, Say 2-10 x 6-10 or thereabouts, a man will hang more than if he has to run all over a building hanging a door here and another some distance away. Experience has taught us that, on an average, it takes an hour or an hour and a quarter to fit and hang a door properly. From this it will be seen that from seven to eight doors will be as many as a man can possibly hang well in a day of nine hours. So far as putting on a mortice lock, and trimming it complete is concerned on inquiry, we find that it takes from 25 to 40 minutes, providing the workman has the proper tools to do the work with. Estimators generally allow 75 cents for hanging and trimming an inside door, and $1.00 for outside doors. This covers profit and labor.



From ''Dauber" :—I agreed to do a certain amount of painting for a gentlemen, and as there was nothing said as to what kinds of paint I should use, I supplied ''ready—made paints," such as is in common use in this neighborhood, and during the work he found no fault, though he knew the kind of paints I was using; now he declines to pay me in full because I did not use white lead and linseed oil, and mix them myself. Have I not

a just claim for the whole amount as specified in our agreement?



ANS. :—If you have filled the contract honestly and the owner had no other fault to find than that you used mixed paints, and if this color was of a reputable brand, we are inclined to think you have a just claim and can recover by law.



From '' Owen Sound " __Please inform me of a good method of mounting blue-prints?

Ans. :—Get fine book board same as used by bookbinders, cut to size with a hand saw, sand-paper the edges, mix powdered paste in cold water to the consistency of cream, which can be readily done with the fingers. Let the print soak in water for a few minutes, after which place it face downwards on glass and with blotting paper remove all surplus water. Apply the paste with the fingers making sure the entire surface is thoroughly covered with a thin film only. Lift the print by grasping the ends by thumbs and fore-fingers, reverse print and let it settle quietly on the mount by a catenary curve, then bring down ends with a piece of paper under the palm of the hand, remove all air spaces by pressure from the centre to the edges. Allow the mounted print to dry slowly with weights on the edges to prevent excessive warping. When dry, apply two thin coats of white shellac varnish.





From 0. 1. T. G. I have a house to build that contains 12 windows having transom lights in them, and I would like a ready way of making frames for same.

The building is a balloon frame boarded, papered and sided outside, and lathed and plastered inside. The sashes are double hung, the transom lights are hinged at the top. A sketch showing an economic way of making the frame will be appreciated.

ANS. The method shown in

the annexed sketches is about as quick a one as we know of compatible with efficiency. Fig.

exhibits a vertical section of the frame and sash in place, showing the mode of construction throughout, the transom being made of thin stuff nailed together. It would be better if the transom was made solid, and mouldings worked on it, but these would cost more perhaps than you would wish. The box for weights may be built up similar to the transom, or it may be built up after the manner shown in examples given in this journal some time ago. The window stud may be left as a backing for the frame, thus saving the back lining.



From W. B. T. :—In making out an estimate, is it the better way to first reckon tip amount of material required, and then add cost of labor, or to estimate on labor

and material together ?

