<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITEC AND BUILDER	45



The President, resuming the chair, spoke in appreciation of Dr. Bryce's paper, and said he hoped Dr. Bryce would tell the meeting in concluding the discussion, if there were any simple methods by which the quantity of moisture in air can be tested.

Mr. Burke I am almost dumfounded at the amount of moisture necessary to keep a room in a satisfactory condition. 1 thought when m v furnace was evaporating half a pail of water a day I was getting a splendid amount of moisture in the house. With regard to the practice of the hot air furnace men of drawing all the air from the house, instead of from outside, it is almost suicidal. Another arrangement I have in my house which I think is a good thing—I have exhaust registers in rooms where there are no fireplaces. They are set close to the floor and are carried to flues in the chimney stack which are warmed by the furnace and kitchen flues. I find they are acting in a very satisfactory way.

The President I am glad to say I can go one better than Mr. Burke, I evaporate in my furnace one pail of water a day, but I confess that is one-fifth of what I ought to do.

Mr. Dick In dealing with a question of this nature architects are generally confronted with the question ''what is it going to cost ?" I recently noticed an article in the American Architect with regard to the cost of ventilation, and I should like to read it. The article is a portion of a lecture delivered by G. A. Suter before the Engineering Society of Columbia University

"The total cubical contents of this room are 30,000 cubic feet

the total direct radiating surface in the room is 350 square feet, and the total steam consumption or proportionate boiler capacity required for the heating of this room in zero weather is 3 1/2 horse powers. The moment, however, that you ventilate this

room, renewing or replacing the air six times each hour, supplying

180,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour, we require not less than

9 horse power of steam, when the outside temperature is at zero, to warm this quantity of air from zero to 70 F., or room temperature, and in addition thereto, 2 1/2 horse-power for the mechanical effort required to move this quantity of air in and out of the room. Therefore, out of the total of 15 horse-power that are required for the heating and ventilating of this room, only 3 1/2 horse power are required for heating while 11 1/2 horse power are required for ventilation. Similarly out of a total of 3,550 horse power required for warming and ventilating these buildings in zero weather only 560 horse power are  required for the direct heating, while 2,990 horse power are needed in ventilation. when the outside temperature is higher these quantities are correspondingly less, except that the motor power of course, remains constant. For example at 35 outside temperature out of a total power of 2,017 horse power, the direct heating requires 280 horse power, the ventilation 1,102 horse power  for heating the air, and 635 horse power for motive power, or 1,737 horse power for both. The proportionate amount of

power for ventilation, as compared with the total power, increases as the outside temperature increases, and, as our average temperature during, the heating season is not far from 35,0 it is fair to con-chide that the ventilation of these buildings costs about six times as much as the heating This gives us a clear illustration of the cost of ventilation, and -in explanation of why, even when the apparatus is provided the ventilation is somewhat curtailed. We sometimes wonder why our public buildings are not better ventilated, but the explanation, when it is not due to ignorance or incapacity, is found in the expense of the apparatus and in the expense of operation.



In buildings in which the ordinary fan system is provided for exhausting the air, and having a certain amount of direct radiation in the rooms and a certain amount of indirect in the basement for the purpose of warming the fresh air, I have noticed that the whole system of ventilation is often allowed to fall into disuse. For instance, the manager of a bank once asked me if I could not make an opening into his room to get some fresh air into it. I said, '' You have a fan do you use it ? He said '' I really do not know. I must see about that." There are some buildings in this city which have excellent systems of ventilation and in which

the ventilation is notoriously bad, and I am told that the reason the ventilation is bad is that the apparatus is not used simply on account of the cost of the power for running the fans, and also of the increased amount of fuel necessary to warm the fresh air that must be taken in to replace the foul air taken out. In regard to actual temperatures, I have noticed that with a steam radiator in a room I feel much more comfortable with the temperature at 60 than if it is higher, but when there is no direct radiation in a room, without direct radiation one is apt to feel chilly even if the temperature is a good deal higher. The automatic water supply that Dr. Bryce recommends is an excellent idea, but I confess I had no idea of the large amount of water that is required to properly moisten the air in a room. There is one point I might mention with regard to this I noticed in my own house that when the water was doubtful (as it has some times been in this city) there was a very objectionable odor in the house, but after awhile I discovered that it was caused by the gradual accumulation of filth from the water at the bottom of the evaporating pan, and a very objectionable odor was sent up into the rooms.

Mr. Edwards I would like to mention here one thing that has come under my own observation. I once or twice went on a little exploring expedition a year or two ago after having seen a ventilating apparatus in successful operation, and found steam shut off from coils in ventilating stacks and fresh air inlets closed up, and on mentioning the matter to the owners have been told that it was a pity I had not looked around sooner, as they were not aware that the ventilating appliances were not in daily use. In these cases the caretakers had shut off the fresh air and closed tip the ventilators simply to save themselves the extra labor in firing up. I believe this sort of thing is more common than one might suppose.

Mr. Langton The reason why the hot air heaters object to the cold air duct is that to them a cold air duct is a cold air duct. A standard size does for houses of very different sizes and is usually too large for any house. As a matter of fact the cold air duct should be

proportioned not so much to the house as to the number of people in it, and it takes a very small cold air duct to supply an average family of six with the 3600 cubic feet per head per hour that the tables of ventilation require, the law being that air enters through the aperture of a duct between outside air and inside air at a rate which is equal to that a body would attain in falling through a space equal to the difference in height of a column of the outside air and a column of the inside air if equalized in density, therefore in cold weather the air enters at a fast rate, and in mild weather at a slow rate, so that in cold weather a much smaller duct is required than in mild weather in order to supply the same quantity of air. I have calculated that for the average family of six a cold air inlet need only be 7" x 12" when the thermometer is 40 outside (accepting the inside standard of 70), and may he reduced to 4' x 12 in zero weather. If our ducts were made of sizes carefully regulated according to need they would not be found to cool the house too much. There is something which Dr. Bryce said which I do not understand. The great point made, and a great part of the argument was, that if moist air surrounds our bodies, the radiation from the body is less, and therefore the body is more easily kept warm. How is it that in the North-West where it is so dry they say that 40 below zero is not felt as much as a much higher temperature is here ?

S

 are the BEST

The New SOLAR PRISM

and CHEAPEST

Manufactured by the Solar Prism Co., of Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.



The N. T. LYON GLASS CO. Limited, 141 Church Street, TORONTO AGENTS FOR CANADA