<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



figuring for " This house of yours is just about the size of Mr. B. 's over on D street. I painted his house with two coats last year for so much money. Now, I'll tell you what I'll do. Business is not very rushing and I want to keep the boys at work, and as your house is smaller than his, I will take fifteen dollars off that price if you will let me do yours." At the same time the party the painter is talking with knows his house is very much larger than the house on D street. lie is also aware of the fact that there is much more work on it. Sometimes it happens that the painter's offer is declined with thanks, for the owner feels that the painter cannot do justice to the work under existing circumstances and his exhibit of his knowledge of dimensions. Many times, though, the offer is not declined, and the painter has the experience without the profit. These are but examples of the manner in which estimates are made. My advice is to steer clear of them. There is another, however, that you must guard  against—that is the man who tells you, confidentially, of course, that Mr. G. has made an estimate on painting his house, and having a real high opinion of you and your work, he would like to have you figure on it, but fears you figure high. Further along he will say that he will not tell you Mr. G.'s figure, but if you will give him a pencil he will mark it for you, and if you can figure lower, why, you can do the work. He marks the figure one out of his head, usually. Sometimes the honest painter bites and is caught, all because the confidential manner was more than he could stand, and also because he figured on what he. did not see. The one great lesson to be learned by all master painters in thus showing how some people do the turn is this They must place a little trust in a competitor and more in themselves. Because a party says Mr. B. said he would paint my house for two hundred dollars, it does not necessarily follow that he included a summer house, a stable, and perhaps a mile of fence ; and if a competitor of Mrs. B.'s is so anxious to paint the house, etc., etc., that he is willing to do all this work for ten dollars less than Mr. B. estimated on the house, I for one have no sympathy with him when he gets caught. The great trouble with the average master painter is that great desire he possesses of doing all the painting and decorating in the city or town in which he is located, and some even have done a little emigrating in order to satisfy an ambition they have in this particular line. While some few have succeeded, many have not. Although at times we may be informed that the extra work would cover the shortage, my advice would be, when estimating, never take into consideration any extra work for covering a low figure on a job, for it you do you will find in balancing your account you have made a mistake, or, to use a homely phrase, "You have sent a boy on a man's errand." I believe there's but one correct way in which to do our business, and that is, that every contract or job pay a fair percentage of profit. We cannot do a department store kind of business by marking goods below cost. Do not figure your work below cost so you can secure the extra work and make up your losses on that, for the chances are that in the modern style of doing business if you want the extra work you will have to figure just as close on that as on the original contract. To sum up I would advise every master painter never to make an estimate by guessing or pacing ; use a tape, yardstick or rule, and measure every piece of work on which

you have to give a price. On completion of your work, if you have measured correctly, you will be agreeably surprised at the result.

Don't put too much confidence in the people who say Mr. F. figured this, and he said he would do it for so much 30 or 40 per cent. less than your figure ; but they will tell you they would prefer to have you do the work, and if you so desire you can do the same at his price.

Don't place too much trust in the man who says

" Why, why! Mr. G., the painter—and a good one, too says he will do all this work with three or four coats, and at less figure than you can at two," for the reason that these people do not understand these things, and in many cases are trying to do the painter ; whereas, It' you allow Mr. G., the good one, too, to do the three or four coats, you can rest assured that the owner will be done by him. Under those conditions you will feel all the better for not having had anything to do with the job. Don't he over-anxious about doing certain work, for it you are you can rest assured you will come out on the wrong side of the balance sheet.



<article title=" QUANTITY OF METAL IN THE PARIS EXHIBITION BUILDINGS " author="">

QUANTITY OF METAL IN THE PARIS EXHIBITION BUILDINGS.

From special information furnished by the management of the exposition, a writer in the Engineering Magazine gives the following as the classified weights of metal construction work used in the buildings of the Paris Exhibition of 1900 and in the Alexander III. bridge.

		Weight in

	            Structure	Metric Tons

	Large Palace of Fine Arts	15,803

	Small Palace of Fine Arts	616

	Palace of Horticulture	770

	Monumental Entrance	188

	Lower Palace	711

	Palace on Faber Side

	Palace on Constantine Side	1,433

	Palace of National Manufacturers	2,398

	Rearrangement of the Palace e of Machinery	2, 102

	Palace of Electricity	4,449

	Palace of Chemical Industry	2,399

	Palace of Mechanics	2,963

	Palace of Civil Engineering	4,560

	Palace of Textile Fabrics	4,687

	Palace of Education	1,815

	Palace of Mines 	2,514

	Alexander 111. Bridge

	   Steel Castings	2,359

	   Structural Rolled Steel	2,823

	   Cast Iron	270

	Temporary Erecting Works	400

	Total	54,568





From Indian Engineering it is learned that the limitations of space and the demands for house accommodation by a rapidly increasing population are combining to Americanize that part of Bombay usually known as the Fort. Huge and lofty tenement houses now cover the large area lying between the Apollo Bunder and the Grants Buildings, which was reclaimed by Government at a high cost. This used to be the most cheerful and healthy part of the town, says our Contemporary, but it is rapidly becoming as gloomy and congested as the new town at Mody Bay. Among the sky scrapers on the Apollo Reclamation Mr. Tatas caravanservi, which is to be the best equipped hotel in Asia, will tower like a triton among minnows. Since the pleague Bombay is daily growing in ugliness.



An agreement has been reached between the master and journeymen plumbers of Toronto, by which wages are to be increased 10 per cent. and the hours of labor reduced from nine to eight, from May 1st



The strike of journeymen painters of Kingston has ended, the employers granting an increase of 15 cents per day of nine hours, and reserving to themselves the right to employ bona tide journeymen.

