<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	03

SLATE DEPOSITS IN NEWFOUNDLAND.

<article title=" SLATE DEPOSITS IN NEWFOUNDLAND " author="">

Extensive deposits of slate suitable for roofing and school purposes have been discovered in Newfoundland, and are attracting much attention in England owing to the fact that the deposits in Wales threaten to become exhausted, with the result of putting an end to an extensive industry in which many thousands of workmen have found employment. There are from 15,000 to 20,000 slate workers in North Wales, about whose future great anxiety is felt, and unless new fields are found they will soon he without employment. The attention of the great slate capitalists of Wales has been turned to Newfoundland, and an expert is to visit the island to prospect for slate. If found in sufficient quantities a great company will be formed, and colonies of Welsh slate workers will be sent out. The development of this new industry will give a large amount of employment and pour wealth into the colony. This island contains immense deposits of the finest roofing slate. A single quarry in Smith's Sound, Trinity Bay, was sold last year for $25,000.

A large portion of the Avalon Peninsula is of the Cambrian formation, in which the best roofing slate is found. It was only towards the close of 1899 that this slate was known to possess any economic value. Attempts had been made previously to work certain quarries without success. Now, however, that it is known the good slate quarries in North Wales are approaching exhaustion and that no more deposits are in sight, the value of slate is rapidly advancing.

The Hon. Charles Walcott, director of the Geological Survey of the United States, who examined the deposit in Smith's Sound says in his report ''This is one of the great roofing slate deposits of the world, comparable with that of North Wales and the American deposits of Washington county and Rutland county, Vermont.'' The Trinity Bay deposits extend in one direction to Bonavista Bay, and in another direction, dipping under the sea, it reappears at Paradise Sound, Placentia Bay. At Bay of Islands there is a large deposit of the best quality on one of Mr. R. G. Ried's concessions, through which the railway runs. It is likely to prove to be of great value, as it is of the school slate variety. Thus a substance supposed to he of no economic value is suddenly found to be of vast importance to the future of the country. It is not impossible that in the near future the slate of the country may rival its copper deposits in value.

Among the workmen at Smith's Sound many hail from Elan hens, Carnavon, Beddgelert, Bethesba, Nant Efrangton and Portdinorwic. There are also a few American Welshmen who have come from the quarries at Vermont because the wages are higher at Smith's Sound quarry than in the States. For the present as many workmen are employed in the quarry as can be accommodated, but it is expected there will soon be a demand for additional hands, as the quarry is being further developed, and it is probable that other quarries will soon be opened, as the slate deposit is so extensive.



In the treatment of a house there must be first of alt a plan, from which the decorating and furnishing may be worked out. Not that there must be one idea running through the whole house there must be rather a succession of ideas. Each room must have its distinctive character, and everything used in its decoration and furnishment must be in harmony with the prevailing thought.

A NEW CEMENT TEST WANTED.

<article title=" A NEW CEMENT TEST WANTED " author="">

HERR M. Gary of the Royal Technical Experimental Laboratories, Berlin, has recently reported upon the practical value of accelerated cement tests. Some years before, says the British Clayworker, these tests, including the celebrated boiling test, had been reported upon and notice was taken of the circumstance that some brands of cement in considerable vogue did not come out at all well under the tests. Further inquiry was therefore directed to ascertain whether the tests were misleading, or the cements had. In some examples the cements were unquestionably unsatisfactory ; but in others, works executed with them stood perfectly well, although the cements themselves failed under test. In one remarkable instance, a cement was thoroughly marked with cracks in the drying and heating tests, completely boiled away in the boiling test, and cracked on the surface and rim in pat tests in water after two years. It came out unusually well in actual practice in very heavy masses of masonry. Various engineers were asked to report upon the behavior in actual structures of particular brands of cement which passed the standard test for soundness, but not the accelerated tests. They all came out fairly well. Four of the

specified cements were used in building a municipal gas plant, especially a concrete gasholder tank. One of these cements was made by the wet process from white chalk, and was slow-setting and of standard fineness. All but one tension test was tip to the standard. The drying test was generally passed ; but the boiling test never. Other parcels were differently made but they all completely answered their purpose The inference drawn is that for rough and strong work cements which fail to satisfy the drying, heating and boiling tests may yet be quite good. Even cements which do not come up to the standard requirements for strength can still be used to advantage in building. The one thing needed in the further study of cements, as Herr Gary thinks, is to find out exactly how much sand a cement will carry and yet give at the end of a definite period a definite strength. That would he a very much more useful kind of test than those at present in use. Obviously, cement which is as good at 1 :8 of sand, as another brand is at 1:

6 of the same sand, is so much the better for the user. The ordinary tests do not show this quality.

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



IT is gratifying to learn that the membership and interest in the Toronto Builders' Exchange have increased to such an extent as to necessitate the removal of the Exchange to more commodious quarters. These have been found on the first floor of Yonge Street Arcade, where the Association now occupies three large rooms with about double the amount of space available in their old quarters. These rooms comprise a reception room, reading room and board room, anti have been fitted up in a manner to afford the greatest facility in the transaction of the business of the Exchange, as well as for the comfort of the members.



 putty for repairing broken stone is made by reducing the following ingredients to powder:— Mix altogether in a mortar, and make into a thick putty with water just before use — ten parts of clay, four Paris of fine iron filings, two parts of peroxide of manganese, one part of common salt (sodium chloride), and one part of borax. The heat will harden this cement. A cement for a similar purpose that will resist a very high temperature is prepared by making into a paste a solution of silicate of potash and borax, one part of sulphate of barium. and two parts of clay.

