<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" LUXFER SUPPLEMENT " author="">

LUXFER SUPPLEMENT



Architectural Terra Cotta —As a building material, Terra Cotta dates back to the early centuries, but it is only in modern times that color effects, artistic modeling and the other elements have been commercialized and developed so as to give Terra Cotta the prominent position it now holds as a stape building material. Where ornate work is required, the cost of stone is practically prohibitive, whereas Terra Cotta is as permanent as stone and in both appearance and utility it is the equal of stone. Terra Cotta has the one most important advantage, it is infinitely cheaper than stone.

Samples of the best Terra Cotta products on exhibition.



Pressed Brick.— Like Terra Cotta, the manufacture of Brick comes down from the Ancients. It is, however, only recently that perfect machinery, scientific knowledge of clays and burning has made it possible to produce the perfect article now on the market. The essential for a first-class Pressed Brick is primarily—the right quality of clay. This, with up-to-date plant and skilled workmen, will produce the highest standard of Brick.



Samples of these on exhibition at prices of ordinary brick.



Ornamental Iron.—Artistic work in metal is coming more and more in demand for modern commercial and public buildings. In all kinds of ornamental iron for stair work, railings, etc., we show very fine specimens. Machinery and brains have reduced the cost of producing really artistic work so that it can be introduced in all classes of buildings.



Samples of different classes of metal work on exhibition.



Mica Boiler Covering. The science of economizing heat has led to the scientific investigation of different classes of materials to ascertain which is the most perfect nonconductor of heat or cold. Probably the most thorough test to which materials are put are those employed by the British Admiralty. Mica Pipe and Boiler Covering has been thoroughly tested, and as an evidence of it having proved superior to all other materials, the British Admiralty have adopted Mica covering as its standard covering. In commercial buildings Mica Covering has proved a success, both on heating plants and refrigerating plants. For brine pipes no other material has been found to stand, and in every way Mica has proved to be the very best insulating material in the market, and is the only covering that can be guaranteed to remain dry and sound on refrigerating pipes.



SAMPLES ON EXHIBITION.



Marble Mosaics.—For a permanent, clean and in every way satisfactory floor, nothing can equal Marble Mosaic when properly put down. All porcelain tile devices have their defects—the chief being the difficulty of getting sufficient adhesion between the tile and cement. Marble Mosaic in its different standard forms, viz :—Roman Mosaic, Irregular Roman Mosaic, and Terrazzo, are, each in its place, a perfect floor. On a proper concrete bed, reinforced with Expanded Metal, and when put down by skilled labor, a Mosaic floor will positively not crack.

SAMPLES ON EXHIBITION.









SPECIAL SALES AGENTS:



Luxfer Prism Company, Limited

98-Too KING STREET WEST,



Toronto.