<doctype type="text">76	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



with the corridor, but so as not to destroy the privacy of the living rooms by obliging anyone to pass the doors when going from one to the other. Pleasing vistas are obtained from the rooms across the court, and from the corridor into the rooms such as it is not often possible to contrive in so small a house. Provision is made in one corner for a ventilating stove to prevent excessive cold draughts in winter.

The living-room, as the most generally occupied, and therefore most important room, is placed at the south corner, having the double outlook to south-east and south—west, and getting all available sunlight and the best of the prospect. It is not enough to give a room windows in the right direction, however the room must be so arranged that it shall, so to speak, turn its right face, and the windows be so placed that they shall be naturally seen out of from the most usually occupied parts out of the room. For this reason an angle window commanding the best part of the view is thrown out on the south-east side. The fire is put on the northeast wall, and, so that a thorough sense of cosiness may always be obtainable, it is placed in a deep recess or ingle.

Now an ingle affords a very good instance of how easy it is to misuse the old examples which we study, and that in two directions. For while some neglect altogether the suggestions which they offer, others copy the old forms without troubling to understand them. To make use of old features legitimately, of course one must first understand the reasons which called them into being the difficulties which they were designed to meet ; and when similar reasons or difficulties present themselves to us we may then avail ourselves of the solution which they indicate, not copying slavishly the details, but taking the principle and working it out to suit our own particular circumstances. The ingle, of course, had two main uses the first was to protect a wide open fire from the cross drafts arising from badly fitting or open doors, shutters and windows the second was to afford seats near the fire, sheltered from the draughts, where the aged and feeble could rest or any one could keep warm in cold or rough weather. Incidentally, no doubt, our forefathers appreciated the value of contrast, the charm of the ruddy fire-light space glowing red in the ill—lighted building, and the cosiness of the sheltered low recess in the wide and lofty hail. To obtain this charm, as is often done, by forming an ingle so small that one cannot sit in it comfortably, is merely to remove the fire further from the room ; while on the other hand, to arrange a large ingle as is also sometimes done, with a modern tiled register stove set in a chimney breast is to lose the feeling of ''sitting on the hearth" and the charm that springs from the fire being able to cast its glow all over the recess, and to be seen from every part where one can sit. To adapt the ingle rooms of moderate size then and justify the space it occupies, it must be large enough to be comfortably sat in regularly a place where one can live, not merely go to be roasted. The fire must be so designed as to have something of the feeling of the old fire on the hearth, and must not. be cut off from the recess or in any way allowed to grow into a fireplace within a fireplace. It is generally well to make the whole recess into the hearth, and we often arrange for the fire to burn in a suitably—shaped fire-brick hollow, which answers all purposes excellently. Fenders are best avoided, and anything like a loose coal-box is a

disadvantage. A coal-box can generally be contrived in the thickness of the wall. The ingle must of course be protected from cross-draughts, otherwise the fire cannot be sufficiently exposed. When properly arranged and fitted with comfortable low seats, the ingle always proves to be a favorite part of the room the place where people naturally go to sit and rest.

But I am digressing from the plan, and must return to the living-room which we are designing. There the ingle is of somewhat special construction, having several small windows to afford peeps out towards the court and the view, and to give light conveniently placed for an vote reading and also having cupboards for the display of the client's collection of oriental pottery which is being utilized somewhat by way of decoration, where the changing lights falling on its bright colorings will give some additional variety to its beauty. The ingle is made deep enough for the seats to serve for sofas.

As meals will be taken in this living—room, a small dais for the purpose is provided in full view of the fire and, by the client's wish, the recess for this is made a window recess in the form of a large sunny bay, having fixed seats on three sides of the table. This bay gives us another window facing directly to the best view as well as one to the west, which brings the evening light into the room, while the recess is a great advantage, as it prevents the room being blocked up with the meal table.

Near the door a slight recess is formed for a sideboard and this end of the room is lighted by a window close by, which opens on to the balcony. A recessed balcony is, in our climate, much more useful than any projecting verandah. It is possible, owing to the extra shelter, to sit in such a balcony two or three times as often as in the verandah with open ends.

In this room all the important furniture forms part of the scheme it is thought out and designed with the building. In the treatment of the room advantage is taken of the beams and lintels required for the recesses, and where these are lacking a deep picture-rail carrying line with them is adopted, under which the side—board, cabinet and windows are arranged to finish, leaving an unbroken frieze above and giving a sense of order and unity to the whole. This frieze is decorated with a painted suggestion of landscape, but in simpler treatment if whitewashed, or tinted with the ceiling, would be light and satisfactory. The lower portion of the walls under the decorated frieze, is finished iii plaster tinted to the required shade by mixing coloring matter with the skimming coat.

Where economy is any consideration rooms may be kept as low as possible, giving additional space subwards, which is as valuable as space upwards, for an air reservoir, and for all other purposes so much more valuable. The house being described is 9 ft. from floor to floor.

The hall or entering-room being intended for less constant as well as more formal use takes a somewhat simpler form. Placed at the west corner with windows south—west it gets all the sunshine during the afternoon and evening, when it is most occupied. It is placed so as to be immediately accessible from the entrance, and opens on to the balcony with the folding doors and window. The fire is placed in an ingle contrived under the stairs and half landing, an arch being used in this case to carry the chimney stack and form the recess. The flue from the fire is brought. over on to the arch by means of a copper hood. A little bay partly in the porch lights

