<doctype type="text;ad">

NOTES.



Mr. Robert Munro, managing director of the Canada Paint Co., of Montreal has been elected president of the Canadian Manufacturers Association.



The Dominion Radiator Company, Limited, have begun in this  Journal the publication of a series of announcements enclosed Within specially drawn designs illustrative of the various style and orders of architecture.

Action has been brought in the Toronto courts by the Pulp Plaster Co., of that city, to recover $20,000 from M. E. Loose, of Napoleon, Ohio, and Thomas E. Baird, of Toledo, Ohio. for alleged breach of contract in connection with a patent assigned by them through a Toronto man to the plaintiffs. The Pulp Plaster Co. are being sued for infringement of patent by Thomas A. Robinson, of Lima, Ohio.

The sand blast was recently used in cleaning the metal work of the Pont de L' Europe of the Western Railway in Paris. The bridge was last cleaned ten years ago, according to Engineering,· the work being done with scratch brushes and the like, and fifteen months were occupied on the task. With the sand blast the total time required for the work was but three mouths and the cleaning was more thorough.



Messrs. Hilners' Sons, Philadelphia, Pa , have been awarded the contract for the wrecking of the Pan—American Exposition. They propose to remove all of the buildings and restore the grounds to their original condition and to pay the Exposition  company $33,364 50, the wreckers to have all of the building material. The specifications provide that all of the machinery is to be removed and stored for the company by the wreckers and that the grounds are to be pat back in their original condition by July 1, 1902.



Art Glass	Domestic Ecclesiastical



Plate Glass

Window Glass

Mirrors

HOBBS HARDWARE CO.

London. Ontario.













SPECIAL

ARCHITECTS are respectfully invited to specify the "AMBERITE" Varnishes for high class work, the Canada Paint Company's DIAMOND GRAPHITE for Iron, and the Canada Paint Company's Creosote SHINGLE Stains for all work where roofing stains

are indicated,





THE



CANADA

PAINT

COMPANY

LIMITED



Montreal and Toronto.

FIRE-PROOF

GLASS WINDOWS

THAT ARE

FIRE- PROOF

These windows in a fire-proof building, complete the security, and in any building will thoroughly prevent the spread and advancement of the fiercest flames.



Better than iron shutters (even if they happened to be closed at the needed time) ; fireproof glass remains intact, resisting both the intense heat of the fire and the action of water.

Many practical tests have proved it's efficiency.

Used in conjunction with our hollow sheet-metal frames and other fire-proof fittings, it gives the most perfect protection available.

It's adoption lessens insurance rates.

If you want to know more about "fire-proof windows," write us, it's an interesting subject.

THE





Metallic Roofing Co.,

TORONTO. LIMITED,

