<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" FIRE ESCAPES ACTS " author="">

FIRE ESCAPES ACTS.



IN the Revised Statutes of Nova Scotia, Fifth Series, the Act dealing with fire escapes provides for the establishment of a Board of Fire Escapes in every city, town and village in the province. The hoard is authorized to examine buildings and is empowered to order the construction of fire escapes where it deems them advisable. Each hoard is instructed to pay particular attention to all churches, charitable institutions, poor houses, insane asylums, school buildings, factories, theatres, hotels and other buildings within its jurisdiction in which an unusual number of persons work, congregate or abide and it is given power to order the enlargement and alteration of the doors, passage-ways, stair-cases and windows in all such buildings in such manner as it may deem best For the protection of the inmates and so as to afford a ready means of escape in case of fire or panic. The board was further required to report annually. In 1892 the Fire Escapes Act w is further amended so as to place the appointment of the boards with the town councils. Each hoard was to consist of three members, and provisions were made to require attention to their duties. The British Columbia law on the subject is somewhat similar to that of Nova Scotia.



CLASSIC IRONWORK.

<article title=" CLASSIC IRONWORK " author="">

At the meeting of the Birmingham Architectural Association held on Friday evening last, Mr. Thomas S. Elgood (of Elgood Bros., Leicester) read a paper on "Different Types of Classic Iron-work," a subject to which says the Builders' Journal, he has devoted many years of study.

Beginning with Italy, he pointed out that though that country was the very home of the Renaissance, though the Italians produced such marvelous results in every other branch of art yet they did not evolve any great and characteristic Renaissance style of iron-work. Rather, the different cities seemed to develop little styles of their own, that of Venice being very distinct from many of the others. This was illustrated by sketches made in Pisa, Florence, Venice, and Verona.) The Germans, too, though they were so great in smith-work and so readily adopted Renaissance qualities in their armor, locks, and other articles, did not freely assimilate classic ideas in their architectural iron-work, but wasted their ingenuity and strength upon the well-known puzzle iron-work, the flatness and insipidity of which is fortunately relieved in many cases by really good foliated and floriated crestings. When they took up the Rococo they overdid it in the most painful manner. The French, in the times of Louis XIII. and Louis XIV., produced that most remarkable and most Classic style known as the Baroque or Jesuit style, and embellished their buildings with gates, balconies, and balustrades designed in the best spirit of the Renaissance and executed with unsurpassed skill. (This was illustrated by many examples from Paris, Versailles, and Rouen.) Of the Rococo which followed, the lecturer had little to say, and few examples to show. Later, again, in the time of Louis XVI. and the Empire, a more simple and Classic taste returned, but not the wonderful genius of the Baroque period. In Spain at the end of the fifteenth and on through the sixteenth century the Plateresque (or silversmiths') style of ironwork grew up, giving to posterity all those wonderful screens or rejas in the great cathedrals at Toledo, Cuenca, and Palencia ; also that wonderful gem the

pulpit at Avila, and balustrades like that at Burgo. The illustrations of these examples were taken from Mr. A. N. Prentice's book and were supplemented by a fine photograph of the exquisite Spanish gates in Chester Cathedral, which are of the very best period. In England the so-called Queen Anne style of ironwork was developed. Small beginnings are noticeable as far back as Elizabeth ; the most remarkable developments took place during the reign of William and Mary, particularly under Wren, who employed at Hampton Court and at St. Paul's Cathedral Jean Tijou as designer and Huntingdon Shaw as smith. Some of the best illustrations to the paper were from these two buildings, Mr. Elgood's favorite being the gates leading into the choir aisles at St. Paul's, which he spoke of as one of the very finest examples of the architectural treatment of wrought iron. Under Anne and the early Georges the style became more simple, and examples are too numerous to catalogue. They may be studied to advantage all about London. in the Cathedral cities, and at the Universities (particularly Cambridge), as well as in the gates to many country parks. Thus we have three great styles The French Baroque, the Spanish Platersque, the English Queen Anne ; and three lesser ones: The Italian, the Rococo, the Empire; and of them all the most adaptable and most economic is the English. 

<article title=" TESTS OF MASONRY AND BRICKWORK " author="">

TESTS OF MASONRY AND BRICKWORK.

The Royal Technical Testing Laboratory at Charlot— tenburg under the direction of Professor Martens, has been making for sonic time a series of actual tests of brickwork and other masonry under conditions approaching, as nearly as possible, those which obtain in chimney construction.

The tests were instituted to examine into the following conditions

1 Resistance of the single pieces to pressure, and

10 the action of weather, water, and acid vapours.

2. Resistance of mortar joints in general.

3. Resistance of mortar when the force acts at right angles to the construction as in the case of wind pressure.

4. Resistance of the vertical joints to circumferential pressure.



Some of the results will be of interest. The mean of a number of crushing tests upon brick alone was 671 kilograms per square centimeter, or about 613 tons

per square foot. The compressive resistance for mortar joints from I to 5 centimeters thick, and 28 days old, ranged from 230 down to 54 kilograms per square centimeter, the higher values being for the thinner joints and the general mean of 300 tests was 131 .7 kilograms per square centimeter, or about 120 tons per square foot. Tensile tests of motar joints showed figures ranging from 0.8 to 3.9 kilograms per square centimeter, or from 10 to 55 pounds per square inch, the mortar in the highest case being 90 days old. The transverse and longitudinal trials were practically shearing tests, and gave the resistance of the combined brick and mortar, the rupture taking place through the mass and breaking both portions of the section. For mortar 90 days old the resistance to horizontal shearing was about 14 kilograms per square centimeter or about 200 pounds per square inch, while against vertical shearing it was about 9 kilograms, or about 130 pounds per square inch. Crushing tests made of brickwork masonry 9 months old gave an ultimate crushing resistance of 239 kilograms per square centimeter, or 218 tons per square foot, figures which may be of service in other connections than that. of chimney construction.

