<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

WHY SOME HOUSES ARE GOOD.

<article title=" WHY SOME HOUSES ARE GOOD " author="">

'[lie most important qualities that enter into the design of a house are care and fitness. Care means thorough attention to everything ; fitness signifies suitability and adaptability. The building 01 a house is a complicated process, requiring the services of many men, and utilizing the products of many industries. it is a work that no one goes about thoughtlessly; and yet all the world knows many houses are designed and built in a careless manner, and without that thorough attention to every detail that the importance of the undertaking should command as a matter of course. For carelessness in building is very far from meaning indifference in construction that, indeed, is a special carelessness that is punishable by law but there is a vast quantity of carelessness in house building which the law does not reach, which builders and owners are indifferent to, and which is illustrated on almost every street and road.

This carelessness is due to a failure to realize the real importance of the art of building. It is a serious Cuing to build a house. It means the expenditure of a sum of money, often large in amount, in a permanent work that is so seldom altered as to be practically unchangeable. The house builder, therefore, assumes, whether the fully realizes or not, a responsibility to the public that may view his structure, willingly or unwillingly, as well as to himself. And this responsibility extends not only to his own occupancy or ownership of the building, but so long as it may last. One may not build for a11 time, but one at least builds for some time.

No method has yet been devised for punishing those who build ugly buildings, and probably there never will be. The Philistine who builds an ugly house can, perhaps, content himself with it or find someone else who will be equally happy in an indifference to appearances. Anti yet the whole tendency of American practice in house-building is toward betterment in appearances. Our houses are not better built than they were twenty-five or fifty years ago, and yet the average house is better to look upon. This betterment however, still leaves so much to be desired that it may be profitable to consider some of the reasons why some houses are good and others bad.

There is, unquestionably, an advance and an improvement in design compared with the results achieved twenty years since. People are waking up, more and more, to the value of houses that not only are good, but which look to be good. Good-looking houses are quite as much in demand as good-looking carriages or handsome horses, and the market for them is much greater than for fine paintings or other high-grade works of art. Here is an economic fact that apart from any question of art, is helping in the bettering of the appearance of our cities and towns; and this, possibly more than the spread of a real architectural taste, will hasten and develop good building and good design.

The speculative builder the man who builds houses to sell, is the most powerful as well as the most dangerous factor in the development of house architecture. Lie is the most powerful because the larger number of houses are built to sell the individual builder, owner and occupier is as yet in the majority. Miles and miles of streets in New York are lined by the creations of the speculative builder and the most gratifying evidence of his progress in the last ten or twenty years is shown by the continued betterment in the appearance of the buildings he erects.

It is quite the same in country and suburban districts) many lesser towns and new settlements without end having been opened up and developed by the real estate agent who looks upon houses as articles of merchandise rather than as things of beauty. He has been forced to recognize the fact that beauty in a house will help him to sell his wares hut it is obvious a vast difference exists between him and the man who seeks to make his home beautiful for the love of the beautiful. And it is because of this that the speculative builder is a dangerous factor in artistic development. True beauty, true art in building, can only come with a real and personal appreciation of what this quality is. It is hard to believe that real progress will be accomplished when those chiefly responsible for

what progress may be made do not thoroughly realize their responsibilities.

The case of the man who builds his own house and in tends to live in it is very different. He, at least, may be expected to exercise care in the design of his dwelling, and see that it is fit and appropriate to its use and its surroundings. His house should, in the first place, be individual. Not necessarily representing the foibles and hobbies of its builder, but showing that he thought enough of his dwelling to make it a good house to live in and good house to look at. And it is well to remember that more people will look at his house than will live in it. lie cannot ignore his responsibility to the public at large any more than he would neglect the convenience of his family, who must content themselves with what lie provides them with.

And so the careful man will see that his design is a pleasing one to begin with. If he has no taste of his own, he should consult those who have and the trained worker in building—the architect—is the one best fitted to advise and direct the whole undertaking. He will make his design as beautiful as he can, and if lie seeks the proper advice he will speedily discover that great beauty does not mean, necessarily, great cost. A simple little house, well designed, carefully treated) detailed in refined manner built without ostentation and designed for a specific end will give greater joy to its creator, to its owner, to the people who will live in it, and to those who can't help seeing it, than the most lavish display. No part of a house is too small or too unimportant to receive attention, and every part, if carefully treated, will amply repay the care lavished upon it.

It is most important to remember, however, that time mere bringing together of good things in a design will not, of itself) produce a good result . Every part must bear a relationship to every other part. The windows, the doors, the corn ices, the porch, the chimneys, must not only each be good in itself, but they must form part of a harmonious design, united and complete. The most beautiful window will appear out of place if it adjoins a doorway that is not harmonious with it. A misshapen chimney may spoil a design otherwise of the utmost merit.

It is care in such matters that makes one house better than another) and which is the distinguishing mark between houses that are good and those that are bad. A house is an expression of an idea. If it is well expressed, it will be good if it is badly expressed, it will be failure. Behind the idea is the man who is responsible for it. If he fails to realize his responsibility, if he is careless and indifferent, if, above all, he does not know, and, more than that, does not wish to know, the result is certain to have every quality of badness and failure.

Houses are good in proportion to the care taken in their design. Nothing pays better in the long run. Nothing of any value has yet been produced in the world that has not entailed thought to bring it to realization. A house is no exception to this rule. A house cannot be successful from an artistic standpoint that is not the result of much thought, carefully pondered, and expressed in the most intelligible fashion.

The question of fitness covers certain other qualities in building that are indispensable to success. Just as an evening coat is unsuited to a morning devoted to business, so every design, every combination, is not adaptable to every condition.

A house must be fitted to its use, its surroundings, its cost. It is a mistake to model a parish church after great cathedral, or a modest dwelling after a sumptuous palace. These are extreme illustrations, but they point the lesson. It is difficult, at times, to admit the influence of the adjoining dwelling—and if it is bad, that should, of course, never be clone—hut it is not always possible to get away from it.

A very grave error is often made in borrowing some favorite feature from another house because it has proved attractive under the conditions that may have brought it into use. Yet its very attractiveness may have been occasioned by the combination and the circumstances that are wanting in its new application. Good features need

