<doctype type="text">50	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" A Dominion Exhibition " author="">

A Dominion Exhibition.

commendation and efficiency of the school, and that at the present rate of expansion a new building would soon be the only remedy. The cost of a suitable building, together with the necessary additional equipment and teaching staff, was placed at about $300,000. the government would seriously consider what action should be taken and from what source the necessary funds could be obtained.



THE Dominion Government is said to have appropriated large sums of money to cover the cost of Canadian exhibits

at the Glasgow and Pan—American Exhibitions. A large sum was spent for this object at Paris last year. We are not disposed to question the wisdom of these expenditures. It is good business policy to advertise to the world the character and extent of our capabilities and productions, thereby inducing increase of our population arid investment of capital. Why should not this be supplemented by the holding of a Dominion Exhibition in Canada and the effort to induce foreigners to come and actually see for themselves the kind of country we have and the greatness of its resources ? We cannot hope to carry out an exhibition on the scale of those held at Chicago and Paris, nor should the attempt be made. Our natural development has reached a stage, however, which should warrant us in entering on an undertaking of this character on a properly proportioned scale. The Dominion Government last year refused to assist such a project, perhaps because of the large expenditure that was felt necessary to secure adequate representation at the great international Exhibitions at Paris, Glasgow and Buffalo. Next year when these shall have passed out of sight the subject of a Dominion Exhibition should receive practical consideration, and the Federal and Provincial Governments which for many years have been spending money on Exhibitions got up by and largely for the benefit of other countries, should make a liberal appropriation towards a Canadian Exhibition to be held in Canada, which the mother country, our sister colonies and our neighbors across the line should be invited to visit and send exhibits to. We have the nucleus of such an Exhibition at Toronto, and in connection with the proposal to erect new buildings the larger project should be kept in mind. It is doubtful if the property owners of the city whose approval must be obtained will sanction the proposed large expenditure for new buildings until just cause of complaint with the management of the Exhibition shall be remedied. If the project of holding a Dominion Exhibition in the near future is to be proceeded with it would be desirable to defer action with regard to new buildings in order that a comprehensive scheme adapted to the larger requirements might be formulated.





The injury and narrow escape from death experienced by employees of factories in Toronto recently owing to the

absence of means of escape from burning buildings, has been the means of directing public attention to this important subject. It appears that the Factory Act, which stipulates that factories must be fitted with fire escapes, delegates to the government factory inspectors the duty of enforcing observance of this provision. The matter is thus taken out of the control of the city council. It is quite evident that the government

Fire Escapes.<article title=" Fire Escapes " author="">

inspectors have entirely failed in their duty in this regard. In consequence the lives of thousands of workmen and workwomen are daily in jeopardy. The subject has recently came up for discussion in the Legislature, and amendments are to be introduced which are designed to ensure efficiency, in the operation of the law. In a timely letter to the press Mr. A. J. H. Echardt has called attention to the necessity of providing the public school buildings with fire escapes. He instances schools of three and four stories without fire escapes and with only one stair way leading from the bottom to the top, which, in the event of fire starting in the basement, where the heating turn aces are placed, would act as a flue to carry the smoke and flames to the tipper stories. The writer very correctly states that the ordinary iron five ladders attached to the outside of the school buildings would be of little or no use, but that the proper thing would be to have the back part of the school built out, or a separate tower built, with a stairway as wide as the main one, reaching right to the ground, with doors leading to this stairway from each flat, so that in case of a fire in the front stairway the pupils could be got out by the back way, so making a double exit, which the children could use with swiftness and safety. The school authorities seem to rely at present entirely upon the fire drill, which is a useful means of preventing panic in the event of fire and also under sonic circumstances of securing the safe exit of the children from the building. It would however be useless as a means of saving the lives of children on the second and third floors, should exit by the single stairway be blocked by smoke and flame. No time should be lost in providing a more adequate safeguard.





THE paper presented by Dr. Bryce, Medical Health Officer for Ontario, at the recent annual convention of the

Ontario Association of Architects, and which was printed in full in our February issue, contains much valuable information which architects and manufacturers of heating systems, as well as the public, would do well to study and carefully consider. The author of the paper lays special stress on the necessity for greater attention to ventilation in connection with heating. Further than this, he shows very clearly the necessity for a proper degree of moisture to be maintained in the air of living rooms. It is not only that there should be a proper supply of fresh air introduced, but what is quite as important, that this air should contain a proper percentage of moisture. Dr. Bryce stated that where this percentage of moisture is not supplied, the air takes tip moisture from every available source, including the bodies of the inmates of the building. He pointed out that in a school-room, for instance, where the air was not sufficiently moist, part of the necessary moisture was obtained from the mucous membrane of the children, thus leading to irritation of the membrane, and rendering the children very susceptible to disease. Here may possibly be found one source of the spread of diphtheria and other diseases of an infectious nature to which children are specially subject. Apart from this effect upon health, it appears that moisture in the air has also an important bearing upon economy in fuel. The author of the paper referred to stated that the inmates of a room, the air of which contained a sufficient amount of moisture, would be as comfortably warm with the temperature at 60 degrees,

Methods of Heating in Relation to Health and Economy

<article title=" Methods of Heating in Relation to Health and Economy " author="">