<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	237



NORTHWEST CORRESPONDENCE.

<article title=" NORTHWEST CORRESPONDENCE " author="">

WINNIPEG, December 5, 1901.



For some time past the question of erecting a large apartment building in the city has been before the public. The proposal has now taken definite shape and is being promoted by Hunter, Cooper & Co., financial agents, of this city. The intention is to erect the building on Ellice avenue, close to Knox Church. This is a good location and not far from the main portion of the city. The frontage will be 200 feet and depth 120 feet. Mr. E. Kennedy, of Minneapolis, U. S., is the name of the architect which appears on the sketch plans.

It is intended to put up a modern and thoroughly equipped building in all points, and first-class both in construction and finish The outline plans show a structure in the form of the letter E. The main enhance is from an open court in the centre between the two arms of the letter, and is carried up to the second story, the doorways being flanked on either side by massive columns and pilasters of stone supporting a stone entablature. The building is seven stories in height above the basement, with an eighth story over the centre portion. The facade is to be of red pressed brick with diagonal work of a darker colored brick for the first two stories, Bedford sand stone dressing to windows and other openings, with a generous treatment of carved and ornamented work.

From the main ball, entrance is obtained to two large electric elevators, one on each side of the entrance, running from basement to top flat. The main or public corridors branch off on either side of this entrance, and at the turn or arms of the letter E tile main stairs are located, one flight at each arm between brick walls. This arrangement is followed out on each floor. Private halls lead off the public corridors into the various suites of rooms. Each suite of rooms or household apartments contain dining room, parlor, library, kitchen, three chambers and bath room. All these rooms——in fact, all the rooms in the building ore lighted from the outside, the use of light wells being done away with. Some portions of the floors are to be laid off in smaller suites, such as bachelor apartments, doctors' or dentists offices and artists studios, the whole building having about 500 rooms.

Each suite of rooms as may be required will bc provided with spacious cupboards, linen closets, store rooms and pantries, with cold storage section to be operated by an ammonia process located ill the basement. Dust chutes when necessary from the rooms and floors descend to the basement and these will be of the most approved pattern.

Tile floors will be of fireproof construction throughout, overlaid in private halls and rooms with hardwood flooring, and the corridors will be paved with mosaic.

The bath rooms will be provided with enameled baths, Syphon jet closets and marble wash basins, having hot and cold water, the sanitary arrangements being complete in all details.

The lighting, heating and ventilation will be of the latest description. Electrical heating is under consideration, as electricity will be supplied in the near future by tile Water power at Spruce Falts, sixty miles from Winnipeg and at a very reasonable rate.



The eighth story over the centre portion of the building is to be arranged for a restaurant having general and private dining rooms with all the modern conveniences attached to same.

Tile basement is laid out for lockers, store rooms, bicycle rooms, etc.

The estimated cost of the completed building is $175,000, and if the plan is carried out as outlined it will be an enterprise of no mean order as well as an ornament to our city and will largely' take the place of first-class hotel accommodation which is at present very deficient.



The past season has been one of substantial progress and  activity in the building trade. Many large and handsome structures have either been begun or completed, and we find our city is so much the richer, not only in bricks and mortar, but also in architectural adornment. Building permits covering buildings completed or uncompleted have during the past year been issued to the amount of about $1,500,000.



At the south east corner of Main and Lombard streets, the Merchants' Bank of Canada are erecting a massive and handsome structure to be used for their banking business and for general commercial offices. Tile walls are up to the roof line and it is proposed to close the building in for the winter and complete next year. The structure is seven stories in height

above the basement. The base for about five feet above the pavement is of grey granite and above this to the height of the banking floor the two fronts are of white sandstone. From this point to cornice line red pressed brick has been used with a liberal proportion of white sandstone in ornamental and constructional work designed and detailed in the Renaissance style. The columnar effect just below the main cornice is very striking. The Roebling system of fire-proof construction is to be used for floors, etc. It is by far the highest building here and when completed will form one of the most attractive architectural features of this progressive metropolis of the West.



Other banking corporations have not been behind in providing adequate and attractive buildings for their headquarters. During the year the Bank of Commerce, Dominion Bank and Bank of Hamilton have each shown their faith in tile present and future prosperity of' this land of promise by expending large sums of money in the completion of beautiful and stately edifices. The Bank of Commerce building is designed after the Corinthian style, constructed of light sandstone. Carefully designed and well executed details mark this structure as one of classic outline both as to elevation and internal arrangement. The banking room is lofty and a circular treatment has been adopted for the banking counter.



Tile Dominion Bank is modeled after the Renaissance style in red sandstone and terra cotta and is situated at the south-west corner of Main street and McDermot avenue. The general elevation is not as pleasing in outline as we could have wished and for a corner building is in our judgment, not high enough. The banking room is very lofty, but has somewhat of a cramped appearance. Excellent taste has been displayed in the elaborate finish of the entrance corridor.



Tile Bank of Hamilton building has been extended this year, doubling tile size. The facade is of white brick painted, ornamented with red sand—stone trimmings in bold detail, making an imposing structure at the south-east corner of Main street and McDermot avenue. Tile internal finish, which is quartered oak, is to be completed this winter.



Tile Lake of the Woods Milling Co. have erected on McDermot avenue, in the rear of the Dominion Bank, a solid and commodious office building 2 stories in height, designed and executed in brown and red sandstone and pressed brick. The walls are lined and the partitions formed of hollow terra-cotta brick. Tile floors are fire-proof. The internal finish is to be of the best.



A local syndicate has erected at the corner of Albert street and McDermot avenue an apartment block called The Alexander." The lower portion is divided into stores with plate glass fronts. The super-structure is of solid brick veneered with dark red pressed brick ornamented with buff stone trimmings. The two stories above the store fronts are almost entirely carried on steel beams supported by iron columns. The face wall above the window openings is carried by steel lintels, so that there is a continuous Fine of brick without arches. Tile two upper flats have been arranged for small suites of rooms, such as bachelor apartments. These are well planned and fitted with all necessary sanitary improvements.

The School Board have erected in Nena street, at the head of Notre Dame avenue, a large and handsome solid brick school of 12 rooms, with pressed steel ceilings. The building is complete in all sanitary and other appointments.

The Toronto Crematory Co. have just completed for the city a large crematory, having 3 furnaces with water grates. The chimney for carrying off the gases is 80 feet high. Tests are just now being made as to the efficiency of tile furnaces to completely destroy garbage and other like material.



Winnipeg has grown and is still growing. The foregoing is but a glance at a part of what has been done.



Space would not permit to give a detailed list of the many wholesale warehouses, stores, commercial buildings and dwelling houses which have been erected during tile year; suffice it to say that tile expansion of trade and general financial advancement Of the city fully warrant the outlay, and we look forward to the coming year as one of still greater expansion





Tile premature cracking of varnish is due, more often than not, to quality of elasticity—to oily or improperly adjusted undercoats. Apply color that dries quick enough to become hard before varnishing over it, and so far as that color is concerned there will be no shrinkage sufficient to disrupt the varnish.

