<doctype type="text">180	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

BY THE WAY.<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

The firm hold that electric lighting has obtained on public favor is exemplified by the fact that in a number of the new dwellings now being built in Rosedale and other choice residential districts of Toronto, no gas piping for lighting purposes is being put in. A single gas pipe entering from the rear suffices to give the supply required for cooking purposes.

	x	x	x



THE main building at the Toronto Exhibition which must shortly he replaced by a more modern structure, has had quite an interesting history. It was originally built in 1852 on King Street West on a site which is now included in the asylum farm. On the occasion of the visit of the Prince of \Vales in 1860, a grand ball was given in his honor in this building. In 1878 it was taken down and rebuilt on its present site, another storey being added.

	x	x	x

old by an English trade journal of

A good story is t

a master builder, who having heard that the men did

not start work at the proper time, thought he would drop down about half-past six one morning arid see. Going up the yard he caught sight of a joiner standing smoking, with his kit not even opened. Simply asking his name, which he found to be Malcolm Campbell, he called him into the office, and handing him four days' pay, ordered him to leave at once. After seeing the man clear of the yard, he went up to the foreman and explained that he had made an example of Malcolm Campbell by paying him off for not starting at the proper hour. '' Great Scot, sir !" ejaculated the foreman, '' that chap was only lookin' for a job."

	x	x x



IN 72 days the elevator in the tower of the new municipal buildings in Toronto, carried 39,833 persons to the top of the tower to see the great clock and obtain a bird's eve view of the city. As the elevator will accommodate but twelve persons, more than three thousand trips were required, and at times the corridors were lined with a crowd of people waiting their turn to make the ascent. No doubt there were thousands of visitors to the building who did not visit the tower. It will thus he seen what a point of attraction the new city buildings have already become to strangers visiting the city. of whom the number steadily increases each year. It is desirable that the building on the erection of which so much money has been expended, should he made increasingly interesting as time goes on by the addition of mural decorations, paintings and sculpture.

<article title=" INDUCEMENTS TO FIRE PROOF CONSTRUCTION " author="">

INDUCEMENTS TO FIRE PROOF CONSTRUCTION.

A correspondent sends the following extract from the New York Insurance Exchange Schedule, relating to fire-proof buildings

"EXCEPTIONAL CONSTRUCTION. —For fire-proof floor surfaces of cement, concrete or asphalt, deduct per cent. If floors inclined for carrying off water with scuppers, deduct 2 per cent. Fire-proof woodwork, trim, etc., deduct 5 per cent."

"If the same reduction was made in Canada as the above," says this correspondent, "it would induce people building to take advantage of the insurance reduction and use fire-proof materials."

THE PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS

FROM LIGHTNING.



A paper on this subject recently read by Mr. Alfred Hands, before the London Architectural Association, concludes as follows:

As to the methods for rendering our system of protection perfect. We must first of all decide on which are the parts of the building liable to be struck by lightning, and protect them either by separate conductors or by branch conductors carried to one or more mains to earth as may he necessary, and we must see that these conductors afford as little resistance as possible. The joints must he soldered so that they will not only be perfect at the time they are put up, but will remain perfect. The earth connections must also be made so that this path is at least as good a one as other paths about the building ; and besides this we must carefully study our building, both inside and out. We must take into consideration all the metals used in its construction, both as regards their relation to the conductor system and to one another, and take such precautions that neither division of the discharge shall occur unless we intend it to occur, nor sparking in places where sparking would do harm. It is here that the skill and experience of the expert have to he displayed, and I cannot give you any rules for your guidance on this matter, for buildings differ so much in their construction and arrangement that rules applicable to one case would be absolutely useless for another. Nothing is of use but knowledge and experience, and, as I have already indicated, these cannot he imparted or acquired in a short space of time. I can only say that in some cases connections are made and in others the dangerous metals are avoided, but that great discrimination is required as to what metals are connected and what avoided. Sometimes dividing the discharge between several paths or over a wide extent is the best plan, and sometimes other plans are adopted according to the exigencies of the case or the particular combination of dangers which one may find to exist.



I may, in conclusion, discuss a matter which is of great importance to architects, and that is as to what parts of a building are liable to he struck, and which, therefore, require protection. I have devoted many years to this question, and have examined many thousands of buildings which have been struck, first, with the object of formulating a theory, and afterwards to prove that theory ; and I propose putting this before you as briefly as possible. The, main principles are simple, and possibly it is the very simplicity of the matter which has led to its being overlooked. The popular idea is that it is the highest point of a building which is struck, but probably some of you may have met with cases in which others very much lower down have been damaged. I have come across hundreds such. The explanation is that the nearest part of the building to what I may call the point in the cloud from which the discharge originates gets struck, and the highest is not necessarily the nearest. A discharge occurs between two planes or points, one of which is in the clouds and the other is in the ground ; the building is merely an object en route, as one might say, which forms a path of less resistance than the surrounding air. Now, a lightning-conductor does not attract lightning except as, being of metal, induction and consequent difference of potential takes place more strongly in it than in

