<doctype type="plate;text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	79







































































storage cupboard, and we often take advantage of it for ventilating purposes, by bringing fresh air into the room, slightly warmed by passing behind the fire, and delivering it over the opening to the recess, where it is

distributed with the least possible draught.	Where an

outlet into a flue is desirable to supplement the exhaust due to the fire, we find this a very good place to arrange it. In a room with close-fitting iron casements, sufficiently well built not to leak excessively through many parts of the room. A window on the south side admits plenty of sun, and in addition on this side there are floors, skirting and door. The most frequent cause of a smoky chimney is the want of sufficient air-supply, and

some form of inlet is an absolute necessity.	 In bed

rooms we have successfully arranged this through a hollow fender kerb in some places.

All the bedrooms in this cottage are so arranged as to have a fairly comfortable corner between the fire and a window, where one can sit to read or write. An east aspect is obtained for the bedroom, and a linen cupboard warmed by the cylinder is provided.

Of the elevations I need only say that local random range stone is used for the ground storey. while for the upper portion the need for obtaining four bedrooms over a house so narrow required the use of 9 in. brick walls, which are rough-cast in cement. To avoid the expense of dressed stone, and also to connect the two storeys a little, all the windows have brick jamb and mullions, and the rough cast is carried down over them. The roof is covered with local stone slate.

Time will not permit me to refer in detail to any smaller cottage plans. But enough has, I hope been said to make it quite clear that, whatever the size of the house, we think it should grow, both as a utilitarian plan

and as an artistic creation, out of the real needs of the occupants ; and that the art of designing small houses and cottages consists, not in following any accepted code of conventions, however useful these may be in their place, but in working out such a convenient and comely setting for the special life that shall be lived as shall enable that life to expand itself to the fullest extent, not merely unhampered by the building in which it is clothed, but actually stimulated by a congenial surrounding.

<article title=" CORROSION OF SOFT STEEL AND WROUGHT IRON " author="Williams">

CORROSION OF SOFT STEEL AND WROUGHT IRON.

Mr. F. H. Williams, of Pennsylvania	has recently published the results of some corrosion experiments made with pieces of soft steel containing respectively 0.078, 0.145, and 0.263 per cent. of copper. The steel without copper was found to lose 1.85 per cent. of its weight under the conditions of the experiment, while the pieces containing copper lost only 0.89, 0.75, and 0.74 per cent. in weight. Some experiments with wrought iron showed that the addition of 0.393 per cent. of copper to the iron materially reduced its rate of corrosion. Further information with regard to the effect of the presence of small quantities of copper upon other properties of the iron and steel would he of interest.



Architects, builders and influential citizens in New York City have organized the "Work Together' Club. The object is to promote harmonious relations between employers and employees by bringing about reforms directly affecting the building trades.

The City Building Inspector of Ottawa will conduct an investigation into the cause of the recent collapse of a brick building in course of construction for use as a delivery stable. Fortunately only one of the dozen workmen employed on the building when the accident occurred was seriously injured.

