<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

Manual Training Schools.

<article title=" Manual Training Schools " author="">

























<article title=" Building Failures " author="">

Building Failures.

a regular series of demonstrations, in order that the

architectural student may have the chance to acquire

a personal knowledge of the building trades, to understand the nature and possibilities of the materials which

may enter into the carrying out of his designs.



THE Departments of Education and school boards of the various provinces have been quick to show their appreciation of the munificence of Sir W. C. McDonald, of Montreal, in providing for the introduction of manual training in the public schools. These manual training schools are now a part of the public school system of every province, and about five thousand boys in the three highest forms in the public schools of different selected cities and towns are taking the course under the direction of thirty experienced teachers. The city Toronto has just adopted the system.



ON the 11th inst. the roof of the opera house at New Westminster, B.C., gave indications that it was about to collapse,

and the audience rushed out of the building. An examination is said to have shown that under the weight of an accumulation of snow the walls had been forced out of the perpendicular, and that a very slight additional strain would have brought the structure down upon the heads of the occupants. Three days later one of the walls of the drill hall now under construction at Vancouver, B.C., collapsed. The contractor attributes the accident to severe weather. On the morning of Sunday, the 13th inst., the walls of a four story building at No. 12 De Bresoles street, Montreal, suddenly gave way and the building and its contents fell into a heap of ruins. The cause of the failure is being enquired into. It is truly astonishing that this series of accidents should have occurred without injury or loss of life to any person. This fortunate result is either due to chance or an overruling Providence. It cannot be expected, however, that a like result will always follow, therefore these accidents should lead to the exercise of greater skill and care in the designing and construction of new buildings and to a more rigid inspection of existing buildings by the municipal authorities. Especially should it be demanded that a permit must be obtained before a building designed for a special purpose can be put to a different use whereby there would be imposed upon it a greater strain than it was intended to bear.



ARCHITECTURE can surely to-day be called one of the learned professions and it is therefore essential to the welfare of the

profession that it was beginning to be realized in Canada that an architect requires to be equally as well trained for his calling as doctors, lawyers and others are for their professions. In the past this training seems to have been thought more or less unnecessary, and any young man who was capable of drawing a straight line and who knew the difference between Gothic and Classic work deemed himself competent to undertake any building that might be given to him, and unfortunately most persons, in the past, have been willing to intrust him with their work without enquiring either as to his ability or his training. Few persons even to-day know, except perhaps in a vague way, what constitutes an architectural training, but it is to be hoped that this state of things will be done away with in the near

Architectural Training.

future. A large proportion of the younger men are beginning to realize that to be a competent architect necessitates long and continuous study, for a building to be a successful structure has to be very carefully studied in all its various aspects. It must be well and economically planned to suit its own especial requirements. It has to be beautiful in its proportions and refined and carefully studied in its details and with all as correctness of constructional minor points, which have often called forth more abuse upon the architect than all others together. To be successful in this requires serious study, an artistic temperament and a constructional knowledge second only to an engineer. Let the man he considers he can he an architect without hard work on his part be warned lest he fall into the complacency of the ignoramus who despises education because he knows not his own deficiencies. Fortunately for the profession many young men are entering the now numerous architectural schools while others are travelling in Europe and seeing for themselves the quiet dignity of the great buildings in those countries, and the result is beginning to be seen in their work. The article in this number by Prof. Capper, on "Architectural Training for Canadian Students," is replete with valuable suggestions and will repay careful perusal.



<article title=" THE NECESSITY FOR PROPER FIRE ESCAPES FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS " author="">

THE NECESSITY FOR PROPER FIRE ESCAPES FOR PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

Mr. Chas. Baillarge, the well known architect and engineer, of Quebec, has been prompted by the recent holocaust at Rochester, N.Y., to address a petition to the President of the United States and the Premier of Canada, asking that legislation be enacted to compel hotels and other public buildings in which many persons reside to be provided with an isolated stairway for use as a safe means of exit in case of fire. These stairways should have no direct communication with the building, but access to them might be had from every floor or story of the building (the attic counting as one of the stories) by just going out on to a balcony and from thence entering the staircase.

It is suggested that from the staircase—if in the rear of the building—that is, from the foot thereof terminating at the level of the uppermost portion of the first story or floor of the building, there should be a fireproof corridor conducting towards the front, with a fireproof staircase from the outer end thereof, with door opening on to the public highway.

"This," says Mr. Baillarge, "will assure the simultaneous and instantaneous escape of everyone in the building above the first floor level, the occupants of the first floor being supposed to escape by the doors and windows of said first floor at ground level, and the occupants of the basement directly to the open or street through the basement windows or openings of the same ; while, if difficult of access, the staircase to be continued down to basement or sub-basement level and the employees or others of these sub-stories thus enabled to reach the corridor already alluded to and effect their escape thereby."

This system has been carried out in the reconstruction of the theatre at Antwerp, where to each of the five tiers of galleries or boxes there are continuous outer balconies, with 25 doors or rather low silled windows opening unto them at each storey, 125 for the 5 tiers independently of all first floor issues and of those for pit, and for actors at stage end of building. The

