<doctype type="text">228	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



brief—for we write, not to praise the law of Montreal but to condemn that of Toronto—al1 questions of standard that arise in designing a building have in the building law of Montreal and other cities a minimum fixed by-law. The result is a sound handbook of building for these cities, and that is what we want in Toronto. For many men it will be the only handbook they recognize, and without it they have none.

As a record of the decisions approved by the general experience in building matters, such a by-law is useful to architects as well as builders, not only to save labour but to save doubt and discussion ; to, in some measure, standardize processes which form so large a part of the investment of capital. The building laws of New York and Boston have before now been used in Toronto, as authorities for this purpose; but a by-law of our own would be the proper authority.

in short the law is for instruction as well as reproof. If the whole object of the building law were to catch people tripping, it would be well to be as cautious and general as possible, and to give as little information as possible in order to catch the ignorant and unwary as well as the wicked ; but the object of the law ought to be to prevent people tripping ; to instruct the ignorant, warn the unwary, and leave the Inspector of Buildings to deal only with the wicked. That is his function and that is all.

To leave anything that can be settled beforehand, to be settled by the opinion of the Inspector of Buildings is nonsense. He is there to administer the law not to make it. The municipal council have power to make reasonable by-laws, but they have no right to delegate this power to anyone else. In making a by-law so general that it requires interpretation in detail, and in handing over the right of interpretation to the Inspector of Buildings they have in effect delegated to him the power of defining the requirements of the law. It is questionable whether this is a legal position ; it is certainly unpractical. The city of Toronto is still without a reasonable building by-law and something ought to be done to remedy this detect.

We want a precise and comprehensive by-law, printed in a convenient form, with tables, diagrams and cuts sufficient to make it plain, and an index. This is not much to ask for, but it would be a great thing to have.

<article title=" EXPORT CONDITIONS AFFECTING HEATING APPARATUS " author="">

EXPORT CONDITIONS AFFECTING HEATING APPARATUS.



A gentleman from Canada, intimately connected with the building business, visited the Glasgow Exhibition last summer, and on his return expressed disappointment with the character of many of the Canadian exhibits in manufactured goods. He instanced the case of radiators, in the manufacture of which Canada must be considered to be at the top of the ladder. The exhibit of these goods in the Canadian Building consisted of only a few radiators placed in an out of the way corner. The same gentleman made unfavorable comparison between our exhibits of stores and those Of British manufacturers, stoves being another line of manufacture which has reached great perfection in this country. lie further stated that the American radiator manufacturers had captured the British market, and, to a large extent, driven out Canadian radiators.

In response to inquiries on the subject, we find that

the small exhibit of radiators in the Canadian Section was placed there by request of the Canadian Commissioner, and that accommodation could not be given Canadian manufacturers in this building to make an adequate display of their goods. Another exhibit in this line was made in the British Section in the name of Messrs. T. B. Campbell & Sons, of Glasgow, who are agents for the Dominion Radiator Company. It is to be regretted that in lines of manufacture in which we admittedly excel, we should not have had proper representation. A manufacturer who visited the Exhibition informs us that the nations that had the fewest exhibits, such as Russia and India, appeared to have the most space, far more in fact than they required, while Canada, which is an important part of the British Empire, was not given room enough to fairly display her goods. Attention was recently called to the fact that a creditable display was not made in the Canadian Building at Buffalo, that Canadian exhibits were scattered about in the various buildings in such a way as to make it impossible for the visitor to receive a comprehensive idea of our development in various lines. The same objection seems to hold good in the case of the Exhibition at Glasgow. It is to be hoped that if Canada is to be represented at future Exhibitions of this kind, the Government will see to it that adequate space for the purpose is obtained, and that the exhibits are displayed to equal advantage with those of other countries 

As regards the competition of American manufacturers of radiators in the British market, we learn that a large share of the trade in this line is being secured by the United States. This is chiefly due to two causes, first, the advantage possessed by American manufacturers over those of Canada in carrying charges. By taking advantage of cheap transportation by canal from Buffalo to New York, and from thence chartering schooners to carry their goods at very low cost across the Atlantic, United States manufacturers are able to sell in the British market at lower figures than Canadians are willing to accept. To assist them in maintaining their advantage, these manufacturers are now bringing iron from the Dominion Iron & Steel Works, at Sydney, Nova Scotia to Boston, at a cost for freight of only 70 cents per ton. On this iron a duty is paid OF $4.00 per ton, 99 per cent. of which is however, refunded, on the manufactured product of the iron when exported, so that the Boston manufacturer effects a saving of $3.00 per ton in freight charges by using Canadian instead of American iron.

The manufacture of radiators in the United States is in the hands of an immense trust whose aim is to keep in operation their extensive factories. For this purpose they have apparently determined to secure the trade in Great Britain at all costs. Extensive showrooms and warehouses have been opened in London where a large stock is constantly carried, from which orders can be filled instantly.

Notwithstanding Canadian manufacturers are getting a considerable amount of export business, and are at present favored by the fact that for the first time in many years iron is being sold in Canada at $2 per ton less than in the United States. The demands of the home trade have been so great as to keep factories here running at their highest capacity. Under these circumstances our manufacturers are not disposed to sell their goods in Great Britain without a profit.

