<doctype type="text">	26	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" The 0. A. A." author="">

The 0. A. A.

the flames by rolling fire blinds which can be put into position in a few seconds. The test of the tire was within three feet of the face of the tire blinds, which were subjected to a temperature gradually increasing from 4000 to 1600°. The blinds after 30 minutes test remained in position, the tire not having penetrated through the door or window. The test seems to show that by means of properly constructed and adjusted tire blinds the entrance of tire through windows and doors may be retarded for a time, thereby giving opportunity for the arrival of the tire men. A matter of much importance is the facilities for speedily placing the blinds in position under the most disadvantageous circumstances which could be induced by an attack of tire.



THE annual convention of the Ontario

Association of Architects, held in

Toronto last month, the proceedings of which are printed in this number, was one of the most interesting in the history

of that organization n, and likely to be productive of lasting results. It was decided to proceed at once to establish a system of instruction for students, based upon the course of study recommended in the report of the Committee on Education. The Association will memorialize the Dominion Government to throw open to competition among architects n private practice the designing of important public buildings, a system which was adopted several years ago by the United States Government, and which has worked out very satisfactorily. The adoption of the system in Canada would stimulate our architects to the exercise of their highest skill, and lead to the erection of public buildings throughout the country which would not only be

carefully adapted to their requirements, but would stand as examples of retained architecture. The convention papers were of a high order of merit, and evoked interesting and instructive discussion.



IT is gratifying to learn that the Medical Health Officer of Toronto is conducting an investigation to determine

if possible what relation the out-flow of sewer gas from the ventilators at the street level has upon the spread of diphtheria. The noxious vapors arising from these ventilators, especially in winter when the atmosphere in the sewer is at a higher temperature than outside, have been the subject of much comment, and have been regarded by many citizens as a source of serious danger to health, and as being at least one of the causes of the

Effects of Sewer Gas Upon Health.

<article title=" Effects of Sewer Gas Upon Health " author="">An Art Museum as a Memorial to Queen Victoria.

prevalence of diphtheria among children. The evil is specially noticeable in the northern part of Toronto, where many of the sewers have dead ends. This section being at the highest altitude, the sewer gas from the lower districts of the city naturally rises to and finds an outlet there. The result of the investigation which is now being held will be looked for with much interest, and it is to be hoped will determine approximately at least the extent to which these ventilators are the cause of disease.

<article title=" An Art Museum as a Memorial to Queen Victoria " author="">

SINCE the death of Queen Victoria, the subject of a suitable memorial to her memory has been under discussion in

Toronto. The Provincial Government has signified its intention to contribute at least $10,000 towards this object. The Premier has stated it as his opinion that the memorial should take the form of an Art Museum. This opinion, we believe, will be shared by a large

number of the citizens. Indeed, a movement having for its object the erection of a museum of this character was begun about a year ago by a number of public spirited citizens, and a considerable sum has already been raised by private subscription towards the carrying out of the project. It is gratifying to learn that the Government are in sympathy with the undertaking, and it is to be hoped that the proposed grant from the Legislature will be given to assist it. Queen Victoria's reign was marked by a wonderful advancement in the arts and sciences, to which advancement her liberal encouragement was at all times given. A memorial of the character referred to would therefore seem to be a particularly fitting one. Toronto has now reached a position

where an institution of this kind should be established. There are few cities of equal importance, especially from an educational standpoint, in which a home of the arts does not exist. The Ontario Association of Architects, in convention assembled, passed a resolution approving of the views expressed by the Premier of Ontario with regard to this matter. Application is to be made for incorporation by an Association to be known as the " Art Museum of Toronto," and a public meeting of citizens is to be held at an early date to consider and promote its establishment. If it should be decided to give it the character of a memorial to our late Queen, public interest in behalf of the undertaking would no doubt be stimulated, and the probability of the success of the movement enhanced.

