<doctype type="text;ad">





<article title=" LUXFER SUPPLEMENT " author="">

LUXFER SUPPLEMENT

Expanded Metal. -—-It is safe to say that no material has met with such general approval as Expanded Metal. it comes on the market just at the time when concrete is claiming recognition in every branch of structural work. A concrete slab is very strong in compression, but lacks tensile strength. Expanded Metal cures this defect, and concrete reinforced with Expanded Metal is destined to be a standard material in all building and engineering works. An eminent scientist has said "The twentieth century will be known as the concrete age, just as the nineteenth century is known as the steel age."



Fireproof Construction.— Expanded Metal and Cinder Concrete makes a fireproof floor, having in it four most important points of excellence, viz.: minimum dead load, maximum strength, minimum cost, and maximum fire resistance. Because of the economy in the construction of Expanded Metal and concrete floors, from the fact that the dead weight of floor is less than any other construction, it can readily be seen that there is a saving in the cost of a building in foundations, steel work and walls. The saving in insurance will soon pay for the extra cost of fireproofing.



No Longer Experimental. —Expanded Metal fireproof construction has been used for several years in the United States, England, Germany, France and other countries. In Canada it has been on the market about two years, and in that short time, so patent are its advantages, the following leading buildings have been fireproofed with Expanded Metal and cinder concrete:

La Presse Building, Greenshields' Dry Goods Warehouse, Birk & Son, Jewelry Factory, Guaranteed Milk Co. Dairy Works, Redpath Library, C. P. R. Telegraph Building, Dominion Oilcloth Co. Factory, Dominion Transport Co. Stables, and several others in Montreal. National Trust Co. Building Sunlight Soap Co. Factory, City Dairy Co. Factory, T. Eaton Co. Warehouse, and others in Toronto. Wood's Dry Goods Warehouse, Conroy Power House, E. B. Eddy Co. Paper Mills, Ottawa Dairy Company, Bronson Co. Buildings, and others in Ottawa. Clarified Milk Co. Factory Kingston, Sanitary Dairy Co. Factory, London, Lake Superior Power Co.'s Office Building, Sault Ste. Marie, Ont., and several other buildings throughout the country.



Expanded Metal Lath—Since the introduction of Expanded Metal Lath on this market, it has met with the unqualified approval of architects and plasterers This is proved by the fact that although less than three years on the market, there is more Expanded Metal Lath used than all other metal lath put together. The excellence of the key, the facility with which the lath is put up, and the facility with which the plaster is put on, all combine to make Expanded Metal Lath the best metal lath on the market.



The following may be mentioned amongst the many buildings in which Expanded Metal Lath has been used:

Government Buildings	Commercial Buildings

	Militia Stores Building, Ottawa.	Canadian Pacific Telegraph Building, Montreal.

	Custom House and Post Office, New Westminster.	La Presse Building, Montreal.

	Custom House, Hull.	National Trust Building, Toronto.

	Custom House, Picton.	Sunlight Soap Co.'s Offices, Toronto.

	Custom House, Brockville.	E. B. Eddy Mfg. Co.'s Buildings, Ottawa.

	Armory and Drill Hall, Sarnia.	Capital Power Co.'s Building, Ottawa.

	Armory, Kingston.	Lake Superior Power Co.'s Offices, Sault Ste. Marie.

	Armory, Woodstock.	Dominion Iron & Steel Co.'s Building, Sydney.



<article title=" PRICES AND PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION " author="">



PRICES AND PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.







SPECIAL SALES AGENTS:





LUXFER PRISM COMPANY, Limited,

	98-100 King St. W,	TORONTO.