<doctype type="text">164	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

BUILDING CONTRACTS.

<article title=" BUILDING CONTRACTS " author="">

The term building contract may he applied to any legally binding agreement which has for its subject matter or principal subject matter the erection of buildings or the execution of works of the nature of buildings, and, as generally used, it may he more particularly defined as an agreement by which one person or body of persons undertakes for a consideration 10 erect or construct for another buildings or oilier works of that nature.

The first necessity, in the case of such a contract is of course that a site for the proposed buildings or works is to he provided, amid as the usual occasion for a building contract is where the owner of a site desires to have it built upon, the term building contract'' is usually under— stood to import that the proposed buildings are to bc erected upon the land of another for his use and benefit.

As the terms contract and agreement, as commonly used, have essentially the same legal significance of a legally binding agreement, that is to say an agreement enforceable by law, so there is not strictly speaking, any inherent or essential difference legally or grammatically between the terms building contract and building agreement, but in fact the former term has conic to be used so as to import that the works to he done are to be done for the use and benefit of the owner of the land, whereas the term building agreement is usually confined to agreements providing for a grant to the builder of a lease of or other interest in the land upon completion of the building.



 Although therefore either term may he applied to ally agreement which Provides for the erection if buildings, the term building contract naturally suggests to the experienced that the buildings are to lie for the use and benefit of the building owner or employer, and consequently that time consideration is to he a money payment or something of the like nature, e.g.) payment in shares of a company, whereas the term building agreement suggests that the builder is to acquire in consideration of his building a lease of or other interest in the land built upon. As illustrations, a simple instance of a building contract would be where— A., a builder, agrees with B., a landowner, to build

him a house upon his laud, in consideration of a lump sum to be paid on completion of the work.

And a similar instance of a building agreement would he where— A., a builder, agrees with B., a landowner, to build

upon B. s land in a specified manner, in consideration of B. granting to him a lease of the land and buildings.

The rent of such a lease is of course fixed at a sum considerably below the rack rent of the property as built upon, and the amount expended in buildings is in fact equivalent to a premium paid for having the property as built upon at a remit below the rack rent thereof. Although a contract to put down a house comes within the Statute of Frauds as relating to an interest in land, and must he in writing, a contract to build a house does not.

In the case either of a building contract or building agreement, as above defined or distinguished, provisions will he found ( ) on behalf of the landowner, ( 2 ) on behalf of the builder, and these are usually followed by provisions for the prevention or settlement of disputes which should he on behalf of both parties, but are in most cases found to he framed rather in the interest of the building owner or employer. The general object of the provisions on behalf of the building owner or employer is, putting it quite generally—

a)	That the buildings to he erected shall he of the desired nature and quality, and lie completed within a specified time.

b )	That the builder shall not lie entitled to his remuneration or consideration unless and until lie has fulfilled his part of the bargain.

And the object of the provisions on behalf of the builder



To put him into a position to claim his remuneration as soon as lie has earned it under the stipulated terms.

Although these objects may he stated thus simply and shortly in a general way, the complicated nature of building operations and the many unforeseen occurrences which may intervene render numerous and elaborate precautions necessary for the prevention of disputes during the progress of, or after the completion or (it may be) the previous abandonment of the works. The provisions embodying g these precautions have now settled down into a number of well recognized clauses, time more important of which are to he found in any well-drawn building contract or agreement. These more important clauses it is proposed presently to consider in detail with special reference to the legal bearing and effect thereof and to certain judicial decisions thereon.



The subject of the present paper is building contracts in the ordinary sense as above distinguished, i.e., contracts for the erection of buildings or construction (if works on the land of another person for time mist and benefit of that other person. It is in the case of building contracts in this sense particularly, that the elaborate provisions to he presently considered are necessary in order to secure that time work shall he dune in exact accordance with detailed  requirements.

In the case of a building agreement, as an immediate lease or grant of the property is intended to he made to time builder it is as a rule, only necessary to provide that the buildings shall he sufficient to secure the intended remit and, perhaps, also to preserve time character of the neighborhood. For these purposes it is generally sufficient to provide that the buildings shall he of not less than a certain value and shall have a more or less uniform character. The builder himself having, or being about to acquire aim interest or estate in the property, mimay he relied upon to build 50 as to give time property a marketable value. Consequently it is not t usually found necessary iii  building agreements to go in to any great details as to time buildings to be erected.



When, however, buildings are to he for the use and benefit of the building owner, his first and foremost care will lie that the agreement shall he framed so as to secure his getting what hue wants in every detail, amid to secure this us consequently the main object of the provisions of the contract on behalf of the employer.



Now if time buildings contemplated were nothing more than what Mr. Rimskiu somewhere says is all that the ordinary British householder requires, viz., four brick walls amid a drain pipe, the employer might possibly he able to decide for himself whether that desideratum were supplied, amid time services of an architect or surveyor might be dispensed with. Pace Mr. Ruskin. however, amid fortunately for the profession of architects, our needs amid aspirations in time matter of building are seldom so simple, and, mimmre— over, it is not only the demands of increasing wealth and luxury limit the elaborate requirements of modern building acts which have to he met. Consequently building contracts are frequently requirent to provide for the proper execution of most extensive and costly works in accordance with most minute amid detailed particulars. Hemmee the introduction into the contract or transaction of a third party in the person of the architect or surveyor of the building owner, whose duty it is to bring his expert knowledge to time assistance of the building owner as a guarantee that the work to he done shall lie done in time way in which aim expert knows it ought to he done.

One of time most important things to he considered is therefore the position (if the architect or surveyor, both as regards time owner and the builder, and the nature of time authority, duties rights and liabilities involved in that position.

Before proceeding to details, it is to lie observed that, as in the ease of all instruments where time salient provisions have settled down in to recognized form this has been time result of a gradual growth, faults amid deficiencies hicimug rectified and supplied as experience has shown such rectification and supplement to lie necessary. Time case of conditions of sale will readily occur as an example of this growth or development In preparing these, particular provisions to meet such particular case are required,

