<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	Vol. XIV. —No. 165.	SEPTEMBER 1901.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEET.

''Standish Hall, Residence of Mr. E. B. Eddy, Hull, Que.—Messrs. Band, Burritt & Meredith, Architects. Residence No. 13, Maple Avenue, Toronto.—Mr. F. S. Baker, F. R. 1. B. A., Architect.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

The Canadian Pavilion at the Pan—American Exhibition.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS EDITION.

Two Photogravure Plates--Fine Art Galleries, Glasgow.





CONTENTS

Editorial		177-78	A New Method of Heating and Ventilating 	. . 186-87

The Development of Muskoka and a Precaution	.	178-79	A Novel Hoisting Planting	7

					187 88

Insurance Rates in Relation to Risk	.	.	.	179 Ancient Terra Cotta	-

Measuring Round Timber	1 79	Modern Quarrying Methods	.                        188

By the Way			. 180	What is a Well Burnt Brick . 			188

Inducements to Fire-Proof Construction		 	. 180	The Relative Merits of Cut and Wire Nails			t88 89

The Protection of Buildings from Lightning			. 180-81	Constructional Ironwork . . 			189-90

St. Paul's Cathedral in l)anger				181	Useful Hints					.		190

Building Materials and Clay Products		. 		182	Toronto Industrial Exhibition	Notes				.		191

Intercommunication				183-84	Student's Department						.

The Practice of Stack Building and Boiler		Setting 	184-85-86		The Toronto Engineers' Club					.		VIII







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS

	PROF. S. H. CAPPER R.C.A., Department	of Architecture McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. Langton Architect, Toronto 

EDMUND BURKE,

S.	H. TOWNSEND, 

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J. C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.





The women's patriotic organization known as the Daughters of the Empire is to be commended for its wisdom in deciding to erect a permanent memorial of the approaching visit of the Duke of York. It was at first proposed to erect a temporary floral arch, but wiser councils prevailed, and the intention now is to construct a permanent gateway at the Bloor street entrance to Queen's Park. This gateway will consist of stone pillars in combination with wrought iron work of suitable design. This method of procedure is preferable to that of the manufacturers who are expending a considerable sum on a temporary structure which will disappear immediately after the royal visit.



ENQUIRY among architects goes to

show that while the present building

season has been an active one and on the whole satisfactory, man)' projects have been abandoned temporarily at least on account of the high price of lumber and some other materials which enter largely into construction work. Persons who contemplate building frequently forget that the present is a period of high prices for all other materials as well as those employed in building It is scarcely possible to purchase an article of any description to-day as cheaply as five years ago. Why then expect to get buildings put up as cheaply now as then ? The advance in prices is due to a strengthened demand, or in other words to increased prosperity. Vastly more money is being made by all classes this year that five years ago, hence the purchasing power is increased. Most persons contemplating the erection of buildings can well afford to pay

20 per cent. more for their structures than would

A Commendable idea.<article title=" A Commendable idea " author="">











































<article title=" Effect of Prices of Materials on Building " author="">

Effect of Prices of Materials on Building.

<article title=" The Toronto Industrial Exhibition " author="">The Toronto Industrial Exhibition.

have sufficed for their erection in the times of depression. In man)' localities land values have gone up to an extent sufficient to offset the extra cost of building So far as lumber, the staple building material, is concerned, the supply is rapidly decreasing every year, and higher prices must therefore he expected to rule for the future. No doubt when landowners shall have become thoroughly seized of the above mentioned facts, they will see the unwisdom of pursuing a policy of delay in the carrying out of their projects.





Notwithstanding the counter at traction offered by the Pan—American Exhibition, the number of exhibits the Toronto Industrial Exhibition was as numerousasin former years. In live stock the exhibits were considerably greater, and the stable accommodation proved inadequate. The conclusion seems justified that the success achieved this year tinder adverse circumstances, might be greatly amplified if the Main Building and several of the other important ones, were replaced by modern structures designed to fulfil in a more perfect manner the requirements of exhibitors. That there is need for reform in the management is shown by the fact that after the opening of the Exhibition this year the root of the Main Building leaked like a sieve. In consequence many of the exhibits were seriously damaged. The management should have known that the roof was defective, and the necessary repairs should have been made before the Exhibition opened. It would be unwise, however, to spend any considerable sum for re pairs as the building is no longer capable of fulfilling the requirements. The support that has been given the Exhibition in spite of its many defects, is a guaran

