<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



display thought even though he is using the fundamental rules of arithmetic or the laws of Newton. An artist may display thought though working with a simple palette he paints the same sky, sea anti landscape as have been painted for centuries and vet their productions are classed as works of art, even though copied from such a universal hook of art receipts. In the same manner an architect may design a building and display thought, etc., using ideas derived from the past.

Why do we admire the main building of the University of Toronto? Why is it that after passing that building day after day, year after '~ year, we still admire it Because it is more than a mere copy more than a mere page out of our receipt book of Norman architecture Is it not because it is a design because it displays thought It is a work of art and lasting monument to one of our number who has gone to his I rest Here we have in the midst of our busy city a secluded quiet spot and in its center stands a building which seems to s say to the noisy rabble and buzz of traffic keep still! stand off quietness is what is required for university life As we stand viewing the building resting on its grassy terrace horn across the wide lawn we observe its restfulness grace and dignity The entrance is well marked and in writing. Look at it where you will and the repellant anti military feeling of the old Not man work have disappeared and in their

places stand the thought the design of the architect.

Look at the variety of the work so varied in fact that every day seems to reveal something next Observe the grouping of the windows how they mark the large e halls, the smaller subdivisions of classrooms, etc. Now look at the round feature at the extreme west and see how well suited it is for the protection of valuable apparatus. The whole building- unites to form a group, a unit of design, a picture which is indelibly stamped on the heart of every graduate as well as producing a lasting impression on every visitor too our fair city of Toronto.



Mr. Paull Mr. Wright's paper contains many valuable points. He names the University of Toronto as being a building which would attract our attention and bring- forth our admiration. The University of Toronto has one advantage which other buildings in Toronto have not. It is in a position of isolation. Its beautiful form has plenty of room to show itself, and you can go and view the perspective of it from many points, and at every point you can see some new beauty. It is a great pity in my opinion that there are a great number of very fine buildings in Toronto lacking those conditions, and if there were more room surrounding them they would look very much better. Very many buildings built by the architects of the city of Toronto are cramped up and cannot be seen to advantage. For instance the Sick Children's Hospital, on College street, a fine building, but not having room enough to be seen to advantage. Now suppose that $100,000 was the cost of that building, and suppose that $20,000 were expended in taking down the buildings around it so that the building could be seen to advantage, would it not add very considerably to the advantage of the building, and to the utility of the work, and create as it were an importance to the city of Toronto itself? Many other buildings might be mentioned that are so situated. Even our own City Hall has not sufficient ground around it to see it to advantage. If you go to B Buffalo you will see that their City Hall is well arranged as to site and has plenty of ground around it.

Mr. Aylsworth In regard to the Exhibition Building Competition, it strikes me as strange that this Association in some way had not been consulted by the managers before issuing the advertisement. It seems that the Association is not well known to the citizens. I don't know if there is any way that it could be made better known, but that is an instance showing- the necessity for it. It seems to me that the members of the Association ought to have been more in touch with the Exhibition managers. It might be worth our while to appoint a committee to look after that sort. of thing. If we had had such a committee something else could have been done. Perhaps it might be thought worth while yet to appoint one. The Exhibition Board I don't think should be permitted to go on and disfigure the city ; they represent the city in some way, and the citizens should have some hold on them, and the architects should be sufficiently strong to guide the citizens. Just what shape that might take I cannot say. It seems strange that such a large number of architects should not have sufficient influence to have some weight with all such corporations.

Mr. Burke -Perhaps Mr. Aylsworth is not aware that the President called together some others of the Association, among whom were Mr. Eden Smith and myself,

who went down and saw the officials of the association. I was not able to remain for the interview, but I understand that about all that could be accomplished was to gain consent to appoint experts to be selected from the Association membership. While Mr. Wright was reading his paper, I could not help noticing how the Americans went about the inauguration of their exhibition, putting it into the hands of competent architects and landscape architects. I do not know whether it is too late now to do anything towards guiding the Exhibition management into proper line.

Mr. A. H. Gregg There are two instances brought before the Association, the Exhibition and the University buildings, where there has been a number of buildings erected one after the other. At the University the library was built in a splendid position, but with that exception hardly any of the other building-s have been placed with any regard to artistic grouping, arid the Exhibition buildings have been managed in the same way. When our University was burned down, some landscape gardener might have laid out the grounds and allowed for coming buildings, and much better results would have surely been obtained.

Mr. Baker Mr. Wright has referred in the early part of his paper to the difficulty of obtaining originality in our designs and the great danger and tendency there is towards plagiarism. I think if we look over the buildings of the United States it will appear to us that there is very little original work ; that most of the large buildings have been designed along the lines of magnificent examples of architecture which have been erected in earlier periods. Are we in Canada really wise to attempt the original, or would we do better to adapt what we know to lie good ? It is a question which has been before us at all times, but is difficult to decide. Take the architects in the United States, and of course we have to turn to them, as they have always so much work at their disposal. Those who have tried to work along original lines have not succeeded they have given it up and gone back to precedent. For example, some of the finest buildings recently erected in the United States are admittedly adapted from important European examples—Madison Square Garden Tower in New York, the library at Boston, the New York Herald building, and many others. I mention these without hesitation as they have even been published side by side with the European examples in a comparative way. I think architects should work together when designing and erecting adjoining or even adjacent buildings of all kinds. Petty jealousies often prevent good architectural effect. Last night we had a view of several New York buildings. I noticed in passing over the view one building which was perhaps an eighteen story building erected beside a twelve story building; evidently the taller building had been erected since the other, but the cornice line on the smaller building had been carried artfully around the taller building improving the appearance of both. Many examples could be named proving the advantage of consultation in the public interest, and I hope the influence of our Association will improve matters in this direction. With regard to the Exhibition we must not forget the state of architectural embryo the whole of it is in. The fact that Mr. Wickson and other members of the Association were asked to confer with the association and succeeded in having the conditions made as nearly satisfactory as possible should not be overlooked. It is true that the prizes are very small arid look as Mr. Wright said, like "a bone thrown to a pack of wolves." Butt Mr. Wickson if he were here would explain to you that he admitted a certain amount of reason in this. It was thought the architects of the city of Toronto would be patriotic enough to enter into the competition and help on the city's welfare. It is true that designs are asked for individual buildings without any regard to the placing or grouping of them, and it is evident from this that the Exhibition Association has overlooked this, from an architectural standpoint, vital point. All of us who have given the subject any thought will realize what a splendid opportunity there is of grouping the buildings, spaces and courts, and even of introduce

