<doctype type="ad">





LUXFER SUPPLEMENT



The Latest Improvement in Plaster Work.

Pulp Plaster.—There have been many Patent Plasters put on the market. of late years— all having some merit -— but none have met the full requirements until the production of Elastic Pulp Plaster.



 In Elastic Pulp Plaster, a distinct innovation is established. Sand and lime are completely abandoned and a compound is produced composed largely of wood pulp, combined with cements and other plastic materials, which has many advantage over the common sand and lime plaster.



In its production. the plastic art is brought abreast of the advances in other departments of the building trade, and we feet confident that this will be appreciated by the public generally and that Elastic Pulp Plaster will soon become known as superior to all the other plasters in use.



ARCHITECTS specify it

Because it is quick-drying, light in weight, and will

not crack or crumble.



Because it has no lime or acid to destroy the color

in paper, paint or kalsomine.



Because it is waterproof and fireproof and a deadener of sound.



CONTRACTORS use it

Because it works cool, spreads freely and can be

troweled smooth for papering or coloring in

ONE COAT.





Because it adheres equally well to brick, stone,

metal or wood lath.



Because it is tough and elastic, and needs only very

small key to hold to the lath.



Because it can be used in cold weather without

damage by frost in green state.



Because they can save HALF THE COST OF LABOR, as



compared with ordinary plastering.



Because it will cover 140 to 160 yards per ton.



OWNERS want it

Because it makes a dense, hard wall, that will not



crack, crumble or discolor.

Because it is a perfect insulator and prevents escape

of heat through the walls, saving one—third of

the fuel to heat a building.



Because paper or paint can be applied immediately

without damage to colors.





A factory for the manufacture of Pulp Plaster has been established in Toronto with a first class equipment of machinery and appliances for compounding 



For prices and all information apply to





SPECIAL SALES AGENTS:





LUXFER PRISM COMPANY, Limited,

	98-100 King St. W,	TORONTO.