<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	137

<article title=" AN EFFORT TO SECURE UNIFORMITY IN SIZE OF BRICKS " author="">

AN EFFORT TO SECURE UNIFORMITY IN SIZE OF BRICKS.



A conference was recently held in London between representatives of the Royal Institute of British Architects, the Institution of Civil Engineers and the Institute of Clay-workers to consider the question of standardizing the size of bricks. There was placed before the conference the following standard suggested by a joint committee of the R I.B. A, and thc Institution of Civil Engineers

The length of the brick should lie double the width



plus the thickness of one vertical joint.

2.	Brickwork should measure four courses of bricks and four joints to a foot.

Joints should be 1—4 in. thick and an extra 1—16 in. making 5-16 in. for the bed joints to cover irregularities in the bricks this gives a standard length of 9 1-4in. centre to centre of joints.

The bricks to be measured in the following manner —Eight stretchers laid square end and splay end in contact frog upwards, in a straight line to measure 72 in.

Eight headers laid side by side frog upwards, in a straight line to measure 35in.

Eight bricks laid the first brick frog downwards, and then alternately frog to frog and back to back, to measure 21 1—2 in.

This is to apply to all classes of walling bricks, both machine and hand-made and facing bricks.

Representatives of a number of brick manufacturing firms grade expression to their views, and referred to the difficulty of producing bricks to a standard size -especially as regards length—owing to shrinkage in the kiln. One manufacturer pointed out that to burn the darkest red

color it was necessary, or usual, to born these bricks stood on end, and consequently the weight of the bricks above, and the heat of the fire below, made these oftentimes shrink nearly half an inch in length.

On the other hand the Chairman of the Kent and Essex  Brickmakers Association said the brickmakers were quite capable of making any size or any shaped brick that engineer's or architects might require, if architects or engineers would pay the price for it but the fact was that the engineer required the very best brick lie could get, and he wanted to give the very lowest price for it. Another speaker put this fact in a different way by saying that if a rule were made that bricks were to be a certain length with no allowance for uncertain contraction they would have to be sorted, and hence become more expensive.

The conference resulted in the appointment of a committee representing all parties concerned, to consider the desirability of making the size of bricks uniform throughout Great Britain.

In this connection the following table of normal brick dimensions in various countries is of interest —Length Width Thickness

					 ins.		ins.		ins.

	United States .. 	.. 	.. 	.. 	8 	x 		X

	Germany (normal)	. .	. .		 —	x	4 3/4	x

(north—west) .	8 1/2 X 4 1/8 X

	"	(Bavaria) ..	..	11 1/2 x	x

Austria	. .	..	.	11 1/2 x 5 1/2 x

France	·.	. .	.	8	x	X 

Belgium (Brussels)	8 x 3 3/4 x

	" (Liege)	..			9	x	4 3/8	X

	(Boom) 	. 				x 	3 3/8 	x

	Switzerland . .	.	..			x	3/4	x

	Russia . . .	.	. .	. .	10 3/8	x		X



Patented in Canada a Dec. 6th, 1899.

Wood	and Cold, Sets on the Wall in two hours.

POINTS OF SUPERIORITY—-Deadens Sound, Non-conductor of Heat



It is offered to the public as un-

	Is a Substitute for	questionably the best plaster ever made,

Common Plaster	and will, as it becomes known, supersede all other forms of plaster.

	Manufactured by A. Bradshaw	Plaster

Telephone Main 1552.	109 Front Street East, Toronto.

fill Fully Guaranteed

THREE Furnaces	The Result of Fifty Years Making Them

We make a Furnace for every condition of heating, a size to suit every house—whether large or small





"SUNSHINE FURNACES"

Made in Three Sizes

Burns Coal, Coke or



Wood, and gives perfect



satisfaction with either.













"FAMOUS MAGNET. " Burros wood. Extra

heavy fire box and linings Direct and indirect

drafts.





"FAMOUS FLORIDA." Burns coal. Really a large base—burner, and as economical as one, Has direct and indirect drafts.

THE McCLARY MANUFACTURING CO.

London, Toronto, Montreal, Winnipeg Vancouver and St. John, N. B.

