<doctype type="text">170	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



plaster with different lath. With this table it is easy to prepare an estimate for any kind of plastering except that involving patent plasters. The data for this table were obtained directly from plastering contractors.

No explanation is needed as to the method of using the table itself, but the following remarks may be useful in this connection. More plaster is required for metal lath than for wood, because of the heavier clinches and the greater waste ; and the greater material requires a corresponding increase in the labor. In determining the quantity of materials required for plastering on brick, use the data for the brown and white coats, and double the sand in the former, as is explained in the note in the table. In determining thc quantities for back plastering, use the data for scratch coat for "drawn" work.

In measuring areas, to determine materials and labor, one eighth is added to all circular work and the calculated areas of domes are doubled Columns and pillars are measured double, whether circular or square chimney breasts are added to the gross area of the walls. No surface (reveal, chimney breast, or panel) is to be considered less than one foot wide. Plasterers at one time meas TABLE 1.—DATA CONCERNING LATHING AND PLASTERING.



ured doors and windows as wall surface, but competition has become so close that it is now customary to deduct them.

Instead of using the table to determine the cost of the labor required for wood lathing, it would better be estimated at from two to two and one half cents per square yard. Metal lath will cost twice as much as wood lath for the labor of putting in place.—The Technograph.



<article title=" THE FIREPROOFING OF WOOD " author="">

THE FIREPROOFING OF WOOD.

Wood is so extremely convenient 'a building material that it is not surprising that efforts have been made to correct the few objections which do exist to its extended use, says Indian Engineering, It is easier to protect wood from rot in sheltered situations than it is to protect iron from rust—Ventilation alone is required. Wood exposed will weather badly if painting is neglected, but if well seasoned the damage is mostly superficial and does not eat in as rust eats into metal. There remains the ease with which wood can be wrought, its lightness and nonconducting power. On the other hand it has two faults. The first—a minor drawback—is its weakness across the grain. Although few are the cases in which joinery is not adequate to overcome this, nevertheless it has naturally given rise to several attempts being made to invent a good homogeneous substitute, and such would undoubtedly be of great value if it could cheaply be produced A far more serious objection to the use of wood is its' inflammability. If all the wood-work in a house, and its furniture were really incombustible, destructive and dangerous fires in any building, other than a warehouse used for storing inflammable goods, would simply be impossible. With such advantage, as inestimable as this, in view, it is small wonder that repeated efforts have been made to satisfactorily fireproof timber. In America alone, during tile last century no less than 400 patents have been issued in this connection, but they are all—almost without exception- wholly impracticable in their nature. There are two difficulties to be overcome first we must discover an unobjectionable, efficient and cheap fireproofing substance, and secondly we must impregnate the wood with this substance whets we have got it. The old processes for impregnating wood with any liquid were altogether

vicious. The lumber on trucks was run into huge iron cylinders, the ends of which were closed by externally bolted doors: The wood was then steamed—a partial vacuum being afterwards created. Subsequently the liquid was forced in under pressure. The steaming greatly damaged the wood the suction drew out the resinous matters and sap-like substances which bind the fibres together, so that the surface of the wood—or as far as the action did panetrate -was rendered soft, wooly and worthless. The outside seated end of the cylinder could not stand more titan a few pounds pressure on the square inch, so that to impregnate a plank of moderate thickness 20 to 25 hours was wanted : the time alone made such a process far too costly.

Now wood is impregnated with ally liquid in a much more sensible manner - by applying the liquid under high pressure to the ends of the timber in log.

There remains., however, the first difficulty—an efficient, unobjectionable and cheap chemical with which to saturate the wood.

The Russian chemist Peter Lochtin, after what appeared to be an exhaustive investigation, cattle to the conclusion that the best substance for this purpose was ammonium phosphate, and the next best ammonium sulphate. These certainly do render wood really fireproof, but their cost is prohibitive The second substance named is considerably cheaper than the first, but much snore of it is required and it renders the fibre inflexible, brittle and slightly hvgroscopic : both substances also corrode metals.

Mr. Ferrell—an American engineer—professes to have discovered two substances, the composition of which, however, he is not yet ready to divulge-—free from all these fatal objections.

He asserts that wood impregnated by his process maintains its original freshness and color : it does not corrode metals or attract moisture : tile fibre is not rendered brittle and the wood will take and retain paint or varnish well.

lie has demonstrated by tests made in the yards of the New York Shipbuilding Co., Camden, in June last, that wood treated by his process is really fireproof ; and when the method is patented it will be interesting to learn the composition of tile impregnating liquid.





<article title=" A GOOD CANADIAN CLAY " author="">

A GOOD CANADIAN CLAY.



A somewhat remarkable clay has been recently discovered by C. V. M. Temple, of Toronto, and placed on the market, a clay which promises to produce the finest wares in the line of pottery, earthen and fancy ware, terra cotta, vitrified bricks, sewer pipe, etc., and has a high degree of plasticity.



There are several varieties in the clay, each one being adapted for some particular branch of the clay industry. The blue varieties part with their moisture very readily. The silica amid the alumina are combined in varied proportions and the skillful potter can easily select from the clay face before him the material with which to manufacture the class of wares which he requires. The silica is

present in an extremely fine state and free from stones or iron pyrites.

Mr. Temple has had tile clay analyzed with the most gratifying results. In the abrasion test with a brick of the size 2x3 3-4X8 ims, and the original weight of 16 lb., after 2,000 revolutions the weight was 14.96, after 4,000 revolutions 14.70 lb. The loss by weight after 4,000 revolutions was 8.O6 per cent. and the per cent. of loss per sq. in. of surface 0454. This test was made on three bricks, Comparative tests made with Canton shale and Burlington brick show a considerable percentage in favor of the Canadian. The brick showed no absorption whatever. Samples have already been made for every class of product with the best results by many different first-class firms, and all are unstinted in their praise as to the value of . the deposit. The location of tile clay is good also. Lumber, generally spruce, is close at hand in large quantities at about $1 per cord delivered. Samples have been sent to England and have been made into pottery articles there and returned glazed bearing all the evidences of a highly finished product.

