<doctype type="text">104	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



tion with the other tests recommended it is unnecessary, except when the relative bulk of equal weights of cements is desired." Fine ground cements are lighter than coarse ground, but under-burned cements are also lighter than well burned, so that it is hard to depend on weight alone as a sure test except in conjunction with other means of testing.

The large quantity of these "Natural " cements used in America has made this material a most important one to 10th architect and engineer, and a cursory glance at the extent of the industry will therefore no doubt be of interest.

There were, in 1898, 76 mills manufacturing natural rock cements in the United States, 29 of which were situated in New York state, turning out chiefly a brand of " Rosendale."

This cement derived its name from the township of Rosendale, Ulster county, New York. The other plants are situated in almost every other state, due chiefly on account of the cost of shipping being high in proportion to the cost of manufacture. The chief producing states are Maryland (where most of the lime cements are made), Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Indiana, the total output being over 8,400,000 barrels, of which New York state has nearly one half to her credit.

Canada in 1900 produced 125,428 barrels of natural cement all of which was manufactured in the province of Ontario where there are 4 separate plants.



2.—THE NATURAL CEMENT INDUSTRY IN EUROPE.



In Europe the natural cement industry is carried on chiefly in Great Britain, France and Belgium.



Natural cements in England are made from cement stones or nodules found in thin strata among limestone and also in the London clay. In 1796 Mr. Parker took out a patent for what he called Roman cement, and which has for this reason sometimes been called Parker's cement, and was made from calcimining these nodules from the London clay. These natural cements are generally termed after the name of the district where they are manufactured, as "Sheppy,' "Harwich' or "Whithy" cements, and usually contain from 30 to 40 per cent of clay. Medina cement is made from the septaria found in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight, as well as from those dredged out of the bed of the Solent. It is generally considered superior to most Roman cements. It sets very rapidly, and is of a light brown color.



A large proportion of the material used in the manufacture of natural cements in England is unfortunately very variable and irregular, so that the results obtained from their use have not always been satisfactory, and Portland cements have to a large extent for this reason driven the natural cements out of the field.



At Boulogne, which is the chief centre of the industry in France, there is a soft deposit which can be excavated with pick and shovel, and consists of 22.6 per cent of clay and 76 per cent of carbonate of lime. It therefore makes a sufficiently hydraulic material to be termed a very slow setting hydraulic cement.

<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS' CLUB " author="">



THE ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS' CLUB.



For some time prior to the formation of this Club, there had been a growing feeling amongst many of the Toronto students, that something was needed to draw them together, and to promote some enthusiasm in the different branches of architectural work, especially design.



When, therefore, Mr. D. W. F. Nichols, who is now president of the Club, proposed its formation, he met with vigorous support from a majority of the students. On his invitation a number met on the evening of Jan. 29th, 1901, at the office of Messrs. Burke & Horwood, 28 Toronto street, when it was finally agreed to form a club to be known as "The Architectural Students' Club.' The following officers were elected President, D. W. F. Nichols; Vice-President, A. H. Russell; Sec.-Treas., A. M. Weir ; Committee, J. M. Crysler and H. A. Payne. It was decided to meet every Tuesday evening to have competitions and talk over any matters of interest.



Several meetings were held at which a few new members were enrolled, but when studio work commenced it was found impracticable to meet on Tuesday evenings, as some of the students attended the studio of the O.A.A. and others that of the T.A.E. Club. In view of this it was decided to meet on Saturday evenings, and through the generosity of the O.A.A. their rooms at 96 King street west were obtained for that purpose. Several professional men consented to address the Club on different topics, which greatly added to the interest of the gatherings.



This season has been to a great extent experimental to the club, but its officers and members feel fully satisfied that it has

accomplished its object, viz., the creating of an enthusiasm in the work and a stronger spirit of fellowship amongst the members.



The lectures given were very interesting and much appreciated by the members of the Club, and the committee expects to have an interesting program for next fall.



<article title=" MANITOBA CORRESPONDENCE " author="">

MANITOBA CORRESPONDENCE.



WINNIPEG, MAY 13, 1901.



The "Free Press, " of this city has of late been publishing in its columns extracts from the "Free Press " of t8 to 20 years ago. In one of these extracts the writer's name appears in an architectural connection with some buildings of that ancient time. As we look back, what great changes have taken place, what wonders time has wrought, and how the small and scattered city of that day has grown and grown till it now is a good city to dwell in, full of life and progress, where all the comforts of life may be obtained and at no great cost either. The crude store and warehouse of frame or logs has given place to the handsome and palatial shop and the solid and substantial wholesale warehouse; the small cottage or humble home without fence, garden or trees is now exchanged for the comfortable and picturesque home with all modern comforts or the stately residence rearing its well proportioned outline amid the forest trees of by-gone days, or the flower beds and well kept grounds of more modern times. We may ask why is this? and the answer comes back that Winnipeg, Manitoba and the Great North West does now, and will more so in the near future, occupy a most modern place and wield a mighty influence over the prosperity, progress and grandeur of our noble Dominion.



In this procession architecture takes a prominent place, for is not architecture beauty of outline, stability of construction and utility of arrangement? As our cities grow in size and richness, and the country takes its place in the functions of the world, architecture will help to lead the way it has done so in the past, it will do so more in the future. Is it not well then to acknowledge its power, admire its beauty, and note its progress?



In this city of the plains we are making substantial progress, and the year has Opened briskly in the building trade; many structures are in course of erection and many more are spoken



of.	Of a truth in the spring time we are very likely to put on our magnifying glasses and things and times appear greater than they really are. From the present outlook, there will be work enough in all departments of the building trade, but not such as to warrant a large influx of artisans. Our architects and contractors are not idle, but we may say that their hands are not full, and from the architects' standpoint we may remark that more than one could have found time to design and arrange the drawings for the buildings which have been placed in the hands of outside architects. We think there could be found here architectural ability enough to design and carry out any building which has been erected in this city or Province.



Could our architects have the freedom to use the material and money which we presume has been placed at the disposal of our outside brethren, we venture to say, they would have achieved good results from the use of the same, both as regard beauty, stability and utility. While this holds good in regard to our Canadian architects it particularly applies in the case of commissions placed in the hands of a foreign architect.



An architect from Minneapolis has designed on apartment building for which the excavation is now being taken out on McDermot avenue. While we have not a word to say against this gentleman either as an architect or a gentleman, still we think our citizens might have placed their commission with some of their fellow-citizens in the architectural profession without disadvantage to themselves or to our city.



This incident has a wider range and a greater influence than might at first appear. If we wish to foster architecture in our midst and encourage national architectural advancement, we should be ready to employ local talent where it is obtainable.



In regard to apartment buildings, we may add that there are several now in the city and there seems to be a demand for such accommodation. Our long winters no doubt are a factor in deciding the question of being housed in buildings of this character.



While these buildings are to a certain extent public, we think it should be the aim to make them as private as possible. In one instance to which we will refer, The "Avaton," on Notre Dame avenue, this has been accomplished by providing a private hall

(Continued on page 115.)

