<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	Vol. XIV.—No. 163.	JULY, 190!.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Competitive Design for Government I louse, Victoria, B. C., Awarded Second Premium— -R. M. Fripp,  F.R.I.B.A., Architect.





ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Details of a Conical Roof (from the London Building Record.)







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

 Two Photogravure Plates - Interior Residence of Claren ce C. McCuaig, Sherbrooke Street, Montreal - MacVicar & Heriot, Architects.









CONTENTS.

Editorial		145-46-47

By the Way		147-48

Montreal Plumbing By-laws		149-50-51

National Association of Master Plumbers and	Steam

     Fitters of Canada		151—52

Intercommunication		153-54

Some Practical	Wall Paper Hints	.	...	155

Details of a Conical Roof						157

Legal 						157

The Characteristics of Portland Cement		. 	157

Geman Pumice Stone Bricks					158

Method of Making Limestone Bricks				.

Why some Houses are good 					157-60

 Non-Inflammable Wood					v.







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.



PROF. S. H. Capter, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

EDMUND BURKE,

	S.	H. TOWNSEND,	"

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal. 

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, loronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. 13. horwood, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.





A $10,000 Arch.<article title=" A $10,000 Arch " author="">

The Canadian tour of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York will be

a great occasion, and it is suitable that we should acclaim it with a lavish display of street decoration but we cannot help feeling that there is a touch of ex— travagance about the $ 10,000 arch which the Manufacturers' Association of Toronto propose to erect, as a temporary decoration. It is proposed to offer three prizes, handsome prizes too, for suitable designs for the



purpose. The test of excellence in this case is certainly the greatest display- for the least money ; and it would be a good way of going about the matter, not to invite the outlay' of this or any definite sum but, having secured the location, to offer the prizes for its suitable decoration. There is a limit to reasonableness in temporary decoration, and good taste is within this limit, so that the designer who hits off the pleasing thing will very likely riot he the most lavish. In other words, it ought to be understood that though the Manufacturers have voted enough money to cover all needs, the competition is not for the purpose of showing how to spend it all, but in order to establish sufficiency, " an elegant sufficiency'." In order to encourage designers to incur the risk of self—restraint (which is notoriously bad policy in a competition) there should he an additional prize offered to the winner, in the form of a bonus, a percentage on the amount saved, given by the Museum Committee, who would of course get the balance. It is for

just such a $10,000 gift as this that the Museum project has been waiting. If it were tiot for that, one wotild think of the Manufacturers' action only to admire their wealth and liberality. But the readiness with which the glory of the city is forwarded, in a matter of a two clays' display, and the difficulty experienced in getting subscriptions for a project which is acknowledged to be necessary to r her permanent advantage is remarkable ; and one cannot help regretting that it is thought necessary to spend so large a sum upon the temporary erection, when half of it might perhaps do, and the other half go to help on the subscription for the permanent structure.



For some years past a request for a



copy of the building by'—laws of Toronto has been met by' a statement that

there are none because the by-laws are being revised. The by-laws appear to have never existed, except in a fragmentary torin, and if this revision, that has been under way so long, is ever completed, the result should be published in the form of a volume containirigall the laws and directions which have to be observed in building operalions. But they should, above all things, be published soon, or what was revised when the revision began will be out of (late. Building operations are at present labouring tinder the difficulty of laws that are behind the time. Officials, whether as men they know anything or not, as officials know nothing but the law, The

Toronto City Building By-laws.

