<doctype type="text">226	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" Value of the Drop Test " author="">

Value of the Drop Test.

to make them comply with the insurance regulations, which provide that the tops of furnaces must be so many inches clear of the joists. The authorities must either lower the furnaces and piping at considerable expense, or run the risk of getting no insurance if fire should destroy the church. These buildings were constructed under the supervision of an experienced architect, who was probably too busy to watch the progress of the work in detail. Where such important interests arc involved, however, the client has a right to demand that there should be careful inspection of the work if not by the architect, by his deputy or a clerk of the works.



THE increased use of iron in construction has drawn attention to the necessity of using other methods in addition

to the tension test for determining the soundness and strength of materials. The value of the drop test in this connection is becoming more generally recognized. The usefulness of this test and the best method of conducting it are treated of in a recent paper by M. Ch. Frernont, in the Bulletin de la Societe d'Encouragement pour l'lndustrie Nationale. The writer shows that the results are very different if a test bar is broken by a number of moderate blows applied consecutively or by a single heavy blow. He therefore insists that a drop test should be made by a single blow producing rupture of the test piece, in contradistinction to the method which has prevailed of preparing a number of similar test pieces from the same metal and subjecting these to a series of drops of gradually increasing height, with but one drop to each piece, until one piece is broken. M. Fremont has devised a system for measuring the residual living force in the ram after the drop has injured the test piece, the difference then giving the resistance of the material. As the result of experiments on more than ten thousand specimens he has decided to use a standard test piece 10 millimeters wide, 8 millimeters thick and 30 millimeters long. These dimensions permit specimens to be readily cut from boiler and ship-building plates as well as of heavier parts. In view of the importance of the drop test as an auxiliary to the tension test, it is desirable that in future specifications should demand the application of such a test in addition to the tensile test.



The Toronto Technical School has become an expensive institution. A building was recently provided for it at

a cost of nearly $100,000, and the running expenses have become a heavy item. The general taxpayers who have to provide the necessary funds, should be interested in seeing that the school is properly managed. The impression prevails that considerable bungling has taken place owing in part to the preponderating influence of members of the Trades and Labour Council on the Board of Management. A radical change was recently made in the method of management, the services of a principal being dispensed with and the general management being vested in a committee. Each department of the school was placed in charge of an instructor, who in turn was made responsible to the committee. Judging by the determination of the committee to appoint a new principal, this plan seems to have failed. Prof. McKay, of McMaster University, was chosen for the position, but after having accepted, reconsidered the matter and decided to remain in

The Toronto Technical School.

<article title=" The Toronto Technical School " author="">his present position. The selection of a qualified per son to become the director of the school is attended with difficulties and fraught with important consequences. Having assumed heavy financial responsibilities in providing a building, equipment and teaching staff, a successful result must largely depend on the selection of a thoroughly qualified manager. In addition to being familiar with all that has been done and is being done in the line of technical education on this continent and in Europe, he should have knowledge of the special requirements of a Canadian school, and what is still more important should have power to organize and maintain in highest efficiency the various departments of the school. It was doubtless unavoidable that mistakes should have been made in the initial history of an institution designed to impart instruction on new lines, and for the organization of which there were few precedents. This experimental period should now be nearing its close, however, and from this time forward it should be possible to proceed on more clearly defined and certain lines, and to achieve results which should justify the large expenditure involved.

<article title=" TESTS OF PORTLAND CEMENT " author="">

TESTS OF PORTLAND CEMENT.

'[he purposes for which Portland Cement is employed are increasing so rapidly and the manufacturing capacity is developing at such an astonishing rate that there is greater need than formerly for methods by which the quality of the material may be speedily and accurately determined. Much attention was given to this subject by the International Association for testing materials, at its third Congress, held in Budapest last September. Among various papers on cement and cement testing, presented by members of the Association, was one on " The Constancy of Volume of Cements," by Mr. Bertram Blount, cement chemist, of London, Eng. The author suggested the adoption in quantitative form of a hot test for Portland Cement which in its qualitative form has long been in use in the construction of harbors and other public works, viz. —A bar of neat cement is exposed to the influence of water at 45 C, and the expansion observed by means of the Bauschinger apparatus. A good cement should remain absolutely free from cracks, and should expand not more than 2 per cent. attaining constancy of volume in seven days.. The application of this test to sixty-eight specimens of cement produced by five leading English manufacturers, gave satisfactory results in twenty-nine cases.

The president of the Association, Prof. Tetmajer, of Zurich, a high authority on the subject, stated that out of 127 specimens to which this test had been applied in his laboratory, only three had failed, and that the hot test for cement had already been adopted by the Swiss Federal government.

It is probable that a form or hot test will be included in the specifications for Portland Cement to be discussed at the next Congress which will take place in St. Petersburg in September, 1903.

After a lengthy discussion the Congress adopted a motion by Prof. Wm. Hawe of New York, for the appointment of an International Commission to collect so far as possible before the next Congress, material for establishing normal tests and specifications for Portland Cement, which may be used in international commerce.

