<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	195

to approach no nearer to the prosaic, it was necessary to transcend ordinary building material in colour as much as the World's Fair did in purity. It cannot be said that this has been done ; the problem of a coloured fair is open for further development, but it will take a mighty man to tackle it.

Apart from. the misleading of the popular cry, there is no cause for disappointment in the buildings. After all it is not the buildings that make the Fair so much as the grounds, and these are a triumph of spacious appearance, combined with a real compactness which, to one who toiled over the long distances of the Worlds Fair, is an unexpected joy. It is the plan of the grounds that is the principal source of beauty and will best repay study, for this gives the key to the successful planning of a pleasure Fair. Buildings are the main motive and give character to the whole, but their architectural function is to form a background for the spaces. A good sky-fine and mass, and a play of light and shade, are the principal necessities. It is impossible to take any real detailed interest in the reduplicated enrichments which form the detail of such buildings ; they are of use only in the broad way, to mark points in the design and to give it scale. A Fair is an open-air show and the real enjoyment of it is in sitting down and viewing some portion of the scene. A building thus gets real attention only as a whole, as a background for a space.

The grounds should constitute the beauty of a Fair quite as much as the buildings ; each is equally dependent on the other, and the Pan-American forms an admirable study of the successful treatment of grounds, to give them interest and beauty and to assist the perception of space. One may deduce from it principles for guidance such as the following Trees and shrubs are valuable not only for their individual beauty but for the softness of their texture and their rounded forms ; a balustrade shows perspective like nothing else, and without insisting too much on hard lines ; water is invaluable as a level surface with which everything else is unconsciously compared ; all isolated objects near at hand give tone and scale to the distance, and upon these all possible beauty of detail should be lavished, for the eye occupies itself with them particularly. Statues are, of course, capable of the greatest beauty, and their white colour is a gain in the neighborhood of foliage, but dark objects help the sense of space better, and the Pan-American has examples in its band-stands, kiosks, fixed seats, flag poles and lighting posts, of useful objects which are made ornamental and assist the general effect. The advantage of fountains seems to be to a great extent their varying motion ; the restlessness of the water produces peace in the beholder. A scene or building is more likely to receive attention and appreciation if there is a fountain in the foreground. Motion is also, no doubt, one source of the pleasure we receive from flags, and a constant irruption of kites in the sky over one corner of the grounds of the Pan-American -which certainly did add to the gaiety of the scene—may have been official and had a scientific intention in the same direction. One is reminded of Mr. Olmsted's prescription of waterfowl for the lagoons at the World's Fair, to induce movement and sparkle in the reflections. At the Pan-American this is carried too far. The fountains in the main court rise from the principal basin and tall back into it, troubling the

water so much that there are no reflections. Is anything quite so useful as a reflection ? It makes composition automatically. Who has not seen a familiar bit of common-place roadside turned into a picture, when the melting snow forms a pond large enough to reflect a tree or a bit of sunset? The canal at the Pan-American was too narrow to be of much use in this way, and it did not appear to be an attraction except when the illuminations were on, which brings us back to illuminations, and the consideration of why they disappointed expectation.

In the first place the much-talked of gradual illumination was evidently only a device to save the electrical arrangements from strain. The public seem to have agreed that it was a wonderful spectacle to see the lamps glow a little at first and increase gradually to full power. The present writer experienced nothing but impatience, until the light came out to its proper strength. The genius of electric lighting is for sudden illumination, and if it could have been arranged to flash the whole thing out at once there would have been something to talk about ; as it was, it is necessary to record a disappointment.

When the light was out in full force it was certainly fine, especially the tower, where the lights were thickest, giving the effect of massed diamonds. But one did not look long upon it, nor did those people do so whom one heard saying it was worth coming such numbers of miles to see. Why was this?

The truth is that the illuminations were—if one may use the word for anything so splendid—a little dull. They did not illuminate, in the primary and Pickwickian sense of lighting up. The buildings were completely extinguished and in their place appeared rows of lights marking out the main lines of the structure, like a pattern in pin holes held up before a light. It was a transformation scene all right, but when seen it was seen. There was nothing to watch, the lights did not even twinkle.

At the World's Fair, in which the illuminations were rudimentary by comparison, there was one feature which might give a clue to a more interesting mode of illumination. Surrounding the dome of the Administration Building were torches of natural gas, flaming many feet in height, which occupied the eye more than all the rest of the illuminations, not only from their own appearance, but from the play of light they cast upon the dome. Gas torches form part of the iron fence of some clubs in Pall Mall, and the light which the street and buildings receive from them, when the gas is turned on for a great occasion, is peculiarly exciting. it is a question of movement again. The frozen music of the Buffalo illuminations is too frozen to retain attention long, except, by the way, in the canals. These are uninteresting by day, because they are too narrow for the reflection of the buildings along their sides to appear as reflections ; a surface of dirty water is all that catches the eye. But at night, when, under the illuminations, the passage of boats ruffling the water makes its surface a surface streaked with dancing fire, the canal, which is deserted by day, becomes popular.

Something of the nature of the waving light from gas torches, last upon the buildings and grounds, would make a more beautiful scene at night than do the present illuminations, and the interest would be sustained by a sort of liveliness in the light and shade.

