<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NEW LIBRARY STACK AT McGill.

<article title=" NEW LIBRARY STACK AT McGill " author="">

A description of some features of thc construction of thc new stack of McGill University Library now nearing completion, should be of interest. It has live floors Opening out of the old stack, but separated from it by a fireproof wall and doors, and from the top floor, which is given up to seminary rooms by a fireproof cement ceiling. The three lower tiers of shelves are supported by cement piers running into the ground, and the two upper tiers and top floor rest upon a special supporting floor on steel girders.



The shelves are arranged in ten rows on each side of the gang way which runs through the stack. They arc supported by chilled iron supports from the bottom to the top of the building with Ii notches all the way up so as to accommodate hooks of any size. The gangways will be floored for six inches in the middle with grating so as to afford ventilation with glass on each side to exclude dust, and light stairways will lead from one tier to the other.



The new stack provides accommodations for 200,000 volumes with reading rooms and the librarian's office in an alcove at one end.

<article title=" PROTEST AGAINST SKY-SCRAPERS " author="">

 PROTEST AGAINST SKY-SCRAPERS.



Dr. Pelletier, Secretary of the Provincial Board of Health, has addressed a communication to the city council, in which he calls attention to the insanitary conditions which would follow the erection of tall buildings in the narrow streets of Montreal. He urges the necessity for regulating the height of buildings as is done in Paris and other cities



PERSONAL.



The death is announced of Mr. Wm. Byrd who for many years carried on a large contracting business on Lagauchetiere street, this city.

NOTES. 



The committee entrusted with the erection of a suitable memorial to the Canadians killed in action in South Africa, are said to have under consideration at present a memorial arch on Dominion Square, hearing tablets on which would be inscribed the names of the fallen soldiers, the officers commanding the Canadian contingents and a medallion head of Lord Strathcona.



One of the largest and most expensive pieces of marble ever brought into Montreal is a block of Italian panonazzo, weighing twelve tons and costing $1,000, which is to occupy a place in the interior of the new C. P. R. Telegraph building.





The Institute of Clayworkers of Great Britain has been invited to discuss with a joint committee of the Royal Institute of British Architects and the Institute of Civil Engineers the standardizing of brick.



The building trades union of Toronto have asked that, for protection of the workingmen, builders be required to lay floors in high buildings as the walls go up.



At the recent meeting of the Ontario Library Association a committee was appointed to report upon the architecture of library buildings.

LEGAL.



McInnes V. LARKIN. Judgment by Court of Appeal at Toronto on monitor b plaintiffs to set aside judgment of non—suit of Robertson, J., in action for damages for injuries sustained by plaintiff, who, while employed, with his wagon and horses by defendants, was directed by their foreman to take a load of stone from the stoneyard to the upper new swing bridge at Iroquois. The plaintiff objected to taking five <article title=" McInnes V. LARKIN " author="">heavy stones on his wagon, but alleges that the foreman insisted on his doing so. One stone fell out of the wagon on the plaintiff and broke his right leg. lie complains that the road used by the defendants in their work on the Iroquois canal, between the stoneyard and the swing bridge, was a defective way within the meaning of the Workmen's Compensation for Injuries Act. The trial judge held that the statute did not apply, because the wagon and team were owned by plaintiff and it was his duty to so load the stone that it would not. fall off the wagon, and that the order to load was not so peremptory as to require him to risk life or limb in its execution. It was contended, inter, for plaintiff, that his evidence showed that the road belonged to defendants and was out of repair that the foreman had been negligent, and that plaintiff though objecting, had been obliged to conform to his orders that the ownership of the wagon and team was immaterial to affect the statute, because it was the road, not the wagon, that was defective. Held, that there was evidence proper for the jury, that defendants were responsible, through person is in their service for the placing on the wagon, of the stones, and for the manner of their placing, and that plain tiff had no control over such placing nor the size of the load that there was also evidence of negligence of such persons in their conduct and that plaintiff was bound to and did conform to their orders, and was injured in consequence and there being such evidence to be submitted to the jury, there must be a new trial. Order accordingly. Costs of motion to be paid by defendants forthwith after taxation. Costs of former trial to be to plaintiff in any event.





The decision of Mr. Justice Curran of the Superior Court of Quebee in the case of Dussault v. Montreal Cotton Company, declares that a workman who, knowing that lie is running some risk, either on account of the nature of the work he is engaged in, the matter of doing it, or the machinery or implements employed should at once complain of the danger to some one in charge over him, If he fails to do so, and is subsequently injured, he will probably be awarded either a very small amount of damages or none at all. The fact that he is afraid of losing- his position if he makes any complain will not excuse hint for not doing so. D, a stonemason, was employed with a number of other men in cutting stone. The foreman placed the stones its position for the men to work at them. He knew that the stones were of such a kind that chips were more likely to fly than is the case with ordinary stone, but nevertheless he placed them too close to each other. D. and his fellow-workmen knew that there was danger when the stones were so near each other, but though they spoke of the matter amongst themselves, they made no complaint to the foreman. At the trial they swore that they were afraid to do so, lest they should tie discharged. In the course of the work a chip of stone or a piece of steel from the implement of a fellow- workman struck l)s eyelid and penetrated into the left eye, destroyed its sight. He sued his employers for $10,000 damages. It was proved that the accident occurred because the stones were placed too closely together but the judge held that there was grave contributory negligence on the part of D, since he had not complained of a danger which he knew existed, and that therefore, although he was severely injured he had to blame himself to a large extent. D was awarded $250 damages.



THE ASBESTOS AND ASBESTIC COMPANY VS. THE WILLIAM SCLATER COMPANY—Plaintiffs appealed from a judgement which dismissed a demand for a perpetual injunction and quashed the interlocutory injunction issued. The company appellants alleged that they acquired from the Danville Asbestos and Slate Company, and are owners of asbestos mines situate in the township of Shipton that on the 5th July, 1899 time company transferred and assigned to the appellants a trade mark obtained by the former and registered on the 3rd February, 1896, which trade mark has the words Ashestic Wall Plaster," surmounting a trowell, on which was inscribed the letter A that the respondents have been, and are, iii violation of law, using the words of the trade mark, and are selling what purports to be an asbestic wall plaster stamped and labeled as such that respondents thereby introduce the public to believe that they are buying a pro— duct of appellants that. appellants have extensively advertise

