<doctype type="text">148	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



sun's rays has been applied to the burning of bricks. Thc thing is so simple, says the British Claymaker. Take a mirror and throw a spot of sunlight on a green brick. It will warm it, say, 15 degrees. Take 1,600 mirrors and throw i ,6oo spots of sunlight on a brick. Result, it will warm it 15 x 1,600 = 24,000 degrees. What could he simpler, and here we have ten times the temperature necessary to burn a firebrick, without any expenditure but a few bits of looking-glass, which won't wear out!

xxx



I observe that an order has been given to a Montreal firm to decorate and refurnish the residence of the Governor General at Ottawa in view of the approaching visit. of the Duke of York. Any money which may be spent in re-habilitating Rideau Hall, or at least the older portion of the building, will be to a large extent thrown away, as the building appears to be almost in a tumble—down condition. Canadians have no reason to feel proud, but rather ashamed, of the executive residence atOttawa, which does not even compare favorably with the residence provided for the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario. Ifthe country is to continue to have a Governor General and to pay him a large salary, our self respect demands that we shall provide him with a residence in keeping with his position.

x x x



No better indication is required of the change that has taken place within the last two or three years in building conditions in Toronto than the fact that architects are now said to be complaining of the difficulty of securing satisfactory tenders from contractors. The latter are so fully occupied that they are not disposed to go to much trouble to secure the less desirable class of contracts. Only a few years ago the situation was very different. There were then too few contracts going to keep the contractors even moderately well employed, andas a result the competition was far too keen to permit of fair profits being obtained. Another indication of the activity now prevailing is an advertisement in the daily press from the secretary of the Builders' Exchange for skilled mechanics.



xxx



The desirability of establishing one or more centra squares in Toronto is not open to question. It is one of the greatest needs of the city. To my way of thinking it is more essential than the clock and bells recently installed in the hall tower at a cost of about $30,000. If the city could not afford both, the money should have gone towards a lease of the land opposite the new municipal buildings, for the purpose of a public square. The opportunity of securing the land may at any time pass, hence the wisdom of prompt action. While on this subject, I would like to make the further suggestion that land for a public square should be purchased in the part formerly known as St. John's ward, in which the population is the poorest and most congested. As a means of improving the physical and moral status of thedistrict, it should prove a profitable investment.



xxx



What is known as the Art Renean, which probably had its origin in France, is the dominating characteristic of decorative work in Europe to-day. Its chief feature is perhaps following lines. In wall papers, the new style, which combines grace in design with skilfq

color combinations, has displaced the gaudy patterns which were lately so much in vogue and which had so little in the way of true artistic merit. Some excellent examples of decoration in the new style—the work of Scotch and English firms—are to be seen at the Glasgow Exhibition. The chief feature of this Exhibition, however, is said to be the magnificent colletion of paintings in the new permanent Art gallery. '[he temporary Exhibition buildings, are heavy in appearance bycomparison with those of the Pan-American Exhibition, and to a Canadian their effect is less pleasing, but considering the eminently practical and substantial character oj the city and people, it was to be expect.ed that these buildings would in some measure reflect their surroundings.



xxx



IN a recent conversation with Mr. W. II. Elliott, of Toronto, who has lately returned from a three months European tour, I gathered some impressions concerning matters artistic abroad. Regarding Italy, the principal cities of which he visited, Mr. Elliott states that the land which was once the home of the greatest artists, would now he devoid of artistic interest but for the works of the old masters. Strange, is it not, that there are no great Italian artists of the present day, and Italy is making but feeble and unsuccessful attempts to keep pace with modern progress in art, so far at least as the fine arts are concerned? In applied art she is more successful, as witness her exhibit at the Paris Exhibition last year. The character of present day Italian Sculpture, of which the production is considerable, bears witness that the genius which inspired the Italian artists of a former period, no longer exists. The conception and spirit of the true artist are wanting. The work of the present day is mechanichal, commonplace and without interest.



xx x





A storm of indignation was recently aroused in Hull by a new building by—law, which, with the view of preventing the recurrence of the disaster of last year, prohibits the erection of wooden dwellings. Several hundred citizens waited on the city council recently, demanded that the by-law be repealed, and hissed the mayor and aldermen. The mayor appointed a time to receive a deputation, representing the citizens, and to hear and consider their views. There can be no doubt that the restrictions imposed by the by-law will be burdensome upon the many owners of cheap properties, but that should not be allowed to stand in the way of enactments which are necessary to the preservation of property of vastly greater value. The proximity of Hull to the Dominiom capital should be considered. The council of Ottawa is probably powerless to protect itself against danger from an adjoining municipality, but in the event of such adjoining' municipality neglecting or refusing to adopt regulations for its own protection and that of its neighbor, the provincial or federal government might not unreasonably be asked to pass special legislation dealing with the case. If the property owners of Hull cannot afford to put up buildings other than those of the most hazardous character, they should be prepared for the sake of general welfare to live outside city limits, which, in these days of rapid electric transit, is no hardship, but on the contrary, is by many city people counted a privilege,

