<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

railroad men are given to determining pretty closely what is the most durable in such matters.

Fastening shingles to the roof with wire nails has come to he pretty generally known among observant builders as defective to the making of a good serviceable roof. They have learned this through experience although it must he said that the great majority of them still keep on using them, and will continue so to do until the public generally becomes advised against them for that purpose. The principal reason for this is, no doubt, because of their being easier to drive than the old cut nail, but everybody doesn't know how to do the same with a cut nail, because if you do not start the latter just right you will split the wood if you are driving it near the end of the piece. This will be news to some of you youngsters who have come up since the wire nail was introduced. You ask your father if you've a mind to and he will tell you the same thing.

Two years ago I reshingled my own house and profiting by what 1 had seen of the wire nail for that purpose, I had my carpenter use the cut nail. He '' kicked'' about it, but, as I was paying him by the day, it made no difference to him. lie contended, like a good many others, that it was not the fault of the nail that it rusted out so quickly, but that the red cedar shingle was the cause. I am aware of the fact that from this idea has arisen a prejudice against this kind of shingles, it being claimed that there is some kind of an acid in the wood that has close affinity for metal and eats it away. Now, without being rude to anyone who holds such an opinion, I will say that I don't believe there is a grain of truth in such an assertion.

I have in my possession some wire nails that were used in putting on white pine siding. They had become so badly rusted that the heads had fallen off, compelling the owner of the building to have the siding entirely renailed. This is not the only instance of the kind I have seen where wire nails have rusted through in white pine siding. This goes to prove that it is not acid that rusts them.

Within the past year or two there has been manufactured a new kind of wire nail which I think will, before long, come into general use to nail on shingles. It is the galvanized wire nail and has the sharp point and flat head of the common nail that is now used. Their cost is about the same, and they may be had at any hardware store in the larger towns



<article title=" CONSTRUCTIONAL IRONWORK " author="">

CONSTRUCTIONAL IRONWORK.

says the

It has become general in recent yea

Contract journal, to use wrought iron in constructional work to a much greater extent, as material, machines, and conditions of labour have changed. Where cast iron was formerly employed without exception, we find it almost non—existent to—day, its weakness having been proved only too frequently. Though it may seem almost. incredible, we know that it was used in bridge structures for railways with one-half the breaking weight of wrought iron, and only serious accidents convinced the authorities that beams built

	iron	replace the castings former

up of wrought	mostly

in vogue. There were various reasons for the practice. In former times a wood pattern was much more cheaply turned out than it is now, and the only necessity was then to obtain a good sound casting and set it in place. A labour conditions have altered, however, and prices

augmented, beams and columns from the foundry have materially increased in cost, and except for purposes of ornamentation it does not pay to produce them. Taking a hollow column, for example, the highest skilled labour is required in its production. The mould must be perfect, and the risks of running the metal successfully very great before a good and sound casting can be turned out.

With the advent of machines, the built—up wrought— iron structure has come in, and we not only find beams made of it, but pillars also. A pattern of cast iron probably becomes obsolete after it is used, or, at least, takes up considerable room for storage, whereas by the modern plan wrought-iron plates may be cot to any size and riveted together in the structure at will. All that is necessary is a good supply of material and machines, and the finished article may be put together in probably less time than it would take to make the former pattern. Plates may be cut, if not already supplied by makers, to any dimensions, angle-irons to length, boles punched, and rivets closed together with perfect ease, and the result is a structure which with proper design does not lack in point of appearance from its predecessor the casting. At the same rime, what is perhaps of more importance, it is cheaper, because even allowing for interest on plant that is wanted, the rapidity and ease of manipulation is such an important item in the question of cost.

Allowing for general differences of construction, for particular purposes, it is common for designs to have outward flanges or webs to admit of the ready introduction of angle-irons and the tools for riveting the parts together. These flanges have the effect of improving the general sightliness, covering the angle-iron, and increasing the area of the cross-section of the structure, which results in points of strength that are self-evident. The weight on beams varies in relation to the breadth and depth, and on columns as to the same two measurements, only in the first case there are two dimensions of the depth. Therefore, if these figures are increased, so is the load accordingly. The projecting webs become, therefore, an advantage in the calculations as well as being an aid to manipulation. The material punched out for the rivet boles has to be allowed for, hut this is done by adding to the thickness of the plates. For columns wrought iron is of about the same strength as cast for 30 times the depth of cross-section, and therefore, the general question of the suitability of the two materials for structures of this nature has resolved itself into machine versus hand labour entirely to the advantage of the former. The cutting of plates from a better class of iron sent out by the mills, the punching the rivet boles by appliances that are of the latest type, the cranes for handling the parts between one operation and another, and the final bringing them together, are now rendered so simple that any design on paper may be much more readily put into practice than was formerly possible. There is, perhaps, not the scope for the artistic element, though many find in the present-day wrought-iron constructions beauties they would not see in castings, however handsomely finished. The increase in the number of pillars built in this way to be observed is somewhat remarkable, as it was an axiom that these should always be in cast iron but whatever the value of this material in compression, which, of course,

