<doctype type="text">



MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

<article title=" MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

At the annual meeting of the Montreal Builders' Exchange which took place on the 9th inst., there was a large attendance of the members.

The annual report presented by the directors together with the financial statement was considered very satisfactory and a resolution adopting same was unanimously passed.

The election of directors for the ensuing year resulted in favor of Messrs. J. H. Hutchinson; James Paton; N. T. Gagnon; J. Wighton; John Quinlan; E. S. Mattice and H. R. Hussey.

A vote of thanks was passed to the retiring board of which C. T. Williams was the president and Mr. J.

W.	Hughes vice-president, and also a vote of thanks to the hon. -secretary-treasurer for past services rendered in the interests of the Exchange.

The meeting freely discussed the future building interests in the city and a consensus of opinion was that a much more hopeful outlook was in prospect.

A feeling of regret was expressed that some of the leading institutions should have placed contracts for important buildings in the hands of outside contractors, in view of the fact that Montreal contains some of the most substantial buildings to be found anywhere on

Milton

this continent, which have been erected by local contractors and builders.

At a subsequent meeting of the newly elected board, Mr. J. H. Hutchinson was elected president, and Mr. James Paton vice-president, and Mr. George J. Sheppard hon. -secretary-treasurer for the ensuing year.

The committee on admissions to be composed of the following members J. Ballantyne; Felix Sauvageau; A. F. Bury Austin; John Gray; John Roberts; E. T. Houghton and J. W. Harris.

The rooms committee are Messrs. N. T. Gagnon; E.

S.	Mattice and Mr. George J. Sheppard.



<article title=" A STONE BAROMETER " author="">

A STONE BAROMETER.

A curious use for stone is that made by the inhabitants of Northern Finland. They quarry a somewhat peculiar stone, somewhat common in that country, which serves as a barometer. The stone turns black, or blackish gray, when bad weather is approaching. Fine weather has the effect of turning it almost white. The Finns regard the stone with superstitious reverence, but men of science say that its changes in color are due to certain salts contained in its composition.

DR. ROBERTSON, PRESIDENT.	J. S. McCANNELL, MANAGING DIRECTOR.



ARCHITECTURAL TERRA COTTA

	BRICK MANTELS	FLOOR TILE



High-Grade Pressed and Ornamental Bricks in red, buff, yellow, salmon, brown, and special shades.

Pressed

Our products have a wide reputation and are specified by leading architects.



THE MILTON PRESSED BRICK CO., LIMITED

Works and Head Office: MILTON, ONT.

Bricks

IF YOU WANT THE BEST

Warm Air Furnace or Combination Heater obtainable anywhere, then your choice must be the





Pease "Economy"

These Heaters are not made to sell at a lower price than any other apparatus in the market. The sole aim of the manufacturers is

to make them Better than Any Other. It is true that there are light-weight Furnaces in the market that are sold at a lower price, but the slight difference in price is out of all proportion when worth is considered.

SEND FOR CATALOGUE







J.	F. PEASE FURNACE CO., LIMITED

193-198 Queen Street East	-	-	TORONTO, ONT.