<doctype type="text">96	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



TWENTY-SECOND ANNUAL EXHIBITION OF THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY OF ARTS.

<article title=" TWENTY-SECOND ANNUAL EXHIBITION OF THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY OF ARTS " author="">

This exhibition, which is now being held in the Gallery of the Ontario Society of Artists, King St. West, Toronto, is one of the best representative exhibitions held by Canadian painters that we have had the pleasure of seeing. It embraces the work of nearly all the members, and from this collection we believe will be chosen the works to represent Canadian art at the Pan-American Exhibition. Many of the pictures are old friends, especially those by local painters. The eastern artists, however, add to the interest and enjoyment of the Exhibition. We have two excellent portraits by R. Harris, the president of the Academy, and also one particularly charming thing The Banjo Boy.' The



Landscape ' by Mr. Brymner is forcible and masterly. We have two pictures from the brush of Horatio Walker, now residing in New York, one of which is a perfect little gem and a rare treat. Another large picture, " The Rathers' by Blair Bruce, residing in Paris, France, is breezy, clever and decorative. Miss Florence Carlyle contributes an interior called Golden Rod, from the standpoint of light arid color an admirable little bit. Homer Watson is ably represented, rich in color, gem-like in quality, but evidently influenced by tire old Constable school. A little canvass by St. Charles entitled Red Man "is a daring arid exceedingly clever little piece of technique.

 John Hammond, of Montreal, contributes one of his misty dawns, always poetic and sweet, arid Maurice Cullen one of his sunny pastorals. In water colors we have two excellent things by Win. Brymner, of Montreal, arid one by a deceased member, Charles Moss, whose removal is most deeply mourned, as he was really one of tire most promising young academicians.

Space does not permit of dealing with this matter but summarily. We therefore take the liberty of drawing attention to merely  few of the contributors from the eastern provinces who are riot

so frequently seen in Toronto. Our local members have been commented on in the past, and are old and highly esteemed friends.

We are glad to announce that Mr. Dyoririet has been elected a member of the Royal Canadian Academy.





NEW CONTRACTING FIRM.



Mr. T. W. Horn, President of the Luxfer Prism Company, has recently formed a partnership with Mr. William A. Illsley, contractor, of Chicago. Mr. Illsley has mad an extensive experience in the construction of large buildings in Chicago. The new firm have been awarded the contract for the large hotel to be erected on King street east, Toronto. The contract price is understood to be about $800,000.





NOTES 



A Rochester dispatch states that all the stone quarries in western New York producing the famous Medina block paving stories are to be formed into a trust with a capital of $1,500,000.



A charter has been granted to the Dominion Portland Cement Co., of Wiarton, Ont., capital $250,000, to manufacture Portland cement bricks tiles, etc. The provisional directors include David Porter D M, Jermyn, both of Wiarton, arid John Rowland, Walkerton, Ont.



If mortar is intended for pointing brickwork, a light colored mortar is composed of lime, putty, yellow ochre, silver sand and copperas, the proportions being regulated according to the desired shade If the mortar is intended for external plaster— work, a yellow tint is obtained by an admixture of yellow ochre, or yellow oxide, with the material used for the setting coat. A durable yellow tint is also obtained by using a bright yellow sand.





Canada Foundry Company

	TORONTO, ONT.	Limited

(SUCCESSORS TO ST. LAWRENCE FOUNDRY COMPANY OF TORONTO)



Engineers, Founders and Machinists



STRUCTURAL IRON  AND STEEL WORK

Beams, Channels, Angles, Tees and

Cast Iron Columns always in stock.

WRITE OR PHONE FOR ESTIMATES ANY) PRICES



Combination Union Valve Elbow

Patented January 30, 1900





For Hot Water

Is more elegant in design than a Valve or an Elbow It is quick opening (Qr. turn) and adjustable to either end of the radiator. It has a true curved, full sized water way which reduces friction It is neatly and compactly made of valve metal and packed ready to use. It has rough body, with finished trimmings and is nickel plated all over.



Operated with the foot. Costs no more than a



valve Every one warranted.





THE ROBERT MITCHELL CO., LIMITED - MONTREAL

	Sold to the Trade Only.	Sole Licensees for the Dominion of Canada	Send for Discounts.