<doctype type="text">74	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" The Building Outlook " author="">.

the province all architects who are certified to be members in good standing of an architectural institute or Society, as well as persons who have passed the qualifying examinations prescribed by the Province of Quebec Association of Architects under authority of the Quebec Architects' Act.



THE indications point to a season Of considerable activity in building. A  majority of the architects are now busily engaged on plans of new structures and alterations to existing buildings. Quite a number of contracts have already been let in Ontario, but in the eastern provinces the weather. is not sufficiently favorable for the commencement of operations. The bulk of the contracts are believed to be as vet unsigned. Many architects and building owners prefer to wait until the market for materials and the scale of wages for the season can be accurately gauged. Conferences of employers and employees in several of the trades have been held, resulting in agreements to advance slightly the scale of wages. It is not believed however that these advances will in any degree hinder the carrying forward of building enterprises. Prices of materials remain steady. The high price of lumber undoubtedly checked building progress last year. Some projects were held over in the belief that lower prices would rule this season. Such is not likely to be the case however. The activity of demand, coupled with the growing scarcity of good lumber has prevented any decline, and prices are likely to rule higher rather than lower in the future. In Toronto the growth of population calls for a large increase in house accommodation, and considerable activity is already manifest in that direction. The erection of the new Toronto hotel. the site for which is now being cleared, will afford an outlet for large quantities of materials, provide employment for a small army of artisans, and be the means of greatly improving the appearance and trade of a locality which for some years past has suffered a decline.

<article title=" THE PREFERENTIAL TARIFF AND TRANSPORTATION " author="">

THE PREFERENTIAL TARIFF AND TRANSPORTATION 

The preference of 33 1/3 per cent. which is granted by the Canadian tariff to British manufactured goods entering Canada, appears not likely to benefit British manufacturers to any considerable extent. The reason is that United States manufacturers, in their determination to maintain their hold on the Canadian market, are cutting the prices of their goods to Canadian buyers to time extent necessary to enable them to undersell the British manufacturer, notwithstanding the advantage which the latter enjoys under our tariff. In order to do this, United States manufacturers are selling their goods in Canada at prices much below those charged to their customers in the home market. The only person, therefore, who is being benefited by the preferential tariff is the Canadian consumer.

Discrimination in railway freight rates also enables United States manufacturers to undersell Canadian manufacturers in their own market. As an illustration, we may take the case of corrugated iron. Every sheet of this material used by Canadian manufacturers must be brought into this country from the United States. Most of the material comes from Pittsburgh. We find that the Pittsburgh mills are selling the finished product to the customers of the Canadian

manufacturers to whom they supply the sheets. On account of lower freight charges, the Pittsburgh mills are able to ship the manufactured material to British Columbia, pay 25 per cent. duty, and undersell the Canadian manufacturer in that market. They can lay the finished product down at $1.00 per 100 lbs. plus the duty, while it costs the Canadian manufacturer $1.48. The Canadian Pacific Railway Company claim that they cannot meet the rates granted by the American roads, although their freight carrying facilities are not fully taxed. Surely it would be better for them to carry Canadian goods at a small profit and thereby help out the Canadian manufacturer than allow his trade to go to the United States manufacturer and the goods to be entirely earned by American roads.



It will be seen that the tariff question has become one of the greatest importance in Canada. Some means of regulating rates and conditions are needed. Whether the proposal of the government to appoint a railway commission would effect the object in the most satisfactory manner is a difficult question to determine, and one which would largely depend on the powers and

privileges granted to the railways by their charters. If such a commission is appointed, it should be entirely beyond political influence, and should be so constituted that the character of its administration would be continuous, giving opportunity for the members to become thoroughly familiar with the questions with which they would be called upon to deal.



The proposition has been brought before the Canadian Manufacturers Association that the preference should only apply to British goods brought into Canada through Canadian ports. This proposition has in view

 

the laudable object of building up 

but there are other phases of the question which are equally important and which must he taken into consideration. If Canadian manufacturers are to successfully compete with those of the United States for foreign trade, they must enjoy equal shipping facilities. It is evident that we can only bring to Canadian ports as many ships as we can supply with cargoes, amid that the frequency of their arrival and departure must also depend upon the volume of shipments. With a population less than one-twelfth that of the United States and with seaports much less advantageously situated, we cannot hope to be able to give our shippers for export as good facilities as they now enjoy by the use of American ports. Under the bonding privileges which now exist, they are placed on equal footing with the shippers of the United States, while if they were compelled to use Canadian ports, they would be subject to delays which would make it impossible for them to compete.



A DESCRIPTION of the granite sarcophagus in which the Prince Consort's remains were interred at Frogmore is published in the Aberdeen Journal. The sarcophagus, with its lid, weighed nine tons, and was drawn through Windsor with eight horses. It was formed out of a single block of Aberdeen granite, and was constructed to contain two coffins. Three of the eight workmen employed in the construction of the sarcophagus are still living. 



''Effective advertising is the kind that is always fresh and interesting. If there are several timings to talk about, talk about one at a time, and talk about it so that it wilt make aim impression. Don't say the same old things over amid over in time same old way.

