<doctype type="text">158	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



GERMAN PUMICE STONE BRICKS.

<article title=" GERMAN PUMICE STONE BRICKS " author="">

One of the most interesting among the many industries located along the River Rhine and one which is unique, writes Mr. C. E. Carpenter, is tile manufacture of l)riek froni pumice stone, which is carried on ill what is known as the Neuwied district. This district takes in tile country on both sides of tlie Rhine between Cohlcnz and Andernach, a distance of between thirty and forty miles as the crow flies. On the left banks of tile historic river, and right in tile heart of Neuwied, are tile Eifelberg, a low range (If gray, rock-clad mountains, which in former days, many centuries ago, spread tilcir volcanic eruptions periodically over the entire surrounding district.

'ro these long-silenced volcanoes the people of the so-called Bimssand district owe their present unique industry and consequent industrial prosperity. It seems that tile huge volumes of sand belched forth by the ancient craters had, with the passage of centuries, gradually disappeared beneath tile soil forming a sub-strata several feet below tile surface. In many places, however, the layer of strata refused to disappear, and yet not until quite recently did tile scheme of utilizing the valuable deposits present itself to the inhabitants of Nenwied. Even the practical Pomans, whose régime alolIg the left l)anks of the Rhine dates hack scarcely more than four centuries, somehow failed to recognize tile value of the stone for building purposes. It is also strange, hut true, tllat Caesar alld his successors, who threw up at this point Oil the river vast breastworks and other fortifications, did not realize the unlimited (Illantities of building material at their verv doors. In fact, the deposits have remained intact down to the present day.

The formation of the alluvial strata, several feet below the surface, is decidedly curious. Mineralogically it is a foamy porous substance, reaching in many Places a depth (If 17 feet, while in other localities its thickness is not more than a handbreadth. Equally simple as its formation is the method of removing it adopted by the miners. This consists of nothing more than clearing away the soil and piling the sand in long hills, from which it is shovelled direct into tile mixing bed of water and lime close at hand. The pumice comes out of the earth in pieces, vary ing in size from mere grains to lumps some 4 in. across. It occurs in layers, hut is frequently interrupted by small cuticular patelles of more solid fragments of lava.



Before moulding the pumice is screened. the larger pieces being broken to pass through a sieve having half inch meshes. These screened pieces are then covered by a thin coating of cement, and the brick is moulded. The cement is not mixed with tile pumice so as to form solid cement ilocks. but by the fragments being coated first. The brick is then obtained by these coatings adhering to ore another.

An idea of tIle quantity of ingredients necessary in the mixture may be gathered from the fact that for tile mallufacture of 20,000 bricks about four and a half tons of lime are required. After the mixing process the substance is polired into iron moulds provided with bottoms of detachable boards. which, after the renloval of the moulds. act as driers. When the brick has been exposed to tile air for a very short time they are ready for shipment.



As may be seen, the process of manufacture is simplicity in itself. No modern machinery whatever is needed and. therefore, none 's used. An industrions workman averages from 8oo to 1.800 bricks per diem, for which be receivethe '' magnificent '' renumeration of five marks ( about 5s.), and the working days are confined to the months between April and October.



The total production of Neuwied amounts to about 250,000,000 bricks. It gives employment to a small army of laborers, the most of whom are natives of the small villages of the " Westerwald and the " Eifel." During tile "campaign" these people practically live at their emplovemnt, in qllarters furnished by their employers. TI'e strictest sanitary precautions being required by the authorities, tile season's work is in reality one long outing ill the open air. In addition thrift is encouraged. prosperity is everywhere noticeable, and, altogether, the natives of the "land of pumice stone" are a happy and coiltented lot.

METhOD OF MAKING LIMESTONE BRICK.

According to the British Clayworker, burnt-clay bricks have recently found a formidable rival in the sandstone brick. This brick is the product of quartziferous sand, with which a proportionately small amount of lime is mixed, the whole mass being subjected to a high pressure of steam. Tlie result is an extremely hard water-tight

product, impervious to frost or weather, and unaffected 1w all acids. Like every new industry, sandstone hrickmaking has had many technical difficulties to overcome, the principal one heing caused by changes in the weather. In cold, wet weather many poorer results have been obtained than in warm, fine weather. Chemists and experts have tried to find a way by which a uniform (legree of excellence would be insured but all failed, until the Zurich chemist, William Schwartz, invented a process by which good results could he obtained under all circumstances.



Mr. Schwartz found that it was necessary to give the mixture an exact quantity of moisture, as well as to prepare and mix it at a certain temperature, so that the combination of the silicie acid in the sand and lime should begin to take place before the mixture is pressed into brick forms. In this way, all deleterious aeratioll of the lime is avoided during the manufacturing process. Mr. Schwartz has invented a process by which the amount of moisture cau be regulated—namely mixing dry sand with lime in a vacuum, so tllat ally aeration of tIme lime by tile carl)ollic acid of the atmosphere is impossible. At tile same time the temperature is raised to and kept at a certam degree by steam heat, and then a certain quantity of moisture in the form of steam is admitted. By this means the preparatory process is safely finished, the action of the steam causing the condensation of the silicic acidl ill the sand and lime, and so givillg the proper proportion of cementing l)articles to the mixture.

For employing tliis rocess a machine has been built in whicll the preparatory and working process can be carried out—a mixing machine provided with revolving arms for trlixing the sand and lime, steani tight, with an air plllilp attached to exhaust the aim aild also to draw out any excessive quantity of moisture. Inside is a tube for admitting the exact quantity of Ilecessary steam. By properly managing three valves, the limestone raw product can he made of uniform quality, while formerly several machines and apparatus, which needed constant attention, were necessary for making this product, and then the results were never entirely satisfactory.

With tlie Schwartz invention begins a new era in the limestone-brick industry that will he of great importance ill all countries, aiid particularly in regions where there is neither clay nor stone, but where there is plenty of sand.



PED LEAD AND THE ANCIENTS.

Minium, or red lead, appears to have been well known to tile ancients, and according to Pliny was discovered verv early indeed by an Athenian, who submitted the red part of a silver mine to the action of fire, expecting to obtain gold. This fine color was held in great estimation, and it would seem that in Homerie times ships of war were painted with minium. It was imported into Rome at one period to tlie amount of about 2.000 lbs. per annum. It sceimis to have been adulterated. What is curmous us that Plimly remarks in Book XXXIII. of his Natural History that painters when hired for a job in coloring walls, pilfered by washing their brushes when filled with minillill, much too often. The minium, lie remarks, falls to the bottom, and is so much gained by the thief. It seems an idea prevailed that the action of sunshine and moonlight was injurions to minium. To remedy this, Pliny says, dry time wall and apply with a hair brush hot. wax incited with oil. After this, put on a varnish, then smooth down within rollers and polish with clean cloths. It is added that in line paint manufactories where minium was prepared, tllc faces of the operatives were protected by masks of loose bladder skin in order to avoid inhaling the dust, " which is highly pernicious." Thus we see that more than two thousand years ago lead-poisoning was guarded against in Pagan factories.

