<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XIV. --No. 166	October 1901



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEET.



Bungalow, Fort Street, Victoria, B. C. R. M. Fripp, F R I.B.A., Architect.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.



Cottage, One Storey and Basement, Two Elevations and Plans.—R. M. Fripp, F.R.I.B.A., Architect.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.



Carvings on Public Library Building, Westmount, One.—Robt. Findlay, Architect G. W. Hill Sculptor.

Photogravure Plate. —Dominion Bank, Winnipeg. Darling & Pearson, Architects.

Photogravure Plate—Kirby Hall, South Side of Court Yard.





CONTENTS

Editorial					193-94

Notes from Pan-American Exposition					194-95-96

Canadian Society of Civil Engineers 					. 196

Lectures on Architecture					196

Office Building Wiring					196

Manitoba Correspondence					197

Fire Prevention 					198

A Sulfur and Sand Cement					198

Intercommunication					199-200

Laying House Drains					200-201

The quantity of Stone used for Concrete			. 201-202

Wood Carving	.	.	202

Marble in British Columbia	.	.	.	. 	203 -204

The Market for Plumbing and Heating Goods	. .	204

Lead Pipes Breaking Crossways		-			. 	205

Practical Hints . . 				 	 	205

By the Way					 	206

Paperhanger's Folding Paste	Board					o6

A Canadian Architect in Korea						07

King Alfred was an Architect						207





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal. MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.



Edmund BURKE,

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. Todd, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. Elliott of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.





<article title=" Canada tendered a right Royal west The Royal Visit " author="">

Canada tendered a right Royal west The Royal Visit.

come to the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York, who have just left our shores after a month spent in visiting all parts of the Dominion. It is to the credit of our future King and Queen that they should have undertaken a nine months journey, traversing two-thirds of the earth's surface, with the object of acquainting themselves with the people and conditions existing in the various parts of the great British empire. The information which they have acquired will enable them to more capably discharge the functions of their high station. The people with whom they have come in contact feel that the bond of sympathy and loyalty which binds them to the Empire has been further strengthened. Great commercial advantage is also likely to accrue to Canada from the descriptions of the country and its resources and opportunities written by representatives of the leading British and American papers who accompanied the Royal party.



THAT a large volume of building is in Building Conditions, progress throughout Canada is evidenced by the scarcity of tenders for work of ordinary character as well as labor skilled and unskilled. It is not unusual of late for an architect to solicit tenders from a dozen contractors and receive hut one or two. Skilled workmen in all trades are in demand, and there are also too few laborers. The requirements in some trades are said to have been met by bringing in workmen from Buffalo, where, according to the observation of Canadian visitors, there is not to be seen a single residence in course of construction. While a high degree of prosperity prevails in Canada, there is

no perceptible tendency towards a building boom. The activity is the result of a legitimate demand for more and better buildings.



The encouraging statement has lately Development of the

Canadian North-west.	been published that of the 23,000,000 acres of land granted as railway subsidy by the Dominion Parliament to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, 9,000,000 acres have already been sold. Most of these lands extend along the line of the railway, but there is also a large tract in Northern Alberta. The rate at which the land is being taken up in the North West is the best assurance that in a few years a large population will flow into that territory and develop its agricultural and other resources. With the population will come a steadily increasing demand for the skill of the architect and builder, and for construction materials of all kinds adapted to the climate and the requirements of the people. The illustration pages of this number show the development in this direction which has already taken place at Winnipeg, where some of the leading banks and other financial institutions have erected buildings which in point of cost and dignity of appearance are fit to grace tile streets of any city in the world.

<article title=" The	Canadian Exhibit the Canadian Building at the Panat Buffalo " author="">

The impression given the visitor to

The	Canadian Exhibit the Canadian Building at the Panat Buffalo.

American Exhibition is that Canada is a purely agricultural country where buffalos, bears and all manner of wild animals abound. The building contains only specimens of grain, wild animals and furniture. While it is important that the advan

