<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	7

definitely ; easily atrophied, if allowed to lie dormant, easily perverted, if not trained in the sober paths of ''sweet reasonableness," it is the essential quality of the architect, as—though on very difficult lines and with very different circumstance and aim—of the sculptor, the painter and even the musician.

Hence it is that training in design cannot be begun too soon or continued too long for the architectural student ; it is his life—work, training in which proceeds (or should proceed) all through his career, part passed with every work he undertakes.

It is true that proficiency in design is not to be estimated by hard and fast rules and tests, as in mathematics or any of the more exact branches of study. And hence the opposition that was aroused against the examination test for entrance into the architectural profession, when established in England by the Royal Institute of British Architects. One-sided that opposition may have been, but at least it served to accentuate most strongly the truth that the higher side of the architect's qualifications cannot be appraised by the test of the examination room.

But, if not to be tested by mere examination questions, the faculty of design is most assuredly to be trained and cultivated. Study rightly guided, stimulated  by criticism and aided by growing proficiency in drawing (which is the architect's medium for expressing thought in form) is the surest road experience has yet found to acquire this training in the faculty of design.

It is, therefore, easy to understand the strong plea that is urged for academic training in architecture. Nowhere else, outside the academic studio and classroom, can the same education in architectural design be gained. It is easy to scoff at it as ''unpractical," ''a waste of time," ''dilettante study," and so forth. It is just because it is (in a sense) unpractical and dilettante that it can be so valuable in the aesthetic training of the student. In actual practice all sorts of compromises have to be arrived at and accepted for many reasons, such as cost, restriction of site, etc. But in the academic studio the architectural student can put forth all his efforts to make the most of his design, untrammeled by merely hampering restrictions, to work it out by study into the best result artistically and so to train his mind to attain that standpoint of sober criticism which is the final guide on the highroad to effectual achievement.

In the ordinary training to be derived from even the best of architects' offices this is quite unattainable. With the very best intentions on the part of both master and pupil the result is in the nature of things, totally inadequate for the office is not the place in which such training can properly be looked for. A busy architect is bound first to consult his clients' interests ; he cannot make these subservient to his pupils' needs for study nor can he (probably) afford to turn his busy office into a theoretic studio for the sake of his pupils' progress. At best and with most favorable conditions the student can secure but piece-meal guidance and instruction of a hap-hazard sort ; while in an office where inferior work is done—and there are many such—or where the architect-in-chief (it may be)—it is not seldom true—is all too scantily equipped himself to offer guidance, inspiration or instruction to another, it is only by energy indomitable, deep and genuine love for his work, and perseverance, aided by natural ability and insight that

amount almost to genius, that a pupil or apprentice can hope to rise in architecture above ill-trained mediocrity, or to escape comparative, if not total, failure.

This, it may bc objected, is to look at architecture from the higher standpoint, to judge of it by the standard of a somewhat high ideal, rather than as a practical, bread-winning, professional career; which may be fully granted. For who would wish to enter on his life-work and deliberately renounce its best and fullest possibilities? The education advocated does not, be it frankly and at once admitted, mean speedier or higher pay. On the contrary it means additional study, costly and adding years, it may be, to preliminary training nor does it necessarily promise very even

	-	then

more work or work more highly paid. But it does mean better work, and that (like virtue) is in all the arts its own reward, while in the long run, too, it brings reward of more substantial kind.

Academic training is no mere superfluity, a luxury without utility, a waste of precious time. It is the best and surest—for most it is the only—road to attain to the best that may be in us, to acquire that trained faculty in design which is architecture, and to cultivate that critical aesthetic sense which is the ultimate essential in all branches of art—creation.

Against such training two contentions have been raised; First, that it may stifle genius; second, that it tends to foster mediocrity. Genius, however, is rare; and, when forthcoming, may be pretty safely left to take care of itself. It is sure, sooner rather than later, to

kick over the traces" when they fetter it, to break away and '' gang its ain gait." Instances of training— stifled genius belong to romance, seldom to real life. On the other hand, most of us belong to mediocrity, and can have no quarrel with training that raises us to our best—if still, unhappily, mediocre selves. It is indeed great gain if mediocrity can be trained to do its best, not left to do its worst. Trained mediocrity at least may be respectable, its works void of offence; untrained, it will (and does) afflict us with aggressive failures, that will not be gainsaid.

in Canada, and for Canadian students, the advantage

—rather the necessity-----of academic training in architecture is peculiarly potent. A young country with no architectural traditions of its own, with no important buildings inherited from the past to form a silent but convincing standard of architectural comparison, her cities are, and have been growing rapidly, and important buildings, private, public and national, are rising from Atlantic to Pacific. It is not easy to overestimate the influence of a really important building, aesthetically for good or bad. It endures for years, perhaps for generations, even in these modern times, so "progressive," so little reverent of the past. It is surely worth while to Canada that Canadian work be done by Canadian architects, and that Canadian architects be on equality of training with those of other lands. Some of our public buildings are notable monuments. Fuller's fine composition at Ottawa, especially, is far from unworthy of its noble site and its high purpose. But of others the story is not pleasant feeling for Canadians ; nor are many buildings in Canada to be compared for successful design with the Houses of Parliament at Ottawa. What may be called the

rank and file " of' buildings, public and private, ecclesiastical and civil, do on the whole fail largely and too often from want of academic training in

