<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	219

needs to be. If the roof is allowed to remain with the paint partly worn off, the shingles will retain more moisture, and consequently decay sooner than they would were they not painted at all. On the score of durability little can be gained in cost by painting. A good shingle root unpainted will last a great many years, and the expense of painting a few times would replace it. One painter, who had painted the roof of his own house, when questioned, used good logic from his standpoint. He thought that painting a roof would add somewhat to its length of .life. " You see," he said, "that have painted mine. I do for myself what I desire to do for others. It I did not, the influence would be bad."

<article title=" THE WIRE SAW IN QUARRYING " author="">

THE WIRE SAW IN QUARRYING.



Within the past few months says Stone, there has been a general revival of interest in England, as well as in this country in the subject of quarrying by the wire saw. An effort is being made to put on the market here the latest improvement in wire saw quarrying the penetrating pulley. A trial of this device is now in process at one of the big Vermont marble quarries. Efforts are also being made to form a company for the manufacture of wire saws under the Clark patent.

The English trade papers within the past few months have had a number of articles on the wire saw, which is now being placed on the market in that country. In the last report of Dr. C. LeNeve Foster to the English Home Office, there is an extended illustrated article "On the Use of the Wire Saw for Quarrying Slate," by G. J. Williams, His Majesty's Assistant Inspector of Mines. Mr. Williams was sent to the Continent in order to study the methods of quarrying by the wire saw, and he investigated the results that were obtained in both open and underground slate quarrying in the Pyrenees. No attempt, whatever, has been made in this country as yet to apply the wire saw to the quarrying of slate, although it would seem to lend itself particularly to this work.

<article title=" DEMOLISHING A BUILDING BY BIOGRAPH " author="">

DEMOLISHING A BUILDING BY BIOGRAPH.

All who have seen the biograph have wondered at some of its realisms and its adaptability to all sorts of uses, says the Building Trades Association Bulletin. The biograph men in casting about for a novelty decided to make a picture showing the destruction of the Star Theatre, at Thirtieth street and Broadway. The contractors stated that it would take fourteen days of ten hours each to tear down the old Star.

The ordinary biograph picture shows a scene by means of 1,800 separate and distinct photographs a minute taken on a continuous film in that period of time. A machine was rigged to take pictures on film at the rate of twenty per minute, instead of 30 per second. It was placed in a window overlooking the Star Theatre and connected with an electric wire, the current from which operated the mechanism of the machine. Beginning with the first brick loosened from the top of the old theatre, in the process of its destruction, the camera shutter opened and a picture was taken. From that moment until the space the ugly old brick edifice formerly occupied was a level patch of unencumbered ground the camera worked ten hours every day. Every three minutes a picture was snapped of the state of the building in the course of its destruction. Twenty pictures an hour, 200 pictures a day, 1,400 pictures a

week, 2,800 pictures in two weeks, all on one continuous band of film.

The film was four hundred and eighty feet long, and it took a little over a minute and a half to run it through the biograph. It took two weeks to take this picture, but it was shown to the eye, as the eye sees the occurrences of a minute and a half. And behold! Beginning from the top, the great brick building melted as a house of snow. Figures in the shape of men toiled with lightning-like rapidity. The workmen seemed to be tearing like demons at the brick and timber. Showers of rubbish rattled down, wagons dashed away at express train speed bearing the shattered material. Faster and faster melted the walls. . Signs, windows, beams, chimneys sunk down, down. Another moment and the last wagon was gone with the last scraps of brick, wood and iron ; there was a barren spot of ground in the city's heart.

<article title=" TESTING OF STONES USED IN CONSTRUCTION " author="">

TESTING OF STONES USED IN CONSTRUCTION.

The testing of all materials suitable for constructive purposes and employed therein is one of the prominent signs that mark the gradual progress and advancement of architectural and engineering science and technology. Petrean monoliths of sizes and dimensions hitherto unsurpassed were used in bygone days in positions and situations which must have exposed them to nearly every known species of stress, without any preliminary trial or experiment respecting their capabilities to withstand the same. Natural stones, as distinguished from those produced by more modern artificial manufacture, were, in those times, when the means of transport were few, tedious, and frequently non-existent., taken on their own merits. Their qualities, properties, and fitness for the work required of them were gauged by the very practical standard of the manner in which similar examples and specimens had performed their duty in structures previously erected. In the present day says the Building News, these conditions are very materially altered. Building stones are now brought from very great distances and their strength, powers of resistance, durability, and other indispensable qualifications can no longer bc taken on trust. Besides new quarries are continually being opened, and experience has abundantly proved that however valuable and excellent the stone of one quarry may be, it furnishes no guarantee that the product of another, although adjacent to it, will be equally serviceable. The first acknowledgement of the necessity of instituting some test with regard to the properties possessed by building stones was in evidence only a few years ago, when experiments were conducted with the object of determining at least two of their qualities—viz., their specific gravity or density and their resistance to crushing. It was not until subsequently that it became fully recognized that, in addition to ascertaining the general characters of different stones, it was equally essential that their special fitness for the particular kind of work they were put to should be carefully investigated.

As a rule, the specific gravity, or the weight of a building stone is a fairly good indication and criterion of its value as a constructive material ; that is, the heavier the specimen the better. Tests conducted for this purpose are of great importance, insomuch as they are closely connected with the weathering, which is almost synonymous with the durability of stones, which, after

