<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



and are inserted by the draftsman as his skill and experience dictate, but beyond these special provisions there will be found a number of general forms which experience and the results of judicial decisions have shown to he necessary or expedient in every case, if disputes are to he avoided.

We come now to consider the general form which a building contract for the purposes and in the circumstances aforesaid has come to assume. In contracts for elaborate works, and especially in the kindred contracts usually known as engineering contracts, the instrument frequently commences with a series of definitions—

(a)	of persons, e.g., building owner or employer, surveyor, engineer, clerk of works, etc.; and

(b)	things, e.g., works, plant, drawings, schedule of prices, etc.

These, however, are rather matters of convenience and not of necessity, and need not be here considered.

For the reasons before indicated, viz., that the employer not usually being an expert, and so not being competent of himself to specify precisely what lie requires, or to see that what is supplied is such, lie will in the first place have employed an architect to prepare the plans and specifications for the proposed buildings and the builder or contractor will be required to undertake to build them in accordance with such plans and specifications, and under the direction and to the satisfaction of the architect. The contract thus sets out by defining tile work to he (lone, viz., that shown by the plans and specifications, and by providing a guarantee that it shall be properly done by requiring it to be done to the satisfaction of the building owner s architect or surveyor.

The question which naturally arises next is that as to the time for completion, and consequently the clause or clauses indicating the nature and extent of the work to be clone is usually associated with or followed by provisions for securing completion within due time, and fixing the damages or penalties in default.

Next will naturally follow the question of the consideration or remuneration for the work with provisions as to the time, manner, and conditions of its payment. Then in order to prevent undue rigidity will follow provisions as to alterations and deviations.

It will then he found convenient to provide as far as possible for all matters or contingencies which, or the consequences of which might if left unproved for, give rise to dispute or doubt, and of these the following may be here mentioned, namely —Rectification of defects subsequently appearing, property in materials and plant, assignment and sub-letting of contract, bankruptcy of contractor, and lastly, there will he provisions for the prevention and settlement of disputes.

A convenient form of contract is—1st, To define or indicate the work to be done, the time for its completion and the nature and conditions of the consideration or remun— eration, and then to schedule or otherwise annex the General Conditions of the Contract. These General Conditions are as above indicated frequently very numerous and exhaustive, and it is not within the scope of this paper to consider them in detail, but it is proposed to select a few of the more important which have been the subject of judicial decision, and to consider them with reference to those decisions.

Before proceeding to consider the first group of clauses, viz., those relating to the work to he done, the time for its completion, the payment or remuneration therefor we may here consider the position of the architect—

a)	As regards the employer.

(b)	As regards the builder.

a)	As regards the employer. The bargain between the architect and the employer for the preparation of the plans, etc., and his remuneration therefor, is of course a separate contract not concerning the builder, and as to this bargain three points only need be here considered—.

1)	The remuneration.

2 ) The ownership of the plans.

3)	Personal nature of the contract.

As to 1 ) it has been held in a case of Whipham v.

Everitt,	Times,'' March 22nd, 1900, that though not



legally binding on a building owner the charges of architects sanctioned by the R.I.B.A. are evidence of the reasonable nature of the architect's charges if in accordance with he schedule.

As to (2) If there is no special agreement as to ownership the employer is entitled to the plans when he has paid the architect his reasonable remuneration. See Ebby v. McGowan, "Times,'' Nov. 17th, 1870.

As to 3) The contract being personal i.e., the person-. al skill of time particular architect being deemed to be relied on, the contract is dissolved by the architect's death. This is not so in the case of the builder,, although it may he made so by express contract. Apart from stipulation to the contrary, if the builder dies, his representatives are bound to carry out his contract Further, and this concerns the position of the architect as regards' the builder also, he is the general agent of the employer for the purposes of the work he has to superintend (see Kimberley

v.	Viek. L. R. 13 Ev. I ), and as a result of this position of agency all dealings between the architect and the builders must he free from any suspicion of collusion, and if ally collusion or secret dealing between the architect and the builder can he established, it will amount to a fraud on the employer, and entitle him to damages, or rescission of tile contract. See Panama & South Pacific Telegraph Company v. India Rubber Telegraph Works Company. L. R. 10, Ch. 515.

Following the clause or clauses defining the work to be (lone as the main object of the. contract, there usually follow a number of ancillary or subsidiary clauses indicating various preliminary and other matters and things to be attended to or done by the contractor, e.g. —Giving of requisite notices.



Fencing.



Compliance with statutes.



Paying compensation for damage.



Indemnifying employer against risk.



The number and extent of these obligations of course largely depend on the nature and importance of the main works to he done, and the object is to throw upon the contractor the expense of all the preliminary and subsidiary matters which may he necessary to he done, or settled, in order that the main work may proceed to completion without any further expense to the employer than the stipulated cost. It is sometimes stipulated in the coil— tract, that all materials he provided by the contractor at his own cost, but apart from such stipulation, a person who contracts to build a house impliedly undertakes to provide all necessary materials.

Resuming the question of the contents of the contract, we proceed to deal with time first group of clauses. The architect elm surveyor is as we have seen time agent of the employer to see to time work on his behalf. In this capacity lie is empowered-



(a)	To inspect it, and, if necessary, to uncover amid look into work for inspection.

(b)	Tel require any inferior materials -to be taken out and replaced by good, amid any inferior or mm skilful work to he redoime or rectified.

If the architect's supervision is thorough and his powers to cause had work to be made good are unflinchingly exercised, the probability is that a proper compliance with time contract on time part of time builder will thus he secured. But however careful the architect may be defects of material or work may possibly he overlooked, and .to meet this., the clause known as time Defects. and Maintenance clause is inserted, providing for time rectification by the contractor of defects subsequently appearing in the work. The contractor, however, cannot reasonably he expected to rectify defects appearing at any time however long—after completion, and consequently his liability under the defects and maintenance clause is always limited in time.

Time clause is in fact in time nature of a guarantee that time work is done so as not to give way through defect in material or workmanship, anti may be compared to a

 guarantee	given with, say, a watch or a bicycle, and like



such a guarantee is limited to a period ill which such de

