<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

INTERCOMMUNICATION.

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. 'the editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance.]



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="Dunn, John">



From K. P. :—Wants to know of the most economical method of making a good box frame for a window that is to go into a balloon building?

Ans. :—There are so many ways of making box frames that it is difficult to tell which way is the better one. The one shown at Fig. I is easily made and is economical both in material and labor.









































Section B shows the box, the stud being utilized for the back. The whole can be put together quite readily. At C a section of the sill and inside stool and apron are shown. This combination is quite simple, and the diagrams can be readily understood.





From H. R. :—Do you know of any method of building cement tanks so that they will not burst with frost, even if not protected with covering from weather.

Ans. :--A cement tank, square or round, for holding water may easily be built, but the walls should be strengthened by the insertion of expanded metal bars at proper intervals. Without proper provision 15 made for frost expansion, thc tank will surely burst if the water in it is permitted to freeze. One way to prevent fracture of tank, is to have a six or eight inch galvanized iron pipe to stand in center of tank, the pipe to be empty and dropped in the tank during frosty weather. When the water solidifies with the frost, the pipe will be crushed by the pressure of expansion, being weaker than the walls and will thus relieve the walls from the extra pressure. In a large tank it will be better to have two or three smaller pipes, and place them around the edge of the tank ; they will then take up the expansion. Tanks may also be protected by throwing in them when nearly full, a few pieces of white pine scantlings, These pieces of wood, being soft, are gripped by the ice as it makes, and are crushed in enough to take up the expansion. The walls of the tank, of course, must be strong enough to resist the pressure of the pine blocks. The insertion of pine blocks in rain—water barrels to prevent them bursting from the effects of frost, is an old trick, and has been practiced from time immemorial by thrifty housewives

From W. T. :—The rules given for the areas of window surface differ widely, but recognized authorities give the following Area of window surface, = \,/ cubic contents of rooms, breadth of window =

(breadth + height) of room, height of window, two to two and a half times the breadth. One foot super of window space to every 100 cubic feet of room, or 125

cubic feet in dwelling houses, to 50 or	cubic feet in

hospitals. The window sill should be 18 inches to 36 inches above the floor, but the average height should be 30 inches. The head of the window should be as high as possible to obtain the best results.



From P. P. K. The way to cube up a house for an approximate cost, is to multiply the length by the breadth, and by the height from the bottom of the footings to half way up the slope of the roof. Take for example a house having a frontage of 35 feet, depth 30 ft., average foundation 3-6", from top of foundation to plates 21 feet, both ends being gabled then we have 35 X 30 X 29-5 = 30,975 cubic contents of house. It the house is an ordinary frame one, we may place the cost at 8 cents per foot if of brick or stone, the cost per cubic foot, may be from 14 to 25 cents, according to the finish and quantity of materials.



From J. N. Asks for a good cement to fill in cracks of a floor before staining or painting it.

Ans. --If the cracks are wide and gaping, the best thing to do is to fill them in with narrow strips of wood glued in, and when dry, dress off with a plane. If the cracks are small they may be filled in with a coat of Wheeler's wood filler, which will harden when it dries, and get a good surface on it. If the cracks are too wide for wood filler, and not wide enough for wood strips, then soak old newspapers, or other pulpwood paper in a weak solution of hot glue, work this up until it is in the form of a paste, then fill the cracks with it and let set. When thoroughly dry scrape off the surplus paper, and a good job will be obtained.



From R. P. 1 would very much like to know how to frame and finish a corner of a square bay window. in a balloon building, in an economical and substantial manner.

FIG. 2-—SQUARE CORNER FOR BAY WINDOW IN	 BALLOON FRAME.



Ans. The sketch shown at Fig. 2 exhibits a good method of finishing the square corner of a bay window and maybe of service to our correspondent. The manner of adjusting the studs is quite simple, but in order to get the best results, these studs will have to be dressed to some particular thickness when the whole work may be accurately set out on a board. The return head in the angle makes a good finish.

