<doctype type="text">238	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

<article title=" THE TRUE AIM OF THE ARCHITECT " author="">

THE TRUE AIM OF THE ARCHITECT.



There was much sound advice expressed in admirable style in a recent address, " To the Younger Generation," which Mr. Heathcote Statham delivered before the London Architectural Association School of Design. At the outset he exhorted his hearers not to accept the pessimistic views of those who maintain that all architecture is a sham and a worked out thing now, and that nothing but an entirely new beginning on a new basis can revive it. Architecture is no worse off now than it has been at any time since the Renaissance, as far at least as its higher possibilities are concerned. It is true that it is on a radically different basis since the Renaissance ; but we cannot help that. The Renaissance theory of architecture is not so contemptible after all. It might even be argued that it is the higher theory ; that we have exchanged the pursuit of architecture as a craft for its pursuit as an intellectual problem and we have developed in these latter days much more power of invention and much more sense of character in decorative detail than the men of the Renaissance possessed.

The lamentations made by what may be called the socialist school of critics over the supposed death of architecture are to my mind as unreal as their remedies are unreal. Architecture is not a dead art unless you choose to make it so. The more earnest and enthusiastic of the younger generation have had it so preached to them that architecture is dead, and that copyism has killed it, that they are all on the qui vive to do something original, as they think ; something picturesque something out of the common. Hence all kinds of vagaries—short stumpy columns, windows in unexpected places, immense rustication's enclosing half the shaft of a column and leaving the other half bare, and so on. These devices do impart what is called "character" to a building, no doubt, as long as they are novel ; hut one very soon gets tired of them. It is possible to be picturesque, no doubt, without being eccentric ; but it is a question whether the picturesque is the true object of architectural design. The picturesque, really and truly, will only come unsought

a sought-out and carefully contrived picturesque defeats its designer's ends. A good deal of the work which an architect is called on to do in practice has not, unfortunately, much relation to art in its higher or intellectual sense. The whole thing is mixed up with practical requirements, sometimes of a very prosaic order. But when we can get the opportunity to contemplate and treat a building, large or small, as a whole ; a building the uses of which are associated with some of the higher objects of our lives-—with the repose and sanctity of life, as in the house—the aspiration to higher life, as in the church -the dignity of corporate life (or, shall we say? the dignity which it should have) as in a municipal building ; in such cases it is the part of the architect to make of his building an embodied idea—a conception which should be whole and complete in itself ; a leading idea, pervading first the plan and expressed with the same completeness in the design. This is where I think that architecture is or can be still a living art. It is all very well for the pessimists to accuse modern architecture of being only a copied architecture, making

use of the detail of preceding styles ; it is not within the power of man to avoid that, except to a very limited extent. Even before the Renaissance made such a radical change in the situation, the detail in each generation or in even fifty years, depended largely on that of the preceding fifty years.

It is in this matter of unity and completeness of idea in architecture that I think we get a valuable lesson from some of the Renaissance architects. What strikes one in the works of Inigo Jones and Wren especially, as compared with most modern work, is the manner in which they grasped the conception of a building as a whole, and subordinated everything else to a central idea. Every church of Wren's, for instance, is a distinct conception with a dominant idea of its own. The details they used were to a great extent borrowed (though Jones put some originality into his), and the decorative details, in Wren's buildings at all events, are often not good, and perhaps he was not much responsible for them; but their general conception of a building was nearly always fine and always complete and consistent with itself; an architectural whole. The pessimist critics deny that architecture is anything but building, and are always dinning into us that drawing is not architecture. It is not ; but it is a means of showing and putting on record an architectural conception. An idea in architecture is an idea, whether carried into execution or not. As to the use of the detail of a past style, probably the wiser course, and the one that is most in accordance with the actual tendency of architecture in the past, is not to throw overboard the historical detail, but to regard it as a basis for gradual development and modification, little by little, as we find opportunity ; which is the way in which all the changes of style in the pre-Renaissance period really came about. They were not the result of sharp and sudden and willful change, but of gradual modification.

Coming to another point, not to scruple to find fault with an old building because it is old, Mr. Statham said there is a weak tendency among modern architects to admire everything in an old building, instead of considering it on its merits as they would a modern building. Then the next thing to this blind admiration is blind imitation. The designers of old buildings were subject to human error like ourselves ; and a study of them critically, considering what are their merits and what are their mistakes, is far more useful to our minds than accepting everything as right because it is old. Two other reflections were added in concluding, first not to be sure that you are right in architecture and everybody else is wrong. There is a tendency to this among our young architects, partly arising, perhaps, from the fact that our aims at present are rather uncertain and conflicting.

The other observation is to make perfection in architecture for its own sake an object, and not for what you can get out of it. If those who make the love of the art rather than the desire of gain their first object— if they must be content to see others richer than themselves in bankers' balances they have the compensation of keeping their youthfulness of spirit and their appreciation of the beauty of life.



The demand for paints and varnishes is said to be greatly increasing in Japan. Formerly, stains were principally used for all timbers used in the construction of buildings, but of late the application of oil paints is coming more and more into favor.

