<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DETAILS OF A CONICAL ROOF.

<article title=" DETAILS OF A CONICAL ROOF " author="">

The following description and accompanying illustration were prcparcd by R. W. Carden, A.R.I.BA., and published recently in the London Building Record —This turret is taken as occurring at the angle of a largc hip-roofed building in such a way that the foot of the hip has to be carried independently of the walls. Two 6 in. l)y 6in. crossties arc placcd diagonally across the turret and the hip is carried by these, the cross-ties resting upon stone templates. The wallplate (dotted on l)lan) is carried round above the cross-ties, properly halved at the two angles, and the outward thrust is counteracted hv t he dragon-tie, which is notched to both wall-plates and spikcd securely to the cross-ties in order to keep them in ])osition as well. An angle piece to the hip has not been shown, but it could easily, and perhaps with advantage, be added. The main difficulty is reached when dealing witb the rafters, as the framing at the apex is complex, and when done, if there are many rafters, most unstable. In this example they are carefully reduced in number until only eight run up the whole height, half the total number being stopped at the first purlin and half those remaining being stopped at the second one. The head-piece is of oak, mortised to receive the heads of the rafters, drilled for the head of tie— rod, and mortised again for the insertion of tile nut. This tie-rod (of tin. diameter) is carried down through the intersection of the cross-ties and can be easily tightened up from the underside so as to keep the whole of the roof rigid. It will be noticed that the shorter jack rafters of the main roof where they do not butt (lown to the wallplate are notched on to the cross-ties. At the intersection of the two roofs a 2 in. sill-piece has been fixed to the jack rafters of the main roof and the rafters of the turret brought down upon and notched into it. The covering may be of tile, slate or metal, but in the last case boarding would of course be indispensable.



LEGAL.



When Lord Justice Collins, in his judgment in Whitebead v. Reader, in the British Courts, said that " It was clearly competent to the master to define and limit the sphere of his servant's employment, and if the servant acting within that sphere violated the order of the master, the latter would he responsible. If, however, the servant went out of the sphere of his employment as so defined and limited, and acted in the other sphere, which was outside his employment, the act of the servant in that other sphere could not render the master liahle either to the servant under the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1897, or to third parties at common law," he expressed a belief, says the Builders' Reporter, which is general among employers. Mr. Reader, the defendant in the case, who is a builder, had issued orders that ordinary workmen were not to meddle with machinery. But one of the carpenters who was sharpening his tools at a grindstone worked by a gas-engine, seeing that a leather band had slipped, tried to replace it and was injured. TIe sought compensation, and the county court judge awarded him 12s. 6d. a week on the ground that the accident arose out of the man's employment. The defendant appealed, but without success, and a stay of execution pending an appeal to the House of Lords was refused. The Master of the Rolls, Lord .Tustice Collins and Lord Justice Romer agreed that an order had been given prohibiting the meddling with machinery in the yard. But it was considered that, on the impulse of the moment, the order was forgotten, and that could be regarded as no more than a venial act. Those who are familiar with the ways of modern building workmen are aware that impulses which drive a man, in his employer's interest, to do anything risky are unknown. A workman, as a rule, is too glad to have an excuse for ceasing to labor. If he appears to depart from his jog-trot course it is owing to the conclusion that to have to resume his work under difierent conditions is more troublesome than to accept the remote possibility of an accident. From the decision given by the Court of Appeal it is evidently of little use to pue up notices, for indifference to them, no matter what loss arises to the builder, can be described as a venial fault and the result of a generous impulsiveness to save an employer's tune.

THE CHARACTERISTICS OF PORTLAND CEMENT.

<article title=" THE CHARACTERISTICS OF PORTLAND CEMENT " author="">

The new German rules for testing Portland cement call for cement so finely ground that trot more than to per cent. resi(lue remains upon a sieve of 900 meshes per square centimetre (a little finer than a No. 75 sieve), and made of wire, the thickness of which is one-half the width of the mesh. For this test it is recommended that too gzams (approximately one-fifth of a pound) of cement be used.

The importance of the test for fineness has at times been questioned, but while it may not give any proof of the strength or weakness of cement, says Cement and Slate, its economic value is shown by the fact that a finely ground cement will carry a larger quantity of sand than one of an equal grade and will therefore make a cheaper concrete. It has been determined by numerous tests that the impalpable powder is the only really valuable part of the cement, while the coarser particles are present only as inert material arid act like so much sand, decreasing thereby the sand carrying power besides being themselves inactive.

Prof. LeChatelier in making his microscopic examination of cement mortar found that, after setting, no trace of the grain of cement is left in tire finer particles, while in the case of the larger, the central part of the grain remained unchanged. It has been affirmed that the part of the cement powder that will not pass a No. 100 steve does no work as a binding material in the mortar or concrete that is made from it.

It is also a settled fact that coarse grinding increases the tendency of the free lime and magnesia to expatid and crack, causing disintegration, when possibly if more finely ground it would be unaffected.

In burning cement the clinker obtained is generally very hard and is consequently not easy to grind. In coarse grinding this is the part that usually escapes pulverizing, and, because it is thoroughly burned it is the most valuable) so that by imperfect grinding we are apt to leave the most useful part of the cement in an innocuous con-di tion.

The rate of setting of a cement increases rapidly as the fineness to which it is ground increases. This is caused by tire fact that the necessary chemical reactions take place more readily between fine particles than between those that are coarser. The hardening of finely ground cement is affected in a

peculiar manner by fine grinding. When mixed neat it hardens more rapidly than coarse ground but attains less final tensile strength. As cement, however, is seldom used neat but is generally mixed with sand, the effect of fine grinding on the strength of the mortar is of more importance than the neat test.

It is found tirat when finely ground cennetrt is mixed with sand it will attain its tilt imate strength sooner and will show greater initial and final strength titan would a coarser cement under the same conditions. This effect of fine grinding is tire more pronounced the greater the proportion of sand that is used.

While it is true that some good cements although coarse arid granular are able to pass all tests satisfactorily, it is also true that some poor cements have been vastly improved by fine grinding. The test of fineness standing by itself would never be sufficient to determine the quality of a cement, but other things beiirg equal, the cheapest and best cement is the one that has the greatest percentage of impalpable powder. While itself' not conclusive, this test, combined with others, gives an idea of the value of the cement tested which could not be gained without its rise.

Some suggestions as to the manner in which this test should be made are here given. Tire amount usually taken in the United States is ioo grains, in Europe 100 grams. This amount should be well dried at a temperature approximating ioo degrees C. to drive off all bygroscopic moisture. The sieves should be from six to eight inches in diameter and should be jarred or shaken until no more passes through. Stirring the powder while on the sieve should be avoided as it is liable to injure the screen or to force through particles which would otherwise have remained on the screen.

