<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE QUARRIER " author="">

THE QUARRIER



When the fuse is lit and the blast goes off,



The whole hill shakes with the shock;



For there's thirty feet of a quarry face,



And most of it solid rock.



The quarrier's heart heat fast and high



With the clash of hammer and drill,



For he feels as the giants felt of old,



Who warred with the ribs of the bill.



The hammer of Thor that split the rocks



And cleft the hills apart,



He wouldn't take for his tried old '' spawl,"



The delight of the quarries heart.



Old as the world his kingdom is,



And wide as the widest hill



As a king he rules with an iron rod,



His sceptre a jumper or drill.



What Nature made in a million years



By the light of sun and star



He overturns in a single day

With hammer and gad and bar;



lie knows the seams where the stone will split To the sturdy stroke and strong 

Where the waters waved o'er the hardening mass For myriad ages long.

He tells of tons by a shot brought down 

A "knack" that it's hard to acquire



Of "narrow squeaks " when the fuse was damp. And the treacherous blast hung fire.

With hairy arm like the old mossed rocks,

And hands that are as hard as stone,

The quarrier boasts of his deeds, and thinks No trade is as good as his own.



" Uloola," in the Quarry.





PLATE GLASS.

<article title=" PLATE GLASS " author="">

Plate glass, says the journal of Building, is made of sand, soda and lime, fused at a very high temperature into a double silicate, which is called glass.



The casting may thus he described When one enters for the first time into one of the vast plate glass works at night the furnaces are closed, and the dull sound of a violent, though captive, fire alone interrupts the silence. From time to time a workman opens the working hole to look into the furnace at the condition of the glass. Long, bluish flames then light up the sides of the annealing ovens, the blackened beams, the heavy casting tables, and the mattresses on which half—naked workmen quietly sleep. Suddenly the hour strikes, the call is beaten on the iron slabs which surround the furnace; the whistle of the foreman is heard, and thirty strong men rise up. The maneuvers begin with the activity and precision of an artillery movement. The furnaces are opened, the glowing pots are seized, drawn out and raised into the air by mechanical means. They pass like banging globes of fire along the beams, then stop, and are lowered over the immense cast-iron table, placed, with its roller, before the open mouth of the annealing oven. The signal given, the pot is inclined quickly, and the beautiful opal liquid, brilliant, transparent and unctuous, falls and spreads over the table like ductile wax. At a second signal the roller passes over a red-how glass, a workman, with his eyes fixed on the firey substance, skims off die apparent defects with bold and skilful hand, then the roller' falls and passes off, and twenty workmen, provided with suitable tools, quickly push the glass into the oven, where it is annealed by slowly cooling. The workmen then return the emptied pot to the furnace and begin again without disorder, without noise, without rest, until all the pots of the furnace have been cast. The



pots are \refilled the furnace reclosed, darkness again falls, and the continuous noise of the fire preparing fresh work is again the only sound heard.



The glass is now opaque and must undergo the different processes of grinding, smoothing and polishing to make it transparent. As it has to transmit or reflect light, no defect in it must disperse or obscure its rays. By this mechanical work the glass loses at least one-third of its weight.



When we add to this the fact that about one—half the weight of the lime and soda originally used to produce the glass, released

by heat, escapes into the atmosphere in the shape of carbonic acid and sulfuric acid, one may get some idea of the vast waste of material and the consequent cost of converting such homely substances as sand, soda and limestone into such a beautiful article as plate glass.

But here comes the mistaken idea of the costliness of plate glass. Scarcely any article manufactured in this country has so greatly declined in price. Formerly it was looked upon as a great luxury, in which none but the wealthiest could indulge ; but now, if it has not become a necessity, it has reached a point where anyone who can build a house, however humble, can well afford to use plate glass in it, for there is nothing that adorns the beauty of a home, gives equal delight to its possessor, or adds so much in value to it at so slight a cost as plate glass.



<article title=" PRODUCTION OF BUILDING MATERIALS IN ONTARIO " author="">

PRODUCTION OF BUILDING MATERIALS IN ONTARIO.



The annual report of the Ontario Bureau of Mines as usual contains statistics of the quantity and value of building materials. in building materials proper, including stone, brick, lime and cement, the values were $3,556,366, or $1,107,704 more than in 1898 The value of cement rose to $561,266, being $184,948 more than in 1898, and nearly 80 cent, of the whole was Port— land cement. Since 1894 when this cement began to be made in the Province, the production has increased from 30,580 barrels to 222,550 barrels, and the value from $61,060 to $444,227, and during this time the value of imports has been steadily increasing. In the last fiscal year it reached 1,300,424 ewt., valued at $467,-944, in the face of a duty of $147,145. The value of drain tile, sewer pipe, paving brick arid pottery in 1898 was $522,152, or $48,435 more than in the previous year.





MANUFACTURING NOTES.



It is reported that a syndicate has been formed to buy up all the quarries and water privileges on the Magaguadavic, near St. George, N.H., with the idea of controlling the red granite trade of Canada.



The City Engineer of Toronto has reported adversely to the Committee on Works on the advisability of the city buying and testing all the cement used in the construction of sidewalks and roadways.



Incorporation has been granted to the Canadian Bridge Co., of Walkerville, capital $250,000, to manufacture railway bridges, etc. The provisional directors include B. S. Colburn, F. C. McMath and G. F. Porter, all of Detroit Mich.



The following companies have recently been granted charters of incorporation The Hanover Portland Cement Co., capital stock $50,000; The Windsor Turned Goods Co.. capital stock $50,000; The Welland County Lime Works, Port Colborne, Ont., capital stock $30,000.



A most enjoyable evening was spent by the members of the Canada Paint Co. and their guests on the occasion of the ninth annual company dinner, held at I the Place Viger Hotel, Montreal. Mr. D. W. Parks, who is severing his connection with the company, was presented with a gold locket.

The Imperial Varnish Co., of Toronto, have recently issued art attractive booklet referring to the variety and quality of their architectural varnishes. They state that these varnishes, which are adapted for exterior and interior use, are very carefully prepared from selected materials, are thoroughly ripened, properly tested before filling into cans, and are guaranteed to do the work for which they are designed.



Some time ago a number of manufacturers of stoves and heating apparatus in Ontario gave an option of purchase of their properties to the representative of an American syndicate. The amount of money required .o carry out the idea was between $7,000,000 and $8,000,000. The time limit expired on the first of January, without the purchase having been consummated and it understood that so far as most of the companies are concerned, the deal is off. Some Hamilton firms are said to have given a second option.

A strong effort is being made in North Wales to introduce improved methods in slate mining At Festiniog, the great centre of the slate industry, the quarrymen and managers held a conference and decided that the time had arrived for the establishment of a mining school. This conference approached the authorities of the Bangor College, and succeeded in getting them to acknowledge the need and in endeavoring to meet it. The object in view is to reduce by scientific methods the cost of production, and thus to withstand foreign competition.

