<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" WOOD FIBER PLASTER " author="">

WOOD FIBER PLASTER.



Mr. W. A. Bradshaw has recently established a factory at No. 109 Front street east, Toronto, for the manufacture of wood fiber plaster, a patent compound, one of the most important ingredients of which is wood fiber, which gives flexibility, toughness lightness. and strength. The advantages claimed for this new plastering material are

that it quick-setting, proof against disintegrate on by

frost or heat, is a non-conductor withstands effect of vibration and can he decorated in any manner. For further particulars the reader is referred to the announcement of the manufacturer in the advertisement pages of this number. Twenty tons of this material are being used to plaster the large summer hotel now in course of construction on Lake Rosseau, Muskoka.



The Sackville Freestone Company, Limited, was recently

incorporated at Sackville, N.B., with a capital stock of

	$24,000.	The members of the company are Fred. P.

Thompson, Fredericton Andrew M. Bell Halifax	John

W.	Lowe, Auelsford ; Charles Pickard, Sackville, and P.

J.	Mooney, St. John.



Protecting iron has been simplified by a Frenchman The process consists in treating the casting with dilute hydrochloric acid, which dissolves a little of the metal and leaves a veneering of graphite and the iron. The article is then washed in a receiver with hot or cold water, so as to remove the chloride of lime that has been formed 



The Canada Foundry Company have purchased the business of the Dominion Ornamental Iron Company, Toronto and will conduct it as a Department of their extensive new works now in course of construction at the corner of Davenport road and Mackenzie avenue. It is understood that Mr. Joseph Lea, late manager of the Dominion Ornamental Iron Company, will be in charge of this branch of the Canada Foundry Company's business.







The Canadian Bridge Co., Limited Walkerville, Ontario.

	MANUFACTURERS	OF







STEEL BUILDINGS ROOF TRUSSES

Railway and Highway Bridges and Structural Steel and Iron Work of all descriptions

Estimates furnished upon application.

Address Head Office at Walkerville, or



Henry F. Duck Resident Engineer, 603 Temple Building, Toronto.







Hamilton Radiators

For

Hot Water

and

Steam



Are the production of the best mechanical skill to be procured. Unexcelled in QUALITY, DURABILITY, and EFFICIENCY.

Made with all iron to iron joints—no packing of any kind.

Used in hundreds of the best and most expensive buildings in Canada

	Manufactured by ...	Correspond with us before deciding on your method of heating.





The GURNEY, TILDEN COMPANY

	Hamilton, - Canada.	LIMITED

TORONTO OFFICE: 134 Bay Street.

EASTERN AGENTS: H. R. Ives, Montreal, Que., and The Star Iron Co., Montreal.	CATALOGUE FOR THE ASKING

WESTERN AGENTS: The Gurney Stove & Range Co., Limited, Winnipeg, Man.