<doctype type="text">66	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Now that the Quebec Association has received its charter and has had time to get down to work, it is high time that some— thing should he done to teach students, as this responsibility has by this charter been thrown upon the shoulders of the Association. There is at the present time no attempt to do anything to further the interest taken by students or to place before them the Opportunities for serious study. It is the earnest desire of many to see some form of study in the way of lectures, modeling classes, etc., and also monthly competitions started by the Association and we trust if too late for this season, there will not be a not her year pass without some effort by all the members to see that this blot does not remain on work Surely the Association could join the American League and so obtain the circuit drawings as was recently done by the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club. 'The Brickbuilder recently commented on that exhibition by saying The first Architectural exhibition of any pretensions ever held in Canada occurred in Toronto, January 26th to February 9th under the auspices of the Toronto Architectural Club, and from all points of view it was voted a success and heralded as a permanent entry on the part of the architects of Canada into the progressive movement for the advancement of architecture and municipal arts. Let not this progressive movement Stop until it at least includes Montreal, and it is a splendid opportunity for both members and students to compare their work with that which is being done by others, and there is nothing like a healthy comparison of work to make and stimulate an interest in ones own. We would like to suggest that the Association should offer prizes for monthly competition during the winter months, the prizes to be given on a vote of members, as is done in the Square Club Possibly some of the honorary members might lie glad to offer a prize or medals, and I fancy one or two at least would certainly come forward if asked. Sorely the days ought to he past when men were afraid lest some one else should steal their ideas and so frustrate any attempt at co-operation or "esprit de corps.

<article title=" SCHEDULE OF CHARGES OF THE P. Q. A. A." author="">

SCHEDULE OF CHARGES OF THE P. Q. A. A.



An order—in—Council was passed by the Quebec Legislature on the 8th inst., legalizing the schedule of charges of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, as follows

No r The architect bases his professional charges upon the entire cost to tire owner of the building when completed, including all tire fixtures necessary to render it fit for occupation, and is entitled to extra compensation for furniture arid other articles de— signed or purchased  the architect.

No If any of the material or work used in the construction of the building be already upon tire ground or- come into possession of the owner without expense to him, the value of said material or  work is to be added to the sum actually expended upon the building before tire architect's commission is computed.

No 3 Travelling expenses are to be paid by the client.

No. 4 The charge per day which may be made by an architect will depend upon his profession standing-, but the minimum charge will he $10 per day.

No In all cases where an architect professionally as a witness in court t lie shall be entitled to a fee of $4 per day of attendance 

No. 6 Drawings and specifications	as instruments of service, are the property of the architect

No. 7—In consideration of tire charges mentioned hereafter, the architect will be held to furnish a series of drawings and specifications as originals and copies of these same drawings and specifications for the use of the contractors, but it will lie well understood that all the originals and copies roust be returned to tire architect when tire will have been completed.

No. S For professional services in connection with all buildings, compromising preliminary studies complete plans, specifications, details and superintendence e the architect will be entitled to a corn— mission on the total cost of the building when completed, in the following proportion

On all classes of buildings costing less than $50,000, 5 per cent.

On all classes of buildings costing from $50,000 to $150,000, 4  cent.

On all classes of buildings costing more than $150,000, 3 per cent.

No. 9 Partial	charges iii the case of subdivision or discontinuation of tire will he as follows

For preliminary studies (sketches), one—fifth ( r 5) of tire above charges

For complete plans and	specifications including tire preliminary studies, one-half of the above LB urges (1/2).

For details, one-fifth (r 5) of the above charges.

	For superintendence of tire works when drawings	are not furnished, two arid one-half per cent (2 1/2) on tire cost of the works. No. 10—In exceptional cases for ill works of alterations or of

restoration, tire architect will he entitled to a commission of seven and one-half per cent. (7 1/2) of the cost of the work.

No. 11—For all other work (also exceptional) in which the expenditure is mainly for artistic workmanship, viz.		For monumental work, fittings and furniture, and for decorative work, stained glass and such like the architect will he entitled to a commission of seven and one-half per cent. (7 1/2) on the total cost of the work.

No. 12—For valuations of property requiring measurements arid

detailed estimates, where the value will not exceed $5,000, one and one-half per cent. (1 1/2). Where thc value exceeds $5,000 tire commission will be one arid one half cent. ( r ) on tire first $5,000, arid one per cent. then remainder (1 ).

No. 13—In ease tire owner of the building or the contractor should require the services of the architect to prepare quantities or for measurement of the work done or to be done, such services will be paid (outside of the regular commission) at the rate of two per cent. (2) or the valuation of the list of the work.



NOT



On severing a connection covering seventeen years with the firm of Millar Bros. & Toms, Montreal , Mr. A. M. Elliott, was hire sented within much gold watch by his fellow employees and with a chain arid locket by Mr. J. D. Millar on behalf of tire firm.



Another competitor inn tire brick market has recently been heard from, viz., "tire Drury brick' from Essex country, Vermont It stands a good absorption test but is smaller than most bricks made in Montreal arid requires about 23 bricks to tire cubic foot instead of from usually 20 to 21 Montreal bricks.



The death of Mr. Jacobi, air artist well—known in Montreal, and a former president of tire Royal Canadian Academy, removes one of the older artists in Canada was born in February, 1812 at Konigsberry in Prussia arid came to Canada in 1860 where he remained, with the exception of a short absence, until shortly before his death, which occurred inn Dakota.



The result of the recent examinations for the Architectural Association has just been posted H. C. Stone of Montreal, arid Pier-re Levesque, of Quebec, are granted licenses to practise as architects iii the province arid the following passed the preliminary examinations Sholto Smith of Montreal, J. J. T. Donelly,



E.	P. Raymond and Charles A. Lemay, all of Quebec.



Mr. Dore, sanitary engineer, Montreal, examined during the month of January 17 building plans, visited 147 homes where

plumbing	required	inspection	issued i6 notices about improper

workmanship	anal issued four	plumbers' certificates	He com—



plains t limit many plumbers are using lighter material than the bylaw calls for.



Mr. J. . O. Marchand wino enjoys the distinction of being tire only Canadian student of architecture at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, at Paris, has recently resumed iris studies after having paid a brief visit to his parents in this city. Mr. Marchand expects to obtain Iris final diploma in June after which Ire will begin the practice of his profession iii Montreal.



Mr. Charles Philippe Hebert, the Canadian sculptor, has been mache a Knight of the Legion of honor by tire French Government iii recognition of his services to art iii France and Canada The Maisonneuve monument or this city, a group of historical figures Out the facade and in front of the Legislative Buildings at Quebec, arid the statues of Sir George E. Cartier arid Sir John A. MacdonaId, at Ottawa, are among his most important works.

Ii	is announced that from May 1st until J uric 30th classes in drawing, painting and modeling open to men arid women students, will be held in the rooms of tire Architectural Department of Sic— Gill, under the direction of Prof. Henry F. Armstrong The rooms will be open on week days from 10 a. m to p. in. Students may pursue their studies iii one or more of the subject continuously every day. Teaching arid criticism will be given daily during the above hours, except on Saturdays. Tire subjects taught

will be :—Freehand drawing, in head pencil and iii charcoal students preparing for, or engaged in, any branch of art work, and in lead pencil, fir engineering and other science students oil painting and water color painting and modeling in clay amid casting in plaster.

Prof. W. R. Butler reach some abstracts before the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers on February 28th from two papers recently given before the Liverpool Engineering Society, termed ''The Characteristics arid Qualities of Portland Cement by Sir.

P.	A. H. Shaw, arid ' Experiments our time Artificial Acceleration of tire Setting of Portland Cement " by Sir. F. E. Priest. In tire first paper tire importance of fine grinding was particularly emphasized and in speaking of the dune of weight as a criterion of duality the author showed the variations iii the weight of samples of the same cement at differ curt ages as follows

At age of one day weight 117 lbs. per bushel.

	month	113

	2 months ''	108

	12 months ''	103

And as examples of variation in weight chine to fineness in -grinding the following- were quoted

10	residue on 80 mesh sieve weighed no lbs. per bushel.

	20	"	So	"	" 116

	25		So	"	121

	35	"	80	"	" 123

The above figures should be of interest to architects as well as engineers. J. R. G.

