<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	173

MESSRS. JAMES REID & SONS.

<article title=" MESSRS. JAMES REID & SONS " author="">

Few contractors are as widely known in the eastern provinces as Mr. Jas. Reid, and the firm of James Reid & Sons probably do more business to-day in that line than, with exception of Rhodes, Cutry & Co., Limited, any other firm in the Maritimes.

Mr. Reid is. a native of Pictou, but lived in Dorchester for upwards of 20 years. He was foreman at the time of the construction of Dorchester penitentiary 21 years ago. After that he removed to St. John, just after the big fire, and was foreman under Contractor McDonald in the construction of Trinity church there, one of the best edifices in the Maritime Provinces. After this he began to contract himself. With R. C. Donald of Moncton be built Memorial Hall in Sackville, and the Y.M.C.A. building in Moncton.

The partnership was then dissolved, after which Mr. Reid continued in the capacity of foreman for some time.

His first contract was for the court, house in Lunenburg. He then went to Newfoundland alter the great fire in St. John where he did business for three years, building a large number of stone and brick buildings.

For a time he was in partnership with another contractor doing business under the name of Reid & Boehner.

The big bank failures caused Mr. Reid serious loss and he again broke partnership and returned to Nova Scotia. His first contract thereafter was for the Bank of Halifax in Truro. After the Windsor fire he and sons took a

prominent part in the town's reconstruction. The academy, court house, Commercial Bank building, Halifax Banking Co.'s building, a residence for Mr. Dimock all of which were brick and stone, were done by them that summer. At the same time they constructed the Merchants' Bank of Halifax in Moncton.

Last year the firm erected the Presbyterian church in Amherst, the post office in Kentville N.S., Bank of Montreal in Sydney, Science building in Truro, and the new post offices in Springhill and Digby. These buildings are all handsome structures and contain a class of work which Mr. Reid particularly likes to do.

Mr. Reid's sons are practical men and know their line of business. Mr. J. K. Reid, about 26 years of age, now takes charge of the business of the firm. Mr. C. A. Reid is a practical bricklayer A younger son, D. Lorne Reid, not vet in the firm, is often placed in charge of work under construction.

Mr. Reid removed from Dorchester about three years ago and is now living in North Sydney where he is near to what is now a large field of operation for him in that rapidly growing section.



<article title=" POLISHING GRANITE AND LIMESTONE." author="">

POLISHING GRANITE AND LIMESTONE.

Granite is polished in many different ways, depending upon the nature and quality of the granite, the varieties of which are very numerous, writes Mr. W. R. Purchase in the Quarry. The method here described is the one generally adopted. The surface left by the axe presents a succession of ridges and furrows. These ridges must he rubbed down with iron rubbers and sharp coarse sand and water. When all the tool-marks are removed and an even face has been produced, the rubbing is continued with emery powder of varying degrees of fineness, commencing

first with the coarse, the same iron rubbers being used Lastly, the face is rubbed with a woollen or linen boss, on which fine flour-emery is sprinkled and moistened with water the final polish being given with putty-powder (oxide of tin) and a felt block A good polish, which can only be obtained by persistent rubbing, will keel) its lustre keep for at least half a century.

Limestones are composed of carbonate of lime, having more or less of a granular and crystalline texture, and are of such a varied nature that one method of polishing cannot be adopted for all. The following method, however, will suffice lee for the stones in general use -—The wrought surface is rubbed with fine Shari) sand and water until all the marks of the chisel or saw are removed, and an even face is produced. The surface is then grounded—that is, rubbed with grit-stones of varying degrees of fineness, commencing with the coarse or first grit, Harehill or

Robin Hood stone next is used the second grit, which is a little finer and, finally, snake or Water of Ayr stone. Particular care must be taken that in each process of gritting the marks or scratches made at the preceding stage of the process are removed, so that when the surface is snaked no scratches whatever are visible, as upon the careful gritting depends the success of the ultimate polish. The polishing is lastly effected by rubbing with a linen boss, on which fine sprinkled, moistened

flour-emery is. 

with water; the final gloss being given with a felt block and putty-powder ( oxide of tin ) , also slightly moistened with water until the natural polish is obtained.

of marble adds greatly to its 

	The polishing	beauty,

bringing out the delicate figuring and the gradations of rich coloring which make it so valuable as a decorative material.

It may be perhaps stated that the polishing of granites and marbles is a trade in itself, and takes years 10 learn, so that it would be very difficult for a person not accustomed to the work to make much headway. It would therefore, be advisable for a beginner to practice on odd pieces before trying his hand on more important work.



<article title=" NEW METHOD OF DEPOSITING CONCRETE " author="">

NEW METHOD OF DEPOSITING CONCRETE.

Heretofore, says Cement and Engineering News, specifications for concrete work have usually contained a clause restricting the easting of concrete from a shovel or other wise not to exceed three feet fall, in order to prevent the separation of the crushed stone from the mortar, under the belief that good work could not be produced where a greater fall was permitted. In order to conform with this particular clause buckets were used for depositing the concrete in place.

In constructing the concrete pier foundations for the new Chicago Tribune building and the new Marshall Field building the concrete is deposited directly from the shovel with a fall into the bottom of the shaft of fully 80 feet. The concrete so deposited is entirely satisfactory. The method pursued is very simple. The workman thrusts his shovel into the mixed concrete, swings the load over the opening and with a sudden jerk withdraws the shovel from under the load when it is permitted to fall into the shaft. The mass falls to the bottom of the shaft without separating or scattering in the least. A dull muffled report issues from the shaft after each shovel of concrete has been cast, showing that it has preserved its cohesion throughout its descent.

This method is found more economical and rapid than where buckets are used to lower the concrete, and should be adopted by contractors who desire to keep up with the

times.





SOME, PRACTICAL WALLPAPER HINTS.

To paper over whitewash a great deal of trouble is experienced in having the paper adhere uniformly to the wall, says the Wall Paper Bulletin. This annoyance can readily he overcome by treating the wall before commencing to hang paper. Much depends upon the condition of the whitewash, whether hard or sound, cracked and scaling, or soft and chalky. These several conditions call for

different treatment As a rule, however, it is best to carefully remove the old whitewash, either by scraping or sponging If it is soft and shows no signs of scaling. a coat of glue and alum size, made two parts glue and one part alum, by weight, mixed rather thin and flowed on plentifully and brushed into the surface, will likely bind the surface sufficient to hold the paper. If the whitewash is hard and not scaling, give it a coat of two parts each of linseed oil and turpentine, one part japan and four ounces glyeerine for each gallon of mixture, put on warm. If the whitewash is sealing in either ease it is risky to

paper without first taking it off. If you size the walls and leave the whitewash on, it is good idea to scrape the edges around the windows, doors, paste-board, etc., for half an inch or SO while wet to hold the edges of the

paper instead of butting them.

It is not generally known that oil and grease spots can be removed from the most delicately tinted wallpaper

