<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	163

BY THE WAY.<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

FOR the first time since its erection twenty years ago, the spire of St. James Cathedral in Toronto is undergoing repairs and is being repainted. The work is being done by Messrs. A. B. Ormsby & Co., the steeplejacks being James Plumb and Frank Scully. The job is a hazardous one, the spire being upwards of 350 feet in height.



x x x



It is not only Mark Twain's heathen Chinee whose ways are peculiar. In every community may be found people for whose peculiarities it is difficult to account. As a case in point, I may mention the circumstances connected with the buildings and plot of ground known as St. Patrick's Market, on Queen Street in the city of Toronto. This property was deeded to the city years ago for the purposes of a public market by one of the most wealthy and prominent citizens of that day.

the rights of ownership would revert to the donor's estate.

xxx

THE interior of Osgoode Hall, Toronto, is being renovated and re-decorated in view of the approaching visit of the Duke of York.

xxx

I learn from a contemporary that Miss Josephine W Chapman, of Boston, a successful woman architect, will be the only representative of her sex at the Pan-American Exhibition, in Buffalo. Miss Chapman has erected a number of churches, business buildings, and residences. She employs none but men in her office, as she declares that women fail to give their undivided attention to the work, and at the most critical moment want to go home to make their clothes.

xxx



A novel and expensive but not overwise method is



































































<article title=" CANADIAN PAVILION, GLASGOW EXHIBITION " author="">

CANADIAN PAVILION, GLASGOW EXHIBITION.



For a number of years past two butchers have been the sole occupants of the building, which in reality has ceased to be a market, the business having been transferred to St. Andrews and St. Lawrence markets, situated respectively in the west and east ends of the city. Seeing that the property was no longer serving the purpose for which the donor intended it should be used, the city authorities proposed that it should be utilized as a public square, for which it is well adapted. Just here, however, the peculiarity of the administrators and assigns of the donor manifested itself. They declared that the property having been donated for a particular purpose, it must not be used for any other, and threatened that if it were so used,

said to have been chosen to determine the quality of the bricks produced by a large yard in the Western States. The proprietor and a brick mason contractor got into a discussion, and as the result a bet of $10,000 was made. The builder maintained that the brick would not sustain a column of 300 feet. He is to undertake the construction of a stack, and after it reaches a height that ordinary workmen refuse to continue on the structure, he will himself continue it up until something gives way. If it fall before it reaches 300 feet he wins otherwise he loses. It is to be six and one-half bricks square at the base, with a square one-foot flue, up which the bricks are to be conveyed. The builder agrees to continue the stack until it falls, to be at the top when it gives way, and bets an additional $5000 that he will not be hurt in the collapse. The loser is to pay for the bricks.

