<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

ing the delightful element so desirable at exhibitions, water, the vast stretches of which through the Chicago Fair gave the White City the delightful transparency and lightness, and the absence of which with the absence of music was the cause of the heavy, serious business—like appearance of the marvelous exposition recently held in Paris. Consequently I think it is to be regretted that this matter was not considered from that point of view. The large sum of money which it is proposed the citizens should expend there ought to be well expended indeed if the placing of the buildings be properly handled.

Mr. Baker moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Wright which was seconded by Mr. Belcher and carried.

Mr. Aylsworth It is clear to us all as Mr. Baker says that a splendid opportunity still exists for a thorough replanning of our exhibition grounds ; not that great changes need be carried out at any one time, but that when money is to be expended whatever is done may be as part of a complete whole to be realized in the course of time. There is no body of men more competent to outline such a scheme than this Association but in this business age something more than planning must be done. We must not only have an artistic and feasible arrangement to present, but it must be so placed before the executive body that there shall be no chance left open for its rejection. As our time is now perhaps too limited to fully han die the problem I propose that it he made the principal subject at our monthly meetings during the balance of this winter, first to develop such a scheme as the citizens cannot but be proud of, and then appoint such a strong and permanent committee to see it gradually worked out that the City council Exhibition Association can never shake them off.

Mr. Wright As the grouping of the University buildings has been referred to I should like to ask Mr. Dick what. opportunities have been offered him in this respect. A difficulty in the way of a comprehensive scheme is the fact that there is continual progress in the aims of the University, and ideas which were accepted a few years ago are now in the process of change.

Mr. Dick : Regarding the University buildings a particular building was proposed and a particular site selected for it, and of course one would have liked to have carried out all the buildings in the same style as the University itself, but unfortunately this is a very expensive the, and the library is the only one that could be made to harmonize with the main building. It would have been a very excellent thing to have had a landscape gardener to lay out the whole buildings, but as Mr. Wright has pointed out, ideas have changed so considerably, that the ideas would have had to he modified as the buildings were erected.

Mr. Gordon It might be interesting to note that the public are gradually getting educated on this question of grouping of buildings. The process is slow, but the college authorities are beginning to realize that the general effect of their buildings depends so largely upon their grouping, and I might mention that last summer I was asked to go to Kingston with just that object in view, to give an opinion as to what would be the best method of grouping the buildings, in view of the lack of effect from the McGill buildings, and to some extent the lack of effect of the Toronto buildings. The authorities recognized that although they were doing things in a modest way they might be planned ahead to get the best grouping of buildings, and that the whole would have the best possible effect, and it is a pleasure to see that college authorities are beginning to realize the importance of grouping.

Mr. Burke : Would it not be well to memorialize the Toronto Exhibition Association, and point out the pains the Pan American Exhibition people have gone to in the grouping of buildings, landscape architecture, etc.

Mr. Hall : You would have to send it to the city, Mr. Burke.

Mr. Burke: To the proper authorities, also give it to the papers, so that the public would see what was suggested.

Mr. Gray I think Mr. President that would be a good idea. The existence of the Association is kept too much from the general public. There have in the past been cases right in our midst where the Association has been looked for by the public. Recently with regard to the St. Lawrence market buildings the public have looked round about and said '' Where is your Association, what are you doing?" ''Where is the Ontario Association of Architects '' I think that the Association has been asleep during this last year and has lost opportunities and kept in The background when it could have been doing useful work. I feel that it is too bad that the public should have to look round about for the Association when these things occur. When this exhibition matter was brought tip, too, we find the

public asking	where are the Ontario Association of

Architects, what are they		doing? " and we have simply to

shut our mouths.

Mr. Baker Well, somebody ought to get up petty quick. I would like to ask this Convention whether it was the Association or Mr. Gray that was asleep during the past year. Nearly every morning when I look at the paper, I see that the Association of Architects has done so and so. Certainly 10 or 20 times during the last year I have noticed this. We cannot hang a banner across the street from the doorway down stairs stating that the Association is to be found here. I would rather that the recent Kingston University competition were discussed than the exhibition. Perhaps, after all, the worst we can say about this exhibition competition is the prizes offered. If they do not see fit to offer a larger premium, we can appreciate that it is because they are tied up in every direction. Regarding the Kingston College buildings : Anything which has ever been placed before a body of professional men which would equal that in absolute lack of knowledge of decency in the procedure of engaging professional assistance, I do not think I have ever seen. If any action is to be taken to—day, I think it ought to be taken against that kind of competition. I think several of our members felt this very keenly. This is an instance demanding an explanation, but in the other I think we should rather do what we can to show our appreciation of what they have tried to do for us.

Mr. Gray : With all due respect to Mr. Baker's reference to the publicity of the Association in the daily papers, the Association is not known as it should be to the general public. Now I do not care what Mr. Baker says, it is a fact that the Association is not known as it should be to-day.

Mr. Baker : How should it be made known ?

Mr. Gray : I think one of the methods is in using it in our own daily experience ; using it from time to time ; let the people know about it. I maintain with all due respect to Mr. Baker that it has not been brought sufficiently before the eves of the public.

Mr. Aylsworth : Mr. President, I am glad to see a little discussion on the lines I intended to evoke, and I do not think this might be confined to exhibition or university matters. It seems to me that we might prepare for the press a little more extended notice of this Convention than has been done heretofore, and announce that a standing committee had been appointed, so that the public might know that the Association is prepared to consult with any such bodies at any time in future.

Mr. Gray : Allow me to give you an idea of that matter which I spoke of. When the St. Lawrence Market was brought before the Board, that Board turned round and stated that they did not really know of an Association such as the Ontario Association of Architects.

Mr. Gemmell : I don't know whether this discussion is on Mr. Wright' s paper or not. The only suggestion which I see that would arise out of Mr. Wright's paper (laughter)—excuse me saving only, but I mean the only PRACTICAL one would be : I think that a proposed competition that the Exhibition could bring forward would be for a landscape garden plan, comprising the whole laying out and constriction of the Exhibition, when, if they wanted to erect a new building, it could bc laid down in a position making it a fitting part of a well digested plan to utilize the ideal site that would not ignore the effects to be got from that beautiful stretch of water, Humber Bay. I therefore think that what the exhibition wants most is a scheme for a whole. Their buildings now are not expensive. They should not be considered as opposing one grand scheme at all.

