<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	31



of having placed the problem on a high plane necessitating research and study, with corresponding benefit to himself. The rendering is clear, and displays good draughtsmanship throughout.

'Torch and Wreath" is placed second. This is a satisfactory, though not strikingly original ''Old Colonial" doorway and vestibule, its various details are of good type, though the lead work of fanlight of outer door is hardly in the spirit of the style. More light should certainly he provided in this vestibule, and this might be done by placing a window in one of the side walls. The rendering is good but. a little shaky and uncertain in places.

"Drawing Pen".- We place the design marked by a drawing pen

third, but must say, we had difficulty in deciding between it and "Jack," they being about equal in design and rendering, and having the same faults, a little too much elaboration, over paneling, etc. ''Drawing Pen's" front door we consider better than ''Jack's," the single panel in width being more suitable to such a door than the double one shown in the latter's design. The small window shown in section at line of capping of wainscoting would, we think, he better either larger or at least placed Free from wainscoting in which case the trim could be made as indicated in the elevation. Rendering is carefully done, and the sheet is

nicely arranged, hut we think it would be better it the author had taken the two pages permitted by the conditions to show his design.

''jack. "—This drawing, which we place fourth, is referred to above. Its general defect, both in design and rendering is ''fussiness". The head—piece of interior door and window casings would be much better if higher, and so arranged that the picture mould would mitre with its cornice mould or at least stop against it.

''Check" and ''Plus".—Of the two last designs, that signed "Check" is somewhat the better, but neither designer seems to have taken the problem seriously,

either from inexperience or lack of industry, and both have overlooked the fact that the competition was for a complete vestibule.

[The names of the successful competitors in the

petition for vestibule are ''Victor,'' (Mr. Willford A. Gagnon, 590 Temple building, Montreal,) awarded first position ; ''Torch and Wreath," (Mr. George C. Egg, 24 Tupper Street, Montreal), awarded 2nd position ; ''Drawing Pen," (Mr. Wm. G. Murray, Albion Building, London, Ont.,) awarded third position.— EDITOR C. A. & B.]

COMPETITION FOR PORCH.

<article title=" COMPETITION FOR PORCH " author="">

''In Haste."—This is evidently intended for a stone porch. For a porch of its pretensions, the foundation

looks altogether inadequate, and should have had plinth and cap molding. The balustrade over cornice is too heavy, the introduction of the panels flanking the posts increasing this defect. The parapets of steps lack grace, through want of proper ramps and want of thought in design of pedestals. The rendering of section shows some care, but the plan and perspective are evidently hurried work. The projection of the shadows in latter are incorrect and line work unsatisfactory we place the design first, we think it is to be regretted that the author did not devote more time to its perfection 

	Gains	is

placed second,

as the design, while rather that of a verandah than that of a porch, shows a good knowledge, both of construction and design. The scheme of the heavy projecting eaves, and the general simplicity of outline and detail, are commendable. As the frieze would of necessity be

built up " the arched soffit would be unsatisfactory and would seem to be an attempt to get the effect of stone in a wood construction. The rendering has little character and indicates lack of practice, the tree and foreground being very scratchy.



"Dodeka," who is given third place, shows a plan which is original but hardly commendable, The jutting

