<doctype type="text">It should be born in mind that every fire resisting building is a boon to the community. It is an efficient fire stop, and reduces the fire risks for a considerable radius in the neighborhood. Every additional building























































of the kind is a further safeguard, and were such buildings sandwiched freely among those of even the most flimsy construction, no very extensive and wide spreading conflagration could occur.

The greatest encouragement, therefore, should be given to those who

are willing to erect buildings of the best class of fire resisting construction.

Fire hazards may be divided into two classes, external and internal With regard to external hazards, the fire loss in buildings would he very appreciably reduced were more attention paid to the protection of the window openings. The complete destruction of the inflammable interior fittings and stock of a large fireproofed departmental store in

Pittsburgh was chargeable to a fire in an adjoining building and unprotected window openings, as was also the burning out of a portion of the interior of the Home Life Insurance Co. in New York City. The latter building was considered one of the best of New York's fireproof buildings, but an external fire

attacked it in a weak spot. If the windows in the light well overlooking an inflammable building close by had been properly protected no serious damage would have occurred. The standard wooden shutter covered with

tin is the most reliable protection.

Woven wire



glass set in metallic sashes, which are hung with chains in metal frames are superseding the wooden tin covered shutter in many instances.

The advantages are that the light is never shut out, they are not so liable to be left unclosed, or carelessly left open, as is the case with the shutters, and if a fire starts behind them it is not concealed till it has obtained great headway.

Where greater

safety is desired

the glass may be doubled, giving almost as good protection as the shutters the tin covered shutters, however, are required for certain of the most severe risks.

Wire glass is, of course, practically out of the question on street frontages.





















































Rolling metallic shutters are occasionally used, but the cost, and the time and trouble required to open and close makes their general use impracticable.

The water curtain is another device for the protection of external openings. It has been used in very few buildings, and it is a matter of surprise that owners

