<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	29

<article title=" THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB EXHIBITION " author="">

THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB EXHIBITION.

The exhibition of drawings belonging to the circuit of exhibitions of the Architectural League of America, which was obtained for Toronto by the association of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club with the League, has been an event in architectural circles in Toronto and it is gratifying to learn that this is but the first of a series of such exhibitions.

We must however recognize that the exhibition was essentially an exhibition of drawing. It was the rendering that attracted attention principally, and was the principal field of effort on the part of the draughtsman. As such it was useful. Our own architects have not made a study of rendering as was evident from many of their exhibited works, and there is no doubt that this exhibition could give them some useful hints in the art of making attractive drawings. But it is well to inquire how far the art of making attractive drawings is helpful to the art of architecture. The real architectural drawing is of course the line drawing which marks the limit of surfaces only in order to define them for the purpose of measurement. Any other kind of drawing must be made either to help the architect to see his design in its perspective projection, or to represent to the owner the appearance of the executed work. The latteruse has become a disease a parasite that has fastened itself upon the profession, largely due to the profession's own eagerness to expose its wares. From the owner's point of view the practice is desirable, and in commercial ventures the profit in the new building often begins as soon as the design is made and a perspective can be furnished, for publication by lithography as an advertisement. The more realistic the representation and the more people going in and out of the door the better. But such drawings ought not to be called architectural drawings and there is no reason why they should be made by architects ; indeed in the more lavish architectural circles they are done outside the office by specialists. The architects own work in the way of perspective and freehand drawing is done long before the design has reached the stage from which these finished drawings are made. The elevation is not the source of his studies but their product. By the time he has made up his mind enough to decide upon all points of his the elevation and completed the drawing of it his work on the drawing board is done ; the rest is building.

For the purpose of this kind of tentative study the first essential is severe truthfulness. The motive of the drawing is the detection of faults; its purpose is not to show off the design but to show it up. Any kind of cooking, whether of the perspective or in the less bare-faced falsities of cloud shadows, improbable foliage, unrealizable beauty of color, or a chic handling that is a ground of pleasure in itself is out of the question unless the designer wishes his studies to minister to self deception. On this ground Mr. Wilson Eyre, the genius of the exhibition, would be ruled out for the most part of his work. His drawings are works in themselves, and if the owner's right to the possession of drawings were to be established by the courts he would get in one of these preliminary sketches (if they are preliminary sketches) a possession for which the whole fee of one per cent. for preliminary drawings would sometimes be little enough. Mr. Eyre might, however, plead with justice that they are not architectural drawings but were made for his own gratification. They are in truth little pictorial creations founded upon his designs.

Mr. Goodhue, Mr. D. A. Gregg and other skilful draughtsmen show their buildings by a drier light than Mr. Wilson Eyre does, but the excellence of the drawing too often consists in qualities of abstraction, color and technique which would prove dangerous in a drawing intended for the scientific observation of a design by the designer. They are not therefore architectural drawings of the best type in spite of their excellencies. A better model was the bird's eye view of the Pan-American exhibition sent by Messrs. Carriere and hastings. This drawing had qualities of delicacy and clear modeling that gave it rank among the beauties of the exhibition, but its motive was a clear statement of the facts. This, the only motive that is reasonable in a purely architectural drawing, is not inconsistent with beauty, and as tar as technical pleasure goes, to those who know the skill and knowledge required for its perfection, there is quite as much technical pleasure to be derived from its precise beauty as from the pictorial and decorative effects which a freer style accepts from accidents of material.

It may seem impertinent to speak of architectural drawing as a thing outside of the Beaux Arts rendering which is architectural rendering par excellence in the sense that the style is evolved from the theme and is exactly suitable for its expression. But herein lies its unsuitability for other themes, and all architecture has not the ideal conditions of that which is commissioned in the Beaux Arts schools and studios for a more splendid civilization in a better land than ours. That land of white marble colonnades with a backing of soft blue foliage is a land to dream of and to hope to go to when we die ; but here, alas, white marble is not, and the trees are only green.

Yet it is from such a training as the students of the University of Pennsylvania are receiving, who in this exhibition play like young Raphaels with the classic forms and make such beautiful drawings of their designs, that the best results may be expected not so soon however as would appear from the truly astounding skill they seem to display. Art is long. The law knows no change and respects no system, for art is not that which is planted in the mind but that which grows in it by the slow process of individual growth. But the result is all the greater for the enlargement of the mind in which the process of incubation is going on, and one great source of enlargement is facility in drawing. To have the drawing eye is to have the seeing eye which both consciously and unconsciously feeds the mind continually. If the interest in drawing which this exhibition has created does not die away without stimulating some of our younger architects to practice with the pencil and brush it will have done good service in Toronto.

Mr. Frederick G. Todd, landscape architect, of Montreal, whose office was in thc Board of Trade building, lost a valuable collection of plans, books, etc., by thc fire which destroyed that building last month. Mr. Todd has opened an office in the Bell Telephone building.



A book on " Bricklaying" by Owen B. McGinnis, of 810 West 128th street, New York, has just been published. It has been compiled from a series of articles on the subject contributed by the author to the professional and trade journals. The price of the book is not stated.



Mr. W. B. Hamilton, who for the past twenty—five years has been connected with the St. Lawrence Foundry (now the Canada Foundry), of Toronto, has severed his connection therewith, and has been appointed Western representative for Messrs. Drummond McCall Company, of Montreal. He is now located at 93 York street, Toronto.

