<doctype type="text">194	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

ages which we can offer to the farmer, the sportsman and the tourist should be adequately displayed, our capabilities in art and industry should also have prominence, otherwise strangers will receive a wrong conception of our rank among the more highly civilized countries. It is true that the art gallery contains a small exhibit of pictures by Canadian artists, that in the Mining Building are to be seen some excellent samples of Canadian ores, and that in other departments such as live stock and farm and dairy products, Canada is well represented. But these exhibits are divided among various buildings and therefore do not impress the visitor as would a collective exhibit in one building. At least half the available space in the Canadian Building might profitably have been used for small, attractively arranged exhibits which would have served to give the visitor a bird's-eye-view of Canada's resources and development in a dozen or twenty different lines, and a measurably accurate idea of her advantages as a place of residence. People of refinement are loth to remove to a raw country, and it is to be feared that the character of many of the exhibits which we have made at foreign exhibitions has been such as to convey the idea that Canada is that kind of a country. Perhaps the best method of removing any such false impressions would be to inaugurate in Toronto on a suitable scale a Dominion Exhibition, and invite foreigners to come and see for themselves the beauty and capabilities of our country and the skill of our people.



REFERENCE has been made on

The Toronto Building by-laws.<article title=" The Toronto Building by-laws " author="">

for a thorough revision and compilation of the enactment's of the Toronto City Council for many years past with respect to the erection of buildings. The legislation on this subject has been of a fragmentary character, extending over at least a quarter of a century. When enacted the various bylaws were printed separately on sheets or in pamphlet form. No attempt was made at compilation in one volume. Many of the by-laws are now entirely out of print, and architects, builders and others are consequently unable to learn what are the provisions of the laws which are supposed to govern the construction of buildings. Such has been the confusion which has existed for many years past, that even the officials whose duty it was to see that the laws were observed, were unable to interpret them. The condition of affairs is well illustrated by the fact that there is declared to be no restriction to prevent the erection of factories, livery stables and such like constructions on the most choice residential streets. We have in mind an instance in which the rear wall of a six or seven story block has been built close alongside a well designed and cozy home on an attractive west end street. The owner of this home is thus without warning deprived of beautiful surroundings and much of the actual value of his property. Something might be accomplished if the present shameful condition of things were pressed upon the attention of the council by a joint deputation from the Ontario Association of Architects, the Guild of Civic Art, the Builders' Exchange and real estate interests. It will be remembered that some years ago a new building by-law was drafted and submitted to the council by the O.A.A., and that was the last that was ever heard of it. Although it involved the arduous labor for many months of a committee of the leading architects of the city, it apparently never got beyond the pigeon-hole in some city official's desk. If the council have not the time or disposition to grapple with this important matter themselves, it is due to the many interests affected, that following the example of the city council of Montreal, they should avail themselves of the work which has already been done by public spirited citizens.

NOTES FROM THE PAN-AMERICAN EXPOSITION.

<article title=" NOTES FROM THE PAN-AMERICAN EXPOSITION " author="">

As comparison with the World's Fair seems to be inevitable for any one who writes about the Pan-American, this comparison may be made—that the Buffalo Exhibition, from the comparatively small space it occupies is, as a study, more within the range of practical politics. Its area of 350 acres is not far beyond the area necessary and feasible for permanent exhibition grounds, and a study of the sources of its beauty is likely to have practical application in the question, which is a live one, how to improve such grounds.

The popular cry all summer has been about the color scheme" and the illuminations. Both are in consequence somewhat disappointing.

After so much talk we expect to find the " Rainbow City " a striking exhibition of color ; but it is not. The color is harmonious and pleasing, but not bright. One does not think of the buildings as colored. They are not white, that is all. And being neither white nor colored—essentially colored that is to say—-they are in that respect out of touch with the spectacular idea they class, in appearance, with the permanent monuments of architecture and are so far, in spite of their beauty, imperfect. The buildings of the World's Fair were criticized by the French as crudely academic. The more freely designed French Fair buildings may be as good or better, (it is hard to judge from such illustrations as we see,) but it certainly seems, in recollection, as if the very academic character of the Chicago buildings, and their improbable whiteness, was the source of their success. They were an abstraction something outside of ordinary experience ; the sort of buildings that are usually left to painters or poets, "who," as Bacon says, " build at small cost."

The designers of the Buffalo Exhibition adopted color as part of their plan, with the avowed intention of making a variation from the effect of the Chicago buildings But to compete with the Chicago buildings

