<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	59

BUILDING CONTRACTS FROM A BUILDER'S POINT OF VIEW. *

<article title=" BUILDING CONTRACTS FROM A BUILDER'S POINT OF VIEW " author="">

In the olden days it was, as you know, the custom for the architect personally to superintend the erection of his own work, and so now, if perfect work is to he produced, it is essential that the architect and builder should be in sympathy one with other, so that the true spirit of the design may he carried out. To ensure absolute perfection in workmanship, only approximate prices should be given, and the work executed upon a percentage upon cost basis, or at day-work prices. Either of these courses from a builder's standpoint may be considered ideal, and as such would not commend itself to the ordinary commercial proprietor, who, on the average, has far more consideration for his pocket than for architectural effect. There can, however, I think be no doubt that in the majority of cases bad workmanship is the result of low prices and strained relations between architect and builder, and when this fact is fully realized, and architects make up their minds to minimize competition to fair and reasonable proportions, and also make the condition under which the builder has to work as easy and comfortable as possible then, I think, they will find very little cause to complain either as to the quality of the workmanship or the manner in which it is

executed.



To a builder the two most important factors in connection with building contracts are the conditions or form of contract, and the bill of quantities. If the former is fair and reasonable and the latter correct and explicit, he may (should he know his business),with ordinary luck, rely upon getting through his work without losing any money, and if the conditions under which the contract is taken happen to be favorable and the competition not too keen, he may make a profit. Losses on contracts outside those occasioned by sheer misfortune, can, in nearly all instances, he traced to certain causes, and in the majority of cases these are (1) misconception of the conditions of contract hereby you contract to carry out considerably more than on bargained for ; or (2) inexplicitness on the part of the quantity surveyor. Speaking in this connection, cases have come to my own knowledge where surveyors have been instructed in certain instances to make their quantities as inexplicit as possible, with a view to deceiving the competitors, and so keeping down the amount of the tender. I am pleased, however, to say, in the instances referred to, that the surveyors did not follow their instructions. With regard to the form of contract, for my own part 1 much prefer a sheet of notepaper saying that I am prepared to do certain work for a certain sum, to an architect's satisfaction, and specifying the terms of payment. It is obvious however, that in a large number of cases, and with most people this course would be unwise, and that a properly drawn form of contract is preferable, setting forth in precise terms what is agreed upon. Originally these contracts were drawn on behalf of the building owner by his solicitor, paid, I presume, so much per folio ; the innocent builder of the days of our youth, confiding as a child, would not employ a solicitor to look after his interests, and being anxious to get the work would sign anything he was asked. As a consequence we have handed down to us forms of contract, which, I think I am safe in saying, many of us have signed without reading, and even if read, not understood, and which, if we had

Abstract of a paper read by Mr. Frank Cowlin before the British Society of

Architect

been legally held to them, would have resulted in our seeking fresh woods and pastures new. In recent years, however, this is changed, and although we are continually being asked to sign many different forms of contract, there is rarely much trouble in getting architects to see that there are two sides to every question, and that the builder is every bit as much in need of protection as the building owner. It is extremely rare for any contract now to be put before a builder which does not contain an arbitration clause, and vet fifteen or twenty years ago any man that asked for such a thing was regarded as a dangerous individual. It is strange that builders should have for such a long time existed without such a clause, and this may well be regarded as an example of their easy and tractable nature. All other contracts between business men invariably contain it, and, to my mind, in the building trade, with its many complications, it is all the more necessary, and as much from the employer's point of view as the builder's. The general impression seems to have been that unless the builder was entirely in the power of the architect, disputes would constantly be arising. Time, however, has proved differently, and as the insertion of the clause protects builders from unprincipled architects or so-called architects, it has also the effect of causing the exercise of more care on the part of the employers and architects in the conduct of their works.

Many architects adopt forms of their own. These, experience has taught me to be careful of, and always, if possible, avoid signing. With two such forms as those already referred to there is no necessity to go any further.

Speaking of forms of contract generally, the principal points the builder has to consider are (1) time clause

(2)	terms of payment ; (3) inability of proprietor to pay (4) liability for acts of other persons or things ; (5) maintenance clause . (6) arbitration clause.

As to the time clause, In the majority of cases this is more honored in the breach than the observance, and for the reason that the time is named without thought, and in most instances is altogether inadequate. Considerable dissatisfaction is caused to the proprietor who cannot understand reasons for delay, and is therefore more anxious to get from the contractor damages to which he is not entitled. It is most decidedly to a contractor's interest to get his work done as quickly as possible ; and for the benefit of all concerned a reasonable time should be appointed in which the work can fairly be executed, and to this both the contractor and architect should be held, delays in many instances arising as much from dilatoriness on the part of the architect as on the part of the contractor.

In reference to the terms of payment. From time immemorial it has been usual to pay eighty per cent. on the value of the work executed and fixed in its place. Since this arrangement was instituted the times have considerably altered, and it is impossible for a builder now to obtain the same terms from merchants and manufacturers that he got eight or ten years ago. Then it was usual to be allowed on most goods four or six months' credit, and on timber six months, whilst in several cases twelve months' accounts were allowed. Now all timber, iron, stone, bricks, and, in fact, by far the largest portion of the materials used in a building, have to be paid for in a month following delivery, whilst in a few favored cases a three months' account is allowed. This you see, means practically a cash business so that

