<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

MANITOBA CORRESPONDENCE.

<article title=" MANITOBA CORRESPONDENCE " author="">

Most of us no doubt have frequently heard the expression, "The unexpected is sure to happen." When all things seem to be running smoothly a break occurs and the whole machinery is out of gear. This in some measure illustrates what has been taking place in this city during the past weeks.

It was news to most of us that there was any trouble between the carpenters and the contractors, and we were looking forward to a good season's work free from strikes or any of those labor clouds which sometimes darken the horizon and obscure the sky of building prosperity.

To measure up and make a fair estimate of the whole subject is not an easy matter. Whichever way the scale may turn there is always the other side to reckon with, so that it is necessary to handle a contention of this nature with great care and intentional impartiality.

We find that a large number of the carpenters have been on strike for the past two months. They contend that they are not paid enough for their labor, and we think in a measure their contention is grounded on a good foundation. That the better class of mechanics in this branch of the building trade should be paid a higher rate of wages is we think allowed by all fair judges of such things, but there seems to be a desire on the part of the men to obtain a high standard wage for very inferior labor.

A man should be paid what he is worth and the times will allow, but good men should not be placed on a plane with inferior men, and to ask for such men 40 cents per hour with the addition of 10 cents, 20 cents or even higher per hour for over time, is out of the question. There is a large amount of unskilled labor in the market, useful and necessary no doubt in its place. but it should be remembered that this labor should not expect to receive the same wage that high-class labor can command 

Some two years ago a carpenters' strike took place here which ended in an arbitration, and the terms were that the minimum wage was to be 27 1/2 cents per hour. This arrangement the men say was not satisfactorily carried out by the contractors. This may or may not have been the case, but the jump from 27 1/2 cents to 40 cents per hour as the minimum wage, is in our estimation too great. Nor do we think the men ever expect to get this, but are really working and striking for the purpose of getting the contractors to acknowledge and treat with their union, which the contractors on their part say they will not do. So the matter rests, and in the meantime men are out of employment, work is delayed, some of it being put off for another season, while a bitter feeling to some extent is growing up between employees and employers.

We think the men as a body made some mistakes from their own stand point. The time selected was not a right or proper time to fix matters of this kind. It should be done before work starts, which would be fair and right to all. Public sympathy would be more likely to follow them than at the present time. Again the effort does not seem to have been a united one on the part of the whole trade, and consequently cannot expect to be the success it otherwise might have been.

Besides as has been stated the minimum wage is set too high, and to make this a lever to compel contractors to acknowledge a union which has no standard of excellency, but only a standard of membership, is bad in principle.

As to the contractors we think some action should be taken by them to try and arrange on a fair basis disagreements regarding wages. Men should be paid a proper remuneration for a fair day's work, good men should be encouraged by good payment, for the class of work done, so that by this means a higher standard may be obtained. If the arrangement of two years or so ago has not been carried out in a fair or honorable manner, then we say it should be, and no advantage should he taken of workmen who have their labor to sell.

A fair and honorable dealing between employer and employees will conduce to a better state of feeling and assist to bring about that happy time when strikes shall be a thing of the past.

Since the above was written the strike has been declared off by the men, but with the notification that the same demand will he made early in the coming year. We cannot estimate on what may or may not take place in the future, but we think the demands of the men must be somewhat altered before they are likely to be accepted by the contractors. We trust that for their own good the men will see this and that another strike will be averted.

The building trade has not been very brisk this fall for some reason or other ; we presume the strike has much to do with it. Work let early in the season is being wound up, so that from what may be seen just now building operations will close early.

In our rambles we have noticed in a brick building now nearly completed that there has been adopted a certain class of iron construction. In fact almost the whole work above the basement has been carried on iron girders supported on cast-iron round or box columns. Does it not seem bad practice at this date to depend on cast-iron to support a heavy building? Is there not danger in case of fire? These supports may become heated to such an extent that a stream of cold water striking them would cause fracture, and thus endanger the safety of the structure. From the position of these supports it would seem out of the question to cover them with a proper fire proof covering. Cast-iron unprotected does not seem to be the safest way of supporting bricks and mortar.

During the past summer there have been some heavy rain storms in this city, when such an amount of water fell that some of the sewers were not large enough to carry off the flood, and in consequence the water backed up in the cellars, and in one instance we know of the pressure of the water was such as to lift the cement floor at the centre. On investigation to find the cause of this unusual occurrence it was found that the cover of the catch basin was closed and weighted down by goods, and that the water not having this outlet, spread through the weeping drains, penetrated under the floor and exerted sufficient pressure to lift the cement top and crack

it.	The question arises should a rain tall of such exceptional character be taken into calculation when figuring up the capacity of sewers to carry off flood water. To work on the basis of an average rain fall would not meet the case, so we presume the only way is to run chances as a thing of this kind may not occur for years. Still it is a factor in general sewer construction, we might do well to consider and in some way arrange for.

Winnipeg, October 5th 1901.

