<doctype type="text">60	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



it is impossible to carry on anything like a large establishment on the old conditions. According- to the terms of all contracts, all materials delivered on the ground become the property of the proprietor, and therefore they should be taken into consideration when the certificate is granted, and payment should be made on account of them. This you may say is liable to abuse in the case of a shaky builder, but by the exercise of some care and tact on the part of the clerk of works and architect in the granting of certificates, I fail to see how any difficulty can arise, and in any case the proprietor is protected as he has the goods, and also the margin of the reserve. With regard to the percentage to be paid, this should, I think, he increased to 90 per cent. If 8o per cent. was the standard twenty years ago, the manifest change in the conditions of trade since and thc increase in competition and decrease in profits, fully justifies one in asking for the 90 per cent. Wages have to he paid weekly, and form, roughly speaking, 50 per cent. of a builder's turnover, and this, with the shortened terms of credit, make it most difficult to finance a builder's business ; so much so, that no matter how profitable a business you may be transacting, you find it impossible to get on without borrowing from your bankers for which luxury you have to pay pretty dearly.

As to the amount of the reserve. This, of course, varies with the amount of the contract, hut for contracts up to 10,000]., 10 per cent. is, I think, now a generally accepted amount. Beyond that sum, it is a matter of arrangement. Personally I fail to see the necessity of a large reserve or the need of retaining it for any length of time. Much, of course, depends upon the character of the builder, but in ordinary cases I think it is fair to pay half of the reserve at the completion and the remainder at the settlement of the accounts, retaining some nominal sum for a further period of three months, sufficient to make good any defects that might occur in that time. Such an arrangement as this would be an incentive to builders to get their accounts squared up quickly, and much inconvenience and trouble to architects would be said.



The next clause of importance is one which should make the proprietor liable to pay within a reasonable time after the deposit of the certificate. This is a point which is a very sore one with builders. They are expected to perform their part of the contract, but it is not at all unusual to find that after haying obtained (may be, after considerable trouble) a certificate for a payment on account, it takes a further four or five weeks to obtain payment. A clause to protect builders in such cases should he introduced in all contracts as I am glad to say it is in the forms issued by the builders and the Royal Institute of British Architects. Much trouble and annoyance would be saved also if a clause were inserted whereby payments are to be made at stated intervals, no matter how small or great, then the proprietor would be prepared to meet the certificates as they are presented. The next clause I wish to touch upon is one making the contractor liable for any loss or damage whatsoever to the premises from whatever cause arising and until the expiration of the term of maintenance, and is often introduced into contracts other than those I mentioned. The contractors' liability should cease, as far as loss or damage is concerned, when the buildings are completed and handed over. The maintenance clause I have already touched upon. It is one in which a great deal is left to an architect to decide, and when

he happens to be weak and the proprietor is strong the position of the builder is uncomfortable.

There are two clauses in a form of contract drawn up and used by an eminent firm of architects which are I think worthy of your consideration. The first is the reference clause, which is as follows

"The architects shall, during the progress of the works, have the powers above described, and shall be the sole judges in all matters relating thereto as to the interpretation of the drawings and specification as to the execution, condition, and extent of the work from time to time actually executed, as to the quality of the materials used, or to he used in and about the several works, and as to the degree of dispatch with which the works should be conducted and carried on, and in all matters of account connected therewith, and as to any question which may arise as to the progress and conduct of the works or deviation from the specification and drawing, and in respect thereof, their decision shall be final. But in case after the building shall be completed any dispute or difference shall arise between the employer or the architects on his behalf, and the contractor in respect of the contract or of anything connected therewith or relating thereto or to any additional works or variations thereon or as to what addition, if any, ought in fairness to he made to the amount payable to t lie contractor by reason of the works haying been delayed through no default of the contractor or by reason or on account of any directions or requisitions of the architects, involving- increased cost to the contractor beyond the cost properly attending the works according to the true intent and meaning of the signed drawings and specification or as to the construction of these presents, such difference shall he referred to the arbitration of



The point I particularly wish to refer to is that portion which says, '' or as to what addition, if any, ought in fairness to be made to the amount payable to the contractor by reason of the works having been delayed through no default of the contractor or by reason or on account of any directions or requisitions of the architects involving increased cost to the contractor beyond the cost properly attending the works executed according to the true intent of the signed drawings and specifications."

Contractors are continually being- put to considerable expense by the causes enumerated above, and although it must be patent to both architect and clerk of works that they are fairly entitled to it, I have only once in my own experience heard of an architect granting such a sum, except under pressure. It should be distinctly understood in such cases that a builder is to be paid what is fair and reasonable, and this should he left to the architect., and failing him, arbitration.

The second clause in the private form of contract referred to is as follows

''Notwithstanding anything herein before contained the contractor shall not be responsible for the act, default, or omission of any other contractor employed by the employer in or about the execution of any of the works comprised in the specification or in or about the execution of any other works upon the site."

This speaks for itself, and 1, speaking from very bitter experience, can testify to its importance.

The preparation of estimates is a most. serious thing-in a builder's business. Unless he is in a very large way he has to do most of the pricing himself, and when one considers the time this occupies and the number of

