<doctype type="text">218	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

with changed conditions in building. The '' root-tree" is not confined to wooden houses, but it is changed into a flag for other buildings.

WORKMEN AND LIQUOR

<article title=" WORKMEN AND LIQUOR " author="">

In this connection it is interesting to note the important part that donations of liquor have played in building in the American colonies, especially in those which had a large proportion of Dutch settlers. It was long a standing complaint that the most onerous part of the expense in church-building was the enormous bill for '' drinks" for the workmen. A detailed example is found in the bills for the erection of the first stone house in Albany, in 1656 This was a government house or fort, and it cost about 700. When the old wooden fort on the site was torn down, a ton of strong beer was furnished to the workmen. When the first stone of the new edifice was laid, 33 quarts of brandy and 32 guilders' worth of other liquor were called for by the workmen and duly served. So much as a start for the masons. The turn of the carpenters came when the cellar beams were laid. They were satisfied with two barrels of strong beer three cases of brandy and a barrel of beer. There was no chance for dry rot to attack these beams for they had all been ''wet" previous to laying. They were stacked up without the walls and were brought inside one by one by eight men, as they were wanted For each beam carried these men were given half a barrel of beer and there were thirty—three beams in all ! All of the teamsters, wood-carriers, carpenters, stonecutters and masons had a gill of brandy and three pints of beer a piece at dinner, besides special treats. This did not satisfy them, however, and they '' struck'' for another daily pint of beer. When the roof-tree was set in place, the carpenters were satisfied with a half barrel of beer, surely a most modest demand. Under the name of ''tiles beer" a half barrel went to the tile setters. A winding staircase was a feature of the fort, and when this was finished five guilders' worth of liquor gave the workmen the necessary winding gait to test it.



One—eighteenth of the cost of the building went down thc throats of the workmen ! Fortunately, the building customs have changed from those strenuous times, or only brewers would be able to build houses



ACID RESISTING COMPOSITIONS.

<article title=" ACID RESISTING COMPOSITIONS " author="">

1.	A composition for lining pipes or tanks, which resists nitric and sulphuric acids, both strong and dilute, consists of a paste, not made too thick, of silicate of potash of 30 deg. B, and powdered pumice. This also forms an excellent cement for glass.

2.	A mixture resisting strong acids can be made by making 2 lbs. of powdered asbestos and 1 lb. of barytes

first thoroughly mixed into a paste with silicate of soda of 50° deg. B. For weak acids the silicate of soda is used of 30 deg. B strength.

3.	A composition which will stand hot strong nitric acid can be prepared by making a mixture of 2 lbs. of the finest and purest sand and 2 lbs. of asbestos (finely powdered) into a paste, with 4 lbs. silicate of soda.

4.	A mixture obtained by fusing together equal weights of gutta-percha and solid Paraffin, over a gentle fire, resists both acids and alkalies, even when concentrated.

5.	To resist strong boiling sulphuric acid fuse together 100 lbs. of caoulchouc and 8 lbs. of tallow,

adding enough slaked lime to make a moderately stiff paste, and then adding 20 lbs. of vermilion to every 100 lbs. of the paste, to hasten the drying of the corn position.

6.	Soaking wood with hot fused solid paraffin, if thoroughly done, makes it proof to cold acids and alkalies, even when they are concentrated, but a still better application for wood consists of a mixture of 8 lbs. of colophony and 2 lbs. of gutta-percha, fused together with a little boiled oil. The wood is repeatedly coated with this and thoroughly dried before use.

7.	Another coating consists of a paste of 2 lbs. of gutta-percha scraps, got by fusing them with 6 lbs. of  finely powdered pumice. When the mixture is still hot 12 lbs. of Burgundy pitch are added to it. This mixture will not resist cyanides.

<article title=" WOOD DRIED BY ELECTRICITY " author="">

WOOD DRIED BY ELECTRICITY.

The following description of a new method of quickly drying wood for building and manufacturing purposes is described by United States Consul Mahin of Reichenberg, Austria: The green wood is placed in a large wooden (rough, whose bottom is covered with a lead plate, which is connected with the positive pole of an electric battery. Covering the wood is the second lead plate, which forms the negative poic. The wood is then subjected to a bath in a solution composed of 10 per cent. rosin and 73 per cent. soda. Under the influence of the electric current the sap is drawn out of the wood and rises to the surface, the solution being absorbed by the wood. The operation requires from five to eight hours. The wood is then allowed to dry for about two weeks, when it is ready for use ; or the drying can be done artificially in a much shorter time.

<article title=" NEW WAY TO MAKE LIME " author="">

NEW WAY TO MAKE LIME.

Scientific men have just completed at Rockland, Me., an investigation of a new process of burning lime, which, it is asserted, will revolutionize Rockland's chief industry, in that it will reduce the price of making lime from 50 to 75 per cent. Prof. Carleton Ellis, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ; William 0. Webber, a Boston expert, and John C. Combs, of Boston, have been there conducting tests at the kilns of Bryant & Kent. At the conclusion of their work they expressed themselves as entirely satisfied with the results obtained. By the new method, which is known as the '' Eldred process," a cheap grade of coal is used, where heretofore wood has been necessary to get the best lime. It is said to be a new discovery in the science of thermodynamics by which the volume and temperature of combustion are controlled. A flame of low heat intensity, thirty feet long, is produced, by which a cask of lime is made with thirty pounds of coal.

<article title=" THE PAINTING OF SHINGLE ROOFS " author="">

THE PAINTING OF SHINGLE ROOFS.

More shingle roots are painted now than ever before in the history of building in this country, says an exchange. It is mostly seen in cities and suburban towns, although in the country it is by no means rare. Considerable inquiry has led to the conclusion that many have their roofs painted to add to their appearance, which in many cases it certainly does, while others labor under the impression that the paint acts as a preservative to the shingles. The latter are probably right, provided the paint is renewed as often as it

