<doctype type="text">210	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

and kept within moderate cost, while at the same time showing character in design which will make them attractive and interesting to the beholder. In striving to secure this result, however, architects should be careful to see that the purpose which the building is intended to serve is expressed in the design. No doubt the reader has seen, as we have, factories which looked like public libraries and water works, pumping stations that had the appearance of banks.

coal with which to produce heat. How much better it would be to have the gas produced and supplied ready for use from a central station, as in the case of illuminating gas. In view of the constant reduction in demand for illuminating gas, it max- eventually be that the gas companies will supply gas of a lower grade for heating and cooking purposes, which by means of apparatus on the premises can be so enriched as to be also adapted for lighting when required.

<article title=" A Prosperous Season " author="">

A Prosperous Season

The building season now drawing to a close has in most localities, and

particularly in Toronto, been marked by unusual activity. From Winnipeg in the west to Sydney in the east., building improvement has been advancing rapidly and on a large scale. This activity is the reflex of the commercial prosperity which is at present everywhere visible, and which it is gratifying to know shows no signs of abatement. The building industry which so intimately depends upon sound financial conditions, seems likely to enjoy a further period of prosperity. The rapid growth of our manufacturing industries has necessitated the erection of many new factories throughout the country, and these have resulted in improvements in other directions. For example, as the result of the introduction of beet growing and beet sugar factories, land in some towns in Western Ontario is reported to have doubled in price, and many new buildings will bc the outcome of the increased stimulus which these towns have received. In Toronto, in addition to the large new hotel on King street, several new banks and insurance buildings have been erected and a large amount of residency work of good character has been done. With few exception the architects have had their hands full of work, and in some instances have found great difficulty in procuring office assistants, which, as already stated, indicates that the season has been an unusually busy one all over the Dominion and continent. The increase of population in Toronto has wiped out the effects of the overbuilding done a few years ago, so that houses are



in steady and urgent demand. Desirable office accommodation is also at a premium, and the coming year

likely to witness the erection of one or more large office buildings.



Great improvements have been effected in recent years in apparatus and

methods of heating buildings. By means of various present day systems it is possible to maintain an equable temperature of say 70 degrees throughout all parts of a building with the outside temperature at zero, thus ensuring a high degree of comfort in winter even in a cold climate. The ideal condition will not have been reached, however, while coal continues to be employed as fuel, involving as it does so much labor. The inroads which electricity has made as a competitor of gas for interior lighting, has induced the gas companies to encourage the use of gas for cooking purposes. So profitable have been the results in this direction that the loss of a large lighting business is regarded with a degree of complacency. It is to be hoped that the gas companies will go a step further and furnish the means whereby gas could be used instead of coal for the heating of buildings. At present every building is a gas works on a small scale, having in the basement a furnace and system of pipes and a pile of

Heating Methods.

The Commercial Age<article title=" The Commercial Age " author="">

Commercialism is stamped upon almost everything- today, This age will probably be known in history as the Commercial Age. The people generally are so engrossed in money-making that the accomplishment of great things in other lines is scarcely to be expected. Almost every article used or worn is made by machinery, much of it by automatic machinery designed to produce the greatest quantity with the least expenditure of time and cost. The occupation of the skilled workman is to a large extent gone. Young men with original ability to make good carpenters are put to feed a machine, and as a natural result in time themselves become machines without the ability to devise or execute any work requiring the use of either brains or skill. May we not expect that after two or three generations of such men shall have passed the standard of intelligence and ability will have sunk to a deplorable level ? Already complaint is heard from architects and builders of the difficulty of securing skilled workmen capable of doing the finer and more important features of their work. One after another the older workmen trained in Europe are dropping out of the ranks, and none are found qualified to succeed them. Opportunity is no longer afforded youths of acquiring knowledge of a trade. In the shops and factories of to-day the work is specialized to the greatest possible degree, and machinery employed wherever possible. Everything is sacrificed to cheapness of production and individuality, ambition and skill on the part of the workman finds little encouragement. Is it any wonder that there is so much that is not genuine in the construction and finishing of modern buildings ? The stores are filled with shoddy goods for example furniture, which is a cheap and nasty imitation of honest wood and covering which could not be sold for double the price. The taste of the masses of the people is being perverted, and they arc encouraged by means of these cheap and showy wares to enter into foolish and ridiculous competition in mode of living with their neighbors and people with larger resources. Out of this competition has sprung the instatement plan stores, which are the worst offenders against frugal and common—sense living. It is undoubtedly true that the cheapened cost of production of many articles due to the increased use of labor-saving machinery has placed these articles within reach of and added to the comfort of the masses. Against this, however, must be placed the degeneracy of the artisan and the perversion of taste already referred to.



Mr. Andrew Carnegie is said to have given away up to date the sum of $11,254,500 towards the erection of public libraries.



The funny man of the Toronto Star rises to remark that those new elevators in the parliament building will be used when they wish to give a measure the six months' hoist.

Mr. Thos. M. Morgan, whose cement works at Longue Point, Que., were recently damaged by fire, claims that the concrete walls built two years ago came out of the fire almost intact.

