<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



PRESENT CONDITION OF THE BUILDING INDUSTRY.

<article title=" PRESENT CONDITION OF THE BUILDING INDUSTRY " author="">

Mr. Thomas Blashill, the late superintending architect to the London County Council, recently read a paper before the Surveyors' Institution on ''The Present Condition of the Building Industry."

lie insisted on the radical difference between the crafts that make up the building industry and the class of solitary trades and manufacturers. The architect, the mason and the carpenter were not isolated artists like the sculptor or coppersmith, and should any worker not understand his fellows or not look beyond his own department to the scheme as a whole, or should he act stupidly or maliciously, the whole must suffer.

The modern builder on a large scale should have a fancy for machinery and be ready to seize on improvements. So far as practicable, improved conditions of labor in the shop were being applied on the building, but it was not certain how far in London this was due to native smartness, or the example of Scotland and the North, or the pertinacity of American inventors.

In discussing the English builder of to-morrow it was impossible to ignore the work of the American builder of to-day, who was a constructional engineer. With us a first-class city building might rise at the rate of one storey in three weeks ; a New York building of which a model was shown in the Paris Exhibition shot up through its ordinary and plainest storeys at the rate of two storeys a week, and in the artistic upper and lower storeys the rate could not have been much slower than one per week.

Coming to the subject of the building operative, Mr. Blashill paid a tribute to the skill of the old artificer in wood and stone, and then referred to the depressing effects of time-wages, and the fixate of position of such men without reasonable expectation of betterment while craftsmen, and with no assurance of a comfortable provision against old age. The trade union was a natural engine for accomplishing what the isolated craftsman could not bring about for himself. In regard to the prevention of sweating, questions between payment by time and payment by results played a leading part. Not that in the eyes of the workmen there was anything specially sacred in either ; there were now far more men, trade unionists, paid by the piece than by time, and payment by piece was as stubbornly fought for in some cases as payment by time in others. What really was the fair day's work of which the fair day's

wage was the equivalent ?	''Labor" was often con

fused with ''time," with mischievous results.		Not

workmen only, but the rest of us, got. into a habit of talking about our ''time" as if it were something valuable by which money ought to be made. But mere time was worthless to anyone except the owner, if even to him. What. the employer really bought was so much improvement to the material he put before the workman as might reasonably be expected to be done in the time by which the payment was calculated. This was simply measurement by the town clock instead of by the 5 foot rod, and if a day's work were a fixed quantity the clock would measure it as accurately and much more conveniently that any scale of feet and inches. Yet, on this side the Atlantic, no workman, no employer, no public authority had seriously attempted to apply in our own industry any kind of measurement, even the rudest to the ''day's work" itself. Surely the Chicago plumber's method of declaring how

much he would do in seven hours and then claiming the right to do it in five with seven hours' pay was in principle honest arid fair. The desire to have an easy time was common among time workers of every class, but a more serious matter than mere idleness was the deliberate loitering of which employers had long complained. There was also the important question of work lost to trades by changes in modes of construction, apart from the policy of' employers or employed. Thus, the demand for fire resisting construction has already affected the carpenter very seriously. Mason's work, which for a time recovered its place after a long struggle with imitative cement, had now to compete with cut brickwork and terra-cotta ; it was said that a this change was due to a mason's strike. In the case of the plasterer, such disputes were dangerously interesting. There were a dozen substitutes for plaster- none perhaps quite satisfactory, but a single architect was now using one of them by the acre—and he had let slip the artistic and interesting branch of his work. On brickwork, which seemed least liable to be supplanted, concrete was encroaching fast—concrete that just failed to become a dangerous substitute twenty years ago, when brickwork was hardly more than half its recent price.

Apprenticeship of the old pattern, in which the youth was hound for seven years, during two or three of which he learnt very little and was of little use, was vanishing with other mediaeval customs. The workmen deemed it necessary for their own protection to limit much more stringently than formerly the admittance of apprentices ; indeed in some trades it was practically impossible to get a boy apprenticed unless he was the son of a man in the trade. The position of the building operative has been improving, and there was no reason why he should not, like the poorly paid French artisan or the doubly paid American, leave his work at night in a condition as to dress and general appearance good enough for any company into which lie might care ago. We were as yet only at an early stage in technical education; at presents it was necessary to see that public money was spent only on such as had actually entered their trade, but this was not a rule without exceptions, and the knowledge of tools and processes must very soon become as common as the knowledge of arithmetic. In conclusion, Mr. Blashill asked why all those engaged in the building industry should not learn the different crafts that composed it in the same school and at the same bench, at least so far as they had to travel together. The workmen would leave comparatively early in the journey and the rest at stages which preference or necessity might dictate. But so far as they might journey together they would he learning the very same things. They would understand each other for the rest of their Jives, and it one who might have started with lower ambitions should find his way into the higher grades of the industry, it was not the class to which the speaker belonged that would begrudge him the success he had earned.



RECENT PATENTS.



James H. Crosbie, of Niagara Falls, Ont., has been granted a  Canadian patent for a composition for crystallizing the exposed surface of bricks.



A patent has been granted to the Metallic Roofing Co., of Toronto, for a roofing tool.



Effective advertising is the kind that is always fresh and interesting. If there are several things to talk about, talk about one at a time, and talk about it so that it will make an impression. Don't say the same old things over and over in the same old way.

