<doctype type="text">40	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DESIGN IN MODERN ARCHITECTURE.*

<article title=" DESIGN IN MODERN ARCHITECTURE " author="Wright, C. H. C.">

By C. H. C. WRIGHT.

My excuse for taking up this subject at the present time, if any excuse is necessary, is the remark made frequently from the platform and through the press, that we are without any architecture, and that everything, of today is copied. It is also a subject which I believe will provoke discussion and prove useful on that account.

In part then the, object of this paper is to bring forth of itself and by discussion ideas which shall not only he profitable to us as members of this Association, but may also cause the general public to think somewhat differently of our work.

First, then, let me state a number of points, which you are all familiar with, but which under the circumstances will bear repetition.

All building is not architecture, any more than all writing or language is literature, and it is quite as logical to condemn this latter art because there is so much trash printed, as to condemn architecture because the greater majority of the buildings on King street do not display any art. The same may bc said of any of the arts, and yet these carping critics will in the face of all that is bad admit that we have modern gems of music, of painting, of sculpture, and of literature, and admit further that they may have to travel to hear and see them. But because they cannot from their own windows view the beauties of architecture everywhere, they raise the cry that all types of buildings or to-day are copies and that the two characteristics of modern architecture are. 1st, variety of style, and 2nd, lack of originality. Many aspiring architects have evidently this same deplorable view, for I have been requested on many an occasion to name a good book of architectural recipes. The demand is for something new, some new architectural invention. They say when looking at buildings where thc openings are spanned by beams, i.e. are rectangular, why that is Classic, if round, that is Romanesque if pointed that is Gothic, etc.

If then the openings in our modern work, in order to satisfy their desire for inventions, cannot assume any of these shapes we are limited to no openings, no entrance, no exit, no admission of light, etc. What do these people expect? Is not safe to say that this is but an illustration of the old proverb, " a little knowledge, etc.," or rather, perhaps, a want of consideration on their part. Would not many of these same people give favorable descriptions of many of our modern buildings? Would not most of them find fault with many features of much if not all of the early work? I certainly think that we would get from them as favorable a criticism of a modern building that we might name as of any one building of the early periods chosen by themselves, and for that matter of any dozen or hundred buildings. Again it might be pointed out that we have records of but very few of the buildings of these early periods.

Let us stop this form of discussion and ask ourselves what are we doing and why are we not doing otherwise. We are not living in an age where the church, the state or the monarch (in any form) is all powerful and can on that account divert unlimited wealth or resources in the line of architecture thus resulting in the erection of cathedrals, temples, palaces or castles. But on the contrary we are living in a commercial age—a period in which our art productions in architecture must be considered as investments and reduced to profit and loss in cold coinage.

Our admiration for a building to-day (and 'ye have such admiration for many) depends upon the thought expressed in it, or, in other words, upon thc thought expended in its design, and the greater the power of the mind of the architect who has created or developed the design, the deeper the thought expressed, and consequently the greater the lasting qualifies in the beauty of the creation.

In the first place he must produce a plan that is perfectly suitable for the work intended. This may require a knowledge of the business and business methods of any of our commercial enterprises whose success in this economical age depends upon an almost innumerable number of small arrangements—or conveniences—or facilities for the transaction of such business, knowledge which the architect must obtain by experience not only of himself but from close and careful study, as well as from all the different clients for whom he has done or is doing work. Not only must he provide for this present service, but also for a growth of the enterprise, the rapidity of which is entirely problematical. Thus when an entrance is or may become necessary he provides for one—where light is necessary he admits it boldly, and where light is not wanted he leaves the wall surface whole.

* Paper read before the Ontario Association of Architects at the annual convention held in Toronto on January 29th and 30th, 1901.

The result of this thought is an expression on the exterior, on the facades, of the interior requirements of the business, or of the purpose for which the building was erected. The building. may from its exterior appearance alone declare it to be an armory, a school, a court house, a church, etc. This classification is, however, very superficial, but the more masterly the subject has been treated thc more minute does the classification become and the greater the range of thought expressed. But with this, as with any other art, the refinement in the production requires an equal refinement in the observer in order to be appreciated. In architecture we cannot hope to proceed much faster than we can educate the public to appreciate. It is therefore with feelings of regret that I read in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER of December the following: "The Toronto Industrial Exhibition Association have sent out a circular inviting architects to submit competitive designs for a new main building and several subsidiary buildings. Thc cost of the main building is estimated at $106,000, and of the lesser buildings from $5,000 to $15,000 each. To the author of the accepted design for the main building a prize or $250 IS offered, and to the author of the accepted designs for the smaller buildings prizes of $40 and $50. Architects are required to submit plans, elevations, perspective and brief specifications.'

This sounds like throwing a morsel to a pack of hungry wolves. Have the Industrial Association stopped to think over the above offer, or have they been led to believe in some manner that the above course was all that was necessary? Have these men, who are supposed to be shrewd business men, considered how long they might expect to employ the services of one respectable set of brains for the chances of the prize offered, viz., $250? Have they thought of the mere labor involved in thc production or plans, elevations, perspective and brief specifications?

There is one ray of light however which should be encouraged, and that is their handing the appointment of judges over to the Ontario Association of Architects. For the sake of themselves, for the sake of the city, and for architecture generally it is a great pity that in making the provisions for the competition they did not also take the opinion of the O.A.A., which in matters of this kind is undoubtedly the best authority in Ontario.

Returning to our subject we find that another reason for the beauty in design lies in the careful study of the proportions of the various parts. These proportions cannot be set down in a column like the multiplication table; they are not mathematical but artistic, and are so interdependent that every problem must be studied by itself and the proportions adopted must be such as to give a proper scale and produce a harmony of the whole, a harmony which can only be made complete by a careful arrangement or grouping of these various parts.

In addition to all this, thc material out of which the building is to be erected must receive careful consideration. We havoc on account of the long continued use of brick and stone masonry become accustomed to thick walls, to deep reveals at the windows and doors. And the time was when this was a necessity, the eye required it. This however is passing if not already passed. Steel is in such common use to-day that the mind is fully convinced of the stability of the thin wall, of the narrow reveal. Does it not see in the brick or terra cotta a thin fire-proofing shell? Does it not appreciate that within this shell lies thc bone and sinew, the strength of the building in the form of steel construction? Again, good architecture of to-day is often spoiled by its surroundings, due to our economical ideas; land is too valuable, and occasionally to lack of thought or design, incongruous objects called buildings arc crowded around what would otherwise have given delight. Observe the cathedrals of England how beautifully they nestle among the trees or rear their spires heavenward from the lowlands or again how imposing and boldly they stand on thc tops of elevations of more hilly ground. On the other hand thc cathedrals of France command attention because of their proportions; they dwarf their surroundings into insignificance.

The success of the building scheme of the Worlds Fair at Chicago was largely due, if not. entirely so, to the design of the whole in harmony.

These were Classical buildings, but could they have been copied from a book? Were they mere copies? Certainly not, but rather did they display wonderful thought, power of design (inventive power if you will). The Classical idea arid the harmony might have been attained if all of the buildings had been erected from the one design (copied from the one page of Classical receipts). But their beauty was won because of their fitness for their work, because of the thought expressed in the design of each, because of the harmony in the design of the whole, and last, but by no means least, by the design of their surroundings. These latter were as carefully planned, studied and executed as were the buildings themselves. The extent and form of the grassy lawn, the water ponds with their alder banks, their reflections of the blue heavens and marble buildings, even to the ducks swimming on the surface, all was studied to produce an effect which displayed forethought and power of design that has seldom it ever been excelled, and which won from all sides the loudest of praise. Why is it that after this example so near home our Industrial Association did not profit by the lesson ? Perhaps it is because thc scheme at Chicago was so large. This, however, is no reason why we should not work in a modest way, but ever in the right direction. I havoc no right to speak except as an individual member of this Association, but I feel sure that we are willing to lend this or any other organization a hand with suggestions as to methods which will produce the best architectural results.

I have spoken of buildings as expressing thought and design when the ideas used may have been derived from a variety of sources, a statement which perhaps would be the better of an illustration. An individual may be a good mathematician and

