<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Sect. 15—The following weights per lineal foot for cast iron and lead pipes, are the minimum weights

IRON PIPES.



(Interior measurement)



For Plumbing Work.

	2 inch 4	pounds per lineal foot.

3 inch 6 1—2 pounds per lineal foot.

	4 inch 9	pounds per lineal foot.

5 inch 12 1—2 pounds per lineal foot.

	6 inch 17	pounds per lineal foot.



For Drain Work.



4 inch 13 1—2 pounds per lineal foot.

	5 inch 17	pounds per lineal foot.

	6 inch 20	pounds per lineal foot.

		Lead Pipes.

	1 1—4 inch			1	1—2	pound per lineal			foot.

	I 1-2 inch 2	pounds per lineal foot.

	2	inch 2 1—2 pounds per lineal foot.

2 1-2 inch 4 1-2 pounds per lineal foot.

	3	ineh 5 1—2 pounds per lineal foot.

	4 inch 7	pounds per lineal foot.



For Waste Sink Pipes.



2 inch 10 pounds per lineal foot.

3 inch 15 pounds per lineal foot.

1 ) . Iron pipes shall have their weight stamped upon them.

(2)	. Leadwaste pipes, bends or cess-pools, shall be equal to not less than 6 lbs. per square foot of sheet lead.

( 3) . The fittings used in connection with such pipes shall eorrespond with them in weight and quality.

Sect. 16.—Plumbing work shall not lie uscd unless the same has first been tested in the presence of the Sanitary Inspector, or his representative, with the water test or if that is not practicable) with the peppermint, smoke or oilier reliable test, and if said test is satisfactory, lie shall issue a certificate to that effect.

(1 ) . The Water Department, for the purpose of such test, shall temporarily turn on the water, and shall only

permanently turn on the water. when the certificate of the Inspector is produced.

(2)	. When defective pipes are discovered, they shall be removed and replaced by sound pipes defective joints shall be made tight, and every part of the work in which defrets are found, shall be made to conform to tile present rules.

Sect. 17.—Joints in iron drain soil and waste

pipes,

shall he filled with oakuni and lead, amid hand caulked so as to make them gas tight, auh they shall not be painted, varnished, tarred or puttied the said joints may also be screw joints should the work prove to he satisfactorily executed, the Sanitary Inspector shall grant a certificate to that effect to the person concerned.

Sect. 18.—All connections of lead with iron pipes, shall be made with a brass sleeve or ferrule of the same size as lead pipes, which shall he carried inside the ferrule, put in time hub of tile branch of the iron pipe and caulked with lead and the lead pipe shall be attached to the ferrule by a wiped joint.

All connections of lead pipe shall be by wiped joints.

Sect. 19.—No tile pipe shall be connected with the soil or waste pipe, unless the same he provided with a flange to admit of a proper connection being made.

Sect. 20.—Every water-closet, urinal, sink, basin, wash-tray, bath, and every tub shall he separately and effectively trapped. This rule shall apply to a set of tubs, hut only one trap shall be required for the set.

(1) . Traps shall be placed immediately next to the fixtures, aiid in no case shall they be distant more than two feet from the fixtures.

(2) . There shall be only one trap under the water-closet and that immediately beneath the same.

Sect. 21.—Tile connection between iron and tile pipes shall be made with the best cement or by ally other means approved by tile Inspector.

Sect. 22.-Sinks shall be provided at the inlet of such fixtures, with strong metallic strainers to exclude from such waste pipes all substances likely to obstruct them.

Sect. 23.—In no case shah the waste pipe from a bath,

tul) or other fixture he connected with a water-closet  trap. 

Sect. 24.- Overflow pipes from fixtures shall in every case be connected with tIme inlet side of the trap, and above the water.

l)rip or overflow pipes front the safety pan under water— closets and other fixtures, or refrigerators, or from tanks, other than those of water-closets shall he iliade to run into some place open to sight atid in iio case shall any such pipe he connected directly with the drain, waste or soil pipe.



Sect. 25—-Each water-closet apartment shall he ventilated by means of a shaft or air duet which shall start with not less than 4'' diameter amid increase one inch as it passes each successive flat and exteiid at least three feet above time roof and have a suitable cap.

 (1) . Each water-closet apartmemmt shall he ventilated by imicans of a shaft or air duct, which shall be at least two inches in diameter in rising from time lowest flat, increasing one inch through each successive storey, but must ilot be less than four itiches, in going through the roof, beyond which it must project at least three feet, and be insulated.

( 2 ) . Ventilation may be made through a flue, provided there be no openings in such flue to rooms above_ other than for ventilation of water-closet apartments.

Sect. 2(1.—Every water-closet shall have a cistern supply amid in iio case be supplied directly from the city reservoir supply pipes.

Seet. 27.—In houses containing one, or more than one temleIlietit, there shall be one water-closet for each family, amid a separate cistern for each closet in other buildings, however, a group (If closets may be supplied fronl one tank and there shall he at least one water-closet to' every fifteen inmates.

In buildings where (Iperatives of both sexes are employed, proper separate accommodation shall he furnished for men and women.

Sect. 28-The overflow pipes from water-closet cisterns shall discliatge into ami Open sink, or the basin of time water-closet, or where its discharge will attract attentioii, and indicate whether waste of water is occurring but not into the soil or waste pipe, or iimto the draimi direct.

Sect.29.—Valves must be so fitted amid adjusted as to prevent wasting of water.

Sect. 30.—No privy pit or cesspool for sewage shall hereafter be constructed within the city or any premises situated within 200 feet of any street wherein there is a sewer and wherein the city water is laid nor shall privy pits or cesspools for sewage, presently existing, lie heimee forth permitted, after May ist, 1902, to remain in any

part of tIme city where water-closets can be connected with a public sewer iii time streets.

Proviso. Tile Health Department may, however, in exceptional eases, issue written permits for time toleration

during a period not exceedimi g twelve consecutive months renewable) of privy pits and cesspools for sewage where the nature of the case would make the rigid enforcement of this By-law a detrinment to time public health. In all such eases, the following shall be the method of procedure

1.	Tue owner or agemit of any premises, whereon it is desired to tolerate for a limited period a privy pit or cesspool for sewage, shall lyle, during the month of April each year, a demand in writing upon the Health Departlilent for a temporary permit, alleging therein tIme grounds whereon exception is demamided.

2. The premises in questiomi shall forthwith be inspected by an officer of the Health Department, who shall make a written report eoneermming time same, to the Medical health officer upon time following matters

a.	As to the validity of the reasons a(lvanced by the applicant for tIme exemption frorim the general law

b.	As to the construction amid condition of time privy pit or cesspool for sewage for which tIme permit is asked.

3.	Upon tIme receipt of tIme aforesaid report, time Medical Health Officer, if, in his opinion, time strict enforcement of this law would he detrimental to the health, amid

