<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	77



this mine. The porch is also arranged under the stair landing, with a seat for a messenger under the stairs.

Adjacent to the entrance is the small sanctum. Here, again, something is taken off the square room, which, while improving it rather than otherwise by giving a recess, for desk and pigeon holes, enables us to have a small vestibule with cupboard for visitors' hats and cloaks.

handy to the entrance and to this room is the main coat-cupboard and the lavatory, from which a side door leads to the stable yard, while the butler's pantry completes this north-east side of the little court. Beyond this and behind the living-room, having its fireplace at the back of the living-room fireplace, is placed the kitchen. It occupies the east corner of the house and has its main window to the north-east, the right aspect for a kitchen. There is a small window to the southeast, to light the range and make it a comfortable place for sewing or reading. One corner between fire and window should always be kept free from doors in a kitchen, so that there may be a place to sit in, and it makes a more comfortable kitchen still where it is possible to collect the doors on one side only. Here an arch- way, closed by a heavy curtain when work is done, leads to the scullery, cellar, larder and back door.

The larder has its window in the back porch to get a north aspect, while thorough ventilation is secured by an opening on the south—east up under thc eaves where sun cannot reach it. The cellar was added after the preliminary plans were made, the scullery being re—arranged to receive it. This latter is made to obstruct as little as possible the squint window in the living—room ingle, and at the same time gets a south window, which, as there is no fireplace, is a good aspect for it.

The staircase rises from the corridor, and as it is accessible from all parts without passing the doors of the reception rooms, a back staircase is not needed. Where economy is a consideration the back staircase is one of the first things which may be dispensed with, for it adds little real comfort in proportion to its cost.

The bedroom plan follows pretty closely the ground plan, the bedrooms also leading off a corridor round the inner court. The balcony is repeated on the first floor, and, by reason of the parapet and overhanging eaves, it is even more sheltered than that on the ground floor, and makes it possible in two bedrooms to sleep practically in the open air in almost all weathers. It has special value, too, as an addition to the west room, which is designed for the boys' bedroom and study. here the bed fits in a deep recess out of the way ; a washstand is contrived in the sill of the window of the same recess, which is slightly bayed to give the needful room, and a curtain may be drawn across, cutting off all the special bedroom appliances, so leaving a good comfortable study.

The central court enables the corridor to have opening windows to three aspects, so that some can be opened whatever the direction of the wind ; it also makes it possible to cut on the bathroom, housemaid's closet, and w. c. by means of a lobby having two little windows on to the court.

Of the treatment of the rooms little need be said. The recesses by the chimney breast are fitted with cupboards and book shelves, which are designed to include simple framing or mantels for the fireplaces ; the cornices are arranged to match the cornice over doors and windows and to carry line with a picture—rail running round the

room. Wallpapers or other decorations stop at this rail, all above being taken in with the ceiling. This arrangement enables the ceiling to be broken up with the slopes of the low roofs without giving the ugly odds and ends of papered wall, which really are the only unpleasing feature about a ceiling broken up in that way.

During the whole of the planning the elevations are of course kept in view, and the block design carried away in the mind from the site constantly exerts modifying influence. The difficulty usually is to maintain sufficient simplicity ; so many features are suggested by little conveniences of planning that one has more often to cut them out, not too seek for them merely for the sake of effect..

This plan which we have just considered representing, perhaps, rather a large house to be classed as "small," does not quite illustrate one point to which we attach very great importance iii the designing of small houses. The two plans on illustration page show this—in which a special effort was made to obtain one room (the hall) giving some sense of space in a house not large enough to contain several large rooms. In every small house it should, we think, be a first consideration to secure one room large enough to afford some opportunity for interest being worked into the room itself, and to allow some comfort and dignity in the life of its occupants.

In the house shown the hall was made into the chief living-room and carried tip two storeys to permit the introduction of an organ gallery. The gallery leading to the balcony, the landing, and the staircase are all thrown into this hall, the stairs being so arranged as to afford a screen to the fire, forming a sort of deep ingle with low ceiling under the landing. The low ceiling continues under the organ gallery and the balcony, the central part of the hall being open to the full height. The sense of cosiness in this ingle is greatly enhanced by contrast with the lofty open space outside while the variety in lighting—whether when the morning sun streams in at the great east window, or when the ingle glows red in the gathering dusk—adds a perpetual charm. In the gallery is a second fire with a lounge seat. by the organ under a kind of canopy formed by the half-landing of the second—floor stair.

To obtain this spacious hall the remainder of the house has been reduced as much as possible. Only one other small room, for den or mealroom, is provided, with kitchens, offices and four bedrooms, two of which are on the second floor. It is open to question whether it would not have been a wiser use of the space to have thrown the vestibule also into the hall as was at first intended. Much dignity would have been added to the entrance thereby, while the way from the kitchens to the bedrooms would have been even less through the living parts of the hall than now.

Lest you should be inclined to think that only for people living a very exceptional life would it be advantageous to throw so much space into one room, I will next refer to a design made for a London literary man, who, though not able to afford a large house, still by reason of his position, required occasionally to be able to entertain a good deal of society. here the first consideration has been to obtain a hall which would be at once a comfortable living-room and a dignified entertaining room (see illustration pages). The meal-room has been kept as small as would just allow a little dinner party to be given in it. The fire is placed in one corner,

