<doctype type="text">2	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



clusion of its spirit. Between the pressure of classic tradition on one hand and Gothic revival on the other he took what might be called a resultant line, uniting qualities of both and ending- in work which is both pre— eminently modern and pre-eminently English, and which has many followers who ma with reason call themselves a legitimate product of the movement to be free. William Morris conducted another off-shoot into the way of sound work and has left what seems to be a very active progeny in the Arts and Crafts designers, with whom are affiliated architects of undoubted originality, who at any rate are going to see to the bottom of the question of design. What the Legitimists, Messrs. Bodley, Pearson, Jackson and others have been doing in the way of advance is not so clear in the colonies, but at any rate they seem to gain applause. The Reversionists are, since the success of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, following the lead of Mr. John Belcher into picturesque English Renaissance, distinguished by a freedom which in form has been suggested perhaps by the Gothic Renaissance of Elizabeth, but in spirit has no doubt its origin in the Gothic Revival.





On this continent, up to the time of the American war, or perhaps until Richardson, England was the leader of architectural fashion in the United States as well as in Canada. So late as 1883, when Richardson was near the end of his short career, we find Montgomery Schuyler in Harper's writing to attack the futilities of the Queen Anne designers and deplore the abandonment of Gothic. Since then what waves of fashion ! all of which have their examples duly set down as a record in that museum of architecture, the city of New York. Now American architecture is French, and, according to Mr. Ernest Flagg is to be French. Mr. Flagg, as the apologist, if not the greatest exponent of the style, says it is not the imitation of French architecture but the adoption of its principles that is the motive power of this American School of Architecture. Why the principles of the Italian Renaissance which went out just before the French came in would not do, or what principles French Renaissance has which are different from those of other good architecture is not immediately clear, but probably the explanation is to be found in the fact that this is really a Beaux Arts movement. If it develops as expected, its development will be one of the most interesting movements to watch in the history of modern architecture. At present it is very French. It is a great question whether the real American architecture is not quietly developing elsewhere under the hands of Mr. Wilson Eyre and others. The Philadelphia school seems to have elements of true greatness in it.





Our own history is a reflection from both England and the United States. We have our old colonial houses built by families of the loyalists who migrated from the States to Canada ; we have some examples of the Greek wave, chiefly in the way of early public buildings; we have, just as they have in England, the greatest example of the Gothic revival in our parliament buildings ; we have a typical example of Richardsonian Romanesque in the city hall of Toronto ; hut no French Renaissance as yet. With these acquisitions of buildings and many more we have had little consecutive architectural development. In the last ten years of the century, however, has begun a change so marked in

the relations of architects to one another that there must come from it some result. Time was when the entrance of an architect into the office of another was a signal for covering up the drawings on the drawing boards with newspapers. Now there are associations of architects in three provinces and architects freely discuss in meetings and in each other's offices the problems about which they are thinking. In addition to this, as part of the work of their associations, the architects are furthering the education of students. So that there are signs that the development of architecture in this country is going to begin with the new century.



<article title=" The Designing Of Public Buildings " author="">

IF Architecture in Canada is to have a The Designing Of Public Buildings.

some step should be taken to induce the government to devise a different system from that which has hitherto been in use for the designing of public buildings. The peculiar circumstances which caused Mr. Fuller—an architect of great ability who had nevertheless not established a private practice to be at the disposal of the Public Works Department when they had to appoint a chief architect, are not likely to occur again. Most men of Mr. Fuller's caliber would find it far more profitable to use their skill for the establishment of their private fortune, and the Public Works designer is likely to be always an over driven man working to the least advantage. It is for the best advantage of the country, looking at the question merely from the point of view how to procure the best public buildings for the country, that the designing of public buildings should be distributed to the best designers in the country, selected for evident skill on just the same principle as any large financial corporation would select an architect for its buildings. If that is the case, there will also be some reward for architects who aspire high, and therefore some inducement for such aspiration. So that a matter of this kind would benefit the country both directly and indirectly. Directly by producing the best possible buildings, and indirectly by fostering-the art of architecture.



<article title=" Educational Work the 0. A. A." author="">

IT is important to the success of the Educational Work the 0. A. A.

to be undertaken by the Ontario Association of Architects, that a beginning should he made at as early a date as possible. The work this winter will to a considerable extent be experimental. The suitability of various systems and methods will be tested. The practical experience thereby gained should determine the lines on which the instruction should proceed in the future to accomplish a successful result. One feature which it would seem desirable to incorporate into the teaching system, would be a series of visits by the instructors and students to factories where building appliances and materials are produced, in order that the students may understand the nature of the raw material and the process through which it is made to pass before it is ready for use. Buildings in course of construction should in like manner be visited, that the student may have opportunity to observe the methods of installing and applying the numerous appliances and materials which to-day enter into the construction and equipment of large building-s. Realizing the importance to the student of this phase of education, Mr. Frederick Bachelor, F.R.I.B.A., President of the Architectural Association of Ireland, proposes to organize in Dublin

