<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

ft. 6 in. only can be obtained. Please say if laid to that fall if the drain will act sufficiently.

Allowing for a drop of 3 in. into the disconnecting trap the available fall will be 15 in., or 1 ft. in 57 ft. 8

in. Under these conditions a 6 in. drain will discharge about 300 gals. per minute when flowing full bore, or 150 gals. per minute when only half filled. A four in. drain will discharge about 110 gals. per minute flowing full, or gals. half filled. The circulations are based on the supposition that the drains are properly laid, are clean inside, and clean water or rainwater is flowing through them. If improperly laid, or if the water contains mud and gravel in addition to grease and feocal matter, the discharge will be less than given above.



Bricklayer asks Will you inform me as to the method of putting in a ''dump grate'' in a hearth so that the ashes from the fire-place may be dropped to the cellar, also give me a sketch of the manner of building the proper shape of throat for flue from fire-place, and the manner in which the hearth is carried on brickwork and concrete ?

ANS :—If bricklayer will examine the vertical section of brickwork shown at Fig. 3 he can see the whole construction at a glance. The dump grate is set level with the top of the hearth with room enough underneath to allow the two rings of the dump to play easily. The ash chute is made wide below so as to allow as much room as possible for ashes to fall in. There is























































a door below as shown which opens when ashes are to be removed. This door should be made pretty tight as the least draft upwards would fill the room full of ash dust. The manner of constructing the throat of flue is manifest and should be easily understood. The entrance to the flue should also be narrowed up at the haunches, the bricks corbeled over on the sides of the fire—place as well as on the back so that the opening of the throat at the flue should be quite narrow. The throat and flue should be well parged and made smooth throughout.

Builder writes We wish to erect a flag pole 75 or 80 feet high in our high school grounds and would be greatly obliged for information as to the best kind and size of timber to use and the best method of splicing the upper mast to enable us to lower the top.

Ans :—-You probably can do no better than to use Norway pine or white pine for your staff. Square up the pole five or six feet at the top and fasten on it two mast irons or cross-heads as far apart as the length of



the square part. These mast irons are a sort of double hoop of iron or figure of eight shape one section fitting the squared mast, the other section projecting therefrom, giving a round aperture for the top mast to slide through. A sheaf or grooved pulley wheel is mortised in the foot of the top mast with horizontal pin or journal. A couple of screw eves are fastened to the top of the lower mast. A rope passing around and tinder the sheaf is used to hoist the top mast ; one end is secured to one screw eye, the other goes through a pulley or small block fastened to the other screw eve. When in place the top mast is secured by a cross pin or find, going through a hole in it bored just above the lower iron. The find when in place projects about an inch on each side.



D. L. H. sends the following in reply to query made by Peter McL I submit a sketch of a box sill and think it will suit. I have made one of this method for





























a long time and find it easy to lay down, and it does

not cost much and is quite sufficient. The sketch Fig.

2 will explain its advantages to the practical builder."





A young carpenter asks for "a good and reliable method for laying out a flight of straight stairs and stairway, and especially how he can determine the proper place to put the back trimmer in order to give the proper head room ; also a quick way of finding the ''run,'' and any other information about stairs and stairways that would be useful to an ambitious voting fellow.''



Nobody can regard the process of erection of many a modern edifice, says the British Clayworker, without clearly seeing that the bricklayer does not understand (or, at least, does not practice) his business. The plumb-line is only occasionally used the mortar is " slapped " on anyhow a '' stretcher is very frequently employed where a " header" should be and the " half-brick



put in with a superabundance of mortar answers its purpose as well as it may. We are not speaking only of buildings of the common class, but of edifices of some pretension. And we have come to the conclusion that the proper functions, so far as they apply to construction of headers, stretchers, and half-bricks are less known to-day than 50 years ago. This is not fair to the bricks, for they are called upon to withstand strains that were never intended in the theoretical construction of the building, and they suffer accordingly.

