<doctype type="text">230	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



cut down on a line with the face of the wall three feet below the footings. Will the stone wall built against this sand, be sufficient to prevent the sand from shifting and injuring the foundation of the larger building

ANS. With the data furnished, it will be somewhat difficult to give a correct answer, but we may say that as we understand the question, we think the work will be unsafe as the sand will gradually get pressed against the new wall, and may eventually force it outward unless it is well braced by buttresses or other devices, and thus cause injury to the building. Of course, the proper way and the most economical would have been to underpin the large building, which would have made the work safe and complete. Another method, sometimes resorted to by architects, is to drive heavy sheet-piling along the whole side of the building and cut off the top of the piling above the footings, then run in concrete to level off footings, then wall against the piling and over at the top, making the foundation for the new building.

<article title=" THE "NEWER" UNIONISM " author="">

THE "NEWER" UNIONISM.

From the London Times, Nov. 18 1901.



The injurious effect that trade unionism of the more aggressive or of the more insidious type may exercise on the trade of the country is a question of very grave importance at a time when there seem to be so many difficulties in the conduct of our industries, especially in regard to the cost. of production and to foreign competition. There may have been a falling off recently in the number of labour conflicts of the in ore violent type, once comparatively common. But against this apparent improvement must be set. the further considerations that there are industries still suffering from a loss of trade transferred to other countries as the result of trade union action in the past ; that there are employers of labour who, weary of stoppages of work, submit to the exaction's of trade unions rather than fight against them, and pass the financial consequences on to the British public and, most serious of all, perhaps, that the

new unionism, with its resort to violence and intimidation, has in turn been succeeded by a " newer unionism, which, although working along much quieter lines, is doing even more serious injury—by reason of the greater difficulty of coping with it—alike to trade, to industry, and to the individual worker. This '' newer

unionism would pass among economists under the courtesy title of '' restricting the output." Among trade unionists of the Socialist type, who have 110 regard for courtesy titles, it is better known as '' Ca' canny," which means "Go easy, man, go easy." * * *

In no branch of industry, perhaps, has this principle of restricting the output been more generally adopted than in that represented by the building trades. There are other conditions existing in those trades which demand attention as well, but the '' go easy policy calls for first consideration. Not that the rules of the men's societies prescribe any such policy. For instance, there is no rule as to the precise number of bricks a man shall lay in the course of his day's labour but there is a well-recognized unwritten law on the subject which a bricklayer will disregard at his peril. Twenty years ago a bricklayer would lay his 1,000 bricks a day when on ordinary work. Thirty years ago the bricklayers employed on railway tunnel work in London laid even 1,200 a day. But the unwritten law now in force declares that a bricklayer engaged even

on ordinary work must " go easy," and not lay more than 400 in the day. What happens if he should exceed this quantity is shown by a story which is given on the authority of a master builder. At one of his jobs a new hand who possessed all the energy of youth was one day put on, and he showed himself so devoted to his work that the other bricklayers were dissatisfied, and counted up how many bricks he had laid in the course of the day. They found he was responsible for 724. Such zeal as that could not be tolerated, and they gave him to understand that he need not turn up on the morrow, as they would not have him working with them. The young man complained to the foreman, who replied that he was absolutely helpless in the matter, hut would put him on another job. This was done, but as the young man started afresh at the same pace as before he had a repetition of his previous experience, and he had then to go away altogether. Such interference as this must be extremely galling to the large number of workmen who desire to do a good day's work for their wage but for a bricklayer to attempt to fight against the unwritten law in question means that he will be subjected to constant annoyances, that his mates will be '' chipping " at him all the time, that complaints will be trumped up against him and carried to the foreman, and that things generally will be made so unpleasant for him that he will be forced either to work no harder than the others do, or go elsewhere. To show how difficult the position of a foreman may be in such matters, the case may here he mentioned of a foreman in the north of London who, not very long ago, for having insisted on the bricklayers under him doing a fair day's work for their money, was repeatedly summoned before the lodge of his society, and fined 5s on each occasion, for so-called ''sweating."

The maximum of 400 bricks pet day is the "recognized " limit for dwelling-houses, shops, and business premises built by a private contractor. In the case of public buildings, and especially London County Council and London School Board work, the limit is considerably less. It is to be feared that the London County Council, especially, with its direct employment of labour and its strong trade-union sympathies, must be held responsible in no small degree for the development of the "go easy" practices in the building trades generally, the standard set by its own employees being regarded as one which should be followed, not only on other public work but to a certain extent, on private work also. Thus a firm of contractors had a job on hand in the East End of London, and complaint was made to some of the bricklayers who were engaged on some straightforward work on which they could easily have laid from 600 to 700 bricks a day—that they were not doing enough. The reply they gave was: " The London County Council limit is 330 bricks the day. That is what they consider a fair day's work, and we are not going to do more for you or anyone else." But this 330 limit was somewhat generous for public work, if it be true, as affirmed by one authority, that in the case of a certain Board School in London the average number of bricks laid was only 200 per day. Even this figure, too, represents activity itself compared with still another school built for the London School Board. The builder thought he was paying an unconscionable amount for labour, and had his men watched for some days. He found that the work they did represented an average of 70 bricks per man per day

