<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

the surrounding non-conducting materials, and in this respect the thin line which is intended to protect the building from lightning is insignificant compared to the other metals used in its construction.

Brickwork, although non-conducting to a certain extent, offers a lower resistance than air. Therefore it would be contrary to science for a discharge to pass over a chimney-stack or gable-end to strike a lightning conductor merely because it is metal, when probably the gable-end or chimney has a much larger extent of metal just below it. Even if the lightning-conductor affords the best path to earth, the path of least resistance would be through the gable-end or chimney and the house to the conductor, rather than through a corresponding distance of air, to get to the top of the conductor. We have to consider two kinds of discharge, one the most dangerous type, which occurs fairly straight through the air in an almost vertical line, and the less dangerous flashes which occur in a somewhat oblique line, and are generally meandering in their course. These latter flashes are often called forked lightning, though this is a misnomer, and are popularly, but mistakenly, supposed to be the most dangerous. It is the straighter flashes which do the most harm those which are capable of breaking almost straight through the air without having to go out of their course to take advantage of any little conducting matter, such as moisture, which will assist them on the way. The meandering flashes are not by any means to he ignored ; it is only in comparison with the straighter ones that they are mild.

In arranging what parts of a building require protection, we have to consider the various points in the sky from which the discharge may originate, and so arrange our system that the conductor, or one of its branches will form the nearest part, no matter from what direction the discharge may come. There is, of course, a limit, to the angle of obliquity, and this limit should he about 40 degs., and my observations have led me to infer that the greater the angle of obliquity the milder the discharge. We hear reports sometimes of buildings having been struck by lightning in absolutely unaccountable places, such as lightning missing a tall spire and striking the nave close underneath it, or even striking through a window. Like all other so called vagaries, freaks, or perversity of lightning such peculiarities do not exist except in the minds of people who do not understand the matter. Lightning is a force of nature, and, like all other natural forces, is governed and regulated by laws more unchangeable than those of the Medes and Persians ; therefore, if we find cases which do not quite agree with our preconceived ideas, we must admit that we either do not know the law, or that we have overlooked some important factor of the case, and not put it down to a sudden and capricious change in the laws of nature.

In arranging as to which parts to protect, we can consider this question as to which would be the nearest part, and we can take it that these are parts which might be struck ; other parts higher than these may be absolutely safe if they come well within a line drawn from one to the other, provided other circumstances are equal ; but they may not be, for metals either inside or outside the building, and other circumstances, may complicate the question so far that this rule does not entirely apply. Notwithstanding all the difficulties h at I have pointed out, absolute protection is possible

if the building: is thoroughly studied. We can either protect it so that we can say not a brick or stone shall he disturbed, or we may say we will protect it so that the inmates shall be safe and the building shall not be set on fire or damaged to any extent we may say that a stone finial at this end may be knocked down, or a few bricks or tiles disturbed there, and that we will risk that, as we do not consider this damage worth providing against ; but if we do this we must realize that we are running the risk, and if the stone finial is thrown down, or the bricks or tiles displaced, we must consider that we deliberately took the risk, and that it is not a failure of our system of protection.

In conclusion, I can only advise you not to make the general error of providing your conductors of exceptionally large size under the mistaken idea that by providing your conducting path of exceptional capacity, as it is wrongly called, you can ignore the scientific aspect of the question, for no increase in size of the conductor will compensate for this.

<article title=" ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL IN DANGER " author="">

ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL IN DANGER.

As the result of rumors which have lately been in circulation regarding thc stability of St. Paul's Cathedral, Mr. Somers Clarke, the architect to the Dean and Chapter, has addressed a communication to the Times. giving the results of his observations and examinations of the building. He states that owing to the expense involved, the foundations of the cathedral were not carried down to the bed of hard clay, 40 feet below the ground surface, but were spread out as much as possible and made to rest on a layer of '' pot earth over a bed of sand and shingle above the clay. The numerous tunnels which have since been made for sewers and underground railways, have caused uneven settlement of the foundations, dislocation of the arches of nave, choir and transept, and subsidence of the west front with its heavy towers and bells. The outer wall of southern transept, which is between 8 and 10 feet thick, and has an outer face of Portland stone with a lining of Oxfordshire stone, is out of perpendicular, and in consequence of the strain it has opened from east to west. The north side of the cathedral is, however, perfectly solid. Upwards of one hundred years ago the building was strengthened by the insertion of iron ties and the dome encircled by great iron chains. It is now proposed to insert iron tics in the transept walls. Another method proposed by Mr. Charles Reilly, is to carry the piers down to the sub-stratum of blue clay. The cost of underpinning is estimated at £220,000. This architect recently strengthened the Stock Exchange by underpinning to a depth of 50 feet the isolated stone piers which support thc building, each of which weighs 300 tons. This was accomplished without cracking the plastering in the interior of the

building	_______________________







NOTE.



As a result of the recent decision of the English House of Lords, holding the funds of labor unions liable for damage caused by the official action of the unions, the Taffvale Railroad Company has begun suit against the Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants for one hundred thousand dollars damages, incurred by the unlawful action of the Society during the strike of last year. The Blackburn branch of the Weavers', Winders' and Warpers' Association has also been served with papers in connection with a strike in a factory. The Trades-Union Congress has appointed a committee to endeavor to find some legal means of protecting the funds of unions from attack.

