<doctype type="text">162	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

Architectural Emotion.<article title=" Architectural Emotion " author="">

facturing, as well as specimens of the natural products of the nations of the earth. So long as this was the prominent feature, and an interval of at least ten years was allowed between the Exhibitions, they were reasonably successful. In recent years, however, protects of this kind have become too numerous, while their educational value has seriously declined. The Exhibition of to-day is a huge bazaar and circus combined, depending for success not upon its ability to instruct, but to amuse and excite wonder. It is not surprising that agriculturists, inventors, manufacturers and artisans no longer think it worth the cost to exhibit, or the earnest worker in any department to travel long distances to visit modern shows. The city of St. Louis, where arrangements have been in progress for a year or more for an Exhibition on a large scale next year, has wisely taken warning by the failure at Buffalo, and postponed the event for at least three years. It is perfectly safe to assume that if with all its advantages of situation, the Buffalo project has failed, St. Louis could not succeed in inducing northerners a least to exchange the cool breezes at the seaside, or by the great lakes, for her stifling atmosphere. She would do well to substitute for her proposed Exhibition a winter carnival. Canada's resources have only recently reached the point which would justify her in attempting to inaugurate a Dominion Exhibition. In view of the evident decline in public favor of such enterprises, the wisdom of embarking thereon now seems open to question.



ANY student of literature can tell

that the essentially modern phases of architecture, whether he likes them or

not, are artificial, by merely reading what is written about them—if he can. The architecture generated by the arts and crafts movement in particular is given away at once by the young men who write about it. They are doctrinnaires and seek to persuade with words. Their style is uneasy. They feel the sense of the world to be obdurate, difficult to convince; and they wheedle and use adjectives. They contort their sentences so that the adjective comes first, and a superlative at that—'' very pretty" is this, ''very charming too" is that. They cannot let a plain statement stand by its own merits but seek to bolster it tip with suggestion. It is not enough to say that a thing is of oak ; they seek to commend it with the suggestion that it is '' oak of sturdy British growth.'' It is not enough to suggest that a certain space will be convenient for pictures ; we are offered the contemplation of '' a few well chosen pictures." There is ultra refinement in this fewness. In the hammer marks on iron on the other hand we are asked to observe the interesting- suggestion of sweat, which is not at all refined. When we come to the women's rooms, the inhabitants figure of course as '' fair ladies,'' and the suggestion, made in one book, that we may imagine them talking about the Euphuists is remarkable. It would stick most fair ladies to say much about the Euphuists ; but. it is certainly suggestive that the authors of the book should have this sneaking regard for the most affected of England's many affectations. One is inclined to suspect that writers of this school would find themselves most at home talking art with the fair ladies. They are fond of certain words which come strangely from the mouth of a male man. "Cosy" is a favourite Word! and " dainty" too we are sorry to

L'Art Nouveau. <article title=" L'Art Nouveau " author="">

say. It is to be feared that when these young men marry they will get wenches, though what the king needs is men. In America the theme is larger. It is not finish but creation they deal with, but the talk is not straight talk. Mr. Louis H. Sullivan's eloquence about the young man in architecture, to take a salient instance, is quite unnecessary. Abe Lincoln would have put the case in five minutes or less. Indeed there would be no need to invoke so great a mind. The work of talking about the '' organic" and ''functional" nature of true architecture and the logic" of its expression is done ; what we have to do now is to produce it, and if any talk will help us to that, it must be of the dry and scientific kind. There is too much emotion over architecture in the forward schools of the United States for one to believe that these producers have got down to a scientific basis. In the meantime Mr. Flagg, who represents the Frenchiness which represents classic taste in the United States, is cool and businesslike, and Mr. Reginald Blomfield, who in virtue of the new, handy edition of his Renaissance in England, may be taken to represent the classic school in England, is manly and dignified. One is convinced in reading the utterances of these gentlemen and others of the same class that, whether we like it or not, those who follow on in the old paths are practising a real profession of architecture.





IT is interesting to observe, as a

corollary to the doctrine that " the old paths are the best," the divergence that is being made in France from the formalism that has hitherto been associated with French architecture. The newest minds are evidently tired of it, and are producing work which in feeling tends to the fantastic ; though at present chiefly in detail. So far as that goes it is natural that freedom should begin with detail, as it is in the building up of design from fixed details that the formalism of the formal school arises. At present the new school of buildings ranges perfectly in general appearance with the prevailing Parisian type. It is only an inspection in detail that discovers the difference in feeling ; but it gives an impression of wide difference, for the new detail is not only not formal but is formless. It has abandoned the Aristotelian basis of beginning middle and end, and delights in forms that

grow" one from another, relying upon carving to get over difficulties of junction. This is nothing less, in its way, than a new French Revolution ; a revulsion from one extreme to another. Unfortunately the opposite extreme from formalism is barbarism and L'Art Nouveau is nothing else ; beautiful in refinement but unintellectual and promising nothing but reversion, because of disgust with itself. It seems to be the peculiarity of French logic that it can develop admirably, but cannot reform. The French idea of reform is reaction to the opposite extreme. It does not follow that the devotees of French architecture on this continent will follow the French in their reactionary vagaries, but it is decidedly worth while to observe these vagaries ; and, before we accept the doctrine that French architecture is the only architecture, to note that there are some French architects who are tired of it.





A large deposit of clay has been discovered near Little Current, Ont., which is pronounced by a German expert to be suit- able for fire-clay and vitrified brick.

