<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	167

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

INTERCOMMUNICATION. 

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to alt queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions In the Issue following their appearance.]







J.	W. T. :—Answering H. N., I submit the enclosed sketch for trimming to a corner fire—place. I got this from a journal some time ago, and having a corner fire—place to trim, I adopted this method and found it work exceedingly well. Fig-. 1 shows the lay—out of













































Trimming A Corner Fire-place.



the work, and Fig. 2 shows the manner in which the joints 13, C, 1) and E were gained into one another. The main trimmer passes through the heavy joists and has a tuck tenon as seen at A.



R.	G. :—A kalsomine that will answer J. D. G. 's purpose may be made of zinc white mixed with water and glue sizing. The surface to which it is applied must be clean and smooth. For ceilings mix half a pound of glue with fifteen pounds of zinc white. For walls one pound of glue with fifteen pounds of zinc white. The glue should be soaked in water all night then melted in the morning, and the whole mixed well

before using.





P.	.J. : -- I submit the following rule on the breaking stress of white pine timber and joists, for the benefit of W. J. D. Rule. Multiply the square of the depth by the breadth in inches, and this product by the coefficient 10,840. Divide the last product by the length between bearings in feet, multiplied by the depth in inches. The quotient is the breaking weight in pounds. This will give the actual breaking weight, but architects and engineers never allow more than one— tenth of this quotient for the stress, which allowance is required to cover defects and accidental stresses to which all timber structures are subject. W. J. D. should get a copy of Kiddes' Building Construction, part 2, price $4.00, as it contains an excellent treatise on the strength of materials and other excellent matter,



Win. Mc. ;—In answer to M. M. C. regarding- the making of a damp-proof 14' brick wall, I take the 1iberty of suggesting the following methods A dry

wall may be formed of two casings with a space between as shown at Fig. 3, where s shows the space. Tile bricks in each casing are laid in the ordinary manner, either in the usual running bond, or if preferred, in Flemish bond. The two casings should be connected together with galvanized iron or



























FIG. 3—DAMP—PROOF WALL.



japanned ties of some kind, which are laid ill the wall as the work goes on. The bricks may run through the wall every four or five feet, thus being it well together. The foundation of the wall may be built as shown in the figure with a concrete floor at F. Another method of making a damp-proof 14" wall is shown at Fig. 4, whets a course of sound slate is laid right through the wall as seen at A D, just above tile ground grade B. There is an offset on the slate damp-course to the inside of the wall on which the



















FIG. 4 -- Damp-Proof Wall.



bond timber G. is laid to carry the ends of the joists. A wall built in this manner when carefully done, generally proves sufficient to prevent damp getting into the walls from the ground



F.	T. H. :—Bricklayer can make a good, durable black mortar by mixing a proper quantity of lamp— black in well worked up mortar. The lamp-black may be obtained from any painter's supply stores. Its order to ascertain the amount of lamp—black required, a known quantity—say 4 ounces should be mixed with a hod of mortar, and more mortar added until the mass begins to show a light tinge. Having ascertained the quantity of mortar for which four ounces of lamp-black will suffice the necessary calculations for the entire job are easily made. For common work ordinary soot may be employed, which will be considerable of a saving.



Wired :—If L. W. S. will obtain a copy of '' Cushing's Standard Wiring," price $ 1.oo, he will find all the rules expressed in initial letters, with the signs of multiplication and division. These can be easily learned and are the simplest form for expressing the  rules.



W.	T. D. :-- For the benefit of "Young Chip," I send you herewith what I consider a good design for 

