<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

In the eleventh century of this era, however, it once more took a prominent position in architectural decoration, and many fine specimens of the work executed during that and the subsequent centuries are to be seen in almost every city in Europe. England, Germany and Italy are at the present day the largest users of terra cotta in Europe.

Terra cotta has, undoubtedly, many objectionable features, but these, providing that the material has been made with sufficient care, are more than out-

-	ntages. lime is the most impor-½weighed by its adva

taut factor in the manufacture of terra-cotta goods, as a hurried drying process is apt to spoil the entire making.

The chief advantage of terra—cotta is its durability atmospheric and other external influences having but little effect on its surface.



<article title=" MODERN Quarrying Methods " author="">

MODERN Quarrying Methods.

The old fashioned hard methods will no longer suffice to get out the material as cheaply and rapidly as modern conditions demand. The Quarry states that '' As many men are now engaged as there is room for, the waste is transported on rails in hutches in many quarries to brick-making instant steam or compressed air drives rock drills ; stone-breaking plant, Blonding cranes and traction engines all aid in reducing costs and increasing output ; and the rapidly growing use of electric shot-firing proves that it also has been found very advantageous for general work, independent altogether of its absolute necessity when stone is wanted in large blocks. Probably there are ten electric exploders now in use in the United King(loin for every one iii operation a few years since, and to own an electric shot—firing outfit will be the rule ere long rather than the exception."



WHAT IS A "WELL-BURNT" BRICK?

<article title=" WHAT IS A "WELL-BURNT" BRICK?" author="">

THE specification runs "All bricks to be of the best quality, and well burnt", or, ''if seconds be used they must he sound." There is no selection in this specification, says the British Clayworker, as to what part of the country the bricks are to come from. There is no stipulation that they shall be furnished by any particular firm. There is no definition of ''best quality," and, as to the meaning of ''well burnt"—we give it up. In the hands of a lenient architect or builder, both the terms quoted might be regarded in a lenient light. But, suppose some little trouble arises on the work, which is very often the case, and all parties are in a state of tension, cantankerousness comes to the front, and then all these little points are apt to be debated with considerable vigour, as we know in regard to a recent dispute. There is a sample which is to shew what was contemplated when the order was given. Well, we know something about samples ; and if those who buy bricks are stupid enough to think that those who sell them are standing by when the order is sent off, and that the seller marks every brick so to speak when it leaves the yard, we can only pity the buyers' simplicity Bricks are not like ingots of gold that every one of them shall be tested by the assayer before leaving the premises. It is inevitable that where a good sized brickyard is in full swing there must be a certain number of undesirable bricks included in a consignment, in some instances. The manufacturer ma do his best to prevent this, and

in yards where there is competent supervision it may be that inferior bricks do not leave the premises without being invoiced accordingly, but it is impossible to do away with this unsatisfactory feature entirely. In view of the present temper of workers, again, it is doubtful as to how far the pressure of undue supervision pays.

The fact is that were all parties to pull together-—-were the builder to do his best with what few inferior bricks he received, and were the clerk of works to look at such with the eve of common sense rather than with overbearing superiority of knowledge, many of the difficulties relating to brick contracts would disappear.

Of course, the question of quality is always a matter of opinion within certain reasonable limits, and we must leave it at that. But with ''well burnt" that is not much a matter of opinion. Given a sample brick, it is not very difficult to see whether the goods delivered are burnt to the same extent as the sample—we say nothing about colour. Moreover the brick-maker has no object in trying to foist badly burnt bricks upon the builder or architect except, of course, he unscrupulous when the attempt is palpable on the face of it.



THE RELATIVE MERITS OF CUT AND WIRE NAILS.

<article title=" THE RELATIVE MERITS OF CUT AND WIRE NAILS " author="">

A correspondent of the Mississippi Valley Lumberman contributes the following interesting observations and experiences on this subject While I have been in this place I have had good opportunity to note the lasting qualities of what has now become the old—fashioned cut nail. A good many roofs of the old houses are giving out and being reshingled Standing recently near a house that was being covered, I took up some of the old shingles and examined them and found that where the shingle was sound about the nail hole the nail itself was almost as good as ever, and it struck me that the life of a cut nail and a white pine shingle was pretty nearly of the same duration. Where the shingle was decayed the nail also was rusted out, and so I concluded that where both the wood and iron were kept dry they were practically indestructible.

When the now common steel wire nail first came out it was generally conceded that they were a great improvement on the old cut nail, and there is no question that they are for general purposes in construction. Their toughness and breaking strain are so much greater than the old kind that the question of their strength and utility admits of no argument, but, as in the case with a good many things, there are some uses for which they are decidedly inferior to the cut nail, and these are where there exists a state of dampness. Common experience and observation go to show that the steel nail is susceptible of being oxidized much quicker than the cut nail. Go over one of your old sidewalks in the town where it has been put down with steel nails and you will find almost invariably that the nail has given out sooner than the wood. This is die cause of so many loose boards in the sidewalk.

It is for this reason that whenever you see a railroad company putting down a new platform at one of their stations may notice they use the cut nail instead of the steel article. You may also notice that the spike which is used to fasten the rail down to the tie is practically the same as it always has been and of the same material. If the steel kind were more serviceable you may be sure they would be used for that purpose, as

