<doctype type="text">108	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Where works are set out on vacant land it becomes necessary to have a good square.

Next be careful to level up to some recognized point as the ground—floor level, and fix it in some convenient point or points from which the level may be checked. it is advisable to have a second point, as when the building is kept waiting for stonework the work is often carried up, and so the levels are inaccurate.

A storey rod should be kept and on it should be marked, on one side, the main projections, sills, cornices, &c., while on the other should be the courses of brickwork, in laying the concrete for the trenches the level of the top should be indicated with pegs carefully leveled. The footings are often a source of trouble, owing to the bricks being rougher, and so putting levels out. The position of the top of the damp course should be marked on the storey rod, and no work should be allowed to proceed beyond that level until it has been thoroughly checked as to its levels. In large works a dumpy level on tripod is used, but in ordinary works the straight-edge and hand level are sufficient. A good foreman when upon the works will readily detect any work out of the perpendicular or laid to improper levels, as when the building is in carcass nothing is easier than to range the lines of brickwork with timbers, and the lines of one opening with another.

<article title=" NATIONAL PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION OF CANADA " author="">

NATIONAL PLUMBERS' ASSOCIATION OF CANADA.

The dates selected for the annual convention in Toronto of the above association are June 26th, 27th and 28th.

A committee to make the necessary arrangements for the meeting has been appointed, consisting' of H. Hogarth (chairman), W. S. McGuire, K. J. Allison, James Wilson, J. L. Fullerton, James Sherlock, Alex. Purdy and Geo. Clapperton.

A profitable and enjoyable meeting is anticipated.

<article title=" NEW AGREEMENT GOVERNING BUILDING IN WINNIPEG " author="">

NEW AGREEMENT GOVERNING BUILDING IN WINNIPEG.

The following important agreement has recently been signed at Winnipeg

r.	Articles of agreement 1. the Masons Builders' Ex change and Journeymen Bricklayers and Masons International Union No. 1 of Manitoba.

2.	In the following M. B. E. will refer to the Masons Builders Exchange and the B. & M. I. C. will refer to the Journeymen Bricklayers' and Mansons' International Union No. of Manitoba



3.	There shall be a permanent committee of three members of each organization hereto, five to form a quorum, to he known as the Conference Committee of the M. B. E. of Winnipeg, Manitoba, and the B. & M. I. U. No. I of Manitoba, to whom all matters of dispute arising between the parties hereto shall be referred for settlement and their decision shall be binding on both organizations. The committee shall have power, if in their judgment It is necessary, to compel any member who is a party hereto to make affidavit.



4.	All expenses of the Conference Committee shall be borne equally by both organizations.



5.	The Conference Committee shall meet at the call of either party to this agreement, but a yearly meeting shall be held the last week of January, at which time changes in this agreement shall be considered.



6.	All members of the B. & M. I. U. No. of Manitoba, who desire to do contracting in this city, hereby agree to become members of the M. B. E., and contractors returning to journeymen's work also agree to join the B. & M. I. U. No. 1. of Manitoba.



7.	The minimum rate of wages shall be fifty cents per hour, payable every two weeks not later than Tuesday and before 5 o'clock p.m. When a journeyman is discharged at completion of

the job (when the contractor has no more work), he shall receive his pay in full forthwith, and also if he is laid off more than one day he shall receive his pay if he demands it, except when lay off is caused by bad weather.



8.	Any member of' the M. B. E. offering to pay or paying less than the minimum rate of wages shall be fined not less than $25 by the Exchange for each offence. Any member of the B. & M. I. U. No. of Manitoba offering to work for less than the minimum rate of wages shall be fined not less than $10 for each offence.



9.	No strike shall be ordered on the work of any Master Builder signing this agreement, nor shall any number of men leave his employ before the matter in dispute shall first be brought before the Joint Arbitration Committee for settlement.



10.	That no laborer' is allowed to set brick upon the wall or' do any mason work in any way, shape or manner.



11.	No Shop Steward shall be discharged for examining the cards or permits of the members of B. & M. I. U. No. 1. of Manitoba when they begin to work or at any lime when in his judgment it is necessary, hut as far as possible without inconvenience to the employer nor will the business agent be interfered with when visiting any building under construction after conferring with the contractor or his foreman.



12.	It is agreed that the members of the B. & I. U. No. I of Manitoba will use only material supplied by those supply men who are affiliated with the Masons Builders' Exchange, this not to apply to city quarry stone.



13.	Supply men who desire to do contracting shall be allowed to do so, provided they' employ' members of the B. & M. I. U. and otherwise comply' with the rules governing the Masons Builders Exchange.



14.	Neither party to this agreement shall be allowed to take or work on any sub-contract.



NOTE.- Sub-contracting to he understood as tendering on work after the work has been awarded.



15.	All applications for membership in the Masons Builders' Exchange shall he referred to the Conference Committee before action is taken on same, and the Secretary of the Masons Builders' Exchange shall notify the secretary of the Conference Committee of the applications in the above-named Exchange.



t6. Should any member or members of the B. & M. I. U. No. of Manitoba take a contract to exceed line hundred dollars, including material used in said contract. he will be requested to take a withdrawal card from this union, and should lie wish to be reinstated, his application shall be referred to the Joint Arbitration Committee and, if satisfactory, he will be accepted.



17.	All shoddy' stone, whether local or imported, must be dressed by union men, and no brick will lie laid on walls built by nonunion men.



18.	All hammered and joint—out shoddy shall be controlled by members of the B. & M. I. U.



19.	No member of this Union shall lie allowed to work on any brick or mason work clone by scab or non—union men unless settled satisfactorily to the Union.



20.	Except in cases of extreme necessity no work shall be done between the hours of o'clock p. m. and 7 o'clock a.m. All work done between 4 o'clock p.m. on Saturday and 7 o'clock a.m. Monday, and on the following holidays Labor Day and Christmas, shall lie paid for at double time. All work done between o'clock p.m. and 7 o'clock a.m. on all other days of the week shall be paid for at time and half time. Working on Labor Day is strictly prohibited.



21.	No member of the Bricklayers' arid Masons' Union will be allowed to work for any contractor that refuses to become a member of the Mason Builders' Exchange, this not to apply to corporation or municipal work, or where a man is building for himself.



22.	It is hereby understood that each and all parties to this agreement shall report to their respective bodies any known violation of any article in this agreement.





QUARRIES OF THE PTOLEMIES.



The stone for the great dam across the Nile an Assuan is being obtained from the quarries of which the temples of Philae are believed to have been built—the unhappy Philae which, when the dam is completed, will be submerged and partly disappear from sight for the first time in its 3,000 years of existence. The granite blocks that are being quarried for this, the first great engineering achievement of the twentieth century, bear the marks of wedges used 30 centuries ago.

