<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL XIV—No 159	MARCH. 1Q01



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Design for Moderate Cost House-—-R. M. Fripp, F.R.I.B.A., Architect.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Porch, The Canada Company Building, King Street East, Toronto (Thc oldest Brick Building in Toronto.) Canadian Architect and Builder Students' Competition for Vestibule Door—Design placed first—by Mr.

Wiliford Gagnon. Montreal.

Design for Small Country house —W. Lee Clarke, Architect—(From The Builders' Journal.) New Rooms of the Ontario Association of Architects and Toronto Engineers' Club.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Photogravure Plate—Interior of' Fransiscan Church, Quebec—-Berlinquet & Lemay, Architects.

Photogravure Plate—Detail of Part of East Front of Rushton Hall.

Accepted Design for Proposed New Toronto Hotel-—Henry Ives Cobb, Architect.

Illustrations accompanying Paper by Mr. G. A. Reid, R.C.A., on "The Summer Cottage and Its Furnishing's."





CONTENTS.

Supplies for South Africa				49

Financial Result of the Paris Exhibition			.

The School of Practical Science				49

A Dominion Exhibition				50

Fire Escapes . 				50

Methods of Heating in Relation to health and Economy . 50

The Commercial Position of Great Britain 	.	. 51

Reducing the Fire Loss in Building	.	. . 52-53-54

Students' Department—Toronto Architectural Eighteen

	Club—A Twentieth Century Architect 	. 55-56

Remarks on Hardwood and Other Finishing'				57

Intercommunication				58

Building Contracts from a Builder's Point of View	.	. 59-60

Bedding Stones					6'

By the Way					62

The Newest Thing in Wall Paper				.

Slate Deposits in Newfoundland					63

A New Cement Test Wanted					63

Toronto Builder's Exchange					63

New Building and Plumbing By-Law's for Montreal 	. 64

Notes	64

Montreal Correspondence	65-66

 Manufacturers and Materials The Maritime Clay Works

Company — The Composition of Some Canadian

	Limestone's	67-68

A Correction	69

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

Edmund Burke

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

<article title=" Supplies for South Africa " author="">

Supplies for South Africa.

THE quantity of food and other supplies required by the British Government for the South African campaign is enormous. Mans' classes of supplies, such as canned goods, hay, cheese and bacon, flour and salt, portable houses wagons, bicycles, axes, etc., Canada could supply, but the bulk of the orders seem to go to the United States. As an example the war office is said to have just contracted with a United Slates firm for 3,000 axes. We have given British manufacturers a preference in our market, and should have a claim to British orders for products which can be as well supplied by Canada as by the United States. If the British Government are ignorant of our ability to supply many of its requirements blame attaches to the Dominion Government, and no time should be lost in putting before the home authorities the fullest possible information regarding the character and extent of our resources.



The footing up of accounts in connection with the Paris Exhibition indicates that if there be a deficit at all, it will

be but a small one, while possibly there may prove to be a surplus—depending upon the willingness of the city' to purchase certain improvements of a permanent character on the banks of the Seine. The cost of the buildings and other works was $18,000,000; the expenses of administration $1,700,000 ; policing, lighting, etc., $2,500,000 ; "unforeseen expenses" nearly $10,000, 000 ; miscellaneous expenses, $250,000, a total of $ 23,-

Financial Result of the Paris Exhibition.

<article title=" Financial Result of the Paris Exhibition " author="">The School of Practical Science.

450,000. The receipts from all sources, including subscriptions of $4,000,000 each from the city of Paris and the Government of France amounted to $23,050,000, leaving a deficit of $400,000. This is a much better showing than was made by the French Exhibition of 1878, when the receipts fell short of the expenditure by six million dollars.

<article title=" The School of Practical Science " author="">

ATTENTION was called in these columns recently to the overcrowded condition of this school, and the urgent need for

increased accommodation and equipment. During the present month this need has been forcibly pressed on the attention of the government by a petition presented by the students of the school. The prayer of this petition was strongly supported by deputation's representing the Toronto Board of Trade, the Ontario Association of Architects, and the Canadian Manufacturers' Association. Emphasis was laid on the necessity of providing adequate educational facilities for the large number of young men who are desirous of qualifying themselves to fill the more lucrative positions in the rapidly developing industrial enterprises of this country, which positions are at present too frequently occupied by graduates of foreign scientific schools. As an illustration of the present overcrowded condition at the School of Science, the fact was mentioned that the present first year class in chemistry, numbering 120 students, had to be divided five times. The Premier admitted that means must be found to increase the ac

