<doctype type="text">36	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department most be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance.]





A Quebec subscriber wishes to know '' why we can see the ceiling battens through the plaster, or thc centering of a coved ceiling or church vault, through either plaster or 7/8 hoarding?

ANSWER The lines of lath showing through a plastered ceiling is due in a great measure to the plastering being too thin, or because it may he only two-coat work. The dark lines are caused by dust penetrating through the mortar and discoloring it. This dust or dirt gathers in the space between the flooring or other covering and the lathing and plastering, settling on the latter, thus discoloring it. The lines of lathing seldom show through on vertical walls. With regard to the

ribs of a vault, or groin, showing through 7/8 ceiling boards, we cannot well account for this. If the hoards are well " matched and well fastened in place, we see no reason why the lines of the ribs" should show through, under ordinary conditions. We have not, to our knowledge, ever met with a case of this kind. However, if the hoarding is finished in a natural state and simply varnished, the spaces between the

ribs " may darken because of the absorption of dust, the same as the plastered ceiling.

Mr. Chas. Baillarge, architect and engineer, of Quebec, offers the following suggestions with regard to this subject:

''1 had long wondered at this phenomenon without a serious endeavor to attempt to explain it. On now looking into the thing I seem to incline to one of some three different theories.

"My first idea was that the plastering overlying the battens or centering must, by having its moisture sucked from it by capillary, dry quicker than that over the intervening spaces, while the latter remaining wet for a longer time would cause dust and smoke to adhere to it more easily, sink to a certain depth into it as the grime of the atmosphere does into stone and marble and especially under the fog and smoke-laden air of London or Liverpool, requiring not merely washing to get rid of it but the removal of a certain film or thickness of the surface by refacing to get to the bottom of it but this theory can hardly be made to apply to wood which is generally made very dry before it is used for ceiling or lining purposes.

''Again, if not due to mere adherence by moisture, there is the theory that the ether which permeates all space may in passing through the plastering and woodwork between the battens or where there is least resistance, carry with it the finest particles of dust and smoke depositing them on their way through and thus darkening and blackening the medium ; while where the mortar or wood work overlies the battens and centering the flow of ether is more impeded. Or may it be if the action of the ether be waived, that the air, though it cannot actually blow or be blown through the medium, may nevertheless slowly filtrate through it, leaving its dust or micro organisms on the way, as water does in filtering through sand ; and here again the greater resistance of the supposed air filtration through the wood or plaster where backed by other wood would explain the less tendency of these portions of the vault or ceiling to become dark or black.

"There is again another or a third mode of conceiving the phenomenon, that of translucency or diaphaneity.	Lay strips of paper on a dark ground separating them as if battens or cove centering.		Put a

sheet of paper over these representative of the coat of plaster or wooden lining and the dark under surface can be plainly seen between the underlying strips or battens. Light can be seen through veneering woods, through cardboard, strips of bone or ivory, through chinaware and the like, and I am inclined to think that this may be the true explanation of the phenomenon

o r may there not emanate from our system more piercing rays of light than those which are subject to reflection : rays of light analogous to the invisible and actinic ones beyond the solar spectrum, rays more penetrating ; or who knows but what the electricity in our system may generate X or roentgen rays which penetrating the plastering or wood lining may reach into the darkness beyond and make it visible, while where there are centering and battens the depth to be gone through to reach the darkness and render it visible is too great to allow of an equal amount of visibility.

''I am no pure scientist, physicist or chemist, but I am sure, Mr. Editor, that it cannot but be interesting and instructive not only to the architect himself or builder, but to the world in general to learn the why or wherefore of this apparently anomalous idea of seeing through wood and mortar, and that we shall all feel indebted, myself the first, to anyone who can satisfactorily solve this problem, bordering as it does so to say on the mysterious or at least on the paradoxical.

''Or may not each of the three theories or hypotheses or any two of them act or work together in producing the phenomenon, since neither of them in this case excludes the other.

''The explanation is moreover complicated by the fact that this visibility of the darkness is in no way sensibly diminished by one or two or more coats of paint which should not only render the medium seen through less translucent but by sealing or closing the pores of the plastering or wood work act as a bar or impediment to the dust and grime being sucked into them."



A Northwest subscriber asks : Will you kindly advise me as to what is considered the net contents of a barrel of Portland cement, also which brand you think is best for foundation footing?

ANSWER The net contents of a barrel of Portland cement is 350 lbs. There is no special brand of cement which is particularly adapted to foundations. All good quality Portland cement is suitable for this purpose.



ANS. TO T.V.: Perhaps the trouble with your red oak is because of its being dried too rapidly. It is a coarse, open-grained wood, shrinks a great deal, and when dried too quickly and in a dry heat, tears the fibers apart and causes honeycombing. The best way to season woods of this kind is to steam them and ''sweat" all the sap out of them, then they should be gradually dried. If dried in a kiln, it should not be heated higher than from 110 to 20 degrees at first, but, when the lumber is nearly dry, the heat may be increased to 150 degrees, but never higher, or the stuff will be casehardened, and, to some extent, spoiled.—OLD DEALER.



ANS. TO W. D.: Books on Gothic architecture are many, and ought to be easily obtained. I daresay the editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER could procure you any quantity of them. Among the best, I would

