<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



REMARKS ON HARDWOOD AND OTHER FINISHING 

<article title=" REMARKS ON HARDWOOD AND OTHER FINISHING " author="">

The practice, which is now fairly established in Canada, of finishing two or more rooms in good houses, with hardwood, is a commendable one, and deserves to he extended to all rooms in the main stories of good dwellings. There is no lack of good and suitable hardwoods in the Dominion, and in some instances, these woods may he obtained at a less cost than clear white pine, and the cost of working and finishing them, is perhaps 25 or 30 per cent. more than for the same character of work in pine, while the results are a hundred times happier.

Black birch, (Betula Nigra,) which is a native of this country, is especially adapted for inside finish, and when properly wrought, has a fine quiet refined appearance, and for the last fifteen years has been quite popular. It is close-grained, and can be stained with a filler to resemble walnut exactly. It is just as easy to work, and is suited for any of the purposes to which the more costly wood is applied.

To give birch the appearance of cherry or mahogany, it should be rubbed with diluted nitric acid, after it has been planed and finished up with either scraper or No. o sandpaper. Afterwards, to a filtered mixture of one ounce and a half of dragon's blood dissolved in a pint of spirits of wine or alcohol add about half an ounce of carbonate of soda, the whole constituting a very thin liquid which must be applied to the work with a soft brush. This process must he repeated with very little alteration, and at short intervals of time, until the work assumes the tint required. If the work has been well done and the composition properly made, the surface will assume quite a brilliancy. To complete the work, raw linseed oil should be rubbed over the surface and wiped dry, as no portion of the oil should show on the work.

This same process will answer for finishing cherry

which is now getting to be a very scarce wood which shows more veining in the finish than birch.

Cherry may he darkened by coloring the spirits of turpentine used in thinning down the filler, but, when no filler is used, it may be washed down with lime water, which will give it a desirable color. It is best always to try a piece of the wood before washing down the work to insure the proper tint.

Where it is desired to stain white pine, cedar, poplar or basswood, to give an appearance of cherry or black birch, any one of the following compounds may be used:

For a water stain, boil in a gallon of water one pound of Spanish anneto and one ounce of concentrated lye (potash) ; should this not be deep enough, allow the water to evaporate by a gentle heat. The stain can also he made darker by adding gamboge previously dissolved in a weak solution of potash.

For a good oil stain for pine make the following

Mix gamboge in linseed oil, dilute with turpentine, add a little Japan as a siccative, apply with a fine hair brush, not too thickly. This produces exactly the same tint as the water stain, but will not fade as the other may in some conditions. The tint may be deepened by adding a little dragon's blood or burned sienna finely ground in linseed oil.

Another durable stain may be made by stirring and well mixing together one quart of spirits of turpentine, one pint of varnish, and one pound of dry finely ground sienna ; apply with a brush and after it has been on about five minutes wipe it clean off with rags. This stain re

quires about. twelve hours to dry after which it varnished and rubbed.

A better stain than either of the ones given may he made by taking one quart of alcohol, two ounces of dragon's blood ; pulverize the latter along with about a quarter of an ounce of alkanet root ; mix and let stand in a warm place for several days, shaking it up from time to time. Apply with a sponge or a fine brush, giving a thin coat at first. Two or three coats may be required to give the proper tint.

This stain penetrates the wood for sonic depth, and when properly varnished and rubbed down, makes the soft wood look exactly like cherry or birch as the case may be.

When " rubbing" is not desired, a coat of good shellac varnish will make a very fine soft finish and show up the grain of the wood to perfection.

There are over forty kinds of oak, natives of the American continent, about ten of which grow in Canada, and of these the white oak, (Quercus Alba,) the red oak, (Quercus Rubra,) and the black oak, (Quercus C. Tinctoria,) are the most employed in interior finishing and furniture, and are all capable of being handsomely finished, the black and white oaks being the best, and the red being next.

What is known as quarter-oak is made by first sawing the log from end to end through the middle. Then each half is sawed from end to end through the middle, thus leaving four quarters. Each quarter has only three sides, one side the bulge part of the log, and the other two sides flat and coming to an edge. The boards are sawed off the sharp edge, and each sawing, therefore, throws off a board wider than the one before it. Sawing the quarters of the log in this manner, lumber possesses that beautiful cross-grained figure that is so much admired in oak.

To make a good imitation of antique oak, lamp black or Vandyke brown should be mixed with the wood filler, and the latter should be made about the consistency of thin cream and applied with a brush. After standing an hour or so, the superfluous filler should be removed with excelsior and cleaned off with rags. When hard and dry, the work may he varnished or otherwise finished.

Another method of imitating antique oak, is to expose the wood to the fumes of ammonia, but as this is only possible with small works, the application of aqua ammonia with a brush is resorted to with a fairly good effect. Several applications must be made to get the required shade.

A quicker, arid perhaps better method, is to use strong vinegar with iron filings or shavings added ; by a little experimenting, this can he made to suffice with one coat, depending upon the amount of iron added to the mixture.

The ammonia and vinegar processes answer effectively only on white and black oak. Red oak must he treated with stains mixed with the fillers, when excellent results follow.



Coloring gives repose to the eye when shadings and shadows are, as in nature, used in true contrasts to the lights, and produces the rule for harmony. Examples of neglect of such harmony may frequently be seen in our modern domestic dwellings. For example, it will be found that rooms with north lights are often decorated with ornaments shaded in greys or cold colours, whereas warm, shadings should be used, and vice versa, rooms with sunny aspects as a rule should be treated with coo1 shadings The choice depends, however, considerably upon the source of light in the room, whether from direct or reflected rays. The artist will at once see and adapt his color—decoration to the peculiarity of the situation.

