<doctype type="text">120	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" LETTER FROM THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB " author="Hynes, J. P.">

LETTER FROM THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB.

Publishers CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



Dear SIRS: We received your communication of the 8th., informing us that a certain local architect and some others have strongly objected to one illustration page of your journal being reserved for our Club, with that fact printed on said reserved page, as has been the case for some months past; and further that it such distinction thus given to us be not removed, they will in future decline to give" you "drawings and photographs of their work for reproduction.

We beg to say that our idea in introducing this innovation was that our Club would be enabled thereby to exercise strict censorship over the published work of its members, and, at the same time endeavor to create a friendly rivalry in the quality of their published work and that published by the rest of the architectural profession of Canada—-a result we considered beneficial, at once to our country, your journal and the profession at large.

That through your enterprise we have succeeded by means of our reserved page in bringing an increased measure of favorable notice to the work published on your illustration pages is amply proven by turning to the critical pages of the Architectural Review published in Boston, from the pen of one of the foremost architectural critics on this side of the Atlantic.

We had not the remotest idea, till we received your letter that anyone imagined that our members had secured undue distinction beyond their fellows. Therefore we desire to relieve you, as suggested, "From the unpleasant situation in which' you "find" yourselves "placed through circumstances over which" you "have no control." We would keep no impediment in the way of this gentleman and his friends ; we wish them to supply you with their photographs and drawings for reproduction. Therefore we cheerfully accede to their request that we be treated as other architects contributing to the illustration pages of your journal. But we think we will not avail ourselves of their liberal offer, viz., that when, in future, any of our members may individually, as all architects contributing to your pages, send you drawings for reproduction, they shall have the privilege of announcing on the page that they are members of the Eighteen Club.

But some matters must not be taken too seriously. Some of us remember how in our student days amusing stories were told us how the '' old fellows ' of the then '' old days ' would allow nothing architectural to be done, no matter how excellent, unless something in the shape of precedent could be hunted up to warrant its adoption Happily those days of architectural practice have long since gone by, though apparently some vestige of the principle remains in the minds of our esteemed contemporaries as you quote them in your letter as objecting to our reserved page on the ground that "There can be found no precedent " for it ''among the architectural journals of other countries."

In conclusion we specially request this letter to be printed in full in your next issue as we think it only fair to our Club that your readers should know the reason of the non appearance of our former reserved illustration page.

Yours truly,

J.	P. HYNES,

See, pro. tem.



TO INTENSIFY BLUE PRINTS.

<article title=" TO INTENSIFY BLUE PRINTS " author="">

In a recent issue of the Photographisches Wochenblatt is an article advocating the use of peroxide of hydrogen for giving greater intensity of color to blue prints. It will be remembered that a blue print is riot as intense on leaving the washing water as it is after some 24 hours' exposure to air, an effect assigned to oxidation. To remedy this, it is suggested that a few drops of peroxide of hydrogen be added to the water, to increase the rate of oxidation. The scheme is also useful when the paper is old and gives veiled prints. In case the sensitized paper has turned a greenish blue, it should be over printed until a decided image is visible. Then a little washing soda solution should be added to the washing water, but it should be used sparingly. The washing should be repeated until the whites are clear, and then the prints should be given a final wash in water to which a small quantity of peroxide of hydrogen has been added.

Domestic



Art Glass Ecclesiastical



Plate Glass

Window Glass

Mirrors

HOBBS HARDWARE CO.

London, Ontario.











SPECIAL

ARCHITECTS are respectfully invited to specify the "AMBERITE" Varnishes for high class work, the Canada Paint Company's DIAMOND GRAPHITE for Iron, and the Canada Paint Company's Creosote SHINGLE Stains for all work where roofing stains

are indicated.





THE



CANADA

PAINT

COMPANY

LIMITED



Montreal and Toronto.

FIRE-PROOF

GLASS

WINDOWS

THAT ARE

FIRE-PROOF 

Many practical tests have proved it's efficiency.

Used in conjunction with our hollow sheet-metal frames and other fire-proof fittings, it gives the most perfect protection

available.

It's adoption lessens insurance rates.

If you want to know more about "fire-proof windows," write us, it's an interesting subject.

·..THE...





Metallic Roofing Co.,

TORONTO. LIMITED,

These windows in a fire-proof building, complete the security, and in any building will thoroughly prevent the spread and advancement of the fiercest flames.



Better than iron shutters (even if they happened to be closed at the needed time) ; fireproof glass remains intact, resisting both the intense heat of the fire and the action of water.

