<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

DESECRATION OF THE TOWER OF LONDON.<article title=" DESECRATION OF THE TOWER OF LONDON " author="">

ANYTHING more atrocious than the new guard house at the tower of London could not well be imagined, says the London Builders' Journal. Not that the building itself is worse the general of buildings

	any	than	run

designed in the present. age ; but to set down this fiery red—brick erection with its staring stone dressings under the scarred grey walls of the White tower, pregnant with a nation's history, is a piece of vandalism that could only be accomplished in the nineteenth century. It would be interesting to know why a new guard house was needed at all, for no one can pretend that the tower is an active fortress upon whose efficiency the safety of the city in time of war depends, and the garrison it

possesses is there placed more as a courtesy to its past power and grandeur, for convenience sake and as a guard to the regalia, than as an active fighting force. As the years go by the public is being gradually shut out of the tower altogether, and it is becoming evident that from motives of economy the authorities desire to turn the place into barracks and end its more fitting career as a museum of feudal history. But even the total exclusion of the public from the tower would not justify the destruction of its beauties by such buildings as guard houses, and it is small balm to antiquarian feeling that the Roman citadel foundations and well have been generously preserved while the new erection remains to shriek our shame and inappreciation to the coming generations,







DRY KILNS

Economy of steam and power



secured by the use of fans and heaters



for drying all kinds of lumber.



Lumber is not stained when drying, and checking is prevented.



For Specifications and Particulars write to

GEO. W. REED & CO.	MONTREAL

	KELSEY WARM	HEAT MAKERS

 AIR

	FUEL SAVERS	GENERATORS (PTO)



Will Positively Warm Rooms

Long distances from or on a level with the Generator.





This cut shows the "Patented Positive Cap Attachment"

located over two of the long, hollow, corrugated sections. By extending a pipe from this "Positive Cap Attachment " the warm air coming through these particular sections must be delivered in he rooms thus connected.

By the closing of damper Z the flow of warm air can be diverted into the general Warm Air Reservoir.

EY

is not in the same class as the ordinary



THE KELS	Hot Air Furnace.



THE KELSEY has three times as much Heating Surface

and three times as much Air Capacity



therefore more economical and much better adapted to the Warming and Ventilating of Schools, Churches and Large Residences.

OVER 1500 KELSEYS in use in the City of Syracuse, N. V.

Our printed matter tells all about them.



THE JAMES SMART MFG. CO.

LIMITED 

	Exclusive Makers for Canada	BROCKVILLE, ONT.