<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance. I







In answer to B. J. F., North Bay, I submit the enclosed sketch of a trussed bridge, Fig. '., that I think

several times but it appears again in a day or two, and disfigures the building very much.

ANS.—Builder's acid (muriatic acid) is often used for removing white stains from brickwork, and you might try it ; dilute with water. A coat of raw linseed oil on the dry bricks will have a good effect, besides benefiting the brickwork materially. Melted paraffin applied hot and worked in with a paint burner would also be efficacy





















will meet his requirements. The sketch shows the construction without further explanation than to say that the rods and iron plates should be provided with good cast iron washers of such shape that all the nuts will fit square with. the bolts. The washers at the angles of the main braces and upper curves are made to take both rods and to extend over the joint sufficiently to hold the brace. The drawing is scaled for a span of 72 feet, but it would stand good for 75 feet. While this is intended, as B. J. F. wants for a 14 feet roadway, it would do for a roadway 16 feet wide, and this is what it ought to be made, as 14 feet is too narrow for meeting teams. The bridge should have at least 6 inches spring in the center, in order to give it a slight arch form. Fig. 2 shows the manner of bracing it crossways, also the method of running in the joists or deck timbers. Fig. 3 shows a cross— section of truss, and the manner in which the bolts are placed. I hope this will he of service to B. J. F.—OLD

Contractor.





W.	R. D. asks Can you inform me the degree of heat necessary to transform limestone from its natural state into lime, and what time is required to complete the process in an ordinary lime kiln ? Does it require gradual heat, or a quick lire ?

ANS.—From 36 to 48 hours may be needed to burn a kiln of lime, and a white heat must he attained in the burning. The carbon of the fuel acts to facilitate the































operation by its reducing action ; gradual heating is not necessary.



R.	Dow would like to know what will remove or prevent mildew or frosting on brickwork ? I put up a brick building a year or so ago, and certain portions of the wall will persist in getting white. I have rubbed off the white. In time the white efflorescence will cease to appear. It is caused by some chemical compound in the clay from which the bricks are made, and in a dozen years or so exhausts itself.





J.	Mc. D. asks for a method by which he can get the proper curve for a hip-rafter of a verandah having a flat ogee roof? We hope some one of our readers will

































answer J. McD's. query, and send a diagram for publication, of the method he asks for. —(ED.)





Wm. T. C. writes :—I am putting a steam heater in my building to heat it, and I wish to wrap the steam pipes with common building paper. Can I saturate or cover the paper with a cheap solution that will prevent the paper from taking fire with the steam at ten pounds pressure ?

ANS.—There is no danger from wrapping the steam pipes with paper in a low pressure heating apparatus. Old carpet cut in strips or listing, makes a very good felting for the inside next to the pipe. The paper should he put on loosely and tied with twine. The paper may be made fire-proof by dipping it in a strong solution of borax and sal ammoniac or alum. Asbestos paper will be found the best. It may be obtained now for about 15 cents per pound.



PETER Mc. L.—In framing a balloon house which stands on a stone foundation, which is the better way to frame the sill, there being no heavy timbers used in the building? I know the practice differs ; in some plans a joist is laid flat on the stone work, while in others two joists are laid on the foundation, on their edge side by side. There are also other methods, but which is best?

