<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

VOL. XIV.—No. 164.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.



House on Albany Avenue, Toronto—Chadwick & Beckett, Architects.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.



Canadian Pavilion, Glasgow Exhibition.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.



Kirby Hall, England—Bay Windows and South-East Corner of Court Yard.

Preferred Designs in Competition for Manufacturers' Arch, Toronto—First position, Design by C. J. Gibson, Toronto second position, Design by Henry Simpson, Toronto third position, Design by W. P. Witton, Hamilton.

AUGUST, 1901.





CONTENTS.

Editorial	161-62-63

By the Way	163

Building Contracts	164-65-66

Intercommunication	167-68

Tables for Estimating Amount and	Cost	of	Materials

     and Labour for Buildings					169-70

Fireproofing of Wood					170

Fixing Electric Bells in Houses					171

Proper Construction of Stone Houses				171-73

Suggestions for using Port land Cement	 	 	 .

James Reid & Sons				173

Polishittg Granite and limestone				173

Some Practical Wall Paper Hints					173-74

British Columbia Letter					175

Students Department	.	.	.	.	. .	176

Danger of Putting Structures to New Uses .	.	.	viii





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.



PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

'' EDMUND BURKE

	" S. H. TOWNSEND,	"

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. L. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F.DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.



<article title=" The Site of the Victorian Statute " author="">

The Site of the Victorian Statute.

THE Ontario government has rejected the proposal of the city council of Toronto that the proposed statue

of her late Majesty, Queen Victoria, should be placed on the main approach to the Legislative Buildings, midway between the statue of the late Sir John Macdonald and the buildings. The government claim that this statue should occupy the foremost and most prominent position. This view will be generally admitted to he a reasonable and proper one. While it is perhaps an unusual thing to remove a prominent statue and place it in a less commanding situation,

yet it would

 have appeared a graceful and reasonable

act on the part of the city council to have consented to allow the statue of the greatest and best ruler the empire has ever had to supplant that of a colonial statesman, however great. were his abilities and public services. Pity it is that the proposed Victoria Square opposite the new municipal buildings has not been secured by the city and is not read)' to receive the Victoria statue.



The great combinations of capital and the aggressiveness of the unions of workmen

in the United States, is bringing to a focus sooner than was expected the settlement of the relations that shall in future prevail between employer and employee. The most gigantic strike in history is now in progress between the steel workers and what is known as the United States Steel Trust. The employers are said to be losing a third of a million dollars per day, and the employees about half that sum, Upon the outcome of this great struggle will largely depend the conditions which are to govern, at least for a time, the relations

Capital and Labor

<article title=" Capital and Labor " author="">of the combatants in the future. It seems impossible at present to forsee what the ultimate and permanent solution of the difficulty will be. It would seem, however, that there must either come a better understanding between employers and employees, by which regard will he shown for the interests of both, or the government must step in and compel the settlement of disputes by arbitration. In New South Wales, a compulsory arbitration law now prevails, and is said to be working satisfactorily. In Canada we have what are called Conciliation Laws, which provide means for the adjustment of disputes where both parties are willing to submit their ease to arbitration. These laws appear to be a dead letter. The statement is made that in the present strike of trackmen on the C. P. R., which is a hindrance to public traffic, no request for arbitration has been made by either of the parties to the dispute. If the law is to be invoked, it must, to he of any service, be compulsory. It is most unfortunate that these disputes regarding wages and hours of labors should he allowed to block the wheels of industry in prosperous times, and hasten the return of commercial depression.



In point of attendance the Pan—American Exhibition at Buffalo has thus far proved a failure. The holiday season,

during which the largest attendance might reasonably be looked for, will soon have passed, vet the expected thousands have not put in an appearance, and in consequence it is rumored that the Exhibition may close  at) earlier date than was intended. The fact is apparent that the Exhibition business has been overdone. The original idea of these large Exhibitions was to bring together the most improved devices and methods in manu

Decadence of the Exhibition.

<article title=" Decadence of the Exhibition.

" author="">