<doctype type="text">

been better to have taken advantage of the facts so as to keep the wall plain at this point and increase both the size and richness of the entrance below which is now too small and too plain.

The gallery stairs give an opportunity for side gables to stop the slope of the roof which has usually such an unpleasant effect in combination with a spire.

The external detect of the church is want of length in the body, but an examination of the interior shows how this came to be. It is the gallery that provides lines for the interior proportion and on the inside proportion is satisfactory. There is no doubt the church would be a finer church without the side galleries, but if these galleries were to be taken down without at the same time lengthening the church the apparent width of the church in proportion to its length would probably be greater than the eye can guess in anticipation while under the influence of the present arrangement which is carefully composed. The pulpit is the centre of attention, and is given the importance which it should have and which it is so hard to give it when it stands alone, by placing it under the arch of a spacious recess. This arch spans the whole distance between the gallery fronts, with the effect of dividing the body of the church

into a central portion with wings.		Even above the

galleries, although the roof is a clear span, to some extent the central portion governs the eye in estimating the proportions of the church, for the gallery fronts are a strong line running to the springing of the arch over the pulpit and meeting the top of the carved screen that backs up the pulpit and forms the tying line of the arch.

The treatment of the pulpit is admirable. The actual desk upon which the preacher rests his books is but a small point in the space at the end of the church, but the full spread of the steps which extend on either side has been utilized by enclosing them with a horizontal rail to increase the width of the pulpit and its platform to the utmost. What is lacking is made up by the screen behind which spreads across the whole width of the space under the arch, a distance of nearly 30 feet. The screen might well have been higher in the centre behind the minister in which case it would have served to blot out the lower part of the window behind and prevent the minister's head appearing en silhouette to the occupants of the front seats. The window in the recess is in fact not an altogether happy feature, not only for this reason but because of the conflict of its lines with those of the arch. It is impossible to desert the springing line of the arch as a basis in designing the window. It is a difficult situation but with the help of tracery it should not be impossible to make a satisfactory combination of screen and window.

The screen is of course closed in at top and the space behind forms a passage way to the vestry and cellar.

	The roof is eminently satisfactory.	It has pointed

trusses, purlins, rafters and ceiling boards all of dark oak. There are dormer windows on each side, an addition to the original design, which, though they are rather poor in external detail have an excellent effect inside. The light shining in between the trusses increases the vigor while relieving the gloom of the roof and the dark color of the roof matched by that of the seating below gives a fine breadth of effect in color.

These are the main points that attract attention in a first visit to the church, but it has an attractiveness that

increases with attention and forms a wholesome example in a country where there is more temptation to over freedom than to pedantry, of the merits of scholarly work.

<article title=" CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS " author="">

CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

The annual meeting of the Society was held in Montreal on Jan. 25th, when the following officers were elected President, E. H. Keating, Toronto ; vice-presidents, Messrs. G. H. Duggan and E. Marceau, Montreal ; and C. H. Rust, Toronto; treasurer, H. Irwin, Montreal ; secretary, Prof. C. H. McLeod, Montreal ; librarian, W. H. Rice Roberts, Montreal ; council, Messrs. J. Kennedy, Montreal ; W. P. Anderson and G. H. Mountain, Ottawa; D. MacPherson, Montreal ; P. 5. Archibald, Moncton ; H. J. Cambrie, Victoria, B.C.; W. R. Butler, Kingston ; J. Galbraith, Toronto ; James Ross, Montreal H. S. Poole, Stellar-











































ton, N.S.; R. B. Rogers, Peterborough ; R. Hering, New York; W. Chipman, Toronto ; B. McConnell, Montreal ; and C. B. Smith, Toronto.



ILLUSTRATIONS.

RESIDENCE	FOR MR. LEWIS SKAIFE AT WESTMOUNT P. Q. MACVICAR & HERIOT, ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" RESIDENCE	FOR MR. LEWIS SKAIFE AT WESTMOUNT P. Q. MACVICAR & HERIOT, ARCHITECTS." author="">

The foundation walls are of limestone and the walls above base course are in red brick laid up with white mortar. The house is designed in "Old Colonial" style with woodwork of cornices, portico, and verandahs finished in white.

Entrance is obtained by wide flight of steps leading up to doric portico with columns on each side. The inner vestibule opens into a wide staircase hall with sliding doors giving access to drawing-room, dining-room and library. The broad staircase leading up to first floor will be finished in white and mahogany with oak treads and floors.

The kitchen is on ground floor with butler' s pantry off dining room. A back staircase leads up to the first floor from pantry. The upper floors are arranged for bedrooms, nursery, large hall, sitting rooms, bath rooms, etc. The mantelpieces are designed in the Colonial style and the one in library is built of brick. The basement is utilized for workshop, heating apparatus laundry, etc. The heating is by hot water and the plumbing throughout is of the very latest style.

