<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" TOSNE WINDOWS " author="">

TOSNE WINDOWS.



A Consular Report to hand from Germany mentions that in a new building attached to some boiler works in Upper Silesia a novelty in windows has been tried. Light is introduced through stone windows. The ordinary panes of glass were impracticable on account of the nearness of the works to the railway lines, so pneumatic glass stones have been used instead, From the outside t.he appearance is the same as the so-called Butzen

panes. They are translucent, and at the same time as strong as the stone wall in which they arc set they will withstand any pressure or blow that the walls will withstand.



<article title=" SUN ROOMS ON ROOFS " author="">

SUN ROOMS ON ROOFS.



A London medical journal advocates the placing of a glass roofed room or conservatory on flat roofed dwellings. It says : A glass ridge and furrow roof can be made practically' water-tight it need not be heavy and if the walls of a roof conservatory are carried to the full height it may be well protected from the ravages of the wind, With such a roof it would be perfectly possible by a simple mechanical contrivance such as is constantly used in greenhouses to throw the whole structure open to the air, and thus while obtaining protection from the weather when this is

needed, to secure all the advantages of open air when the weather is propitious. We notice that at a recent meeting of the American Pediatric Society Dr. Northrup reported that by his advice a sun-room had been built on the roof of a private house in New York, a playroom in which fresh air and sunlight can be enjoyed without dust and free from the dangers of the streets. But our suggestion is not merely to build a playroom on the roof, but to make this glass-covered room itself form the roof of the building, much as a weaving shed is made to form the roof ot a mill in the textile factories in the North of England .











WIRE LATH

The only perfect Lathing, for the reason that the Wire is completely embedded in Mortar and CANNOT RUST. It is the only Lathing that will stand the test of time.







(LIMITED,



Hamilton Ont. - Montreal, Que.

The Robb Engineering Company have issued a new catalogue devoted to illustrations and descriptions of the Robb hot water heater. A number of excellent testimonials are published as to its efficiency and economy.

























CABOT's

CREOSOTE SHINGLE STAINS

The Original and Standard Shingle Stains are made only by SAMUEL CABOT, of Boston, Mass, Every package bears his trade mark, and every gallon is guaranteed. Used and proved in every climate for nearly twenty years. Also



CABOT'S

	Sheathing and Deafening	"Quilt"

the most perfect insulator of heat and deadener of sound on the market. Decay, moth and vermin-proof, and uninflamable

Samples, Catalogue and full information upon application to the manufacturer r his

CANADIAN AGENTS:

ANDREW MUIRHEAD, 82 Bay St., Toronto.

SEYMOUR & CO., Montreal.

C.	G. HENSHAW, Vancouver.

F.	H. BRYDGES, Winnipeg.

W.	H. THORNE & CO., St. John

E.	D. ADAMS Halifax.





Use English Selenite Cement



Moore and Alexander

Engravers and designers

Toronto, Ontario

