<doctype type="text">56	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



such a summer casino should be well considered in the plan. A stream runs through the estate, and a building may be

placed so as to take advantage of this in the general scheme of surroundings or not, as the designers see fit. The levels of the grounds are left to the imagination. It is specially desired that this building should have a classic treatment.

Each student will make a study of his general scheme in plan and elevation of a scale to 16 in. to the foot and send a freehand tracing of the same, dated and signed, to thc Chairman of the Educational Committee, on or before noon Wednesday, March 6th, 1901

"As this programme is issued for the purpose of classifying the students, the preliminary sketch will determine who shall proceed with the development of the problem. Those who are not found eligible will he placed in Class " C " or Preparation Class. Those who finish thc problem and render, will be placed in Classes " A" and '' B " according to the mentions they receive. The drawings sent in finally must conform to the general outline and scheme shown on sketch first submitted. Any radical departure there— from will debar the student from being given a mention, but not from general criticism. Final drawings to have the plan rendered showing the general arrangement of' the immediate surroundings at a scale of 1/8 in. to the foot, the section at the same scale and the elevation at a scale of in. to the foot, also a drawing of detail at a scale of 3 in. to the foot. '[lie drawings to he rendered in wash with east shadows. Drawings to he delivered on a date hereafter determined."



The Executive Committee	state that arrangements are being made to give instruction in scientific subjects next autumn.



A TWENTIETH-CENTURY ARCHITECT.

<article title=" A TWENTIETH-CENTURY ARCHITECT " author="Fletcher, Banister F.">

BY BANISTER F. Fletcher



And if this is a correct view of the architecture of the coming century, what of the architects—of the creators of such work ? If architecture in its outward forms has not advanced by any revolutionary stages along the highway of progress, yet in the manner of construction she has and will develop exceedingly. Old Philbert de L'Orme, an architect of the French Renaissance, once said that an architect should have tour eyes, tour ears, and three hands, and if it was necessary then, what now?  An architect nowadays is necessarily skilled in mechanics, several sciences, and in various arts connected with architecture. Now architecture differs in one essential quality that while the latter is a matter of common-sense, which everyone understands, and therefore can appreciate, the former in its highest stages is based on appreciation of aesthetic quality, which the public can scarcely be expected to understand. The new century will he a utilitarian and scientific age essentially, and architects will have to adapt themselves more to the requirements of the time, and hold less to the antiquated

to capture and

ideals of the past centuries, if they are

retain the public interest. We must he of the 20th century if we would succeed in it. Therein lies our great difficulty, prevalent in no other profession, for architecture is an art, science, and profession. In architecture we have the artistic requirements sadly hampered by the material needs, and above, dominating those, the professional qualifications requiring us, as men of business above all things, to protect our clients' interests. The question of architectural education, therefore, is an important one. The foundation of the Royal Institute of British Architects and the Architectural Association in this century, and the institution of professional examinations are merely the reflection of the spirit of the age, in which the public require to have some indication that the men they employ are capable, and, in fact, that they are qualified to practice their profession. This will undoubtedly lead to a compulsory registration for architects,

 From a paper read before the Birmingham Architectural Association, on Architecture of the Twentieth Century.

when no one will be allowed to practice without a diploma. To the public it is a never—ending theme of amazement that anybody can call himself an architect. And truly it is quaint.. We cause the men we direct on our buildings to he registered. We have our registered plumbers, our carpenters, bricklayers, joiners, plasterers, and masons, who have all served their apprenticeship, besides being technically educated, and vet anybody can call himself and practice as an architect. Let us think for a moment of the power for good or evil in an architect's hands, due to his knowledge or ignorance in matters connected with building, and then who can doubt but that this compulsory registration is bound to come ? Opposition has always been forthcoming in these matters. In the law, in surgery, and in medicine, the same well—worn statements have been Hung back to those who have advocated progress, and generally this opposition comes from the older men, the relics of a past age, who can see no good in change of any kind. The only real difficulty is the question of the possibility of examining in art, and, as far as the public goes, it would not matter if art were left out of the question, for in nine eases out of ten the public employ us to protect their interests, and not to provide them with artistic work, about which they know little and care less. The principal thing to remember is that the public expect us to be thoroughly qualified all round to be directors and experts of all departments of building, and to possess the business qualifications for guarding their interests, which are usually associated with the profession of the law. If a profession or calling which is employed by the public is In continue to exist there must he confidence by the public and how are the public to know with certainty the qualified from the unqualified, unless some official qualification is available ? Again, a great part of the architect's ordinary practice consists in utilitarian work, which requires no artistic talent, but which does require great scientific and practical knowledge and business habits. We have elsewhere hinted that sanitation will he the guiding star of the next century, and in matters of drainage, and in everything connected with the hygiene of the house with which architects are concerned, and they will, no doubt, he properly registered to deal with such work. If persisted in the present fine—art theory of 

architecture,

held by a few eminent architects who have clients enough to support their fancy, will tend to the gradual absorption of legitimate architectural work by builders or big firms of decorators, who probably will employ a '' tame

designer to put a frontal to their stock plans. In regard to the increasing complexity of our civilization, the number, extent, and intricacy of new types of constructions, it may also he expected that the tendency to specialize will develop itself, although the general practitioner will, of course, continue to hold his place, as in other learned professions. Such are a few of the thoughts which I have been able to put together, dealing with the future of architecture, and although they are far short of what I had hoped to produce, yet, in the time at my disposal, I have found it impossible to go more deeply into the subject, but hope that I may, at least, have made suggestions upon which a discussion may be profitable.





Draughtsmanship, says the London building News, has been put before design or thought to n degree that has discouraged the practical and artistic minds in the profession and we do mint mean by this word skilful drawing or sketching, but time business of making and coloring perspective amid other drawings of buildings by men who know little or nothing of construction.

