<doctype type="text;ad">

CAUSES OF VARNISHING FAILURES.

<article title=" CAUSES OF VARNISHING FAILURES " author="">

Newly manufactured varnish often produces a grainy or spotted appearance. The only remedy is to refrain from using such varnish. It must also be noted that the skin which forms on varnish when it is stored in imperfectly closed vessels may also produce the above mentioned effect, as may pumice dust on the work, or dust collected from the varnish by the air.

Sweating, which principally happens with good fat varnishes, can be prevented by allowing the smoothed surface to dry for a few hours, so that it may sweat before the varnish is applied, and then give it another touch up with pumice. The varnish is apt to creep if there are oily patches on the surface or if it has been touched with wet hands ; but the same effect may be produced by want of skill on the part of the varnisher, as when folds of varnish appear at the edges.

A varnish may often appear like pressed leather, or as if enameled, if it has been applied in too cold an atmosphere, i.e., below about 70 Fahr. A stripy appearance may also be caused by improper mixing with turpentine, or by too much working with the brush.

Pin holes and pits are produced chiefly by working in too damp an atmosphere, so that the remedy is easily seen. The sinking in of varnish is generally due to faulty preparation of the surface. The color must have a smooth surface to enable the varnish to combine strongly with it. Another cause is found when wood which is not thoroughly dry is varnished. It is a good plan to pour out the vanish an hour before it has to be

used, so that gases in it may escape and not make the coats dull.

Varnish flakes off when applied to unsuitable ground, or when the latter is varnished damp. The same thing may happen if the pigment had been applied too thick, or if it is not quite dry when the varnish is laid over it. Too much dilution with oil of turpentine may also cause varnish to crack off.

The appearance of cloudiness or smokiness in a coat of varnish is the result of atmospheric influences during drying. The room must be freely ventilated to make the drying as rapid as possible. A sojourn in damp rooms is apt to give varnish a blue or green color.



Spots left where mud has adhered and been washed off, naturally seen much on carriages, gradually disappear with repeated washing. Varnish blisters either from heat, or on account of the presence of oil under the varnish. The effect of leather and elbow grease in heightening the luster of a varnish is too well known to require more than a passing allusion.





After hearing the evidence in the action fur alleged attempted blackmail brought by Mr. Joseph Wright against Mr. Joseph Sherlock, of Toronto, Judge McDougall decided that from the legal standpoint no threats had been made, and accordingly withdrew the case from the jury. The action arose out of some remarks made by Mr. Sherlock relating to the character of the plumbing work done by the plaintiff in the new municipal buildings, Toronto, for which work thc defendant was an unsuccessful tenderer.



Galvanized Iron Goods

Corrugated Conductor Pipes and Elbows.



Corrugated Sheets, all sizes.



Eavetroughs, all sizes and styles.



Cornices, Skylights, &c.





WHEELER & BAIN - TORONTO



EXAMINATION

TO



Quality for Associateship

IN THE





Royal Institute of British Architects

The Royal Institute of British Architect desiring to give facilities for those in the Colonies, to qualify by Examination for Associateship in the R. I. B. A., have decided to hold an Examination from June 21st to 27th, 1901, in Montreal. Applications, Fees, and Probationary work must reach London not later than May 5th 1901. Intending candidates, who must be over 25 years of age can obtain application forms and copies of the previous examinations on application to

ANDREW T. TAYLOR,

Hon. Secy. R. I. B. A. for Canada,

 St Francois Xavier St.,

Montreal.



Note-Those who are members of recognized architectural associations who have passed the regular final examinations appointed by such associations, are exempted from submitting probationary work, but evidence of passing such examination must be given.

Fire-Proof

GLASS

Window

THAT ARE

FIRE-PROOF

Many practical tests have proved it's efficiency.

Used in conjunction with our hollow sheet-metal frames and other fire-proof fittings, it gives the most perfect protection available.

It's adoption lessens insurance rates.

If you want to know more about "fire-proof windows" write us, it's an interesting subject.

THE





Metallic Roofing Co.,

TORONTO. LIMITED

These windows in a fire-proof building, complete the security, and in any building will thoroughly prevent the spread and advancement of the fiercest flames.



Better than iron shutters (even if they happened to be closed at the needed time) ; fireproof glass remains intact, resisting both the intense heat of the tire and the action of water.

