

fluted terra cotta columns. The top of the doorway has three



pieces and the top of the arch is covered with terra cotta.

Across the front in letters of gold is the title of the company.

The exhibit has been awarded a silver medal.





A house built on thc octagonal plan is described by a Philadelphia newspaper, whose correspondent vouches for some special advantages in a building of this shape. It is, it is claimed, more compact and more readily heated than the oblong houses now generally built Through the middle of the house, from the ground floor to the roof, is a stairway, and the rooms arc built around this. There are four chambers, which are square or very nearly so, and sandwiched among these arc tour smaller and irregularly—shaped looms, which are available for playrooms. servants room, sewing—rooms, and similar purposes. The heater in the cellar is located directly in the middle of the house, and the pipes radiating from it in no case extend more than four or five feet, where they take an upward turn and are carried through the upper floors through an interior wall following the general lines of the outer wall. These pipes go directly by the shortest line to the rooms which they arc intended to heat, and therefore very little of the heat is lost in the process of delivery The occupant of the house says that his coal bill was less than hail that of his neighbor who occupies a stone house rectangular in shape. In the summer time it has a like advantage. No matter from which direction the wind blows a fine current of air can always be found there. By t throwing open the

	windows of a cupola on the top of the house and opening the

	doors and windows at that side from which the wind is blowing a

Exhibition. It is an arch framed on both sides with light coloured	strong draught is immediately experienced, the walls acting like

pressed brick and terra cotta. On each side of the door are	a chimney.

A CANADIAN EXHIBIT AT THE PAN-AMERICAN.



The accompanying engraving shows the exhibit of the Milton

Pressed Brick Co. in the mines building at the Pan—American





GOLD Water ?AND For OUTSIDL and inside USE



Weather Proof. Fire Proof.

Durable.

Standard; Matchless Quality.

COLOR CARDS AND PARTICULARS FROM

W. A. FLEMING & CO.,

771 Craig St. ,Montreal.



























<doctype type="ad">



















	SET No. 444

"ACME" AUTOMATIC FIRE DOOR FITTINGS, (SET No. 99)	" ACME" Automatic Fire SHUTTER	Fittings



SELF-CLOSING BY HEAT.



We manufacture the Best Kinds made of Acme Automatic Self-Closing Fire Door and Shutter

Fittings. Write us for Catalogue and Prices. Use Acme Fittings and Save Insurance.





THE YOKES HARDWARE CO., Limited, - - Cor, Yonge and Adelaide Sts., - - TORONTO.