<doctype type="text">160	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



not be avoided because they have already had use but their proper use is nut to transplant them bodily as one would a plant, but to re-combine them, develop them, adapt them not put them into a design, but make them part of it. in a word, study their fitness.

The most successful buildings, on the whole, ever built in this country were those erected in the last century and the early part of the present, and which are called Old Colonial. They were carefully designed and magnificently built. With all our Inure abundant resources and greater knowledge, our builders of to-day do not equal the construction of that, earlier period. They were carefully built, because the erection of a house was a serious undertaking, inure serious than it is today, when expensive city buildings are pulled down to make way for more modern edifices, And not only were they carefully built, but they were thoroughly fit for their purposes. The great house was a splendid mansion ; the simple house was six unpretentious affair, with slight ornament, and simple treatment that even to-day wins our admiration amid more gorgeous neighbors.

The chief lesson to be derived from these buildings by the modern builder is not that that particular style is the one to be followed, but that its methods contain all the secrets of why some houses are good. Unfortunately, the modern method is to borrow styles rather than methods to copy forms rather than ideas. But we cannot hope for a genuine architecture, even in a problem so simple as an ordinary house, until the thought that underlies the form has been discovered and understood. The first step in building a successful house is to think. Too often the house is built, and then thought taken in making it inhabitable and good to look at.— from the '' Scientific American.



NOTES.

Time Capital Sand & Brick Co., Limited, have been incorporated at Ottawa with a capital of $50,000.

The Ontario Portland Cement Company is being organized at Brantford, Ont. Many of the leading citizens of that city are signing for stock.

The City of Ottawa boasts among its citizens an octogenarian bricklayer, Mr. Richard Lester, who has been laying bricks since he was ten years of age, and has been a subject of three British rulers.

The Montreal City Council has appointed Mr. J. W. Hughes, time well-known plumber, as one of the examiners of applicants for plumbers' licenses, under the new plumbing by-law. The appointment will meet with general approval.

A joint stock company is to be formed at Amherst, N.S., to manufacture a new kind of flooring tile) the invention of the late Joseph Cove and his son George Cove) of Amherst. The flooring is designed in colors, is about half an inch in thickness and in appearance resembles an expensive carpet.

It is learned from the Cleveland press that the building contractors of that city will probably again pay a friendly visit to the builders of London, Ont., during the present season. The visit will probably take place early in August, when the Cleveland builders will be accompanied by former residents of London now living in Cleveland.

Liquid air is being used in Germany as a blasting agent. Under the name of oxyliquit, liquid air is absorbed by some suitable material, and introduced into paper cartridges filled with an oily mass. They are fired by the electric spark or by a Bickford fuse. The effect is said to l)e equal to that of dynamite. If a cartridge misses fire it becomes harmless in a quarter of an hour, owing to time rapid evaporation of the gas.

Much regret is felt at the failure of the old-established firm of Taylor Bros., of Toronto, proprietors of time Don Valley Brick Works. The firm had also other extensive interests, and at one time were financially strong. Their failure is believed to be clue in a large measure to the possession of too much unsaleable real estate. It is understood that the brick business will be continued under the direction of Mr. Robert Davies, who was one of tile largest creditors of the estate.

VARNISH AT RIGHT TEMPERATURE.

<article title=" VARNISH AT RIGHT TEMPERATURE " author="">

The finest varnish is easily affected by cold and changes of weather. The rule is) a cool place in summer and a warm place in winter, and an even temperature of about 70 degrees all the time Much of the trouble from varnish comes from not observing these simile rules.



It is a good rule, also, in cool and cold weather, to do the varnishing in the morning, so that it will have the benefit of the (lay's drying, and escape the cooler and less favorable action of the night air. Still another important matter is to have the varnish and work of the same temperature when applying the varnish. To effect this, have the varnish in tile room long enough beforehand to reach the temperature of the work. When varnish is cooler than the surface to which it is applied it works very hard, and to secure an even coat is almost, if not quite, an impossibility.



it is sometimes impossible to keep varnish at an even, warm temperature in winter. This is especially true of small shops. But the can of varnish may be warmed before using, and this' is readily done by placing the can near the stove, care being observed nut to let it get too hot for fear of explosion or ignition.



It is likewise a good plan to wipe the cup before pouring varnish into it, and the varnish is still too cool, set the cup on time stove until sufficiently warm. Stir the varnish while it is warming in the cup. Should it get too hot, pour part of it back into the can and pour out from the can, stirring again. Varnish is very combustible, of course, amid there is need of care when having it too near a fire.



There is always danger when we attempt to hasten the drying of varnish by adding driers to it, and especially does this apply to a high-grade varnish. Little or no trouble may come to the lower grades by adding driers, but the liner grades will hardly escape being injured, while at the same time the object sought will likely not be accomplished for we examine the job the next day it will most probably be found not dry, and as likely be filled with pin holes, caused by the driers and varnish not amalgamating. So we advise against the use of driers in at least the finishing vanish.



This subject is frequently touched upon by writers, and if it was a settled question there would now be no need for further argument. But it isn't settled. Some believe that no harm, but a positive advantage, follows the admixture of different varnishes when desired for a certain purpose, which a single varnish is considered incapable of accomplishing. Others, again, hold to a contrary opinion. Which is right ?



It would seem to be the better plan to secure a line of varnishes, each of which is fully adapted for a specific purpose, than take a haphazard chance of producing what you want by mixing two different brands together. For it surely is true that there are varnishes for every purpose which you may desire to serve. It may be that you will have to get one varnish from this maker, another from that, and so on, just as is done in most tops (for a shop). Some advise using the various grades of a single maker, but this is seldom done. It is urged for the practice that successive coats of one maker's varnish are more likely to assimilate and make a homogeneous mass than if different makes are used. But this is merely the theory of the matter. It may or may not be practically correct.



At any rate, we advise against mixing a poor with a good varnish, for it does not pay to degrade a varnish, no matter how much money may apparently be saved by time opera tion.





A good bronze paint can be made from a mixture of chrome green, ivory black, and chronme yellow.



Never try to make one coat of paint do duty for two, time result is never satisfactory. It may look it, but sooner or later the deception will be found out and your reputation as an homiest man gone.

