<doctype type="text">232	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



That trade includes so many small masters, represents so many different branches, each with its separate union among the men, and is so much subject to local influences, that the opportunities for the occurrence of troubles are exceptionally numerous. If the whole of- the masters could show as much backbone as certain individuals among them do, and if, improving still further on their present combinations, they formed a solid and compact body through which individual losses sustained in the interests of the whole trade would be met out of a common fund, there would be a better chance of overcoming trade-union tactics, and the arbitrary powers of the unions would, as one man has put it,

tumble to pieces like a house of cards." On the other hand, it is feared that as long as municipal bodies like the London County Council remain what they are—their labour members returned by extremely active labor organizations, getting the controlling voice on labour questions, and playing into the hands of the trade-union workers, who fix a standard, as it were, which the employees of other public bodies, and of private contractors as well, are becoming more and more disposed to accept—so long will it be practically impossible to place the trade on a satisfactory footing.

<article title=" HEATING AND PLUMBING IN GERMANY " author="">

HEATING AND PLUMBING IN GERMANY.

According to a report by the United States Consul in Brunswick on heating and plumbing arrangements in Germany, improved methods of steam or hot-water heating, sanitary plumbing and elevators have not been widely adopted in Central and North Germany. South Germany is said to be more advanced. In the city of Brunswick there are a large number of hotels but as far as the Consul knows only one can boast of an elevator and steam-heaters. Last year steam-heating was introduced for the first time in four newly-built houses, and the apparatus was furnished by a firm in Geneva, N. V. With a conservatism that is remarkable, the people adhere to the old system of heating by " Kachelofen," or stoves encased in tiles. These huge arrangements, standing in the corner of a room, look as if they would heat a whole house, but when their modest iron interior is examined one is convinced that they do not suffice to heat a room. There is no word in the German language for furnace, and this method of heating is known here as "central heizung'' or central heating. Lately there has been introduced in a new flat a method of heating through steam or hot water, the apparatus standing in the hall or corridor of each storey. This system has not been tested yet. Most people in Germany live in flats, there are but few private residences. The difficulty in heating an apartment building from the basement has been the distribution of the expense, as each family must pay for its own fuel. This expense is not assumed by the landlord. As to plumbing, the kitchen ranges are without water backs, and when hot water is required for a bath a fire must be made under a stove surmounted by a boiler in the bath-room. There is unquestionably, adds the Consul, a large field which has not been adequately worked for American enterprise. Manufacturers and dealers in elevators, heating apparatus and plumbing materials who desire to introduce their goods should have advertising matter

in the German language. Probably the best way of introducing goods of these kinds is to establish an agency or store where the articles can be inspected.

<article title=" EUROPEAN METHODS OF USING ROOFING TILE " author="">

EUROPEAN METHODS OF USING ROOFING TILE.

Roofing tiles in Greece and Rome were used as follows Flat tiles with raised edges extended from rafter to rafter, the upper end of which had a rib which entered a groove formed on the other side of the tile placed above it. After these were laid the joints above the rafters were covered with other tiles, each formed like the half of a frustrurn of a hollow cone, so that they were able to lap upon each other, their edges lying snugly to flat tiles on the roof. The end of these ridges was terminated with an ornament. Tiles, both flat and curved, were in great demand in Roman architecture. Roofs were covered with the flat and curved tiles alternating. Tiles two feet square, with a foot at each angle, were used to line the thermae, so that an air space between them and the wall should prevent the absorption of water by the latter.

<article title=" WATER STAINS AND THEIR PREPARATIONS " author="">

WATER STAINS AND THEIR PREPARATIONS.

While oil stains commend themselves in many ways, especially for staining soft porous woods, the use of water stains appears to be in the ascendant, writes Joseph Briggs, in the Decorators and Painters Magazine, and it is said that very few of the large woodworking factories of the country use oil stains to any extent, and apparently for very good reasons, chief among which is that water stains penetrate more deeply into the close grained woods, and therefore stained surfaces are not so liable to show accidental abrasions when water stains have been employed. Water stains properly made and judiciously used also bring out the grain effects more beautifully than is the case with oil stains. However, water stains have their defects also, inasmuch as they will raise the grain of the wood, making sandpapering an imperative necessity, and on white pine and woods of similar texture an even and uniform job of staining with water stain is next to impossible, unless the panel is short enough to be covered with one draw of the brush, because water stains cannot be made to flow out like oil or varnish stains.

In years gone by, water stains were prepared mostly from earthy pigments, or from dyes of vegetable origin, but with the recent development of the coal-tar color industry, material is handy to prepare them without the labour and trouble attendant upon their compounding by the old formulas, about which there was a great air of secrecy. We do not propose to give in the following formulas any of the complicated recipes where three or four different decoctions are to be used in so many different applications, but will endeavor to give such that may be prepared and set aside for future use and may be applied cold, only making it necessary, perhaps to give a second application, should the first one by any chance be too weak to produce the desired effect, or when too strong to wipe off the surplus before the stain has an opportunity to set hard.

We would further preface the formulas given by saying that because the strength of the materials naturally varies to a greater or less extent, the operator must, in preparing the stains, use his judgment and work out his own set formulas. Also that in the use of aniline

