<doctype type="text">THE Canadian Architect And Builder

had come from him. The method of subsoil irrigation, to which this may be compared, should be adopted where there is a sufficient surface of turf near by, as there is at the new hotel, and as there is likely to be near any good hotel site but Muskoka consists for the most part of an irregular rocky surface and the only method possible in ordinary cases will be simply to deliver the drainage over the surface. This method also has been put to proof by a nation. China, densely inhabited in parts, supports a people, with the strongest constitutions in the world, under a system of disposal of wastes upon the surface of the fields that is said to make it impossible for an Englishman to take a walk across the country, because of the filth which sticks to his trousers. The Chinese method is not commendable otherwise than as evidence that the surface of the earth is a safe place for the disposal of sewage products ; or rather we should call them wastes, for they are not degraded to the quality of sewerage until they have been in a sewer. It is extremely probable that under any other system the land of China would not support its population arid the yellow terror would have been upon us long ago. The land of Muskoka will not support its population now ; but that even these rocks are capable of improvement is evidenced by the fact that earthworms (once undiscoverable in Muskoka) are to be found, fine and large, near the privies of the old Muskoka cottages. These old receptables are not models for the future by any means and, for a hotel are certainly impossible. The stuff must be conveyed by water to a suitable place and spread over the land ; just as the saw-millers, when they were forbidden to throw their saw-dust into the water, pumped it up to the conduits, which carried it inland to convenient places. There is in the interior of most islands an unvisited area. If not it would he necessary to make such an area and prepare it for use. If there is a fall from the site of the house to this spot, the problem is easy ; it not there must be an arrangement for pumping at intervals. For this purpose the windmill—which, with a tank, will be an indispensable adjunct for water service—could be utilized. There is no reason to suppose difficulty about contrivances, if the system is made compulsory ; and, though this may be difficult, it ought not to be impossible, because it is necessary.

These remarks are suggested as applicable to Muskoka chiefly on account of the progress in that particular region which the establishment of the hotel indicates ; but the situation tends to become the same in any of our small lakes which have become devoted to the uses of the summer cottager ; and in all of these places consideration for the future, in the matter Of drainage, becomes necessary as the population grows thick.



Here is a convenience which is mak

Acetylene Gas.

ing its way for use in both summer

cottages and permanent country houses. It costs less than fifty dollars to install both piping and apparatus for an ordinary house, and the running cost is said to be about the same as that of coal oil. At this rate it has the advantage that experiment does not involve a paralyzing expense, and we may feel at liberty to suggest its application to country work, without having any knowledge from experience of the quality of the light. It seems to be a pleasant

and steady light and has the advantage that, as the flame is very small, it does not easily flicker in the air. The light is therefore well adapted for out of doors use, for verandahs and to light paths and boat landings. There are many contrivances for the generation of the gas. '[he contact of water and calcium carbide is all that is necessary, and the aim of the best contrivances seems to be to generate gas only as it is needed. The release of pressure by turning a tap brings in some cases water to the carbide, in others carbide to the water, just in proportion as it is needed ; that is to say in proportion to the release of pressure, or to the taps turned on. This facility of application in quantities as needed seems to tend not only to economy but to safety. There is a residuum of slaked lime which requires to be drawn off two or three times a week ; an accumulation of a few buckets which may perhaps be made useful.

<article title=" INSURANCE RATES IN RELATION TO RISK " author="">

INSURANCE RATES IN RELATION TO RISK.

The Maritime Board of Trade is an organization which represents the local boards of trade in the principal towns of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and is an exceedingly enterprising body. The hoard meets once a year and discusses a variety of questions affecting the commercial interests of the maritime provinces. At the seventh annual convention held in Chatham, N. 13., on August 21st and 22nd last, a number of important subjects were considered. Among these was the question of lire insurance rates. This was taken up in view of the reported intention of the insurance companies to increase the rates. The testimony of the representatives who spoke on the question went to show that the insurance rate was not governed as largely as it should be by the character of the risk. One speaker remarked that twenty years ago before the advent of electric lights and fire extinguishing appliances, when stores were lighted by oil lamps and stove-pipes were everywhere, the insurance rates were 100 percent lower than they are to-day. It was stated that in Charlotte-town the promise was made that the rates would be reduced as soon as a good water works system was installed, but that this promise bad not been fulfilled, on the contrary the rate had been increased. It was said that with the exception of a few large conflagrations, the fire loss in the maritime provinces had been considerably less than in other parts of the Dominion, and the opinion was expressed that the people of these provinces were being called upon to pay for losses elsewhere. A resolution was adopted protesting against any increase in the rates, and declaring that in the event of an increase being imposed, a united effort be made to induce American and other companies to accept the business. It was also resolved that the insurance companies be requested to separate the maritime provinces in their insurance calculations from the rest of the Canadian business.

<article title=" MEASURING ROUND TIMBER " author="">

MEASURING ROUND TIMBER.



The usual practice, in measuring round tapering timber, is to take the girth of each piece at the middle of its length. A quarter of thc girth is then squared in inches, and multiplied by the number of feet run in the log, the resulting figures being



divided by 14, which gives the answer in cubic feet. A tape measure, known as girthing tape, is often used by timber measurers. It is 12 ft. long, marked with ordinary inches along one side, and also with feet reduced with scale 1 in. ft. showing the cubical contents of ft. on the back of the tape behind each figure.

