<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XIV. —No. 168.	DECEMBER, 1901.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Pair of cottages in East Toronto—R. J. Edwards, architect.

house Walmer Road, Toronto S. H. Townsend, A.R.C.A., architect.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Two Photogravure Plates, Exterior and Interior Views of Bank of Commerce, Bathurst and Queen streets, Toronto— Darling & Pearson. architects.

Fire place—Symons & Rae, architects.

Montacute House, England—Sketched by S. A Heward.









CONTENTS

Editorial		.

Tests of Portland Cement			6

The Amended Building By-law of Toronto		227-228

Export Conditions Affecting Heating Apparatus		.	228

Intercommunication

The Newer Unionism .			230-231

Heating and Plumbing in Germany			232

European Methods of Using Roofing Tile		232

Water Stains and their Preparations		232

British Columbia		233

Proposed Plumbing By-law for London, Ont.	.		233

Precaution to be observed in Installing Heating	Apparatus 		234

Apprentices in the Building Trades			34

Moving a Long Brick Wall			235

The Marble Industry of Greece			236

Wages and Working Hours in England			236

Unfair Brickwork			236

Cement Concrete for Bridges			236

Practical Notes 					236

Northwest Correspondence			 		237

Students' Department					238

American and Continental Heating Practices and Appliances	239

Decay in Timber	ix.

Window Glass Monopoly 			. x.

Stone Working in Athens'			x.

Montreal Builders' Exchange			xiv.

A Stone Barometer			xiv.





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON. Architect, Toronto.

EDMUND BURKE,

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. Todd, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal

<article title=" N.S.W, Industrial Arbitration Act " author="">

N.S.W, Industrial Arbitration Act

To the government of New South Wales belongs the credit of having departed from the beaten path in respect to legislation for the settlement of industrial disputes. The Industrial Arbitration Bill which has just become law, compels reference of all disputes between employers and employees to a competent court, with power to enforce its orders and awards, and makes a strike or a lock-out before or pending such reference a misdemeanor, punishable by fine or imprisonment. The court will be presided over by a Judge of the Supreme Court and will have most extensive powers, including the power to declare a standard wage, and to direct that, other things being equal, an employer shall give preference to unionist over non-unionist laborers. There is no appeal from its decisions. The result of the operation of this law will be watched with great interest, particularly by the great industrial nations.



THE American Architect states its belief that much of the indisposition manifested by small capitalists to invest in land and houses is due to speculation in stocks and the losses resulting therefrom. " Every one who takes note of the course of stocks," says our contemporary, will remember shares which a few years ago were sold with the recommendation of bankers of the highest standing at fifty dollars, and after paying an

Effect of Stock Speculation on Building.

<article title=" Effect of Stock Speculation on Building " author="">assessment, could with difficulty now be disposed of at fifty cents, or a copper stock which has fallen within a few months from seventy-five to five dollars a share." There undoubtedly exists good foundation for the above opinion. Unfortunately Canada is following the lead of the United States in this matter. Our young men, especially business men of all ages and in every line not excluding the professional man or even the preacher

—are seeking wealth by a short and easy road. A few are succeeding, but the majority fail, and the community is poorer by the money lost in this way which should have gone into building improvements and other enterprises of a tangible character.



THE necessity for careful inspection of construction work on important buildings is exemplified in the case of an expensive city church, in the roof of which a number of leaks have developed. On investigation, it was found that the valleys extended only four inches instead of four feet under the slates, allowing water and ice to find access beneath the edges of the slates and destroy them. Two or three hundred dollars have already been spent on repairs and it is estimated that six hundred dollars more will be required to make the roof weather-proof. Another instance is that in which the authorities of a church are confronted with the necessity of lowering the furnaces in the basement in order

Importance of Proper Inspection of Building

Work.

