<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	231



Had there been any decrease of wages in the building trades there might have been some excuse for the adoption of " go easy" principles. But the contrary is the fact. The wages have gone up substantially of late years; but, as already shown, instead of more work being done for the extra money, there is less. The combined effect on the cost of labour has been such that, whereas a plain wall could have been put up ten years ago for from £12 to £14 per rod (272 ft.), such a wall would now cost from £20 to £22 per rod. Allowance must, of course, be made for the increased cost of bricks, though 10 per cent. of this increase is due to the fact that the brick-makers adopt similar tactics to the bricklayers ; but the average cost of labour alone in brickwork (exclusive of pointing) has increased from L3 to L6 per rod in the last ten years, and even this figure is sometimes exceeded. One master builder in London, noticing how slowly the work on a particular job was proceeding, spoke about it to the foreman, and said he would like to find out how much the bricklaying was costing him per rod. The men had seen the two conversing-, but had not actually heard what was said. They concluded, however, as they told the foreman, that '' the governor wasn't satisfied," and not one of them came back to work next day. The desired calculation was made, and it was found that the actual work of bricklaying was costing £9 per rod, or one halfpenny per brick.

As a combined illustration of lazy working, excessive cost of labour, and a resort to intimidation on the part of the men when the employer seeks to protect his own interests, no better, or rather no worse, example could well be given than that represented by an incident which occurred in connection with a certain East End job so recently as the middle of October. During the course of one particular week there were engaged on the job in question 24 bricklayers and 24 laborers each day. The wages paid to the bricklayers for their week's work amounted to £61 9S 4d, and those to the laborers £36 14S 10d, making a total of £98 45 2d. The amount of work done for this sum was 43 cubic yards, representing a cost of nearly £20 per rod for bricklaying alone. Some of the men were discharged, but six or seven of them returned the following day, and finding that other men had been engaged in their place they committed a savage assault upon the newcomers, one of whom was seriously injured. Two of the assailants were taken into custody by the police, and later in the day were convicted by a magistrate and committed to prison, one of them for seven days, and the other for one month. Up to the present the contractors in question have shown no partiality in the employment of non—union men, but they have caused it to be understood that, if the state of things suggested by the above incident should continue, they will take measures to protect themselves against such tyranny.

It is not against the bricklayers alone that complaints of "go easy" practices are brought. From the navy who digs the foundations to the painter who puts on the last coat of varnish, all the men engaged in the building trades are declared to be

tarred with the same brush" in regard to doing less work for more money, especially where there is any lack of proper supervision. And, unfortunately, unless he makes tip his mind to resort

to exclusively non-union labour, the average master builder is practically at the mercy of his men, How they will leave a job if they even suspect him of complaining has already been shown, and other instances might be added. If he himself should turn off one man for '' going easy" and put on another in his place, the chances are that the second man will bc no better than the first. His opportunities, too, of finding relief in foreign competition are limited, though he makes use of those that present themselves. Thus an enormous trade has developed in ready-made doors from Sweden, for the simple reason that they can he brought here and sold at 9s 6d, while the same class of door made in England with similar machinery to that employed in Sweden would cost 13S 6d. When the Associated Society of Carpenters and joiners found, some years ago, that the masters were availing themselves of foreign help to overcome the tactics of that union, it called a strike in order to compel the builders not to use Swedish doors ; but the attempt failed. A substantial trade has also sprung up of late years in Swedish window sashes and frames, to the further detriment of our own carpeting trade, while architrave moldings for doors and window frames are brought from Sweden and extensively sold here at one-third the cost of English moldings. * * *

There is, on the whole, more toleration of nonunion labor in the building trades than was formerly the case ; hut in many instances the non-unionist is still subjected to systematic annoyance and even to persecution, at the hands of the unionists when they can resort to such practices without danger to themselves. Still another class of troubles is represented by an incident that occurred recently at Bath, where 100 masons and bricklayers left a job rather than work with five society men who had not paid certain penalties imposed on them, the strikers insisting that either the men should pay up or the firm should discharge them. The five would not pay, the firm would not discharge them, and so the 100 struck work and remained out until the local officials ordered them to return. As the outcome of all these disputes, rivalries and squabbles among the men themselves a further augmentation in the cost of production takes place, the figure eventually reached being far above that for which the building ought to have been erected. When possible the builder naturally seeks to recover the increased expenses from his patrons, or from what the operatives evidently regard as the bottomless purse of the British ratepayer so that eventually it is the public who pay. Sometimes, however, a builder will find his calculations quite upset by the vagaries of the labour world, as in the case of one who had reckoned on a good profit from building a bank in London, his contract standing at a substantial figure, but who eventually found himself £1,500 to the bad. When the speculative builder feels that he must not exceed a certain outlay, he is under a strong inducement to guard against loss by building in the Jerry-built style of which so much is heard, and here, again, it is the public who suffer. They suffer, too, in common with the building trade operatives themselves, through the increase of rents.

An effective remedy for the present state of things in the building trade will not be easy to find.

