<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	227

<article title=" THE AMENDED BUILDING BY-LAW OF TORONTO " author="">

THE AMENDED BUILDING BY-LAW OF TORONTO

The Toronto Building By-law which has for so long a time been in retirement and understood to be in a constant state of revision has at length emerged from this lonely furrow and put itself at the service of the citizens of Toronto.

It is a remarkable by-law in respect that what there is not in it would make a fair-sized volume—and a very useful volume too. The law as it is given to us, deals chiefly with negations and even then it likes to be general. There is no doubt safety in generalities, to guard a position of power. For example, the opening clause of the by-law, the clause relating to the Inspector of Buildings, is admirable. It states simply that the duty of the Inspector of Buildings shall be "to see that the provisions of this By-law are carried out." This is simple, but comprehensive. It guards the power of the Inspector more effectual than the most elaborate definition of his rights. But, when we come to examine the provisions of the by-law, we find they are of the same nature—guarded rather than explicit. It is as if the authors of the by-law took the view that the municipal council is the natural enemy of building in Toronto, prepared only to swoop down upon it for offenses, instead of the view that the council are the city fathers, to lead intending builders in the way they should go to make the building of the city good.

One evil of a by-law full of generalities is the likelihood of conflict between builders and the Inspector, on the ground that where there are no definite directions the builder's opinion is as good as the Inspector's, and perhaps it may be. For example, under the head of Public Buildings, Sec. 31, it is provided that " no church, hospital, college, school, hall, theatre, or other building of a like nature used as a place of worship, or for public meetings of amusement or resort, shall be used or hereafter constructed unless the same contains such a number of doors, halls, stairs, stair railings or other means of egress "it is to be hoped this will not give color to the idea that sliding down a handrail is permitted " of sufficient size and strength as in the opinion of the Inspector of Buildings shall afford ample facilities for free and rapid egress in case of fire, panic, or other cause." This is all very well, but public buildings are not erected by the "cut and try" method. An Inspector cannot come on the works of a public building in June and tell the architect that a passage-way he planned in January, must be a couple of feet wider. The plan is figured throughout to meet the existing dimensions, and the iron is all on the ground. The Inspector will either have no opinion upon that point, or if he has, and wishes to make it law, he must expect to find ample facilities afforded for his free and rapid

egress from the building. This will not make for the authority of the law. It would be better if it was settled beforehand what is to be the standard in all cases where there can be the question of a standard. Then it will be known in advance what the opinion of the Inspector is going to be ; and any dissent from it can be settled in advance, before the plans are made.

This would imply more work than the construction of the present by-law, but genius is not required

the process is one of compilation. If there ever was such a thing as a first by-law, no living human being has seen one. All by-lawsare compiled, and the process is commended to the city officials as a fascinating labor, in which perfection is attainable, and whereby they would learn a lot. Indeed it would not have been necessary to do so much work as might at first sight appear in order to fill in the deficiencies of this by-law, for the ground was well covered in a draft of by-laws, drawn up in 1895, with great care and many meetings, by a select committee of the Ontario Association of Architects, and placed in the hands of the City Engineer; among whose records it may doubtless still be found. That this draft was rejected by the revisers of the by-law argues that they aimed at something different, but it is difficult to see what they aimed at it is difficult to grasp their purpose. It is only a fire by-law, why enter into the question of the thickness of brick walls? If it is a building by-law, why not tell us some more? The thickness of a wall in proportion to its height is not the last word about building a wall. One of the notable building failures of New York was due to the quality of mortar used. There is not one word about mortar in this by-law. Nor is there anything said about the length a wall may run between cross walls or buttresses, for a given height ; yet, even if this is merely a fire by-law, it is a consideration important for the safety of firemen that there should be some limit fixed in this.

The by-law should, in fact, declare the standard of sound building in all points. This sounds like a large order, but that it is possible is easily seen from the simple fact that it is done. The building by-laws of the great cities of the United States are compendiums of the art of building as locally practiced. Indeed it is not necessary to go to the United States for example. The Montreal Building By-law is before us. It contains the usual precautions against fire, more complete than those of Toronto, where we have compared them. It contains also the rules for thickening walls, better stated than in the Toronto by-law because displayed in the form of tables, where the average sensual man can grasp them better than if, as in the Toronto by-law, he has to dig painfully for them in a six inch legal paragraph with one full stop. But it contains much more than this. There are full directions for building according to a standard of safety ; and that is what we want in Toronto. The Montreal law takes hold of things from the very bottom by specifying the depth of the frost line ; and from there up the builder has given him an authoritative decision upon every point, as to what constitutes good building. Footings, foundation walls damp coursing, stone walls, brick walls, hearths and chimneys are all treated; and the different compositions of mortar are introduced in an intelligent manner as a condition affecting the loads permissible on walls. The strength of floors for buildings of every class, the strength of roofs of all pitch, are fully defined. To be

