<doctype type="text">106	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



be 9 inches wide. To find the point to place the cross-trimmer, go up 3 risers, at which point there is 7 feet 9 inches from top of tread to ceiling. If we go up another riser we get 7 feet, 1 1/2 inches and if we measure from the fifth tread, we get 6 feet 6 inches, as shown at A, A. This should be the limit, but, as said before, it is sometimes necessary to take in another riser. This, I think, will meet ''young carpenter's " requirement. If the Editor will permit, I will gladly answer all the other questions at length, asked by our young friend.



N. P. K. wishes to get a receipt for talking off varnish from furniture and woodwork without burning it off.

ANS Use a solution of about 3 pounds common washing soda to a gallon of water. Apply this to the work with a common paint brush, and after allowing it to stand for a short time, the varnish should be scrubbed off with an ordinary stiff scrubbing brush. If all does not come off, apply the soda solution again, making it hot before application.



R. V. W. :—Wants to know the proper height to set up a kitchen sink.

ANS :—The usual height for a kitchen sink is 2 feet 6 inches from the floor to the rim of the sink, and when there is a drip-board, there will be about 7-8 of an inch cap around the sink, which miters into the drip-board. The sink should have a slight inclination towards the waste outlet, so that it may drain clean.



P. McF :—Is there a correct method of laying off degrees with the steel square? How are bases of

unequal run " laid out by using the square? Can hip-rafters be laid out by the steel-square alone? Answers to these questions will oblige.

NOTE :—We leave these questions to our readers to answer.



J. N :—Please publish a correct method of laying out the distance for " kerfing " stuff that has to be bent around a circular corner, or a circular window, and oblige.



A Regular Reader" writes __ " What are the proper proportions for mixing coke-breeze and Portland cement so that the nails can be driven in for fixing jointry ?"

ANS :—The proportions vary according to the nature of the coke-breeze. One part of Portland cement to five of hard breeze, and one part of Portland cement to seven of a soft breeze giving good results. If there is time for the mass to set before being moved from the molds the addition of an extra two parts of breeze, soft or hard, may be safely used. The breeze should be crushed before use.

<article title=" A NEW PORTLAND CEMENT MANUFACTORY " author="">

A NEW PORTLAND CEMENT MANUFACTORY.

The new company recently organized to establish cement manufacturing works at Durham, Ont., is about to begin the construction of its works. Several of the directors are connected with the Peninsular Portland Cement Co., of Jackson, Mich., which is said to have one of the most perfectly equipped factories in the world. It is claimed that at this factory the materials are entirely handled by automatic appliances from the point where the marl and clay are dug out of the

ground to the turning out of the finished cement. The works to be erected at Durham will be planned on similar lines, with the object of reducing to the finest possible point the cost of production.



<article title=" CEMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA " author="">

CEMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA.

United States Consul-General J. G. Stowe writes from Cape Town :—" No country is a better customer for cement than South Africa. The public buildings, warehouses, stores, and residences are built of brick, cemented on the outside. No wood, or frame houses are seen. The expert Malays, the masons in this country, are adepts in producing very pleasing effects with cement in the outside finish of buildings. The bricks used in South Africa are two-sevenths larger than the American bricks, and are laid up principally with '' mud," the inferior clay found here, instead of mortar (lime) or cement. Over the whole surface cement is laid. Bricks of different shapes form the window sills caps, columns, pilasters, moldings, &c., and over these is spread the cement, forming a very pleasing exterior, the natural stone being closely imitated. Many of the large buildings are spattered with the cement, presenting a rough exterior very striking, and even durable. Cement is also used in making drain pipes, sidewalks, stoops, tiles, chimney-pots or tops. Brick exteriors are never seen, as the bricks are inferior, the best qualities being made of clay and coal cinders. Of the cement imports for 1899 amounting to 126,672,875 lbs., Belgium furnished 18,423,628 lbs. Germany, 7,448,395 lbs. ; other countries, 605 lbs. and the United Kingdom the balance. During 1900, the imports of cement from Germany have been increasing rapidly, as it has been found that German cement is equally as good as English Portland, and can be bought at 24c. per barrel cheaper. Belgian cement is good and sells 36c. cheaper than the English. Cement of the desired quality will never be manufactured here, as the ingredients do not exist.

<article title=" USEFUL HINTS FOR THE PAINTER " author="">



USEFUL HINTS FOR THE PAINTER.

A stencil, to work effectively, must be kept in such condition as to be soft and pliable, so that when you come on to it with your brush or roller it gives under the pressure, let that pressure be ever so light, clings close to the wall and allows no color to run in under the edges.

The prevailing fashion for white ceilings may be attributed to the result of a superstition that they look higher from being white ; but all colors are relative, and a light tinted ceiling entering into the general scheme of color looks far more comfortable than the unsympathetic white.

To know what is being done, the way to do it, and the probable destiny of the product he is using, is to the painter one half the battle. Too much attention cannot be given to the causes of the many little troubles that confront the painter from time to time, particularly in varnishing.



Messrs. Gordon & Helliwell, architects, have removed their offices from the third to the fifth floor of the Confederation Life Building, Toronto.



Effective advertising is the kind that is always fresh and interesting. If there are several things to talk about, talk about one at a time, and talk about it so that it wilt make an impression. Don't say the same old things over and over in the same old way.

