<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



recommend '' Details of Gothic Architecture," measured and drawn by J. K. Coiling ; '' Gwilt's Encyclopedia of Architecture " '' History of Gothic Art in England," by F. S. Proir, M. A. " Gothic Architecture, by H. E. Corroyer ; '' Pugin's Architecture," and "Parker's Gothic Glossary. "—ARCHITECT.





ANS. TO JAS N. Instead of nailing the guard of your pitch-hoard " on the edge of the ''run," leave ''pitchboard" wide enough to screw guards in each side, then when you want to change the '' pitch," unscrew the guards and place wherever desired. For proportioning steps of stairs, see article on '' Treads and Risers " in February number of CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for 1900.—CARPENTER.





From JNO. W., Hamilton, Ont.: What is the distinction between the terms '' dead load" and '' live wall," when applied to the construction of floors?

ANS. The term " dead load," as employed in mechanics, means a steady, quiescent load, as the weight of the material itself employed in constructing the floor, or a load of stone or other similar immovable body. A "live load" means a moving body or a moving load, as a crowd of persons, animals, boxes, bands or other articles liable to frequent moving. It has been found by experience that the effect of a live load on a beam or other piece of material, is twice as severe as that of a dead load of the same weight, and hence a piece of material designed to carry a live load should have a factor of safety twice as large as one designed to carry a dead load.—H. F.





From B. J. F., North Bay : I have a turned wooden bridge to throw across a creek, some 72 feet of a span, the ends resting on piers built on each side of the creek. I would deem it a great favor if anyone of your many readers would publish a design of a truss suitable for the position ? The bridge is for road traffic, stands over a deep ravine and will he wide enough to admit teams to pass one another—-- say 14 feet wide. The deck will be planked over with I 1/2 inch plank. The timber used for construction is specified to be all of Norway pine, with exception of the planking, which may or may not be of the same material.





In reply to an Ottawa correspondent who asked for information regarding closets in public schools the following is submitted "The closets must not be less than 2 feet 3 inches clear in width nor more than 3 feet should be well lighted and ventilated and properly screened or divided. More than one seat in each closet should not be allowed. The table given beneath shows the number as near at possible of seats required for a given number of children. For boys, of course, there must be urinals provided in proportion.

	For Girls.	For Boys.	For Infants

	Under 30	Children	2	1	2

	50		3	2	3

	70	"	4	2	3

	100			3	4

	150		6	3

	200	''	7	4	6

	"300		8	5	7

	"400	"	9	6	8

	500		10	8	10



There should be separate closets for teachers."

 Inspector

To W. R. G. According to Millar artificial cements are Portland cement, Elay, Robinson's and other similar cements made or compounded from various substances. Natural cements are those which are made direct from a mineral by burning and grinding, and without the addition of other materials, similar to the Thorold cement. The usual tests for Portland cement are color, weight, fineness, tensile and transverse strengths. There are other tests made sometimes by manufacturers for their own satisfaction before sending the cement to market. Silver sand is used with Portland cement to give the finishing coat a close and uniform texture, also to impart a white or a silver—gray color to the finished surface.

M.	B.





To T. W. R. A full description of secret nailing" with illustrations was published in this journal some time in 1899, hut the following may answer T. W. R.'s

Secret nailing

purpose:	is sometimes called 'blind

nailing," also ''chip nailing" and "sliver nailing," and is the art of finishing work in such a manner that no mark, of nail holes or screw heads are exposed, which under the ordinary method of doing work would require to he covered with putty before the painter or varnisher could apply the finish. The process is very simple and can be accomplished by any mechanic of ordinary ability. Take a very thin chisel—a paring chisel—3/8 to

inch wide and raise a chip with it wherever a nail or screw is intended to be driven. A sharp knife should be used to make two cuts with the grain of the wood, the width of the chisel apart, to keep the sides of the chip rom splitting. The chisel should be set at a steep angle at first till the proper depth is reached, and then made to turn out a piece of the wood of even thickness and not more than a sixteenth of an inch in thickness, and long enough to admit of driving the nail or screw. Care must be taken in raising the chip not to give it too sharp a curve or too great a thickness, as it is liable to break off while being straightened out again. After the nail or screw is driven in place, the chip must be glued in its place and held down firmly until it is dry and solid, when the work may be finished.

CARPENTER.





X	X, Montreal, writes : A skylight has been built as per sketch. The outside A-B being built with T and L irons and rolled plate glass, 1/4 inch thick. The inside C-D of wood (ordinary sashes) with puttied glass. The bottom E forming apex of a ceiling is also of wood























and glass puttied. The inside sash has been built to prevent condensation, hut is not effective. Could you not give some information in your valuable paper to cure that evil and oblige?



ANS.—Replying to the foregoing query we may say, the proper way is to have an inside gutter running all

