<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	147

<article title=" Factories Outside of Cities " author="">

Factories Outside of Cities

To any one watching the six o'clock rush out of a large city, the question must occur, is it necessary for all these

people to do their work in the same part of the city? Why should all these factory operatives live on the outskirts of the city ; coming in every morning in haste, only to go out again in haste in the evening ; when their work could he done as well in the suburb where they live? Some factories are located on the railways on the edge of thc city and there seems no reason why there should not be a district in each city (preferably eastward in this country, where the prevailing winds are westerly) in which facilities provided by railway concessions would invite the establishment of factories. With the worst disposition of space, such an arrangement would be more convenient than the present manner of concentrating every kind of work in the city. If properly managed, there would be opportunity offered for the growth of little factory settlements in which, after the manner of Messrs. Lever Bros.' village of Sunlight, the labourer would be near his toil and need waste no time in going to and from it. It is not work that is the labourer's curse, but want of leisure ; and that he should waste what little time he has, that he can call his own, in going to and from home in the crowded street cars—a journey that will increase in distance continually—is an evil which is not necessary ; and to take steps to get over this state of affairs i.s to (10 the best thing that can be done to ameliorate the labourer's lot. A couple of hours a day added to their time will with many men he devoted to pursuits producing continual self improvement. Much can result in a few years from a little done each day. There is at least opportunity for the advantage of positive recreation, and the profit of a little gardening. Where nearness to the centre is not all important, the expansion of a city may be considerable, and land not too valuable for a little to go with a workman's cottage.

<article title=" To Straighten Niagara " author="">

Mr. Joseph I. Keefer has, according to

To Straighten Niagara.	the Buffalo Courier, submitted to the

Niagara Falls Commission a plan to cut away a portion of Goat island, build an abutment and '' connect thc American and Canadian Falls in one grand torrent of water." " My idea," says Mr. Keefer, "is to build a great giant wall or abutment, with a stone top or coping, that cannot be washed away, and let the water from both sides of the island gracefully glide over the darn or stone esplanade, thus making one continuous stream of pure white water from the jut of one shore to the jut of the other." Mr. Keefer explains how this great idea came to him. "I was standing over on the Canadian side where the old British Museum used to be. and, looking across, the thought struck me how much prettier the falls would be if they were not broken by Goat island." It would be difficult to take this proposition seriously, if it were not that the Commissioners are reported to have already done so. The Commissioners are reportcd to have "seemed much taken with the idea, and wondered why no one had ever thought of it before." Arid they are going to have their engineer "figure on it," to ascertain the probable cost. It is a serious fact that public culture is far behind public wealth in the United Statcs, and an atrocity, such as is here contemplated, is always within the possibilities. It would be difficult to persuade a jury of Mr. Keefer's peers that the intrusion of Goat Island is one of the

distinguishing beauties of Niagara. His scheme might be attacked on the ground that the unfortunate break in the middle of the Canadian Fall will destroy the perfection of his line, and that the green water in the centre of the horseshoe will forever disturb the prettiness of the "continuous stream of pure white water from the jut of one shore to the jut of the other." Against this petty objection he can urge, as he does, that "the people ought to hc interested in this improvement, for it will make a new falls at Niagara. It will stimulate the interest of those who have never seen the falls before, while those who have seen them will be anxious to come again to see what has been done to preserve and improve onc of the greatest American wonders." In all this Mr. Keefer shows sound business instinct, and (always supposing that the state of New York can have any reasonable motive for organizing a one lively season of this kind at thc Falls) he might add the rush of peoplc both on this continent and from Europe who realize that it is their last chance to see Niagara Falls as the world has hitherto admired it.



BY THE WAY.

The London Telegraph tells of a squeamish architect who in travelling from Dieppe to Paris, refused to surrender his railway ticket to the guard because the latter's hands were not immaculate, and he declined at the architect's suggestion to cover them with gloves. The case found its way into court, and the architect manfully defended his attitude, but was fined £4.

xxx



IN Berlin there has been founded an institution exclusively reserved for young women desirous of learning the art of painting—not pictures—but buildings. The course of instruction in this school is complete. Not only do the young women learn to handlc thc brush, mix the colours, but a professor of gymnastics comes twice a day to give instruction in climbing ladders and maintaining one's equilibrium on planks and scaffoldings. 

xxx

Mr. Illsley, a mcmber of the firm who have the con tract for the crection of the large hotel in Toronto, is given as authority for the statement that the taking down of the old buildings on the site was the speediest bit of work he ever witnessed, either in Chicago or elsewhere. This testimony to Canadian skill and energy, from a contractor of long experience in the United States, where the speediest mcthods are sought to be employed, is very acceptable, as showing that our contractors are up-to-date.

xxx



THERE is no need for an alien labor law in Budapest Public Sentiment is sufficient to keep out foreigners. In consequence of negotiations having been opened with a firm in Vienna to construct a new national theatre in that town, the majority of the leading actors and actresses have pledged themselves not to accept an engagement in a theatre on which any Austrian architect, builder, decorator, painter, mason, or any kind of labourer had been employed, and a theatre built by the hated foreigners will be rigidly boycotted by nine-tenths of the population of Budapest.

xxx



With the incoming of thc twentieth century, comes the announcement that the concentrated hcat of the

