<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	211

NOTES OF A VISIT TO BOSTON AND NEW YORK.

<article title=" NOTES OF A VISIT TO BOSTON AND NEW YORK " author="Langton, W. A.">

My journey had no professional motive but, where there are so many good buildings, one cannot fail to have noticed something worth reporting in notes such as the Editor wishes me to make.

I broke the journey at Albany both going and returning. Besides other reasons, there are two points about Albany that make it interesting to a Toronto person. It is situated on a hill and it is built in rows. To sit at breakfast in my hotel and look out upon a steeply ascending street, with all the variation that this implies in base and sky lines, was in itself a treat to one accustomed to see everything on a dead level but in the streets themselves, closed at the bottom with a view of' the hills across the Hudson and crowned with the State Capitol, the beauty of a city set on a hill was still more apparent. As to buildings in rows, I must confess to a liking for it. A city is a city when it is built solid, and dignity is so much more easily attained. When there is only one front, the expense of good material is comparable. Even with plain material success is easy. Then the convenience ! There are no distances. The best residences are from five to ten minutes from the shops, and the best shops are all together in a block or two. One can do in Albany in less than an hour what would take a morning to accomplish in Toronto. The Capitol is five minutes from the railway station, the Park fifteen ; there is nothing beyond, arid one includes the shops on the way to the Capitol. Yet Albany has a population of 95,000. So much for compactness in a city.

This note is not without application in a city which, like Toronto has grown so far beyond the limits of convenience that a consolidation of residences within the region of the Belt Line would be a great gain.

There are many interesting things in Albany. '[lie Capitol and City Hall are well—known, but one hears less of the cathedral; yet it will probably, when complete, hold its own in point of design with either of these buildings and is far more interesting both from its nature and as a remarkable example of how to build a large church that cannot be completed in one generation. It has been usual to build one end, the chancel or little more—to put up, with contracted floor space, that is to say, and spend resources in completing it vertically. Bishop Doane has adopted the more satisfactory plan of enclosing his whole floor area and limiting his building in height. It sounds unpleasing, but is carried out so that there is no sense of loss in height. The stonework is complete up to the sill course of the triforium. The triforium wall will be double, consisting of an inner half of stone to show in the church, and an outer half of brick, which will be hidden iii the aisle roof. This latter portion is built now and, by putting- the temporary aisle roof below it instead of above it the brick triforium wall is converted into a temporary clerestory of brick. From this the temporary roof of rough timber springs, as the vaulting will ultimately spring ; and, as the lines of the roof follow very much the lines the vaulting will take, and the roof rises to the same height, the proportions of the interior are perfect now. This is the principal thing. The eye is satisfied with a sense of sufficient height, without desiring to penetrate the comparative gloom of the roof. At its natural level all is complete carving stained glass, stone pulpit, wrought iron

screen, choir stalls, altar and reredos. And, what is more important than these details, the plan is complete so that the whole effect of aisle and ambulatory arcades with their pillars, (seven feet across the greatest diameter) is there. There can hardly be a nobler church in the country, although there is work yet to be done which is estimated at over $300,000.

The way in which the work has been done is also instructive. A church building is especially susceptible of division into parts and of estimation by parts. By subdivision of the work in this way every pillar, column, window portal, and of course the furnishings and accessories, have been provided by separate hands, by gift or collection of the cost and many Albany families have in this way become provided with an enduring memorial, duly carved upon the stone as a portion of its decoration. A list of the remaining works hangs in the porch, with the estimated cost set opposite, so that anyone, who has money to give or to bequeath, can take his choice of works, ranging in cost from $1,500 for a buttress to $70,000 for the towers and spire



Boston is a beautiful city ; there is no doubt about that. It always had beautiful suburbs and a beautiful nucleus, in the Common ; now they have connected the suburbs with the Common by continuous drives

all of which is well known to the readers of this journal. But what struck us as an extra to our expectations was the extreme neatness of everything. This was an essential part of the city's beauty and an aim in this direction has evidently got to go hand in hand with the aspirations, of which we usually hear most, in the direction of parks and squares arid statues. New York is squalid beside Boston, because of its dirt. Fifth avenue was filthy. There may be extenuating circumstances in the near neighborhood of the excavations for the Fourth avenue subway ; but whether regarded as temporary or permanent, the untidiness of the streets detracted very much from one's sense of

pleasure in viewing the buildings. A city is very like a horse, it must be well groomed to look its best.

Another essential part of the beauty of Boston is the absence of vulgar bustle. Once upon a time there was a continuous procession of street cars along two sides of the Common. Now there is not a street car to be seen in that neighborhood ; yet, by entering a small, unobtrusive building at the corner of the Common next to the business streets; and going down a flight of steps, one can take his choice of direction. Cars for all parts of the city, which have already discharged at another platform, draw tip for passengers and depart continuously In the streets above there is peace and quietness ; and this is another important factor in the beauty of Boston. The '' City Beautiful " cannot have tram cars moving through its streets.

Boston has an additional advantage in the way in which its districts are massed, so that business has one solid quarter to itself, and beauty, as represented by the best residences, another. And the outer fringe of the residence quarter is in touch with the park system, so that the rich suburban resident can drive all the way from home to within a block or so of his place of business without mingling with commercial traffic. It is partly on this account that one receives so unbroken an impression of Boston as a beautiful city. When we took a trip into the old town to see Christ church— one of those delusive investigations of historical scenes,

