<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

A CORRECTION.

<article title=" A CORRECTION " author="Bryce, P. H.">

Toronto, Feb. 28th, 1901.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,- -Mr. Bishop, Architect of the Public Schools, Toronto, has brought to my attention the report of my remarks at the recent Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects.



The rough report of my remarks was looked over very hurriedly, and I am sorry I am quoted as having said, The ventilation of our schools was criminally neglected."



I have no recollection of using the words " criminally neglected, and certainly would not use them, but I think I was referring in my remarks to some 28 class-rooms which I inspected two years ago, used as a temporary accommodation.



Many of the schools arc as regards fresh air well supplied if not overcrowded, and I am glad to learn from Mr. Bishop that arrangements are being made for supplying adequate moisture, and in new schools for mechanical means of ventilation.



I shall be obliged if you will give this note space in your next issue.

Yours truly,

P.	H. Bryce







ENGINEERS VERSUS ARCHITECTS.



A lively game of curling was played at the Granite rink, Toronto  February 26th, when architects and engineers laid aside their '1' squares and wielded brooms instead. It was a close game throughout, the following being the score:

		Engineers.	  Architects.

	W. R. Clement		A. H. Gregg

	C. B. Smith		A. R. Denison

	J.	D. Shields	F. H. Herbert

	C.	H. Rust, skip —10	J. A. Pearson, skip. 9





Mr. W. H. Elliott, of the Elliott & Son Company, the well known decorators of Toronto, accompanied by Mrs. Elliott, is on his way to Europe. his intention is to visit the leading art centers in Great Britain and on the continent.

NOTES.



Mr. H. S. Griffith, architect., of Winnipeg, has recently taken into partnership Mr. Thomas Kennedy.



Mr. F. Neil Brodie has recently opened an office for the practice of architecture at 42 Princess St., St. John, N. B.



Mr. Harry Stavelel, the well known architect of Quebec, has taken into partnership his son, Edward B. Staveley, who recently completed a course of study in the architectural department of McGill University, Montreal.



Dr. A. P. Coleman, Professor of Geology at Toronto University, and geologist to the Ontario Bureau of Mines, has been appointed Director of the Geological Survey at Ottawa, in succession to the late Dr. G. M. Dawson.



A cable dispatch brings intelligence of the death in action in South Africa of Mr. Frank Douglas of the Oxford Yeomanry, who was formerly a pupil in the office of Mr. D. B. Dick, architect, Toronto, and who has many relatives still residing in that city.



A very pleasant event occurred at St. Thomas a few days ago, when the warden and members of the county council of Elgin waited upon Mr. Darrach, architect of the new county buildings, and presented him with a complimentary address accompanied by a photograph of the new buildings. The committee stated that the result of Mr. Darrach's work bad far exceeded their expectations.



Mr. Thomas R. Short, who has been declared the winner of an important competition for model tenement houses for New York is a native of Hamilton, and was a student in the office of Mr. James Balfour, architect, of that city. Mr. Short has resided in New York since 1885. In the above mentioned competition there were 170 competitors and 308 sets of plans.



According to the Wallpaper News, of New York, a paper that will retain painted or printed characters, and that can be washed, disinfected, or scrubbed, is now made. The paper, either before or after printing, is gelatinized, and then treated with a solution of formaldehyde, which renders it thoroughly waterproof and impervious to moisture. It is especially suitable for wallpaper.



Fire Clay Chimney Top















WIRE LATH

The only perfect Lathing, for the reason that the Wire is completely embedded in Mortar and CANNOT RUST. It is the only Lathing that will stand the test of time.





THE B. GREENING WIRE 60.

(LIMITED)



Hamilton, Ont. - Montreal, Que.

CABOT'S

CREOSOTE SHINGLE STAINS

The Original and Standard Shingle Stains are made only by SAMUEL CABOT, of Boston, Mass. Every package bears his trade mark, and every gallon is guaranteed. Used and proved in every climate for nearly twenty years. Also



CABOT'S

Sheathing and Deafening "Quilt"

the most perfect insulator of heat and deadener of sound on the market. Decay, moth and vermin-proof, and uninflammable.

Samples, Catalogue and full information upon application to the manufacturer r his

CANADIAN AGENTS:

ANDREW MUIRHEAD, 82 Bay St., Toronto.

SEYMOUR & CO., Montreal.

C.	G. HENSHAW, Vancouver.

F.	H. BRYDGES, Winnipeg.

W.	H. THORNE & CO., St. John.

E.	D. ADAMS Halifax

No.5

Poutry

Par/our

Door

Hangers

Antifriction

Roller Bearing

Noiseless

Cushion Track

Locked Set Screw

Adjustable

$6.00 per Double Set



$3.00 per Single Set



THE..



YOKES HARDWARE CO.

Limited

TORONTO

SEND FOR CATALOGUE

A New Idea in Stairs and Car Steps ARCHITECTS Why not specify The Hamilton improvement for Stairs  and Car Ste s and avoid Accidents through Slipping.

	PHONE 8788.	H. J.	93 York Toronto,

Write or Phone for Particulars.	HAMILTON, Street	Can.

