<doctype type="text">222	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



FIRE DOORS AND SHUTTERS.

<article title=" FIRE DOORS AND SHUTTERS " author="">

Owing to the vital importance of good fire doors and shutters to the business of fire underwriting, the writer has given the subject much consideration for a number of years.

The value of a fire door can only be realized when we stop to consider that it is always placed at an opening in a brick wall separating at times enormous values, and that it must, when so placed, prove in event of fire the equivalent of the bricks it replaces. This is expecting much of a device constructed of wood covered with tin, and of thickness no greater than 3 inches ; or of iron not exceeding 3-16 of an inch in thickness. Yet in the standard requirements contained in this issue we believe we are specifying such fire doors and rely with great confidence upon their ability to protect when properly installed.

In the matter of fire protection devices the tendency has always been toward better and more uniform standards, and there is no exception in the case of fire doors and shutters.

The evolution of the fire door from a comparatively worthless pattern to the present standard which was adopted by the National Fire Protection Association at its third annual meeting held in Boston, June, 1899 and since printed and officially authorized for general use by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, is about as follows

First, the ordinary wooden door, sheathed with sheet-iron or tin on the side more severely exposed then the same door metal-clad on both sides then the double door, or 2-inch door covered with tin. In the above cases the doors were usually hung to metal-covered strips of wood, spiked to the wall, and frequently with cast—iron hinges or hangers, the sills also being in most cases of wood and sometimes metal covered.

Experience showed that a better door and a more substantial method of hanging were necessary. The first Underwriters Association to adopt and print a standard for tin-clad doors worthy of imitation was the Philadelphia Board, in September, 1899 This standard called for stone sills, all hanging hardware exclusively of wrought-iron and tin covering applied to the door in the manner as now described in the National Standard.

The transition from the primitive door to the present standard should not be lost sight of, as the improvement is quite as marked. All that has been said in reference to the fire door is equally applicable to the fire shutter.

In the summarizing, I would like to impress upon readers of the specifications the following special points of merit

TIN CLAD DOORS.

<article title=" TIN CLAD DOORS " author="">

(1) The method of applying the tin, whereby all edges are not only nailed to the door, but nailed together, which positively prevents a single sheet of tin from getting away. With the old method no edges were nailed together.

(2) All cast-iron hangings discarded and only wrought steel or malleable iron allowed.

(3) Doors. are hung directly to masonry without any wood trim.

IRON DOORS.



The specific points of merit in these doors are the rigid angle iron frame, the increased thickness of plate iron used and the three or more hinges with a latch opposite each hinge.—W. S. Lanon in Insurance Engineering.

PRACTICAL. HINTS.



NAILING FLOOR TO CONCRETE.—Wood flooring should not be nailed down direct to the concrete, as there is a danger of rot setting in. This is more especially the case in cellars, and where the floors are often damp. The case of wood-block flooring is entirely different, being in small pieces, mostly laid on end, and tarred on the underside. The concrete should be fowled off with neat cement and tarred, and the underside of the boards tarred also. The floor should not he covered with linoleum or a similar non-porous substance 



PLUMBERS' Soil.— A package of lampblack is mixed with water into a mortar a kettle containing about a quart of water and a tablespoonful of good glue is heated until the glue is melted, when the liquid is poured into the lampblack mortar and the whole well stirred for about an hour while it is boiling. When cold, the soil should be of about the consistency of gelatin.



FILLING FOR Nail HOLES.—The following method of filling up nail holes in wood is not only simple, hut said to be effectual Take fine sawdust and mix into a thick paste with glue, pound it into the hole, and when dry it will make the wood as good as new. Frank Christian, jr., in Stoves and Hardware, says he has followed this for thirty years, with unvarying success in repairing bellows, which is the most severe test known. Often by frequent attachment of new leather to the old bellows frames, the wood becomes so perforated that there is no space to drive the nails and even if there were, the remaining holes would allow the air to escape. A treatment with glue and sawdust paste invariably does the work, while lead, putty and other remedies always fail.



USEFUL Mems ABOUT PAINTING.—Spon's Tables gives the following :—Lead Paint.—First coat. --One pound covers about 4 1/2 yards super, following coats 6 1/2 yards super painters day's work—first coat of paint on wood 60 yards super following coats 70 yards super varnish takes about gallon to 60 yards painter's day's work—laying on varnish 40 to 50 yards. In protective properties one coat of Velure is equal to at least two coats of lead or zinc paint and one of varnish one gallon will cover 90 yards super if carefully applied on a good groundwork of ordinary paint. The following comparative estimate based on these particulars speaks for itself :—Cost of painting 90 yards super.—When using (a) lead paint and varnish.—Lead paint at 4d. per lb.—--20 lbs. cover 90 yards super—first coat, 6s. 8d.

labour, 1 1/2 days (6o yards per day) at 6s. per day, 9s. ; lead paint—two following coats, say 14 lbs. each—28 lbs. at 4d.,

	9s.	4d.	labour—two following coats, at 7s. 9d. per coat,

		6d.	varnish—one coat, 1 1/2 gallons at (say) 8s. per gallon,



12S. labour applying same —40 to 50 yards per day, say 12s. total cost, 3 coats lead paint and 1 coat varnish, £3 4S. 6d.



When using (b) velure. —Lead paint, 6s. 8d. labour, 9s. Velure, gal., 19s labour, 12s. , total cost, £2 6s. 8d. Total saving, 17s. 10d.



WHITEWASH FOR Outside USE.—Take a clean watertight cask and put in half-bushel of lime. Slake it by boiling water over it to cover it in. deep, stirring briskly meanwhile. When slaked, dissolve 2 lb. sulphate of zinc and lb. common salt in water, and add the lime solution. By adding 3 lb. yellow ochre, the wash may be made of a delicate cream colour. Apply with ordinary whitewash brush. Very durable, and of excellent appearance.

 MEASURING INTERNAL PLASTERED WORK. Measure between skirtings and ceiling, or, if rendered behind skirtings, measure all in from floor to ceiling. The correct way is to deduct from the ceiling the projection of cornice at One side and end, but this is generally neglected unless the cornice is usually large, say, of 24 in. girth. Cornices of not more than 12 in. girth are taken by the foot run ; if larger than this, by the foot super. If they do not exceed 12 in. in girth the length of walls will be sufficiently exact for length of cornice; but when the girth is more take the mean length. Number all mitres, stopped ends, mitred and returned ends, stating girth of cornice, and circular corners, slating girth of corner and cornice. Plastering in small quantities is kept separate from the rest and measured by the supert foot instead of by the yard. No deductions are usually made for chimney openings, this being considered equal to making good, but if deducted add for making good.



Mr. J. Keith Fisher, of the Pacific Coast Portland Cement Company, which, it will be recalled, is about to erect a large plant at Vancouver, B. C., for the manufacture of Portland cement, has recently returned from Europe. It is stated that the plant called for in the original plans will be considerably enlarged.

