<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XIV.—No. 161				May, 1901



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.



Working Drawings of a Suburban House—R. J. Edwards & Wagner, Architects.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

		Design for Small	Suburban House	(Illustrating Paper by Mr. Scarles—Wood before the London Architectural





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.



Photogravure Plate—St. George's Cathedral, Kingston Ont., (Reconstructed) Messrs. Power & Son, Architects. Branch Bank of Canadian Bank of Commerce, Bloor Street, Toronto Messrs Darling &

Pearson Architects.

Summer Residence, Balmy Beach, Toronto—Messrs. R. J. Edwards & Wagner, Architects. Interior of Chapel, Loretto Abbey, Toronto—Beaumont Jarvis, Architect.







CONTENTS.

Editorial Notes

The Effect of Freezing on Concrete	9899

Montreal Correspondence	100

Student Department	101

Manitoba Correspondence	104

Intercommunication	105—106

Cement in South Africa	106

Useful Hints for the Painter	106

Setting—out Work and Building By—laws .	. 	. 107 108

New Agreement Governing Building in	Winnipeg 	108

Legal		118

Personal		117

Correspondence		120

Agreement as to Wages in Toronto		-		v.

Architecture at the R. C. A. Exhibition                    



SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.



PROF. S. H. CAPPER R C A Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. W. A. LANGTON Architect Toronto.

Edmund BURKE

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

	FREDERICK G. TODD	Landscape Architect Montreal.

	R.	A. L. GRAY	Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

j.	C. B. HORWOOD Architect, Toronto.

	A.	F. DUNLOP, R.	Architect, Montreal.





Our Students' Department.

































<article title="" author="">

Protection of Building from Lightning.

Attention is directed to the first of a series of articles on Portland Cements, which appears in the Students' Department of this number. Mr. J. R. Gardiner, architect, of Montreal, very kindly offered to prepare these articles for the benefit of students, who will no doubt, appreciate his friendly interest in their welfare as well as the value of the information supplied. It is hoped that that other architects will follow the example set by Mr. Gardiner, by contributing from their store of knowledge and experience to the needs of the younger members of the profession.



This forms the subject of an inquiry

'which is now being conducted by a

special committee appointed for the purpose by the Royal Institute of British Architects. The committee invite from competent observers data relating to the effect of lightning strokes on buildings, whether fitted with lightning conductors or not. Particulars such as the following are asked for :—Description and situation of building struck, height above sea level, position with regard to other buildings and high trees, and propinquity to wells ; whether rain was falling at the time, if not, whether rain preceded or followed the stroke, and at what interval as to the number of lightning rods on the building, giving position, height above roof, material (both of rod and staples) shape, sectional area, how finished at top and at bot

torn, condition after flash, &c. ; whether conductor was continuous ; particulars of earth connection when conductor was first examined and tested ; nature of soil the precise nature of the injury to the building if any portion was set on fire ; damage to metal work, such as bells, rainwater and other pipes, electric hells or telephones ; distance from conductor of portion of building affected materials of roof coverings, and position of' gutters and down pipes ; whether conductor was in contact with any other metal ; particulars as to metal-cresting, weather cocks, finials or flagstaffs on the building, stating distance from and the height above conductor ; if conductor was struck, whether damaged portions can be obtained for examination, &c.



In London and New York, earnest efforts are being made to provide better living accommodation for the poorer

classes, thereby making life to them better worth living and lessening the amount of disease, vice and crime. In London, the problem is being dealt with by the County Council, which, as the result of experiments on a smaller scale, has now decided to invest $7,500,000 in the purchase of 225 acres of land on which to build 5779 workmen's cottages in Tottenham, a suburb in the north eastern district. These cottages will accommodate 42,500 persons. The rental will be $1.50 per week for a cottage of three rooms and a kitchen and $2.50 per week for a cottage of five rooms and kitchen.

Housing of the Poor.

