<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Mr. C. W. Young, publisher of the Cornwall Freeholder, has issued a most interesting and creditable souvenir number of that paper to mark the opening of the 20th century. It is handsomely printed and illustrated, and is devoted principally to articles descriptive of the town of Cornwall and its industries and institutions.



The past season has been a rather quiet one so far as building operations are concerned in Hamilton. The number of permits issued was 162, and their value $335,

000.	The bulk of the work done represented enlargements and alterations of existing buildings and factory work. There is a probability that steel manufacturing works may be established on a large scale in the east end of the city. If this project should be carried out, it is estimated that 5,000 workmen will be employed , and a large number of workmen's dwellings will be required. It has been suggested that

if these works should be established, opportunity would be afforded a capable architect of designing and arranging to the best advantage these new dwellings. There is, however, no certainty as vet that the works will be established.





EXAMINATION

to 



Qualify for Associateship

IN THE



Royal Institute of British Architects

The Royal Institute of British Architects, desiring to give facilities for those in the Colonies, to qualify by Examination for Associateship in the R. I. B. A., have decided to hold an Examination from J one 21st to 27th 1901 in Montreal. Applications, Fees, and Probationary work, must reach London not later than May 5th 1905. Intending candidates, who must be over 25 years of age, can obtain application forms and copies of the previous examinations of application to



ANDREW T. TAYLOR

Hon. Secy. R. I. B. A. for Canada.

 St. Francois Xavier St.

Montreal

Plaster on

WIRE Lath

Pedlar's Expanded Steel Lath has a good key.

That's its strong point.

The mesh is very open.

That's what makes it's key so good.

Takes more mortar than others, to be sure, but this is an advantage, as the open mesh allows enough mortar to pass through to completely embed the lath, making it entirely fireproof.

Have you one of our large Catalogues? Gladly sent—express paid—on request, by mentioning the "Canadian Architect."

OSHAWA ONT.

PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ARCHITECTS.



A.	T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., R.C.A.



TAYLOR & GORDON,

Architect



43 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST. - MONTREAL Telephone Main 2817.





 HUTCHISON & WOOD,



 Architects and Valuators,

181 St. James Street,	-	MONTREAL.

Telephone Main 858





H.	STAVELEY,

ARCHITECT

Member Province of Quebec Association of Architects

113 St. Peter Street,	-	QUEBEC.





WRIGHT & SON,

Architects and Valuators,

Members Province of Quebec Association of Architects. 204 St. James Street, - MONTREAL.













WIRE LATH

The only perfect Lathing, for the reason that the Wire is completely embedded in Mortar and CANNOT RUST. It is the only Lathing that will stand the test of time.







The 15. Greening Wire 60.

(Limited)



Hamilton, Ont. - Montreal, Que.

Please mention The CANADIAN architect AND BUILDER when corresponding with advertisers.

