<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	199

 INTERCOMMUNICATION. <article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

[Communications sent to this department must b addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure Correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in the issue following their appearance.]





NOTE :—Answering H. R. last month regarding Cement tanks, it should have been mentioned that the inserted galvanized iron pipes should be made of 24 or 28 gauge iron, and should have the end in the water, closed tight, as the pipes or tubes must contain no water.



From Old Bricklayer :--In answer to '' Young Bricklayer," 1 may say that in this section of the country—— near Lake Simcoe—we estimate bricks in the wall as follows, per foot superficial.

For a 4 inch wall 1/2 brick ) 7 bricks

'	( 1 bricks) 13

	14	"	(1 1/2 bricks) 21

	18"	( 2 bricks) 28

	22		(2 1/2 bricks) 35

	26'	( 3 bricks) 42

sixteenth of an inch play on the hinge side, and a trifle less on the lock side. A thicker door will of course



require more clearance on the lock side, and still more if wide hinges are used. Doors should fit close, yet swing perfectly tree, and this can be more readily done when the knuckle of the hinge is close to the jamb and stile, as shown in the illustration (Fig. 1)



From P. McD. :—I want to lay out a curve having a long radius; the curve measuring from a straight line will have a rise of six inches, the chord being eight feet long?

ANS.- --This is very simple when the method is understood. Let A C in the diagram, Fig. 2, be the length of span 8 feet—then on the centre line B raise a perpendicular 12 inches, twice the height required, then

And seven bricks additional for each half-brick added to thickness of walls. To find the number of bricks required for any wall, all we have to do is to find the length and height of wall multiply these figures, then multiply the quotient by the number of bricks that are given for the thickness of the wall to be built. If it is a 9 in. wall, multiply by 13 ; if a 14 in. wall multiply by 21, and so on. The openings for windows or doors, if they exceed 2 feet in width should be deducted, all under that should be counted solid. Ten per cent. of the openings should be allowed for waste.



From B. E. :—How should a door be hung with regard to the hinge and stile, to get the best results ?

ANS. :—--Something will depend on the way in which the door-frame is trimmed. If there are large projecting hand mouldings on the architraves, or if the bare blocks project far out from the line of the door jambs,











































then a wide hinge will be required, and wide winged hinges when possible should be avoided, as any movement in the jamb or door is sure to be intensified where the wide hinges or butts " are employed. A door, less than in. thick should not have more than one—

space from A to B any number of equal divisions. Do the same from B to C; next take a straight edge and draw lines from the spaced points, 1 to 1 2 to 2, 3 to 3, and so on until all are lined off. The intersections of these lines will give the points through which the curve may be traced. It will be noticed the divisions are numbered from at C, upwards to B, and from 1 at B downwards to A. From J. B. :------Will you please inform me as to some



method by which I may determine accurately whether or no a room or house is damp, and if so, how damp ?

ANS. Salt is a good substance to test the presence of dampness. Every housekeeper knows that the table salt sticks together in damp weather. It will also do the same in a damp room. Chloride of lime will turn liquid in a damp place. The rapidity of the change will enable one to judge of the degree of dampness. We do not know of any rule by which h the degree of dampness may be determined. A room in which soiled clothing or shoes will mould may be considered damp. There are costly instruments, we believe, that

 be employed to measure the moisture of the air, but they are which fly in chemical laboratories.



From S. McV. :—I am desirous of building a woodworking factory in a town containing about 6,000 inhabitants, and would like to have your views regarding size of shop, lay—out of machinery, and probable cost of whole outfit. The factory of course will be two stories, the ground floor to accommodate engine, necessary machinery and small dry kiln. The upper floor to be for work benches, etc. ?

ANS.- We submit the following scheme of building (Fig. 3), and layout of machinery. It is considered a good plan of shop and of distribution of machinery, and was prepared by an expert. The building is 36x 100 feet, the engine room 20x24 feet, and the drying kiln 12x16 feet. The building itself need not be a heavy structure hut it should rest on good solid foundation, and all the machines should stand over a solid concrete or masonry bed. The main floor should be as high from the roadway as the to p of a wagon body, which

