<doctype type="text">136	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



A CONCRETE CHIMNEY.

<article title=" A CONCRETE CHIMNEY " author="">

A concrete chimney just completed for the Singer Manufacturing Company at Elizabethport, N.J., is thus described by Ralph C. Davidson in the Scientific American This chimney is of the Ransom cold—twisted-iron construction and is the second of its kind in this country the first, a chimney 150 feet high, with walls less than 12 inches thick, was built about three years ago at Bayonne

N.	J., for the Pacific Coast Borax Company. This chimney has given perfect satisfaction and has withstood a

with concrete, through which iron bars are distributed as shown in Fig. 1. This concrete is then thoroughly tamped and allowed to set. It will be noticed that the chim-

	Material	N. .of Percent No. or Per cent

	per	of gain	of gain

34 inch square commercial iron	3/8	0.03	 3/4	0.05

	1 1/2	0.17	2 1/4	0.18

		0.20	6	0.24

3/4 Norway		.. ..	6	0.53

ney has an inner and outer shell ; the space between these shells is obtained by means of wooden core blocks. Scaffolding is erected inside of the mold ; on this scaffolding the hoisting beams, A, shown in Fig. 2, are supported.



After the first filling of concrete in the mold is thoroughly set, the turn-buckles on the mold are let out, leaving the mold free to be raised by means of the threaded stays and hand wheels. Eight men are required to raise the mold, one man at each wheel. The mold is raised feet at a time, this leaving the mold a lap of 7 feet on the portion of the chimney already set. The mold is now tightened up by means of the turnbuckles, and is again filled with concrete and iron rings Perpendicular iron rods are also placed through the chimney, as shown in Fig.

These are joined at every filling, making a series of continuous bars from the base to the top of time chimney The operation is continued each succeeding day, the scaffolding being extended upward, and the mold raised, filled and time concrete allowed to set; thus 5 feet of the chimney is com







































number of severe wind storms. All the buildings of this company are of concrete throughout. The Singer chimney is a straight chimney 125 feet high, with a 9 foot fine. ft weighs 250 tons the load on the base being 9 1—2 tons to the square foot 20 pounds per foot was allowed for wind pressure in designing the chimney. What is known by concrete men as wet concrete was used. By a wet mixture is meant one which quakes slightly when named by dry mixture is meant one which requires re— peaked ramming to bring water to the surface. The concrete was mixed according to the following proportions

part American Portland Cement, 3 parts sand, 5 parts broken Hudson river limestone. ( Stone broken to pass through a 3-4 inch ring unscreened. ) All of the concrete used was machine mixed this process being church quicker and cheaper than mixing by hand . The method used in constructing this style of chimney is ingenious and novel, and is covered by patents. In laying the foundation for this chimney no piles were used the ground was simply leveled off and the concrete laid as shown in Fig. 1. Coldtwisted—iron bars were imbedded in the foundation, radiating from the centre as shown. Twisted rectangular bars are used for the reason that the spiral ribs formed upon the iron make a continuous lock between the bars and the concrete. It was also shown by test that the tensile strength of twisted bars was considerably more than bars that were not twisted. The following table shows the increase of strength of iron bars by reason of twisting. When the foundation is thoroughly set, a mold is put in place and the actual building of the chimney commences. This mold is constructed as shown in Fig. 2. It is filled

-pleted each day. When the mold is raised high enough, to clear time cleaning-out door, the concrete is delivered to the men on the scaffolding by means of a. bucket—hoist inside of the mold. In molding the call, a plaster mold is used.

The outside finish of these chimneys may be left plain, or tooled to represent stone sometimes, to add to a, chimneys appearance, two rows of concrete brick are laid in place after each days work, this making a series of brick rings feet apart throughout the height of time chimney. When lightning rods are desired, time perpendicular rods already referred to are extended up through the cap.

