<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	35



SYDNEY, N. S., BUILDING NOTES.

<article title=" SYDNEY, N. S., BUILDING NOTES " author="Baillarge, C.">

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Each week gives further reason to believe that Sydney will increase continuously and rapidly for some years to come.



Messrs. Rhodes, Curry & Co., Limited, of Amherst, have one of their most important branches now in Sydney and have been doing an enormous amount of work. The manager here is Mr. A. S. Curry and he has about him a very large stall of clerks and workmen. The factory is large and well equipped, though most of the machinery came clown from Amherst. The difficulties in transit and slowness of delivery render the necessity of keeping a large stock imperative. The firm acts as large suppliers and dealers in lumber and all sorts of building materials. About 200 men of all classes are employed in Cape Breton by this firm in this vicinity. Next summer there will be over 300 needed. A contract for construction at Glace Bay of three hundred double houses, making 6oo tenements for the Dominion Iron & Steel Co. is now being filled. These are to be completed by the end of this year. All are identically alike, being of a storey and a half, size 24 X 40 and they will cost in vicinity of $300,000, the cost of each being therefore about $1,000. The houses are to be clapboarded, with cedar shingle roof, spruce kiln dried floors, plastered, with base and chair rail, two grates in each. They stand upon cedar posts and have no cellar. They are to be painted with red body and green trimmings. A previous contract. for 70 of the same houses was completed some months ago. These had concrete foundations costing slightly more. Ten shacks were also built 26 X 120 clapboarded with shingle roof. Among other contracts to the vicinity are



The town building, size main 52 X 48, hall .12 x 36 of brick with slate roof, cost $14,000, to be completed ibis month ; round house, I.C.R., six stalls, built of brick, cost $15,000,00, contract secured last fall, to be started in spring ; car shop for D I. & S. Co. at Glace Bay, size 150 X 70, of wood, cost $5,000; store, Glace Bay, for McCarel Bros., size 30 x 100, three stories, of wood, cost $8,000, just completed. This store is of oak finished interior, hot water heating and lighted with its own electric plant ; residence Edgar Morely, of wood, cost $5,000, with heating, to be completed in spring. Others constructed by them were the Commercial Bank of Windsor, Ross block and Browse block of brick, and the Thompson building, Record building, and stores and tenements for Norman McDonald, and many others of wood. The firm expresses confidence that Sydney is but beginning operations.



Among the best known contracting and building firms in Sydney as well as in Nova Scotia or the Maritime Provinces is that of James Reid & Sons who are now completing the handsome Bank of Montreal building here.



Messrs. Schurman, Lefurgey, Clark & Co., which firm is a Prince Edward Island concern with a big record for business in that province, have developed a large business in the past year in Cape Breton, and are now doing most of their trade from Sydney. The firm is well known, and is a popular one in the growing town. They have offices and buildings on Water street. The Sydney Academy is being erected by them. It is of brick with eight foot Wallace greystone basement, cost $25,000. They recently completed the Sydney Club House at a cost of $10,000. This is a handsome building designed by Mr. Sturgies, a Boston architect, who presented the club with the plans. They carry a full line of building materials, manufactured and rough. This firm bring doors in carload lots from the factories of the Rathbun Co., Descronto, Out., a distance of over 1200 miles, and find them a cheaper and much better article than can be obtained nearer. The freight amounts to only about 10 cents a door.



John Morley is one of the builders who grew up with old



Sydney. lie has done a large amount of work, including some



30 residences ranging from $1.000 to $4,000. He built Mr. H. C.



Harrington's residence at a cost of $6,ooo. He thinks trade



prospects are excellent for the coming year.



Messrs. Stevenson & Farlinger have been in Sydney about a

year	handling a number

and have good business. They have been



of contracts during the winter, among which was Mr. Burns double residence costing about $7,000. Mr. Stevenson is a son of Robt. Stevenson, contractor in St. Stephen, N. B.



Andrews Bros. & Boutillier have done a large amount of building and put up nine dwellings and business blocks in the past year.



The contracting firm of Wood & McBeth have on hand for winter work some 40 jobs, including mostly plaster and mason work in all their branches, The firm does not handle wood work,

They have plastered about 200 houses. They did the Bank of Montreal, which is the most important job in this line particularly in the town. The firm came here a year ago from Amherst.



Spurr & Isreal do largely brick work and plastering. They came here from Boston during the past year. They have found business good and have many orders for spring. Winter work has been pushed forward in spite of severe weather.



The Sydney Mfg. Co., Limited, opened up about a year ago,



They

having bought out the stand of E. W. Johnston. . opened



up a full plant for sash, door and frame manufacture, as also all kinds of moldings, etc. Though they have been contracting and building they expect to stop this and devote their attention to manufacturing. Over 20 hands are employed in and about the mill.



Chappell Bros. have just changed the name of the firm to Chappell Bros. & Co., Ltd., R. R. Chappell being manager. The new firm is now erecting a new wood-working factory for doing a full line of work. The building is about 60x100, and of three stories. This firm has done a large amount of building of late years in Windsor, where they have a factory. Much of the machinery will he brought here from it. They have been employing about 8o men in building construction, and have put up a large number of residences and buildings. They built 40 or



buildings in Windsor after the fire.



Shaw & Beairsto is one of the best known firms of plumbers and contractors for heating in Sydney. They employ about 20 men at all times. Their headquarters arc on Prince Edward Island, and they employ about 15 men in their shop at Charlotte— town. They came here last summer, and opened up at once a heavy trade. Among their best contracts is the plumbing of the Moxham residence. In this building a large amount of the fittings from Mr. Moxham's old house in the United States have been used, so that the plumbing contract is not so large as might be expected. They have also done the plumbing in the Cape Breton Club House, and in a large number of houses and residences here. In Charlottetown they are filling a $3,000 contract for plumbing of the addition to the asylum. They did the work on the Prince of Wales College there amid several important buildings recently.

C. Estano, the well-known plumber, came here from Moncton about a year ago and has opened up a good stand, in which he does a good business. The Ross block was done by Mr. Estano, the heating being by hot water, using a Robb boiler with twin connections. He is doing the new civic buildings, which are being heated with hot water, a Gurney Bright Idea boiler being used. Mr. Estano has been using the Gurney-Massey radiators altogether. He has done a large number of residences and expects the coming spring work to be heavy.

The firm of Bayer & Company came here from Halifax and opened up about a year ago in the plumbing business, now doing general heating and plumbing. They carry a full line of equipment.

A.	C. Thompson & Company do a large business in all lines of heating and plumbing in North Sydney and Glace Bay.

The Wallace Greystone Company Limited have been doing a large business during the past year from their quarries in Wallace, N.S. The stone turned out from these quarries has a wide reputation and has been used all over the eastern part of the continent. Huge shipments have in the past been sent to Montreal and Toronto, and to Boston, New York amid other New England points. The quarries are about a quarter of a mile to the rear of the little village and upon a high knoll in such a position that when once raised from the pits it is very easy to transport the stone to the wharves below, time stone practically slip— ping down the hill to the wharf. A large number of powerful derricks are in use and steam engines furnish the required power. Not only in quarrying amid removing but in shipping are the facilities excellent. The harbor is a very safe one amid no tugs are required for the vessels. The sandstone is of a blue grey color of very even shade and will retain its color. It splits very evenly and smoothly, being specially famed on this account for flagstone use, engineering and dimension work in general. Much has been shipped from here to the island, the cathedral in Charlottetown being one f the many buildings over there in which it was used. Large quantities have gone to Sydney in the past year. The new residence for Mr. Moxham, the manager of the Dominion Iron & Steel Co., is constructed of it.

An addition to St. Francois Xavier college, Antigonish, which cost S16,000, was completed in the latter part of last year. It consisted of a brick and stone well to the main building of about 92x49 feet in size and of three stories.

