<doctype type="text">100	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



MAY 6TH 1901.

The NEW BUILDING BY-LAWS.

<article title=" The NEW BUILDING BY-LAWS " author="">

The Montreal Building By-law of 1901 was passed by the City Council on the 4th February, and thanks are due in the first

place to the committee of the P.Q.A.A., who about two years ago at an immense amount of labour studied the question and wrote out the text of thc By—law, and secondly to Alderman Hart and those who worked with him for getting the by-law passed after having laid on the table so long.

We can congratulate the city in now having, in most particulars at any rate, a Building By-law that is workable and up-to-date and we trust that Mr. Chausse, the Building Inspector, will see that the various clauses are carried out. Mr. Chausse has already made great changes in his Department in the short time he has been in office and we are glad to lie able to report that this Department is, at the present time on a good business-like footing. May it never be allowed to again sink to the level from which it has at last been raised, is the hope of all those interested in the City's welfare.

The By—law has been printed and it would be well for all architects and contractors, who have not already obtained a copy to do so arid make themselves conversant with the various changes.



There is one good clause to which we would especially like to Thaw attention viz -—-No permits shall be given for the erection of 3rd class buildings within tile following districts bounded as follows :- -

On the N.E. by Delorimier Ave., Craig and St. Andre Sts.

'' '' N.W. DeMontigny, St. Urban Ontario, Berthelet St.

and Burnside Place.

On the S.W. by Mountain and Record Sts.

	'' S. E.	River St. Lawrence.



The text of the By-law was published in the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER for November and December, 1899, and but few Iterations have been made. The portion referring to Plumbing has not been included, as it is intended to make a separate By-law of this part.

THE P.Q.A.A.



The Vice-President and Montreal members of the Council were At Home to the members of the Association on April 25th. Jr. Venue gave a very interesting lecture on the Certosa di Pavia which was well illustrated by' photogravures of different portions of the buildings, one of which showed the similarity between its entrance gateway to that of the Ponce de Leon Hotel

Florida erected some few years ago from plans made by Messrs. Carriere & Hastings.

The lecture was preceded by some capital selections on the violin as well as one or two songs, and Mr. Doran made a few remarks in reference to the lecture, saying that architects in the rush of every day practice had not the time necessary to work of the details of carving, etc., in such work as shown on the board and that he would like to suggest that they should be allowed to call in an artist to aid them in this class of work. 'his seems to us to be a dangerous idea to advance as if architects have to call in the aid of an. engineer to draw out their steel instruction and an artist to help them in their carving and moldings that are a little beyond those used in every day practice, we are afraid that clients will begin to wonder what an architect is supposed to know beyond or above a contractor.

Air architect from our point of view should be an artist with the practical knowledge necessary to he able to carry out his dreams on a sound constructional basis.

At the request of sonic of the members of the Association, a special general meeting has been called for May 8th to consider the alterations recently made in the Schedule of Charges.

<article title=" Local PROSPECTS " author="">

Local PROSPECTS.



Nearly all the local architects appear to be busy arid a large amount of' work has been tendered on during the past month. The chief topic of conversation among architects at the present is the giving of the contract for the new Bank of Montreal building to Messrs. Norcross Brothers, of Worcester Mass., arid New York. Naturally all persons interested in the welfare of our Canadian builders are feeling sore at seeing the best contract given out so far handed to an American firm even though it is one of the standing of Norcross Brothers. We regret very sincerely that the Director's saw fit to give the work to a firm riot residing in this country, as their action is apt to be misconstrued as a kind of slur on tire capabilities of our local men. We believe that the decision of the Board was only influenced by dollars arid cents, and as the American firm was the lowest rendered the contract was awarded to them. We feel, however-, that Americans rarely', if ever, show us any reciprocity of this sort of thing and when it is a public body such as the Bank of Montreal who are so bound up with the interests of tire country, arid are, we might say, a national institution built up out of Canadian enterprise it seems a wrong policy' on their part to pass by Canadian contractors. A building of this class is surely' not above and beyond our contractors, for if such is the case, and we do riot for one moment think so, the sooner they look into the matter the better for their own arid their country's reputation. In the matter of cost, we can imagine that as certain materials must come from the United States that American firms may have been able to make better terms in certain cases than our local men-—"Alas now this way and now that turns fortune's wheel.'' Some of the other buildings already tendered on are The new building for the Royal Insurance Co., winch will form an addition to their present building on Place d'Armes, from plains by' Messrs. Hutchison & Wood a large factory for Messrs. Gault Brothers, on Hay' Market Square, in the office of Messrs. Finley & Spence; College Buildings for' the Grande Ligne Mission at Grande Ligne, from designs by' J. Raw son Gardiner, and a rehouse for Jesse Joseph, Esq., to replace the buildings recently burned in the Board of Trade lire at the corner of St. Peter arid Lemoirie streets. This is the first attempt at rebuilding iii the burned district, and the men are now clearing away the debris in the cellars of the burned structure. Mr. Coristine has had plans prepared for a large office buildings to replace his buildings hurried in this district but no contracts have so far been given out. The Council of the Board of Trade have done nothing definite, so far as we are able to ascertain, in preparing plans, though it is generally considered that some decision will have to be arrived at shortly. The C.P.R. Telegraph building is now nearing completion but the Grand Trunk Building does not show signs of lining completed before the autumn. There should be no good draughtsman idle at the present time as from word received both from New York and

 Chicago there is great scarcity of good draughtsman in both

those cities.

THE PAN-AMERICAN EXHIBITION.

<article title=" THE PAN-AMERICAN EXHIBITION " author="">

No doubt many of our local architects are looking forward to a trip to tire Buffalo Exhibition. The various buildings have all been designed by' eminent architects, arid as color has been extensively used inn the general scheme, the result, no doubt, will be interesting. Color has generally proved somewhat of a



here noir " to architects in a northern atmosphere so that it may lead to further endeavor's in this line, but so far any- attempt beyond what is sometimes called the somber has usually been unsuccessful even if riot verging on the disastrous. The Exhibition was to have been opened by May' 1st, but the weather has been very unpropitious the last month so that the opening day has had to be postponed. A list of the chief buildings with the names of their' designers is given here, as it may prove of interest to those considering a trip to the Exhibition



Liberal Arts and Agriculture	Shepley' Runtan and Coolidge

Horticulture, Forestry arid Graphic Arts Peabody arid Stearns. Machinery arid Transportation .. Green arid Wicks.

Administration Building ....	., Babb, Cook and Will

 lard.

Mines arid Ethnology	George Cary.

