<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



legislation applicable to the towns as well as the cities, and the removal of any jealousy which may exist between the master plumbers in the city and country. The report stated that a Local Association of Master Plumbers would probably be formed at an early date at Sydney,

C.	B.

 The report of the Secretary, Mr. W. L. Mansell, contained thc following list of places where Master Plumbers' Associations exist together with the membership in each case: -Halifax, 21 members Sydney, C.B., St.  John, Fredericton, Quebec, Ottawa, Kingston, Hamilton, St. Catharines, 12 members; Montreal, 34 members; Toronto, 23 members; Windsor, London, 9 members;  St.  Thomas, 2 members; Guelph, , in affiliation with Toronto, 1 member; Sarnia and Chatham in affiliation with Windsor, 1 in ember each Winnipeg, 8 members; Vancouver 11 members; Barrie, in affiliation with General, member.

The report stated that the local Associations were in a prosperous condition, and that good feeling prevailed between the Associations and the manufacturers.

Mr. Jas. Pennington, as Vice-President for Ontario, expressed regret that it had been found necessary to discontinue the publication of the Bulletin,'' and asked whether it would not be possible to charge a subscript ion of $1.00 per year. It was suggested also that the travellers representing the supply houses should be furnished with literature by the Association for distribution to tile plumbers throughout the country, urging them to become members.

The various reports were referred to the Committee on  Resolutions.



Messrs. F. Powers, Joseph Pennington, F. G. Johnston, John Watson, W. Mansell and John McKinley were appointed a committee to consider and report regarding the advisability of forming Provincial Associations.



At t lie evening session the Committee on Resolutions  reported recommending that time question of appointing a permanent secretary be referred to a select committee approving of tile suggestion of Vice-president McKinley for the appointment of a committee to consider griev ances, as well as his recommendation regarding Provincial Associations and sanitary laws, and suggesting the appointment of a select committee to consider and report

(ill the first of these recommendations.	It was recoin-

mended that the report of tIme Vice-President for Nova Scotia be adopted, also the report of the Legislation Committee, and that the report of the Vice-President for Ontario lie reierre(l to a select committee.

The Apprenticeship Committee's report recommended that an apprentice should serve five years before being recognized by the Association as a journeyman; that all present and future apprentices shall receive at the end of their apprenticeship term a certificate of the Association

from their employer as a proof of their	 ability, and that

the matter of their wages be referred to the Local Association for adjustment. After some discussion the report was adopted.

A motion by Mr. Powers that a committee he appointed, consisting of three members from each province, to consider the question of sanitary laws ammd endeavor to secure flue enactment of such laws, was adopted.

Mestrs. Allison, Fitzsimmons and Malioiiey were appointed a committee to report with regard to the advisability of appointing a paid secretary.

At flue morning session on the second (lay, Alderman Lamarche, of Montreal, addressed the convention and explained the leading features of the new plumbing by—law, which has recently passed the Council of that city and will go imito operation on September 1st.

The Committee re the appointment of a permanent secetarv reported recommending that the appointment be made at a salary of $200 for he first year . After some discussion action impoim the reluort was deferred until the following day.

On tIme adjournment of thmis session at 1.40 p.m., ., the (lelegates were given a carriage drive to points of interest iii time city as the guests of time City Council.

Tn the evening the Annual Association Banquet took

place at McConkey's restaurant, and notwithstanding  that the weather was uncomfortably warm, was largely attended. The chair was occmml)ied by Mr. J. H. Wilson, President of the Local Association, having on his right the President of the National Association, Mr. XV. H. Meredith, Alderman Wood, Alderman Lamarche and Mr.

H.	W. Anthes, and on his left Mr. A. E. Kemnp, M.P.; Mayor Howlamid, Mr. Edward Gmmrney Mr. J. H. Patter son, Mr. Amidrew Maim ammd Mr. Alex. Saunders. Messrs. Kemp and Gurney responded to tIme toast, Our Country ammd its Mammufacturing Industries." ' Mr. Meredith, Alderman Lamarche aimd Mr. Frank Powers replied in suitable terms to the toast, Our Guest - the National Association, proposed in a humorous speech by Mr. Amitlies.

The Mayor amid Corporation," brought a response iii French and English from Mayor Howland. The Manufacturers and Supply Trade '' brought responses from Messrs. J. II. Patterson, Adam Taylor, H. XV. Amitimes, Alexander Saunders, Alexander Fleming, T. B. Alcoek, Charles Morrison and Andrew Mann. Mr. Grant Helliwell President of the Omitaiio Association of Architects, and Mr. Robert Harrisomi, President of the .Jour.ncyinen Plumbers' Association, replied on behalf of Sister Associations." Time " Local Master Plumbers," proposeri by Mr. Frank Powers, of Lunenburg, N.S., was responded to by Messrs. J. J. McKittrick, J. H. Wilson, aimd K. J. Allison, of the Toronto Associatiomi. Captain Giroux re— plied on behalf of the Ladies." A pleasing feature of tIme evening's proceedings was the presentation of a gold ring set with diamonds and bearing the masonic emblem to Mr. Fiddes, in recognition of the many valuable services which he has remidered for years past to the Local as well as the National Association.

At the Friday morning session Messrs. John Watson, Montreal Frank Powers, Lunenburg; and J - G. Johnston, Ottawa ; were appointed a Nominating Committee.

After some discussion it was unanimously resolved, omi motion by Mr. Powers, that the convention next year should be held in Halifax.

It was resolved to organize Provincial Associations on time basis of a constitution recommended by i-lie special committee appointed to consider this question, , such con— stitution being an alteration of that of time National Association in such a manner as to make it applicable to the provincial organizations.

Alter discussion it was resolved to leave with the Executive Committee the question of the advisability of appointing a permanent secretary.

The report of the Treasurer, Alderman Lamarche, was presented, showing receipts $303.21 expenditures $226.61

balance in hand, including previous balances, $293.22. The A udit i mig Committee reported the Treasurer's books correct, and a vote of thanks was tendered to that official.

A vote of thanks was also tendered to the Local Asso ciation and to the City Council, to the retiring President, Mr. iXieredithi, auid to the retiring Secretary, Mr. Majisell -

The election of officers resulted as follows - Past-Presidlemit, XV. 1-1. Meredith, Toronto ; President, John McKinhey, Ottawa ; Vice- Presidemmt, Frank Powers, l,unenbnrg, N.S.; Secretary, H. A. Kimox, Ottawa ; 'l'reasnrer, Ald. Idaiuiarehe, Montreal Vice-President for Ontario, XV. Mansell, Toromito Vice-Presidemit for Omuebee, .iohn Watson

\TicePresidemmt frur Nova Scotia, G. A. Perrier, Halifax Vice-President for New Brmmiis'wick, Jamuies Waiker, St. John Vice-President for British Cohimumbia, J. H. XVilson, Throuto ; Vice-President for Manitoba, Capt. J. A. Girohux, Mommtreah Chiairmimeim of Comnmumittees—Ap-premuticeshmip,

R.	Ross, Torouito I,egislative, E. B. Buttcrw-ortb, Ottawa ; Samuitary, J. XV. h-Iuu~hies, Montreal ; l-~ssay, Geor1~e Afu-ui-toim, V armiionmth. N - S : Snb—Esecmmtive——Presihemit Mc— l-(imilev, Aldi . I,amnarchme, H - A. Knox, Joini Watsi'ii, I". G. Tohinston.

After the close of the last bmisimiess session a visit was uai ch to Govemmiuiien t 1-1 omuse, where a groin p piiotograph

was taken, after which tue miiemiibers and visitors proceededi by electric car to Lomig Bramuchi amid gave thiemimselves tip to aim afternoon of enjoymmmemit.

