<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTERS. No. VII.

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA LETTERS. No. VII " author="">

The Second Annual Exhibition of the Arts and Crafts Association was held in the Fairfield Block, from June 28th to July 5th, and though the collection of works of art was probably the best ever brought together in the province, so little interest was taken in the show by the public that it was, financially, a complete failure. In a town of 25,000 inhabitants a collection of paintings, including examples by George Moreland, Gerard Dow, George Fripp, Albert Hartland, Knowles, Ferrier and others of greater and lesser note, such a collection remaining open to the public for seven days, attracted an average attendance of 30 per diem. A nigger minstrel show would have drawn five hundred.

However, if one cannot congratulate the people of Vancouver on their powers of discernment in matters of taste, the officers of the Association must feel that the want of success of the exhibition was certainly not due to any lack of energy or enthusiasm on their part.

The numbers of and the interest in the works by local members was not equal to the last year's exhibition. Mrs. Marcus Lucas, whose clever painting and well chosen subjects were a notable feature in the show of 1900, was represented by but a few oil paintings surrounded by a draping of black and violet, the Association having been robbed by the Destroyer of this admirable artist and enthusiastic supporter but a short while ago. Mrs. Marcus Lucas will long be remembered and her loss deeply regretted by all lovers of art in this city. Mrs. Ellis' charming work on china was this year represented by but half a dozen pieces, of which we most admired two plates designed by Mr.  Jas. Bloomfield. The Misses McLung having left Vancouver just before the opening of the exhibition, were both unrepresented, as also was Miss Marstrand, whose work in black and white was greatly missed, as well as her quiet but effective assistance on committee. Others who contributed last season have withdrawn, and consequently the Association has had some difficulty in maintaining the local character of the exhibition. Still, Mrs. Balfour Kerr and Mrs. Lionel Williams were well represented in oil colors, and Messrs. DeForest and Ferris each sent a number of characteristic works in the same medium. Mr. Tom Fripp's "Venetians Threading Beads" is a new departure for him. In water colors, Mr. Ferris showed but four small drawings, while in this class the only other exhibitor was Mr. Tom Fripp, whose large drawing "Chill October' is the most important work that artist has shown here. His sketches "Venice" and "Burrards Inlet," are full of light and atmosphere. In black and white, the same artist was the sole contributor, principally portrait studios in chalk or pencil. In china Mrs. Ellis, Mrs. Harry Burrows, Miss Ede (who gained Mrs. R. B. Ellis' special prize), and Miss Drainie showed some beautiful work. Miss Drainie's fish set, accompanied by the clever designs prepared for this set by Mr. Jas. Bloomfield, is an exceptionally charming piece of keramic ware. It is good to see that conventional design is receiving much greater attention, though there is still far too much of the mere representation of fruit and flowers with little if any attempt at decorative treatment.

A screen of water colour sketches by Mr. Francis Caulfield was of very great interest, comprising a wonderfully wide range of subject: " Richmond on Thames" is a distinctly clever piece of difficult perspective; " Hampton Court" is scarcely less so; "The Chestnut Avenue, Bushy Park,' is well contrasted with "An Orange Grove, California." Mr. Caulfield again showed his delightful piece of carving in oak, a panel entitled "Dolphins Plunging Through Water," which is full of movement and vigor.

Mrs. Balfour Kerr and Mrs. Lionel Williams had a screen of embroidery, some of it extremely well designed and executed. It seems somewhat strange that there should be so very few contributors in this most interesting class of work.

Mr. Harry Burrows chip carving and burnt work was most favorably commented upon, his cabinet and an occasional table being the most excellent examples of his skill. Mrs. Burrows also showed some pretty calfskin cushions with pyrographic decoration. Messrs. Henry Bloomfleld & Sons were represented by a couple of stained glass windows, one, of which the motif is gold fish and kelp, being as fine a piece of color and drawing in lead and glass as we have seen for a long time. Mr. Jas. Bloomfield also showed some cartoons and a folio of delightful schemes in leaded glass judging from some of these it would appear that this artist is finding more and more to interest him in mosaic treatment, some of the designs being for absolute mosaic in glass and lead without painting.

The only architectural drawings on the walls were by Mr. R. M. Fripp, F.R.I.B.A., Vice-president of the Association, among them being three drawings lately exhibited in the Royal Canadian Academy or Arts Exhibition at Toronto a design for oak sedilia to be built for St. James' Church ; a fumigated oak sideboard and drawing room fitments also in fumigated oak, designed and executed for Mrs. D. G. Marshall, also designed by Mr. Fripp, were the only designs for furniture in this exhibition of arts and crafts.

The newly constituted Manual School had an interesting exhibit kindly loaned and arranged by Mr. T. Northrop, the principal.

The school children's competition did not show any decided advance over last year's form. Many of the drawings were obviously not from Nature, and in some classes there were no entries and some of these classes will probably be dropped next year. The following is the list of prize winners

Class A. —Sec. 1.—Edith Wright; Sec. 2.—Vivian Garvey Sec. 3.—Rhoda Macrae.

Class B.—Sec. 1.—Maude Tregent; Sec. 2.—Erma Hurst Sec. 3.—Violet Henderson Sec. 4.—Hester Barker Scc. 5.— Mabel Tregent Sec. 6.—Harold Ferguson.

Class No. 5.—Ross Fraser.

For pupils of the MacDonald Manual Training School :—No. 1.—Gordon Johnson; No. 2.—Ernest Macready No. 3.— -C. M. Braden.

A special prize for landscape drawing in pencil was awarded to Jessie MacDonald and Mrs. R. R. Ellis' prize for painted china, open to students only, was won by Miss Ede, with some particularly well drawn conventional designs in extremely pleasing color.

The loan exhibition was a very varied and interesting collection of oil and water color paintings, pastels, engravings, Sevres china, curios from every quarter of the globe, and a few but excellent examples of ancient and modem printing. " Pigs Feeding," by Geo. Moreland, "The Poultry Vendor," by Gerrard Dow, "The Whist Party,' a reputed G. Dow, and "Tarn O'Shanter" by David Ferrier, were a singularly fine group of oils. A very slight portrait sketch by John Ruskin was kindly lent by the subject of the sketch, Mrs. G. Edwards. A pair of very beautiful seascapes in pastel by Holden (lent by Dr. Mostyn Hoops), were greatly admired, the broken water and driven clouds showing vigor in their handling, impression of wind and sunshine, cloud and shadow being rendered with fine skill. A large water color drawing by Albert Hartland (lent by W. E. Chapman) was a good example of this painter's later work ; the subject "Lake Killarney," is world famous and the soft atmospheric effects were charmingly rendered, Two very early examples of Hartland's were interesting, but did not show much of the breadth and skill of the larger work. Three lovely little drawings by the late Geo. A. Fripp, R. W. S., were lent by his son and pupil, Mr. Tom Fripp; of these "Norfolk Broads" was the most finished and characteristic of this master of thc grand old school of water color painting, but the others were also so delightfully warm and luminous it is hard to dogmatise as to their relative value. Colonel Falk Warren lent a collection of prints, one of them, an undoubted Al Trecht Drer. A number of Wouverman's and other Dutch draughtsmen, together with some excellent steel engravings (most, unfortunately robbed of their margins), made up a deeply interesting and highly instructive set. The association was also indebted to Mrs. Marstrand for a capital pen and ink drawing by Prof. Marstrand and several oil paintings by Danish artists, of which we preferred "Mentone' by Prof. Zacho.

A gothic blackletter Bible (Portuguese) dated Lisbon, 1526, and printed by Huysman, (lent by Mrs. MacLagan), and some good Roycroft and Mosher books formed a small but select company in a glass case.

Seypores, Binares, Moorish and Japanese metal work, Fijian clubs and Karu bowls ; Cloisonne placques and vases Tibetan, Korean, Indian, Afghan, Samoan weapons; Lucknow silverware Chinese embroidery, Zulu bangles, Japanese armor Kaffir pipes, girdles, necklets and Australian Blacks boomerangs and spears; paddles from the Solomon Islands, New Guinea drums, Suivash basket work, elk teeth girdlers, mud pieces and many other odd, quaint and curious things, each and every one of which betrayed skill in their production, art in their decoration, often amounting to art of high rank, all these things carefully marked and catalogued, displayed on walls, benches and screens, wanted but one thing to make the exhibition a complete success and that one thing, intelligent appreciation, the public of Vancouver did not give, probably because they have it not to spare.

