<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

REDUCING THE FIRE LOSS IN BUILDING.

	BY	EDMUND	BURKE

<article title=" REDUCING THE FIRE LOSS IN BUILDING " author="Burke, Edmund">

To put the matter in a nut-shell, the best means of reducing the fire loss would be the conversion of the

























































insurance companies to more scientific examination and classification of risks.

It is useless to argue that strict civic by-laws should he enacted. The Ontario Association of Architects

through the local organization in Toronto, made a serious effort in this

direction three or four years since, when endeavoring

to have the city	by



laws, revised and improved. They were immediately confronted with objections by real estate owners, alder— men and b builders These affirmed that the increased cost which would be involved by the adoption of proper and scientific methods of fire resisting construction would put an effectual damper on building operations. The good intentions of the architects, as a consequence, came

to naught. It maybe taken for granted that the only way to effectually reduce fire risk is to appeal to the pocket of the building owner by means of decidedly low rates of insurance on classes of buildings which absolutely conform to the best known methods of fire resisting construction.

There is no doubt but that the total volume of insurance would be reduced were such methods adopted, while on the other hand the fire losses would be much less, and the net profit of the underwriters greater.

The same unity with regard to risks, as that now exercised in the in position of rates, should result in immediate and great improvement in

methods of  construction 



It may be asserted that it devolves upon the architect to introduce better methods. The true architect, who has the safety and welfare of the community at heart, is only too glad to adopt the very best methods, but in ninety nine cases out of the hundred his hands

are tied by his employer; he is told that it is folly to add twenty, thirty or forty per cent to the cost of a building when there is but little difference or advantage in rates of insurance. The desire of the building owner is to obtain the greatest return for least outlay, and he will























































naturally object to enter into any increased expenditure which will not bring corresponding returns. The lightly built cheap building of the usual fire trap construction, generally returns, for a time, the best net income, and he therefore prefers and insists upon the erection of that class of building.

