<doctype type="text">186	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

4 in. internal measurement and with 9 in. walls adding

412 in. every 20 ft. downwards.







































Add thickness of walls to diameter, namely, ft. in. ± ft. 10 in. + ft. 10 in. ft. 1 in.



As one engineer rightly puts it, a chimney (disregarding cost) is never too large or too powerful provided it has efficient means for checking the draught by properly fitting dampers, or otherwise, whereby the supply of steam can be readily controlled at any moment, so as to work the engine at half its full power and using considerably less than half the power of draught of the chimney, thus having a surplus draught for emergencies. When the chimney is too small it is unable to create a sufficient draught through the furnace. A smoky flame is then produced, instead of a flame with little or no smoke. When the chimney is too small (as often happens) it becomes overworked, and undue pressure is brought to bear upon its sides, arid this often leads to the chimney becoming cracked. Too much stress cannot be laid on the turning of the arches over the portholes at the bottom ; semicircular or deep segmental arches are the most satisfactory, the centres being lowered a little by means of wedges arid then drawn together, so that they may take the ever-increasing weight before the actual setting of the mortar. It is best to have, say, a round chimney on a square base. This allows properly constructed arches to flues to be provided at the bottom ; otherwise you have circle on circle arches, which are riot very satisfactory.

Much difference of opinion exists regarding the bond of chimneys. In the first place, I would say a round chimney is the best, as you never have so many bats or chosers as in a square, octagonal or hexagonal stack. The bond varies as the sectional area of the stack decreases. This is a slight objection to octagonal and hexagonal arid also square stacks (especially the first arid second) especially if they are not circular inside. Although it is desirable to have as man headers as possible in the interior of a wall to resist direct crushing, yet in the case of chimneys it is possible to have too many headers. Chimney sides extend so short a distance that what is needed is a bond which will keep the sides from falling asunder. I have never yet known a case where the headers in a chimney were snapped and the work split for want of transverse bond ; whereas I have seen much cross—splitting due to very little more than want of longitudinal bond (or we ma call it half bond). Circular brick should be used for the whole of a circular stack. Hoop iron (tarred) is a great help to a chimney bond. It is placed vertically either in a longitudinal joint one brick deep or between

two courses deep, arid at vertical intervals of 6 ft., 10 ft. and 20 ft. All stacks should he lined with fire-brick from half-way or two-thirds up. Care should be taken to have an air—space between this lining and the outside brickwork. The lining, being independent, should have ties occasionally into the outer wall. Sometimes special firebrick blocks are used when the air-space exceeds 6 in., but where the space is only 2 in. or 4 in. the common headers can be used quite well at intervals of from 3 ft. to 6 ft. In small chimneys (60 ft. or 80 ft. high) the common practice is to line them with 4½½ in. brickwork having a 2 in. to 4 in. cavity, but (and especially in large chimneys) I would advocate a () in. lining and a cavity of not less than 6 in. to 9 in. When the stack exceeds 150 ft. in. in height there should he a 14 in. firebrick lining at the bottom reducing 412 in. every 50 ft. Of course gases enter sonic stacks at a higher temperature than in others. For instance, as a rule a higher temperature (10,000 to 15,000 degs. F.) is given off in a gasworks, necessitating the use of thicker lining. This lining should be bonded in with the main wall at its end so as not to affect the draught. In order to ventilate the cavity and so keep the brickwork comparatively cool, ventilators are fixed in openings through the main wall. As a rule four regulating ventilators are provided at the bottom and the same number about 20 ft. or 30 ft. up. This causes a draught.

The mortar should be of the best quality ; the bricks hard, durable and calculated to resist crushing, great care being taken to have them bedded properly, especially if they have deep frogs, otherwise they will crush at edges. I think it is a great advantage for the last 20 ft. or so to be built with cement mortar, using say, slaked shell lime for sand. 'This preserves the top against the disintegration of the atmosphere and stands heat well



A NEW METHOD OF HEATING AND

VENTILATING.

THE new office building of the Armour Packing Company, at Kansas City, Mo., has a system of heating and ventilation heretofore unknown west of the Mississippi River.

In the whole building there is not a movable window The glass is set solid and can neither be raised nor lowered, There are a few transoms that can he moved, but they won't be opened often, for the only purpose they can serve will he to let in the odor which belongs to the packing house district. Fresh air comes in another way

The temperature arid atmosphere of the building are manufactured down stairs in the basement and will come to the office through open registers in each room. Two huge chimneys, each 8 feet square, rise above the building so high that they will escape the greater part of the smoke that fills the atmosphere of the West bottoms. In the basement. are fans run by electricity which draw the air down through these chimneys and long alleys at the bottom with a force that will take a man's hat off. The current is like the wind before a severe summer storm.

At the foot of the chimney the current turns arid runs through a brick conduit that extends the length of the building. First it goes through a spraying room where a hundred sprays are throwing water in fine rain. The water is hot or cold according to the season.

