<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

estimates he has to send in for every one he is fortunate enough to get, the necessity for the quantities to he as explanatory and explicit as possible is apparent.

In quantities, as with every thing else, it is the best that is the cheapest, and I am confident, from my own experience, that the interests of the proprietor and also the builder are best safeguarded if a first—class surveyor prepares the quantities and adjusts the accounts. Much more might be written upon this interesting subject of

quantities, but times does not permit.

Another important factor in considering building contracts is the clerk of works, so important a factor that I am of opinion that he deserves a paper to himself. Too much consideration cannot he given by an architect in selecting his clerk of works. One man, if he is not thoroughly conversant with his work both practically and theoretically, may make the work cost 5 or 10 per cent. more than another man, whilst both attain the same re— stilt. In many instances they have absolutely no conception as to the duties of their position, but imagine that all they have to do is to see that proper materials are used. My own idea is that the clerk of works should he the architect's representative upon the works, and as such he should he prepared to obtain and give all information necessary to the proper carrying out of the contract ; he should be responsible, with the builder's foreman, for the proper setting out of the various parts of the building, and should also, in a measure, be responsible For the time taken to complete the contract. It would be a very good thing if they could he engaged at so much per contract. I think architects would then find their works executed with much more promptitude and dispatch.

There are many excellent clerks of works I have had to do with, and I have to acknowledge many kindness at their hands, but I really do not think that architects generally appreciate the harm and annoyance which an incompetent or unprincipled man causes a contractor, who in the majority of cases is powerless to complain, for reasons which must be obvious.

In conclusion there are three points in building contracts that I would strongly impress upon architects

1.	The necessity of keeping up all approximate quotations. Nine—tenths of the troubles between architect and builder, and also the proprietor, arise from the fact that in the majority of cases the cost is considerably more than was expected. 2. To remember that it is essential for the good of the community that the builder makes a profit. If he is not allowed to do it fairly, he is, I fear in many cases, apt to do it unfairly. 3. Always be prepared to grant certificates if the money is due. The financial question is a most important one with builders, and whilst there is no difficulty in obtaining the first payment, one has often to write two or three times, without getting a reply, in one's efforts to get further certificates.

Speaking as a contractor who has sufficient capital for the amount of business done, I can honestly state that more worry and anxiety is caused the builder over the question than by any other detail in his business.



The Recinate Fireproofing Company, of Washington, have written the editor of a Windsor paper stating that they desire a suitable location for a factory in Canada.



Mr. James Selater. proprietor of the White Lime Works, St. Marys, Ont., has been notified by the Dominion Government that he was awarded first prize and a diploma from the Paris Exposition for his material.

BEDDING STONES.

<article title=" BEDDING STONES " author="">

ATTEMPTS have been made to cast doubts upon the correctness of the generally received opinion that it is essential to place stones on the same bed as they occupied in the quarry, says The Architect and Contract Reporter. With some few stones when in place, it may he true that the position of the layers is a matter of indifference; for the Roche de St. Cloud and the Villebois stone of the neighborhood of Lyons, amongst the secondary and tertiary limestones have been employed without reference to the planes of bed for many centuries without inconvenience. But these cases are decidedly exceptional, and even in them the powers of the stone to resist a crushing weight are less when it is applied in a direction parallel to the beds than when it is applied transversely. In almost. every other case it will he found that when stones are used the wrong way of the bed—to employ a workman's phrase—they disintegrate in parallel plates. Great care requires to be exercised to ascertain the precise direction of the natural beds, because many stones present the appearance of inclined planes of deposition, which cut the beds and joints under every modification of angle. When, from the stones having been worked in the quarry, it is difficult to ascertain the precise bed, it is possible that the mason may he misled by the greater facility with which they work in one direction, and may mistake this cleavage for the real bed. The only remedy appears to be to cause the stones exposed to this danger to he marked in the quarry, but fortunately the examples of its occurrence are rare.



 SPECIFICATIONS AND TENDERS.

<article title=" SPECIFICATIONS AND TENDERS " author="">

What is the reason that two men will take the same set of plans, specifications and details and be $5000 apart on a small contract ? One might ask this question of some contractors and they would say that it is the difference in the completeness of plans and specifications. One set you can drive a horse and cart through and the other states specifically what kind and quality of material is to he used, vet that same contractor will criticize the architect if he puts everything in his specifications and explains everything carefully he is apt to say the specifications are too long. Certainly contractors ought to appreciate the fact that the more complete the specification is the more it tells him what is expected, and consequently the longer that specification must he. The mere fact that a specification ''covers the floors with good quality spruce boards," as some of them are written, is rather vague and a source of misunderstanding to the clause that calls for '' x 5 inch matched, first quality, spruce flooring, laid in long lengths," etc. and again, picking up a specification a few days ago, reading tinder the heading of hardware that '' the contractor shall furnish and put on proper hardware for the entire building," is vastly different from the man who will give the number and trade name of the various fixtures, so that each and all can estimate on the same quality of goods. It has been suggested that if two men estimate on certain plans and specifications where the kind and quality of every bit of material is mentioned, sizes given, etc., each go into market and get their estimates and the prices of the material amounts to the same, it is a question of judgment who will get out of it at the least possible expense.



The black granite quarries at Meddybemps, near Milltown, N,



13.,	have been purchased by a Boston syndicate.

