<doctype type="text">202	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

our stone industry. It is, therefore, of peculiar interest to note the influence upon the strength of concrete of different varieties of stone. It appears from experiments which have been carried out in the testing shops of the Royal Technical High School in Stockholm, that all kinds of broken stone are by no means of equal value for making concrete. These experiments did not include the examination of the different results obtained from crushed stone and from shingle, which is very largely used for concrete in the neighborhood of shingle beaches, but rather of the different results obtainable from various kinds of crushed stone which might reasonably have been supposed likely to be of uniform value for this purpose. All the stone upon which experiments were made was crushed in an ordinary stone-breaker to a uniform gauge, and a number of 10-inch cubes, made of cement, sand, and broken stone, in the proportion of 1, 3, 5, were moulded and rammed, with the addition of 5 1/2 per. cent. of water. Both the sand and broken stone were carefully washed and dried before mixing. The ramming was done by 44 blows of a monkey, weighing 130 lbs., with a fall of 3.28 ft., this being about one-quarter of the work put on standard test-pieces of cement. The blocks were kept for a fortnight covered with soaked mats in a damp cellar, 'and afterwards in a dry cool room until the completion of a month from the time of mixing. The mean results of five separate tests of blocks made from five kinds of stone, gave the following figures





















Individually, the five specimens of greenstone concrete showed the greatest variation both in weight and crushing strength. The strongest was more than half as strong again as the weakest, although the weight

	not	n 4.4 per cent.

per cubic yard did differ by more than

This important result points to the great necessity of ramming in order to secure the greatest possible density. The relative strengths given by the different kinds of stone in the above table also show great differences. Between the two kinds of hornblendic granite, for example, there is a difference of 15 per cent., the only difference observable in the stone being that the weaker specimen was of coarser grain. The pegmatites, which gave the poorest results, were also coarser in grain than the other varieties. The structure of the stone employed for concrete appears, therefore, to play a most important part in determining its strength, and coarseness of grain is not a desirable quality, To this fact we call the attention of all engineers and concrete manufacturers for it is obvious that not all kinds of' crushed stone are capable of giving the best results. Efforts will doubtless be made to utilize many kinds of quarry waste of various kinds. But it behoves all who contemplate embarking in this industry to look carefully to the quality of their stone if they wish to compete with the best products of established reputation.

WOOD CARVING.

<article title=" WOOD CARVING " author="">

The taste for wood carving has been reviving in recent years, and the tendency is toward more general use of the genuine artistic wood carved furniture and interior decorations. Where no expense is considered hand wood carving enters elaborately into the decoration of the home. A scheme of wood carving for staircases, wainscoting and ceiling decorations is generally carried out by designers who are artists in their line, and then with skilled woodcarvers under their direction they give to a room a peculiar individuality that cannot be obtained in any other way.

The furniture of such a costly interior must harmonize with the decorations, and most expensive furniture owes much of its cost to the artistic wood carving. Every piece for such a home is designed and executed after some general plan. A good deal of it is imitated from genuine antiques. The wood carving of many of the old antiques is exquisite in design and execution. The early artists worked slowly and carefully, putting their very best in their work. but some of the ancient products of the old cabinet shops show far inferior work to that performed today. In the revival of wood carving there is bound to he some improvement and modification o past methods and while cabinet-makers are guided by the best models of other days, they infuse into their work something of the spirit of the age. There is more freedom of choice and execution and possibly some slighting of detail that may make the work less desirable in the eyes of an expert, but on the whole the highest products of the best shops to-day do not compare unfavorably with those of a century and more ago.

In recent years there has been a wider selection of woods for hand carving. Originally mahogany and oak were used almost exclusively for this work, and most of the hand carved antiques come down to us in one of these two woods. Some of the early cabinetmakers used willow for their chairs, but these were not so generally carved as the other furniture. Mahogany and oak took the best polish, and the woods were so hard that delicate edges could be cut out of them without making them so frail as to chip off on the slightest wear. To-day the cabinetmakers carve in both oak and mahogany, but a single armchair of either wood may cost from S50 to several hundred dollars, according to the amount of work put in the carving. But the highest class of work is done only in a few shops where the artists are genuine lovers of the work, and they spend their lives in perpetuating worthy examples of an ancient art. They are tireless in their efforts and count more on the artistic merits of their productions than upon the dollars and cents accruing therefrom.— Architects' and Buiders' Magazine.



PERSONAL.



Messrs. S. H. Townsend and John Gemmell, architects, Toronto, recently bicycled from Lewiston to Buffalo and return, and spent a few days at the Pan—American Exhibition.



The death is recorded of Mr. Wm. R chard Powell, builder, of Hamilton, at the age of 69 years. 11 had been a resident of Hamilton for half a century, and was highly esteemed.



Mr. Alfred Gardner, of the firm of A. Gardner & Company, paving contractors, Toronto, died very suddenly of acute meaning it is at his residence in that city a few days ago. Mr. Gardiner was 47 years of age and was a native of Wolverton Lancashire. lie laid resided in Toronto for about 15 years. His firm had the contract for all concrete work in connection with the new city hall as well as the new hotel on King street.

