<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	65

	THE SPRING EXHIBITION 

<article title=" THE SPRING EXHIBITION " author="">

The annual exhibition of pictures at the Art Associations galleries was opened on Friday, March 8th, and will remain on view until the 23rd inst. As usual there was not much interest shown in the architectural drawings, hut then we regret to say there was little in which to take interest Outside of Mr. W.S. Maxwell's drawing of a ''Salle des Fetes" made by him during his recent stay in Paris in the "Beaux Arts" style of rendering there was not much of note, and in point of numbers the exhibition was woefully wanting. Mr. A. T. Taylor exhibited a water color sketch of the Merchants Bank building for Winnipeg and a sketch of a small bank building at Sydney, C. B. The latter is a type of building which should be largely in demand in Canada as there will, no doubt, be several small towns cropping up in the next ten

years design persons uttering buildings of this class. Why do



tested in the arts and crafts exhibit drawings and sketches of decorations and interiors, ornamental grills, and other iron work, lamps, etc., and such work as is to be seen in the pages of the Studio? Surely there is a growing demand for these things in Montreal, and the ladies who are generally interested in interior decoration have a field open here for them. The exhibition of china painting certainly seems to have called forth the energies of the ladies, and we give them hearty praise for the display which does them credit.



THE BOARD OF TRADE FIRE.

<article title=" THE BOARD OF TRADE FIRE " author="">

The recent disastrous fire which demolished the Board of Trade, besides several other buildings in that district, has occurred since out last letter. The lessons to he learnt therefrom were chiefly those which ought to have been learnt long ago, viz., the lack of men and apparatus in the fire hi brigade the great drawback received from the net-work of telephone and electric wires in a congested district the fact that a fire wall is about the only thing that will stop a large conflagration, and the necessity of better, that is, fireproof buildings, in the center of a large city. The improvement of the fire brigade is out of our province, except when we are commissioned to build a new fire station, and we would like to urge here that the city council be called upon by an amalgamation of the art interests of the city to insist upon either competitive plans or a competent local architect being employed for any new fire stations that may he required, and are evidently badly needed according to the report made recently by Mr. Howe to the Canadian Fire Underwriters.



Concerning the numerous wires we would like to add our voice to that of others in recommending that the city council enforce the various companies in the congested district, that is where the insurance companies have raised the rates, to place their wires in a large conduit underground. If need be this could surely be done by an outside company and space rented out and thereby make a good pecuniary profit to themselves, and at the same time do the citizens as a whole a lasting benefit. There is no doubt that the overhead wires are a menace to the public at all times, while in the event of heavy storms or a fire they are a danger that is too great to he trifled with and a great cause of expense to the companies, that one would imagine for their own sakes any attempt to force them to place them underground would not be met with any very strong opposition.

From an architects standpoint there is the further disadvantage in the ill effects they have on the vista down some of the chief streets of this city with whole rows of poles carrying their network of wires

Montreal is gradually growing to be one of the large cities of this continent and in which fierce commercial competition is being met on all sides, and merchants have now to compete against merchants from all over the world. They can, therefore, ill afford a raise in the insurance rates, as they have by force of circumstances to scrutinize every item of expense. Merchants can also, as a rule, ill afford to have a fire, as an interruption of their business generally means their customers going over to a competitor. They should, therefore, look beyond the first cost of a building and see that they are protected somewhat against loss by fire. Do not blame the insurance companies for the raise in the rates, but blame yourselves, who build such firetraps as are to he seen throughout the city. Can one blame the insurance men when there are buildings in the center of a congested district with absolutely no protection whatever against fire-no sprinklers, no standpipe with hose connections,—or even if there is a standpipe a hose without a nozzle, as can be seen in one of the largest office buildings in this city. Such things should not be allowed, and it persons who own such property have not more thought for the lives and property of their tenants there should be some law which would enforce them to do so.



THE LICENSING OF ARCHITECTS.

<article title=" THE LICENSING OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

The question of the value of licensing architects should be of vital importance to all those concerned in the welfare of the profession in the Province of Quebec. As is well known ''no person



in this province can take " or make rise of the name or title of architect, either simply or in connection with any other word, name, title or designation, giving it to be understood that he is an architect under this act unless Ire is registered under this act as a member of the said association. Any person since 1898 using the word '' architect '' in the Province of Quebec,. unless registered, is subject to a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for the first offence and not exceeding one hundred

dollars ($100) for every subsequent offence.

In the State of Illinois, the only state at present with a license law in the United States, all architects after passing the final examination ate given a seal with their name and address impressed thereon with which all plans emanating from their office have to be stamped arid further—more, no building permit will he issued except on plans so stamped with the seal of a licensed architect. This appears to us to he carrying the thing too far, as no man should he hindered from erecting buildings from plants of his own, or without any plans for that matter if he so desire, but lie should he restrained from employing another person to make plans for him who is not a licensed architect. A man can doctor himself or plead his own case in court, but in neither case can he practise medicine or law without a license. In New York State they are now discussing the pros. and cons. of licensing architects, as a bill is before the legislature. There seems to he opposition both from some of the architects and the general public, and the outcome seems doubtful. The chief points usually brought to bear against a bill for licensing architects is the undoubted impossibility of testing the artistic merits of a candidate by an examination. This is almost universally acknowledged to be a difficulty, but it is possible to test whether he knows the rides governing both the artistic and the scientific sides of his profession. Any person practising architecture, which is now generally acknowledged to he one of the learned professions, should be able to pass a general examination equal to the standard required by the medical or legal fraternity. He should further-more, in a final examination, he able to pass in the following subjects Perspective arid free hand drawing shades and shadows mechanics elementary geology and botany hygiene modeling building construction and materials pen and ink drawing arid wash work colour and decoration history of art and architecture design specifications and contracts architectural jurisprudence.

Of course a candidate might pass in all these subjects very creditably and yet riot make a ''great" architect, but at least one would know that he was in a position to build safely arid correctly arid would not contravene all rules of good taste. This is as much as can be said of any profession, and there will and almost he many grades in every calling. There is now undoubtedly a growing tendency on the part of the general public to appreciate intelligently the difference between good and bad in architecture, arid it is the ditty of all architects to keep out of the profession all those who hinder its progress.

