<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

In hot weather it is cold and in cold weather it comes from the boilers. This water is expected to wash the air. It takes out of it particles of coal and dust that may he flying and precipitates these atoms. It literally washes the air and goes a long way toward purifying it besides, changing the atmosphere a few degrees, according to the season.

After passing the sprayers the air rushes through a series of spiral tubes which dry it, taking out the moisture that came from its recent washing. Then over the big electric fan it goes and past coils which heat or cool it as the conditions require. These coils are so well controlled by valves and connected with the hot air chambers and cold blast that it is possible for the air when it leaves them to have a uniform temperature the year round, no matter whether the temperature outside is 105 in the shade or 26 degrees below zero. There is an automatic thermometer connected with a device in compressed air that can hold the temperature exactly to order.

With the two machines running normally the air in the building will be changed every ten minutes. It will always be fresh air, free from dust or smoke particles and of the temperature that is most comfortable in season.

<article title=" A NOVEL HOISTING PLANT " author="">

A NOVEL HOISTING PLANT.

A rope drive working a series of excavating buckets in foundation pits has been successfully used in preparing foundations for the new Marshall Field Building































































in Chicago, and is thus described by the Engineering Record The old building was torn down to the street level, the first floor being left temporarily for a working platform, below which rows of pits are being sunk through a stiff clay for the concrete piers of the new interior steel columns. There are eight pits, about 20

feet apart in rows separated by distances of 20 feet the pits are being carried down nearly 100 feet to solid rock. The pits are lined with wooden staves 6 feet in length placed in position, after which interior steel hoops 7 feet in diameter are put in place, this being accomplished as workmen excavate the pit with picks and shovels. A hole is cut in the working platform over each pit and over the hole is a small timber tripod with a horizontal framework connecting two legs arranged to support a short horizontal shaft. On the outer end of this is a grooved wheel or sheave about 3 feet in diameter. On the inner end of the shaft, inside the legs of the tripod is a capstan head. The sheaves in each of the tripods in each row are lined up so as to be in the same vertical plane and around each is taken one or two turns of an endless wire rope operated continuously by a hoisting engine placed upon the working platform. By means of guide pulleys beyond the tripod most distant from the hoisting engine, the rope is carried across to the adjacent row of tripods over similar pits, then towards the hoisting engine, operating all of the tripod pulleys in the second row. Pulleys fastened to small uprights on the floor serve to carry the rope. The tension pulley is operated by a horizontal hoisting tackle and serves to keep the proper tension upon the rope drive, From the top of each of the shaft tripods, a hoisting tackle is suspended, and when the bucket of spoil is ready to be hoisted it is fastened by a hook to the rope, the other end of which is carried over the pulley at he top of the tripod, and an attendant, upon the working floor level, takes two or three turns of the fall line around the capstan head and, tailing off the slack, hoists the bucket. Twelve or fourteen pits are thus served simultaneously and continuously by one hoisting engine. Messrs. D. H. Burnham & Co. are the architects, and the T. Nicholson & Sons Company, of Chicago, are the contractors for the foundations and arranged the plant described.

<article title=" ANCIENT TERRA COTTA " author="">

ANCIENT TERRA COTTA.



The use of terra cotta as a building material is of the greatest antiquity. Superb examples have been found in the ruined Indian and Persian palaces and temples ; tiles, friezes, frontons, and wall—slabs of

baked earth" dating back to the '' Classic" age are found in every part of the East, and in the remains of cities which flourished during the Greek and Roman Empires there have been found examples of works in terra cotta which exhibit a very high degree of perfection both in taste and execution. The best work of that period says the Stone Trades Journal, dates from the time of Phidias and Polycletes, in the fifth century before Christ.

In the art of making and moulding terra cotta, the Etruscans, while giving their productions an originality of their own, undoubtedly borrowed much from the Greeks ; Rome employed Etruscan sculptors for the decoration of her public buildings, and especially for the Capitol, under Parquin the Elder, in the sixth century before Christ. Terra cotta held such an important place in Roman buildings that a school was eventually established in Rome with the object of training workmen in the manufacture of this artistic building material. The invasion of the Goths and the fall of the Empire checked the progress of the arts, and the use of terra cotta, although not entirely abandoned, for several centuries suffered an eclipse.

