<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT

	ANCIENT ENGLISH CATHEDRALS

<article title=" ANCIENT ENGLISH CATHEDRALS " author="">

Winchester, in its earliest form, must hold the place of the most ancient. The original cathedral claims, on very apocryphal authority, to have been built in 177, by the newly-converted British King Lucius, on the site of a great Pagan temple. Another was built in 313, and another in 871. The present pile, regarded in its various parts, is of at least seven principal dates and if viewed in its minor features, its smaller accessories, its remodellings, and its restorations, must he pronounced to belong to ten centuries. The oldest parts of the edifice belong to a pile ill the Saxony style, by the famous architects and bishops of Winchester, to Ethewold in 980. Lichfield Cathedral is said by some authors to have been erected in 300, and by others in 667, and rebuilt in 700. Canterbury is very ancient  it is said to have been founded by St. Augustine, as also is Rochester They appear to he of about the same date. The former was founded in 598, and partially rebuilt in 1080 the latter between 600 and 1000. Exeter had a cathedral standing in 1050.



<article title=" THE COLONNADE " author="">

THE COLONNADE.



Colonnades are of various forms and dimensions, and assume different names according to their application and uses says the

Builders' Reporter. When in front of a building or in the interior of a quadrangle they are called porticoes when surrounding a building of any shape, peristles: when double or more, as in some of the ancient temples, and the circular peristle in front of St. Peter's at Rome, they are polystyles. No people have made more use of colonnades, or with greater effect, than the ancient Egyptians, many of their temples being literally thickset, both in the interior and exterior, with colonnades of every description. The (;reeks were more simple in their arrangement, and their colonnades were mostly distributed into porticoes and peristyles, both monostyles and polystyle. Their most magnificent example is perhaps the Temple of Jupiter Olympius at Athens. Baalbec and Palmyra present also various examples of splendid colonnades. Of modern works, the magnificent colonnade of the Piazzo di San Pietro at Rome, the work of Bernini, is at once the grandest and most beautiful. It consists of 280 columns, and 48



pilasters of 40 feet high, raised on three lofty steps. It is surmounted by a balustrade, on which are 88 colossal statues 19 tect in stature. Colonnades are among the most beautiful and splendid works of architecture, and in the hands of a man of taste and science are capable of the grandest and most imposing effects.





Mr. J. Wilson Gray, architect, of Toronto, is at present on a visit to Great Britain.



The Milton Pressed Brick Company, limited

Architectural terra cotta and pressed brick

Milton, Ont.



The Vokes Hardware Company, limited

Acme automatic fire door fittings

Toronto

