<doctype type="text">62	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



'THE NEWEST 'THINGS IN WALL PAPER.

<article title="'THE NEWEST 'THINGS IN WALL PAPER " author="">

AN examination of the leading lines of the season shows a decided tendency toward panel effects and a revival of architectural treatments in paper hanging, says the New York Painters Magazine. All the manufacturers who cater to the demands of the high-class decorators have put on the market this season lines of more papers and floral stripes, specially adapted for French panel effects. 'These are found in soft rose, yellow, pink, green and blue tones, as well as in stronger colors. There is also an endeavor to revive ceiling decoration, hut so far this meets with but little success, most of the leading decorators seeming to prefer plain trims, either white or light shades of some color harmonizing with the side wall.

One manufacturer has introduced a decided novelty this season, which is specially adapted to hotel dining rooms and halls, or for theatres and other public assembly rooms. It is a pilaster treatment, having a cut out ornament for the base and another of a different pattern for the top. There is a plain paper which matches and which is used for the intermediate panels. The frieze, which is a bold and flowing design, is so arranged that it members in with the panels and pilasters. It is made in rich colorings, strong reds , yellows and greens, and is remarkably effective, In the cap piece there is a small oval medallion, which is made either ornamented or plain; and in the latter case can be filled in with a gilt initial letter, so as to adapt it more specially for some particular room, such as a hotel cafe, or some similar location. There are many other treatments to which this same paper is adapted, and it only needs to be well known to prove of exceptional value to the decorator who is called upon for striking and original ideas in buildings of this character.

Another novelty of the season, found among the exclusive goods of the manufacturer who is putting it out, is a strictly architectural treatment, to be used in panel effects. The center of the panel is filled with a plain ground having a tiny fleur—de—lis liberally powdered upon it. For the stiles, there is a molding border, printed so as to give the effect of high relief and supplied with the necessary curved corner piece. The frieze gives the effect of modeling in high relief, and is very effective classic treatment of flowing scrolls, and garlands of acanthus leaf foliage. One needs to look at it several times in order to he convinced that it is not an elaborate plaster frieze. The pattern stands out in white against a strong, rich ground color. As a border to the ceiling there is a modillion cornice effect, very similar to the elaborately modeled plaster cornices that are so generally used in Colonial architecture, more especially in rooms of a semi-public character. The ceiling itself consists of square panels, apparently being modeled from plaster in high relief. While such paper hangings violate every principle of art as laid down by Ruskin and William Morris, there is no doubt that the)' will be found useful in the class of buildings for which they are specially intended, such as hotels, restaurants and other places of like character. They are scarcely adapted to use in private houses. But whether they violate the canons of art or not, they will undoubtedly prove profitable to the first class paper hanger, for it requires skilled workmen to hang goods of this class, and high prices should he obtained for the work.



Chapleau & Leboeuf, contractors, Montreal, arc reported to have assigned.

BY THE WAY.



A GENTLEMAN who had an office in the Board of Trade Building, Montreal, writes that when the vault was opened after the fire which destroyed the building, the books and papers which he had placed therein for safe-keeping, were found to have been reduced to dust. The subject of vault construction is one to which greater attention should be given. Unless a vault is constructed in such a way as to be absolutely proof against fire, it is worse than useless, as persons are likely to entrust to its false security their confidence and valuables.

x x x



A good story is going the rounds just now and bears re—telling, says the Irish Builder. A certain country baker had some alterations carried out to his bakehouse, and amongst other things a new oven was constructed, and in due course used. To the surprise of the worthy' baker, who had put in a number of barm-bracks, these came out, bearing certain mystic inscriptions, which on closer examination were deciphered as ''Sacred to the Memory of," The mystery was soon solved. The sacrilegious contractor had economically utilized the headstones of a demolished church for lining the oven!

x x x

'THE colossal statue La Parissienne, which surmounted the principal entrance to the Paris Exhibition and the gate way below have been sold to a contractor for 10,000 francs or about £400. It may be seen that the contractor made a good bargain when it is stated that in addition to the value of the statue as an historic feature of the great Exhibition, the gate consisted of nearly 205 tons of iron, 6,700 cubic feet of wood, 1,600 square feet of brick, 25,000 cubic feet of stone and 7,500 panes of coloured glass.

x x x

REFERRING to the steadily growing fire loss in cities and the claim of the insurance companies that they are unable to realize profits at existing rates, the American Architect says '' The high department stores which give our conscientious building inspectors so much anxiety might be transformed in a week if the underwriters themselves would have the resolution to make the premium rates on them proportionate to the risk but the temptation of a large line of insurance is too much for them to resist, and by keeping down rates on dangerous accumulations of goods, trusting to he able to make up their losses at the expense of the smaller and safer risks, they encourage the methods of building which they rail at architects for not suppressing. If the underwriters really wish to '' reduce the fire-waste in our cities the way to accomplish that end is to second heartily the building inspectors in their efforts to have the undivided space in mercantile buildings restricted by law within prudent limits ; to use their influence for the repeal of the customs duties on structural iron, and to urge, in the several States, the passage of laws restoring neighborhood liability in case of fire. When these three objects are accomplished, it will not he long before great fire losses are quite as rare in our cities as they are in Paris or Vienna, and the underwriters, who alone have the influence necessary for bringing them about, will be prosperous and happy again, at the same time that they will have conferred upon their fellow-citizens an inestimable benefit."



The Maritime Art Glass Works have become successors of the Maritime Glass Company, of St. John, N.B.

