<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NON-INFLAMMABLE WOOD

<article title=" NON-INFLAMMABLE WOOD " author="">

The degree of excellence to which the fireproofing of modern buildings has been carried is evidenced by the severe tests which have recently been made in the United States and other countries with wood treated by the electric process of fireproofing This process is the latest development in thc science of rendering wood non-inflammable and has been adopted by the British and United Stales naval authorities after a set of thc most exhaustive comparative tests with every known method of fireproof construction in the I lilt of material that could be utilized as wood in the building of warships. It has been endorsed by leading architects and chemists in this aid other countries and has been used in some of the most modern buildings recently constructed 

When the lumber is received at the	fireproofing works it is piled in conical shape on iron cars with 38 lath be  between each layer of boards After the load has been made up 105 ft. long, it is drawn into a cylinder by a one inch cable, after which the door is closed and locked. Then a steaming process takes place inside the cylinder, thus opening the poles of the wood I lit sap is extracted from tile wood and drawn from the cylinder by vacuum. While this is taking place inside lie cylinder the chemicals in the large tanks overhead are going through a heat ing process. Alter the lumber lids been softened to a certain degree and the pores thoroughly opened the heated chemical is allowed to pass by gravity into the cylinder until it is filled, alter which the pressure pumps are set to, work and are kept working until the pressure has gained 150 pounds to the square inch. Tile chemicals in the cylinder are then forced hack into the overhead tanks by means of air pumps. the doors are opened and the lumber drawn out of the cylinder and transferred to dry kilns, where the process is completed

This electric process of fireproofing is at present carried on by three companies in the United States, one in London, Eng., and the Electric Fireproofing Company, of Canada, Limited, with office and works at Cote St. Paul, Montreal A representative of the Canadian Architect amid Builder recently visited the works of this company, which are situated at Cote St. Paul, on the Lachine Canal. The  Grand Trunk Railway Company have siding into time promises so that every facility for snipping by water or tail is available. The property covers aim area of 7 1-2

 acres, and the factory is built of solid brick with roof supported on steel columns and girders. The building is  divided up into a cylinder—room, engine amid pumping room, boiler room, coal room, chemical-room, storeroom office, two dry kilns and transfer table. The building is so laid (lot that double the plant can be added as the business increases. The cylinder-room is 123 fret long by 32 feet wide, amid contains two cylinders 105 feet long by 7 feet in diameter, capable of holding 15,000 feet B. M. of lumber each at one charge. Above time cylinders are

three large teed tanks, each having a capacity 01 26,330 gallons. The tanks contain the fireproofing solution,. which is pumped into the cylinders under pressure. The doors of the cylinders are fastened by radial steel bolts weighing about ten tons, and are operated by two men 01 a few seconds; these doors have to stand at times an internal pressure of from 200 to 300 pounds per square inch. The boiler-room is 37 feet by 24 feet and contains two Babcock & Wilcox high pressure 75 horsepower boilers. These boilers supply steam to the cylinders, pumps, dry kilns, etc.

The engine-room is 39 feet by 37 feet, and contains a 75 horsepower Corlise engine; steam winch, 40 horsepower, for operating yard and lifting 8,000 pounds one vacuum and pressure pump, 16 x 20 x 24 in; duplex water pump, 8 x 7 X t 2 in , connected to canal by an 8 inch water main two duplex pressure 5 1—2 X 3 1—2 x 5 in., high pressure to cylinder came pinup for suction service to feed tanks, 3 -2 x 5 ft.

The chemical mixing room is 37 feet by 34 feet, and a storeroom above of time same size In this room is placed two setting tanks 12 x 8 x 6 in directly above is one circular tank, 5 feet diameter by 3 feet 6 inches deep, used for mixing the chemicals two dry kilns two storey high, t23 feet by 16 feet 6 inches wide each heated by time

Common-Sense system of radiation. lime lower storey is filled with the lumber, placed on cars amid is led by a fan 110 inches in diameter, connected to a condenser 21 X  ft. 2 in. x 4 ft. 6 in. bight this condenser is filled with cold water radiators, which purify the aim as t passes through same into hearer i2 ft. 3 ill. x ft., 2 x 7 ft. 2 in high this heater contains 8,000 feet of inch steam pipe, which heats the air to a given temperature, after which it is blown into the dry kiln at the extreme and snaked out of the rear end by means of the fan, which makes a continuous circulation of air . Above time dry kilns is a room for storage of lumber, 25 feet by 33 feet. The office is 32 feet by 48 feet, and includes a test-room, in which time chemicals amid solutions are tested for strength and impurities. A traverse table 35 feet wide by to feet traverses 137 feet and is worked by a steam winch It is used for transferring the cars of lumber from the vary to the cylinder and from there to the dry kilns, this giving access to all tracks in the yard. The railway track from the Grand Trunk Railway enters the grounds about midway and passes through the centre of the building, connecting with the various rooms, so that the least amount of handling of lumber is avoided, ensuring economy and time smallest amount of damage to time material.

Mr. Percival W. St George, Men. Iust., C. E., is at the head of the Electric Fireproofing Company, of Canada, Limited, and under his able management time electric process with no doubt soon receive in Canada time same degree of recognition that It has already received iii time United States and England





THE MILTON PRESSED BRICK COMPANY, LIMITED

MILTON ONTARIO



THE ROBERT MITCHELL COMPANY, LIMITED

MONTREAL