<doctype type="text">146 ____	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



law takes no cognizance of the fact that cement in the mortar of a brick wall is as good as half brick in thickness; therefore officials are not open to reason upon this point. The law says that a steel beam over a small shop front is fire resisting. Experience points to the superiority of a wooden bressummer ; but officials are not open to the argument from experience. The law requires the house trap to be set at such a distance from the house that to connect the weeping tile system beyond it adds extravagantly to the cost of drainage. The law appears to contemplate connecting the weeping tiles behind the house trap in such a way that if the trap is stopped, the whole system of surface drainage must be filled with the backed-up sewage before it can climb high enough to appear in the laundry tubs. It is strange that the plumbing by-law, which is the most modern part of the building law, should contemplate this ; but it is stranger still that the officials should want to hold to the law. As a matter of fact the greatest danger is to the authority of the law and the officials ; for, when architects know that they are right and the law is wrong, they simply ignore its interference. This state of affairs is unwholesome, and it is time we had a law which can command and enforce respect. _________________________



<article title=" A Regular Size for Bricks " author="">

Architects are complaining of the A Regular Size for Bricks,	trouble caused by variations in the size

of bricks. It is impossible to figure plans with certainty until the bricks are on the ground. It is not that there is not a standard size, or that the bricks are not made according to it ; but simply that the makers use wooden moulds, and do not renew them often enough. A full sized brick is therefore seldom seen, and perhaps the greatest trouble of all is a lot of bricks from a new mould ; for calculations based on a slim specimen are more impossible, when full sized bricks are delivered, than a full sized calculation would be for small sized bricks. It is more easy to gain in brick laying than to work down. As far as appearance is concerned, it is hard to err on the side of a fat joint in ordinary brickwork ; and, up to likely limits of joint thickness in ordinary work, construction is improved hy the necessity which arises for good beds of mortar. But to be ohliged to batter down the bricks to meet the figures is something to which both bricklayer and architect object. There is nothing to be done, when a brickmaker has renewed his moulds, and unexpectedly delivers bricks up to the standard, but to re-figure the drawings; and that probably at the height of the season, when there is already too much drawing to do. The remedy is the adoption of a standard size, recog-nized as part of the building contract ; so that brickmakers can only withhold the renewal of their moulds at a risk which would make such economy of doubtful advantage. ________________________



<article title=" Roof Gardens " author="">



It seems a little odd that there has not yet been a serious attempt to make use



of flat roofs for something more than the purpose of drying clothes. There would be nothing new in having upon one of these roofs, a garden with shrubs and even trees growing in it. The hanging gardens of Babylon may afford us little encouragement, knowing the probable bulk of walling and vault on which they rested; but in later days and nearer home there are examples. The Ducal Palace of Mantua has  dining hall, in the upper or principal storey, with

windows opening down to the floor, and looking upon a garden at the same level in which there is a tree between twenty and thirty feet high. This green outlook must have been a beautiful addition to the dining hail in the days when the palace was inhabited. The garden is carried by the vaulting over a wine cellar on the ground floor; not more substantial probably, or more impervious to moisture than the flagged surface of the roof on the Bowling Green Building in New York. One might venture to predict that a restaurant in the comparatively fresh air of this roof, even if it went no further in gardening than orange trees in tubs, would be a formidable rival, for at least six months of the year, to the prosperous affair across the road, into which one decends two levels below the street. One objection to pioneering in this direction is that for a pioneer, surrounded by unimproved neighbours, the surroundings are apt to be squalid. But there are buildings in a favourable neighbourhood, and in a favourable state of isolation, in the case of which such an experiment would be worth trying.

<article title=" The S.P.S. Building " author="">

Prof. Galbraith and his assistants have The S.P.S. Building returned from their tours in search of



information to apply to the new building for the School of Practical Science, and yet nothing has been heard from the government as to the appointment of an architect or the arrangement of a competition for this building. The inference is that the plans, upon which the provincial architect was understood to be working before he went on tour with Prof. Gaibraith, are the plans of the school. There are two things to be said about this. The first is that the plans which were under way before the tour for information came off, cannot be profited in any fundamental way by the tour. The second is that this is not work that can be so well done in the Provincial Architect's office as out of it. The best thing that can be done with the information the Provincial Architect has gained hy his tour is to put it in form for the guidance of the participants in a competition. The sooner the Minister of Public Works understands that in forcing this work through the Public Works Department, he is mishandling the responsibilities of his office, the better. If he does not realize it now he will realize it later when the building is in a position for the public, and the students who will use it, to judge whether the best has been done that could be done. The Minister of Puhlic Works of course knows no more about architecture than he does about ballooning. He is not expected to know anything about architecture; but he is expected to know that the ferment there has been about this building, at the mere suggestion that it should be done in the Public Works' Department, is not for nothing. It is not only architects, but the Guild of Civic Art (moved by-persons who are neither artists nor architects) who have taken up the matter. The government have had a fair chance to take up this matter in a large way. The deputation of students was conclusive to show that this province is in competition with the United States to keep her students. It was no case for timidity, and the government seem to have realized that. They had better realize now that it is no case for small dealing in any respect. In the interest of a reputation, which in building matters requires careful handling, let them take steps to get this building done with one thought only—to get the best that is to he got.

