<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	205

LEAD PIPES BREAKING CROSSWAYS.

<article title=" LEAD PIPES BREAKING CROSSWAYS " author="">

That the subject of transverse fractures in lead cold water service pipes is an important one is evidenced by the numbers which occur, and the cause being so frequently attributed either to defects in the pipes or to an inferior quality of lead being used in their manufacture. During the last 25 years, writes Prof. J. Wright Clarke in The Plumber and Decorator, several cases have come under the present writer's notice, some of these being met with in the course of his ordinary work, others being examples or specimens brought by his students or sent by manufacturers.

Four specimens were brought to him some little time ago by a house--owner, who had entered an action against a plumber for using inferior lead pipe, and who refused to pay the writer his fee for an opinion, as the writer declined to appear in court excepting as a hostile witness.

One of our very largest pipe manufacturers recently submitted about ten samples of fractures in 1/2-inch. lead pipes, weighing 6 lbs. per yard, and which has been laid from a water main to some houses in a Lon don street. In the written opinion of these examples, the following line of reasoning was taken up

if there was dross or dirt mixed with the lead in the pipe press, this would affect the pipe lengthways and not crossways.

If other metals, which melt at or about the same temperature, were mixed with the lead, an alloy would be formed, and the only injury that could occur would be by a chemical action, or decomposition by electrolysis. Some metals could not possibly mix with the lead, as by their lighter specific gravity and higher melting point they would float in the melting pot and be skimmed off with the dross and oxide of lead which invariably accumulates on the surface.

As the cracks were not lengthways in the pipe, they could not be attributed to the method of manufacture.

The statement may appear absurd, as it is so obvious, that if the pipe is subjected to a compressive strain in its length, it would he shortened by squeezing molecules of lead closer together, or bulging the sides of the pipe. But the absurdity disappears if the problem is reversed, and it is assumed that the pipe is subjected to a tensile strain. Even if a lead pipe had a crack across it, the crack would not be visible until it was opened, and thus exposed to view, by being stretched lengthways.

It a lead pipe is strained between two fixed points, and a power is gently applied with a view to pulling the pipe asunder, the pipe will lengthen considerably and become thinner by the flow of the lead, but it will not crack square across the section.

But if the strain is suddenly applied and then as suddenly removed, and these operations are quickly repeated during a considerable period of time, an entirely different action takes place, and if the pipe is in a state of tension, it will eventually break across.

When the houses in Cadogan-square were built a few years ago, several or the service pipes on one side of the square cracked across close to the front walls of the cellars, under the sidewalk, and these pipes had to be renewed. The pipes were solidly built in the walls, and then laid in the ground to the iron main in the roadway. They were thus fixed at the ends. As the roadway was a new one, and made on virgin ground, it had to be consolidated by the use of a steam roller.

The vibration caused by the roller on the soft springy ground in which the pipe was laid, caused the fractures that have been described. The repaired parts of the pipes were laid through drain pipes built in the cellar walls, the spaces well puddled with clay, and no further fractures occurred.

in another case the service pipe was laid under the gravel path, on the same line as the new drain, through a long front garden from the house to the street, in which there was considerable heavy traffic. From time to time it was found necessary to fill up the hollows caused by settlement in the path, and eventually the pipe was cracked in several places. In each case the crack was in the under side of the pipe where it had bagged down between hard solid supports.

In all the present writer's experiences he never knew a cold water service pipe to crack crossways when fixed inside a house or building. In all cases such damage has occurred to pipes laid in the ground.

Hot water service and waste pipes frequently break when they are firmly or rigidly fixed or built in walls, so that they cannot freely move by expansion and its opposite. But the granular appearance of the fractured ends generally present an entirely different appearance to the fractures in cold water service pipes.

The moral to be deduced from the above experiences is that lead pipes when laid underground should not be perfectly straight, but be laid on a zigzag line. They should not be tied too tightly at the ends, nor be laid on solid points with hollow or soft earth spaces between. The pipes are enveloped in earth and are influenced by any local movement of the earth, and should not be tied so that they cannot partake of the earth's motion.

	PRACTICAL	HINTS.

<article title=" PRACTICAL	HINTS " author="">

Take some cheese, well wash it, let it lay in water to soften it, rub it well together in a mortar with a wooden pestle, add a little quicklime, and it will make a glue and stopping which is impervious to water.



To relacquer old brasswork first boil a strong lye of wood ashes, which you may strengthen with soap less put in your brasswork, and the lacquer will immediately come off, then have ready a pickle of aquafortis and water strong enough to take off the dirt, dip in the article, and wash it immediately after in clean water dry it well, and lacquer it.

For painting over tarred surfaces or timber which has been treated with creosote, mix the pigments as follows If the tarred or creosoted work is to he



painted white, procure 14 lbs. of pure zinc white in paste and mix with it 1/2 pints of boiled linseed oil, 1/2 pint of deodorized or coal tar naphtha, and 1/4 pint of cheap oak varnish. Mix well, and apply two coats in the same way as ordinary paint. Any paint may be prepared in a similar manner by using the above proportions of materials, omitting the zinc white and replacing with a strong staining paint ground to a paste in oil.



NOTES.

Incorporation has been granted the Longford Quarry Co., Limited, with a capital of $50,000.



One of the essentials of doing good trade advertising is to know when and where to advertise, as well as how. Good advertising in poor publications is on a par with poor advertising in good papers 

