<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

The Commercial Position of Great Britain

as would the inmates of a room with dry air at a temperature of from 70 to 75 degrees. He estimated that to raise the temperature from 60 to 75 degrees would entail an additional expenditure for fuel of 25 per cent. These, and other statements, made a decided impression upon those who heard the paper read, and, in view of the importance of the subject, we have thought it advisable to call the special attention of our readers to it.

<article title=" The Commercial Position of Great Britain " author="">



FOLLOWING closely upon the announcement that Russia has increased its tariff on United States goods, comes a

dispatch from London that as an outcome of the inroads of American manufacturers upon British trade there is being formed the National Federation of Master Associations and Trades Unions to educate the minds of employees and employers in respect to the expansion of British trade, to devise means to meet foreign competition, to send joint deputation's of capital and labor abroad to enquire into the conditions of other countries, and to provide a federation where employers and employees may meet on the same plane. This movement is under the leadership of Mr. John Lockie, late conservative member for Davenport, and is said to have the approval of the present British government.



The United States have not only become a strong competitor for the foreign trade of Great Britain and other European nations, but have also invaded the British market, and are securing a large share of the home trade. It is stated that in one industry alone (the manufacture of boots and shoes) Great Britain's trade last year was less by $5,000,000 than in the preceding year, notwithstanding that the firms engaged in this industry are said to be among the most progressive and enterprising in the way of adopting improved machinery and other manufacturing facilities. The American manufacturer takes infinite pains to adapt his goods to the requirements of the particular market in which he seeks to sell, and by liberal advertising and persistent push keeps their merits before the notice of prospective buyers. In Great Britain there are many long established businesses which have descended from father to son. This has in many instances induced the idea that the system of management and character of goods that have been successful for so long a period may safely he continued. Rapid and startling changes are, however, taking place throughout the world, bringing changes in methods and requirements of the people. The nation that studies most carefully these changes and constantly adapts its products to the new conditions, is the one which will obtain and maintain commercial supremacy. In this regard the United States seem to stand foremost today among the commercial nations of the

great

earth, hence the strides they are making in the development of their foreign trade.



It is gratifying to note that Great Britain is awaking to the situation and considering ways and means whereby she may hold her commercial position. History has shown that the British people when once aroused are prompt to act for the protection of their interests whether territorial or commercial. Prompt, intelligent and thorough enquiry into the subject of Britain's commercial facilities and relations with other nations would seem to be a present and important necessity,

and should be followed by equally prompt, intelligent and thorough reforms in methods, where such are found to be necessary.



The United States exports to Great Britain and Ireland are valued at $600,000,000 per year, while the value of the imports from Great Britain into the United States is but 25 per cent. of that amount. The United States exports to Canada for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1900, were valued at $109,844,378, or more than the combined imports of France, Australasia, AustriaHungary and Russia. While profiting so largely by British and Canadian trade, the United States continues to maintain a high tariff wall against these countries. The time seems to have arrived when freer access should he demanded by Great Britain and her colonies to the United States market, and in default of reciprocity of trade there should be a nearer approach than at present to reciprocity of tariffs.



Great Britain has in her colonies commercial allies which as yet she has scarcely taken any steps towards reaping the advantage of, but which, if brought into closer relations with her, would greatly assist in extending and maintaining her commercial supremacy. Canada has shown a desire to enter into such relationship by giving a substantial preference to British goods entering this market. That this action has not resulted in greater advantage to British manufacturers is largely due to the failure of the latter to make their goods better known in Canada, as well as to adapt the goods to our requirements.



Another phase of this question, as seen by an American writer, is presented in the following extract from the Engineering Magazine, of New York "To the outside world the most impressive lesson of the Queen's death is the magnificent stability of British institutions and the British commercial system. Not a wheel stopped, save as a token of reverence ; not a tremor in values disturbed financial centers ; not an uneasiness or uncertainty as to national politics caused business undertakings to waver or hesitate. Compare this with the quadrennial upheaval in the United States, where economic legislation of every kind is the football of politics, and industry follows with uncertain feet now artificially raised on an unstable platform of protection, now sinking back from the morass of free silver certain of nothing but uncertainty with every change of chief executive. The '' demise of the Crown demonstrates anew England's industrial strength, and those who are ready to cry her downfall before her industrial rivals would do well to remember that. this stability of commercial organization outweighs much mechanical aptitude. Machinery can be bought, skilful brains and hands can he hired ; but stable, political and commercial systems are of slow growth, and not soon attained."





A conference of Australian architect has been held for the purpose of forming a Federal Institute. In order to aid in the promotion of education it is intended to establish a travelling scholar— ship.



Thc Canadian Manufacturers' Association have requested the Mayor of Toronto to call a meeting of representatives of various organizations, such as the Board of Trade, the Trades and Labor Council, Ontario Association of Architects, the Guild of Civic Art, to prepare a plan for the beautifying of the city as a Victoria  memorial.

