<doctype type="text;ad">

<article title=" THE WINDOW GLASS MONOPOLY " author="">

THE WINDOW GLASS MONOPOLY.



One of the most complete specimens of a labor monopoly pushed to its extreme limit is to be found in the window glass manufacture in this country, says the American Architect. Not long ago the American Window Glass Company, a powerful trust, conceived the idea of driving the independent concerns out of business by interfering with their men ; and, in the pursuit of this benevolent purpose, it made friends with the head of the Glass Blower's Union, who, by a series of judicious strikes succeeded in closing, if we are not mistaken, every window glass manufactory outside of the trust. In return for this favor the American Window Glass Company is said to have distributed five thousand shares of its stock among members of the Glass Blowers' Union, in what proportion is not stated, and to have assisted it in establishing a monopoly of the trade unequalled, perhaps, since the middle ages. The number of " pots" operated by the American Window Glass Company is, in round numbers, twenty-eight hundred, while the Glass Blowers' Union has only twenty-two hundred members, so that the demand for men is greater than the supply, and, in order to perpetuate this condition, admission to the union can only be obtained with great difficulty. Most of the members are said to be Belgians, and, as a special favor, a Belgian who wishes to join may, if he is acceptable to the members, be received on payment of an initiation fee of five-hundred dollars. Except under such circumstances no new members are admitted except blood relations of the present members. It need hardly be observed that under these conditions, both the monopolies, that of the masters and that of the

men, are, for the present, flourishing. How long the prosperity will last is another question. So far as the men are concerned, they seem to be pursuing in this country the tactics by which the same men have already destroyed the window-glass trade in their own land ; and the American Window Glass Company, which, a few months ago, was threatened with serious competition, is not likely to keep the business to itself indefinitely. 

<article title=" STONE WORKING IN ATHENS " author="">

STONE WORKING IN ATHENS.



It appears that the Athenians worked the marble to an even, but not very smooth face, with a toothed chisel before they placed the blocks in the work, and that they afterwards went over the whole exposed surface and finished it to the greatest smoothness and nicety, but without polish, taking off in this operation about one-fifth inch, and this has been the practice on the horizontal as well as on the upright surfaces, for the columns of Propylaea are sunk in to about that depth below the general level. The place intended for their reception was sunk before the lower cylinders were placed, and lest any inconvenience should arise from the wet remaining there before the building was completed, a small channel has been cut from the recess to carry off the water. In the steps the adjoining faces are carefully finished at the internal angles, by which means the accidents and wear which take place during the execution would rarely be of any con-sequence 



Put a little saffron, or a little dragon's blood with the size, when gilding, as it improves the color of the gold.







CANADA FOUNDRY

COMPANY, LIMITED,

SUCCESSORS TO ST. LAWRENCE FOUNDRY COMPANY OF TORONTO)









Engineers, Founders and Machinists





STRUCTURAL IRON AND STEEL WORK

Beams, Channels, Angles, Tees and Cast Iron Columns always in stock.

WRITE OR 'PHONE FOR ESTIMATES AND PRICES