<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	23



LEGAL.

<article title=" DEVINE V. McDonald " author="">

DEVINE V. McDonald. J. Lorne McDougall (Ottawa), for defendant, moved to set aside verdict and judgment for plaintiff for $1,000 in an action for negligence tried before Rose J., and a jury at Ottawa, and for a non—suit, upon the ground that there was no evidence of negligence to go to the jury, or for a new trial. The defendant was contractor for the erection of water-works in tile Village of Hintonburg, and in the course of doing his work used dynamite and exploding caps. Tile plaintiff, a boy of eleven, picked up a cap upon a vacant lot near the works, and, after some fruitless attempts, exploded it. The result was that be lost one eye, and that the sight of the other eve was affected. There was no direct evidence that the cap was left on the vacant lot by the defendant or his workmen. Plaintiff's counsel opposed the appeal, and contended that the onus was upon the defendant to rebut the presumption that the cap was left lying where the plaintiff could get it by the negligence of defendants workmen, and that the defendant had not discharged that onus. Held, that upon the answers of the jury to two of the questions the defendant was entitled to succeed. The jury did not find that the cap was left lying where the plaintiff found it by the defendants workmen, and they did find contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff. Order made setting aside judgment and dismissing action, hut without costs.



A CASE UNDER THE Workmen's Compensation FOR Injuries Act.—A Canadian firm of cement manufacturers had in their factory a machine known as a 'screw conveyor, which took from one part of the building to another the current discharged into it from a drop spout connected with a conveyer. The conveyer

was	machinery and made from 70 to 80 revolutions operated by machinery

per minute. It was formed of a large iron screw set in a wooden box the cover of which was removed. Some months after, the machine was put up, partly in order to mix some fine cement with the ordinary cement which was passing from the spout. This fine cement was in sacks which, when full, weighed about 65 pounds. An employee was, as directed, slowly emptying the

cement from one of these sacks, when it stopped coming out. He shook the bag, and in doing so lowered it. The screw caught it, and the jerk pulled the employee round and his hand was brought down between the side of the box and the screw. For the injury he thus sustained he sued his employers, and the jury gave him $500 damages. The cement manufacturers appealed from this on two grounds, which will be considered separately. (1) They said that there had been no negligence on their

part, and that the employee would not have been hurt if be had not been negligent himself. The court decided that though the machine was perfect for the purpose for which it was made (i.e. as a conveyor) vet that it was not meant to be a 'mixer, and therefore when it was used as one it was a defective machine, and therefore the employers were liable for injuries caused by it to their employees. It was also held that the employee himself had not been careless. (2) The Workmen's Compensation for Injuries Act (under which this action was brought) says that the injured employee must give written notice of the injury to the employers within twelve weeks after the accident. In this case the cement manufacturers claimed that, as his notice had not been duly given, the suit should be dismissed. But another part of the same Act provides that if the employers intend to rely on the want of this notice as a defense to the action, they themselves must give the employee notice that the)' mean to do so 7 days before the trial. In this instance that had not been done. The employers had merely mentioned the want of notice in their statement of defense, which was not sufficient. The verdict for $500 was therefore upheld.





The name of the Georgian Bay Portland Cement Co., Limited, of Owen Sound, Ont., has been changed to The Imperial Cement Company, Limited.



Mr. Hoyt in company with Mr. Peters, city engineer, recently inspected several sites in St. John, N. B. for smelting works. It us estimated that one hundred tons of limestone per day will be required in connection with the smelting Operations.

