<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XIV. —No. 160.	APRIL, 1901.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Designs of Small houses and Cottages Illustrating Paper in this Number by Barry Parker and Raymond Unwin.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Design for Cottage at Toronto Island—By Chas. Lennox.

United States Government Building, Agricultural Building, and Plan of Grounds, Pan American Exhibition.

Illustrations accompanying Paper on Landscape Architecture by Frederick G. Todd.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

	Photogravure Plate— Residence at Ottawa—A.	Calderon, Architect.

Facade of Cathedral at Ferrara, Italy.

Stained Glass by W. Bloomfield & Son, Vancouver, B.C.

Sculpture for the Pan-American Exhibition Buildings.



CONTENTS.

Editorial Notes					73-74

The Preferential	Tariff and	Transportation			. 74

The Art of Designing Small	Houses and Cottages		. 75—79

Corrosion of Soft. Steel 1 and	Wrought Iron 			. 79

British Columbia Letter				80

By the Way

Differences	in Estimating and Causes of the Same 	.

Quantity of Metal in the Paris Exhibition Buildings 	.

Montreal Correspondence	84

Legal	84-85

Intercommunication				. 86—87

Present Condition of the Building Industry				. 80

 History of the Ontario Association of	Architects			. 89—98

Ontario Association of Architects 				. 90

Proposed New Building Regulations 				. 91

Students Department				92

Causes of Varnishing Failures				93

The Use of the Gasoline Torch and Fire Insurance . . 94

Twenty- Second Annual Exhibition of the Royal Canadian  Academy of Arts                                



SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

Prof. S. H. Capper R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal.

MR. XV. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

EDMUND BURKE,

" S. H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERIC G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

R.	A. E. GRAY, Electrical Engineer, Toronto.

W.	H. ELLIOTT, of Messrs. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.

J.	C. B. Horwood, Architect, Toronto.

A.	E. Dunlop R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.



<article title=" Decoration of theGrand Dome at the Glasgow Exhibition " author="">

Decoration of theGrand Dome at the Glasgow Exhibition.

WITHIN the brief space of six months

two young Glasgow artists, Mr. John



Dall and Mr. David S. Neave, neither of whom had any previous experience in mural painting, have successfully planned and executed a scheme of decoration for the grand dome of Glasgow Exhibition. The space to be covered measures 226 feet in circumference and 65 feet in height. Within this space have been placed thirty-two figures. Each figure has been cut out of its canvass and hoisted into its place, where it is fixed to the wall. On the cup or curved portion of the dome two large—winged angels with palms and laurels face one another, each with an attendant Figure at either hand, the composition being connected by six groups of flying amorini. A gilt frieze runs round the circle, arid below this are fitted at the window spaces eight seated figures in four groups, symbolic of industry, commerce, science and art. The whole is set in a very decorative landscape background.



It is gratifying to state that the Ontario government have promptly responded to the request of the students and interested bodies for increased accommodation and better equipment at the School of Practical Science, Toronto. The government's determination to erect an entirely new building for the purpose is a wise one. The estimated cost is $200,000, but a larger sum will be expended if the requirements should demand it. The designing of a building for such a purpose will afford scope for

The School of Practical Science.

architectural ability of a high order. Probably the most satisfactory method of procuring a carefully designed and planned building expressive of its purpose and adapted to the requirements, would be to institute a competition for designs under conditions to be approved by the Ontario Association of Architects. The government should give the winner of the competition opportunity to inspect the most important buildings of similar character in the United States the desirable features of which should be incorporated in his plans. The determination to spend so large a sum upon the erection of a building, the equipment for which will call for a further considerable expenditure may be taken to mean that the government propose to establish one thoroughly efficient scientific school in Ontario instead of dividing the money at its disposal between two or more institutions. We strongly sympathize with this idea. Let us have One provincial university and one scientific school which will compare favorably with those of other countries, rather than a number of such institutions which because of insufficient revenue must necessarily be more or less inefficient.





THE American Architect correctly points out as one of the objectionable features of the Illinois law compelling all architects to be licensed, that it restricts time practice of architecture to architects resident within the state. The Quebec on the contrary admits

	law	-	to Practice within

The Licensing of Architects.

