<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ST. PAUL'S CHURCH, HAMILTON, ONT." author="">

ST. PAUL'S CHURCH, HAMILTON, ONT.

The city of Hamilton possesses in St. Paul's a church which is well worth the study of architects. The present fine building is old, as the age of buildings goes in Ontario, but the parish is older still, its history reaching back to 1833 when Hamilton was a village with a population of less than a thousand. In 1833 a



























































Presbyterian minister was first called to officiate regularly in Hamilton, and a small frame building on the site of the present church was built by his congregation and called St. Andrew's church. The founders of the parish lie in the churchyard, but they never saw the beautiful church which now protects their graves. Their headstones, inscribed in each case to the memory of a native of some county in Scotland, show that they went to their rest in the thirties and forties of the past century, whereas the present church was not built until 1857. But if the fathers of the church saw nothing of its present beauty they saw nothing also of the troubles that came upon the parish, beginning with the disruption of 1843 in Scotland which made its way to Canada in the following year. The congregation was first divided over this question, the minister leading off a portion to found a church representing the Free Church of Scotland. About ten years afterwards a second trouble began when the old church of St. Andrews was moved to another site in order to make room for a new building, which was begun in 1855 and opened for worship in 1857. Unfortunately for their peace, though fortunately for succeeding generations, the congregation overestimated their resources and undertook the erection of a more costly structure than they could finance. Though they raised the handsome sum of $30,000 there still remained a debt of about the same amount and circumstances arose in connection with this heavy burden which led to the closing of the church for a time. Many members worshipped with neighboring congregations, while others built a brick church retaining the name of St. Andrew and the services of their minister. Thus it came about that. when in 1876 there was an amalgamation of the divided congregation forming a body to resume worship in the new church it was found necessary to give up the name St. Andrew's to those who continued to worship in the brick church and to call the new church St. Paul's. But the bell which called the new congregation together for its first service was the old bell of St. Andrew's, the oldest bell in Hamilton, which still hangs in the tower of St. Paul's church.

The building was designed by William Thomas, of Toronto. It is of course a product of the Gothic revival and one of the better class of such products, in which an essential part of the aim was honest work The construction is genuine ; the spire is of stone throughout. As is often the case economy supervened when it came to the renewable appendages of porch and steps. These were originally all built of wood, but the front steps have been recently converted to stone and the porches will no doubt follow some day. This will be a great improvement, for not only is wood too mean a material for the entrances of so fine a church, but, as there was no attempt made to imitate the proportions of stone in the wooden porches, their slender design is somewhat too light for the substantial character of the main building.

The walls are of gray Hamilton stone backed by lake shore stone, which in the interior of the spire seems piled very high for such rough material. The details are well designed and well executed. The spire is truly elegant the pinnacles which finish the tower have the appearance so common in this type of spire of needing unification, but they accomplish the purpose of enrichment for which they were intended. The crocheted gables over the belfry windows have an admirable effect of enrichment, and the spire is a model of well balanced ornament ; with a band and dormers near the bottom to combine with tower and pinnacles, and just one well placed repetition of it near the top to give the eye a resting place which divides the spire in pleasant proportions into the beginning, middle and end which every composition should have. It is interesting to observe by blotting out this upper band with the finger how uncompressed the spire is without it and how impossible it is to get the same effect of repose if the band is

moved at all, either up or down.

It is a pity that the traceries window under the belfry is there at all. It does not look into the church as its size and ornate character would lead one to believe, but upon a passage way into the belfry. For this a very small window would have served and it would have

