<doctype type="text">234	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" PRECAUTIONS TO BE OBSERVED IN INSTALLING HEATING APPARATUS " author="">

PRECAUTIONS TO BE OBSERVED IN INSTALLING HEATING APPARATUS.

Insurance Engineering- prints the following suggestions for the installation of heating apparatus as a means of safeguarding the building from fire

HOT AIR AND INDIRECT STEAM HEATING.

<article title=" HOT AIR AND INDIRECT STEAM HEATING " author="">

The furnace should be set upon a very solid foundation in order to prevent the sagging or cracking of its walls. The top or dome of its enveloping walls should not he less than 18 inches from unprotected woodwork or lath and plaster ceilings, and its smoke pipe or flue should be a like distance from combustibles. The ash pit should be sunken, or the floor in front of it be of brick, stone or concrete, not less than 36 inches wide. The enclosing walls of the furnace should be not less than 12 inches from all combustible material, and the inlet or cold air duct should he entirely of iron or other metal.

Hot air flues or conduits should be made of heavy, bright tin plates with well soldered lock seams, and be kept at least 10 inches from all wood-work or other combustibles. Where it is necessary to carry them through or into wooden or lath and plaster partitions, the flues should be double, i. e., one inside of the other, with an air space of not less than half an inch between the two, and be properly braced to insure rigid separation throughout. Where register boxes are set in floors or partitions, the woodwork should be framed around them to leave an air space of not less than 2 1/2 inches, and be protected by flashings of bright tin extending from the outer edge of the register opening to and through the floor beams or partition. Each register should he set in a frame of soapstone not less than 2 1/2 inches wide, and inch thick, firmly and well set in cement or plaster of Paris.

At least one of the registers of the system should he so arranged as to insure its being constantly open, either by the removal of the vanes of the valve, or by wiring the same open, so that closing- would be impossible. Heater lire pots should be carefully examined before use each season, to discover and remedy defects due to the burning out of their walls, or the destruction of the luting at the joints of the same, whereby coals might fall into the surrounding air space and ignite dust or other combustibles which are liable to accumulate therein.

HOT WATER AND DIRECT STEAM HEATING.

<article title=" HOT WATER AND DIRECT STEAM HEATING " author="">

The same general care in setting and arrangement should be followed as suggested under the item on hot air and indirect steam—heating devices, and in addition, all pipes used for the conveyance of hot water or steam should be kept free from contact with woodwork or other combustibles by the use of metal thimbles or sleeves, provided with interior lugs or radial points, to provide an air space where the pipes pass through floors or partitions. Fires from hot water systems occur from the high temperature reached by the water on account of obstructions or retardation of circulation in the pipe system, whereby the heat generated is sufficient to cause the ignition of the wood or other combustible material already partially carbonized by long continued high temperatures. Similar dangers attend the use of direct steam heat, and are augmented by the possibility of the superheating of the steam in the boiler owing to low power.

APPRENTICES IN THE BUILDING TRADES.



Mr. John Good of the Dublin Master Builders' Association read, not long ago, at a meeting of the architectural society of Ireland a paper on		 Some Aspects



of the Labor Question." Some of Mr. Good's conclusions are of interest to the builders and workmen of Canada. He laid down the principle that it was the duty first and most imperative of those responsible for trade or commerce to see that it was conducted on the most modern and best known lines, so as to defy competition. This end could not, however, be reached unless the unskilled learned their responsibility and felt that their best was necessary to the success of the whole. Customs in the old days of the building industry differed widely from those in use at present. The well established reputable firm of olden times had as much work as it could do and got it at its own price. To-day an evil reputation would not of course, assist, but a good one was of no avail unless the price was the lowest. The building trades, generally were, Mr. Good pointed out, recruited from apprentices and improvers, the condition of apprenticeship varying in the different trades. To keep the number of workmen in any trade at a uniform strength the number of apprentices should be 20 per cent, of the tradesmen. No person, should, he thought, take an apprentice or be allowed to do so unless he could give him his trade properly, by means of a constant employment with a variety of work. He quoted figures to show that the average number of apprentices in Dublin compared to

tradesmen was but 17.75 per cent.	Mr. Good concluded that: Manual training- and courses in technical instruction in day or night schools are much to be

commended for young men in	 America who

desire to take up or have already taken up any of the building trades. In this age of competition and specialization none but the fittest can survive. The fittest mechanic is he who has been trained as to head, hand and eye to conceive and achieve the best work.

These figures showed that they were not training sufficient men to fill the gaps which the hand of time was making in their trades. So tradesmen came from elsewhere to fill their positions, while thousands of unskilled hands were to he found in all quarters of the land trying to get an existence on the wretched wages at which labor was valued. hundreds more were forced to emigrate, who, if trained, would doubtless have done credit to themselves and their trade at home. It was evident that they wanted not alone an adequate supply of men, but also a supply of thoroughly trained and skilled hands, guided by a highly cultured brain. Employers knew that such men were very much the exception. Opportunity for training was absent in many trades in the city, and even were it available tomorrow many would not take advantage of it. In this lay their weakness. Theoretical instruction and practical training in apprenticeship were so interwoven and necessary, the one to the other, that they should he taken together, and be under one control.



Lord Roberts is said to be promoting a plan for the extension of Cape Town Cathedral, to be participated in by the several portions of the empire, as a memorial to all who have fallen in the war.



Mr. W. W. LaChance, of Hamilton, has recently given up practice as an architect, and engaged in business as a dealer in building supplies. He has secured the agencies for a number Of American and Canadian companies.

