<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

The King of Siam is said to have in one of his country seats a pavilion of a very extraordinary kind. The tables, chairs, and cabinets with which it is furnished are of crystal the walls, roof, and sides are formed of glass, in. thick and a fathom in breadth, and so finely united with mastic as transparent as glass itself that not a drop of water can penetrate the building. A Chinese engineer constructed the pavilion in this manner as a certain remedy against the insupportable heat of that country. It is 28 feet in length by 16 feet in breadth and is placed in the midst of a large basin, paved and covered with marble of different colors. The basin can be filled with water in a quarter of an hour and emptied as rapidly. When those who are to occupy the pavilion have entered the gate is shut, the seams stopped with mastic to prevent the entry of water and, the sluices being opened, the large surrounding basin is filled to the top, so that

the whole pavilion is placed under water, with the exception or the top of the dome, which allows for the passage of air for the respiration of those within Nothing can he more delightful than the agreeable coolness enjoyed in this delicious pavilion, while all around is scorched and burnt up by the intolerable heat of the sun.



Imitation marbles have been made from the fine dust of certain woods and the dust of ivory and similar waste A mixture of sawdust and phosphate of lime with a hinder has been used as a material for taking casts of sculptures, and has been called

Similibois.' Slabs for parquet floors have also been made from sawdust as well as plates for has-reliefs, art castings, panels and decorations. Terra-cotta lumber and artificial lumber are both instances of the utilization of sawdust. Sawdust compositions have also been used for sidewalks and dinner plates."





The Canadian Bridge Company, limited

Steel buildings, roof trusses

Toronto



Don Valley Brick Works

Toronto



J. F. Pease Furnace Company, limited

Pease economy furnaces

Toronto, Ontario



