<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	vii

METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION IN RELATION TO COST OF INSURANCE. <article title=" METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION IN RELATION TO COST OF INSURANCE " author="">

The Underwriters' Association of Canada at a recent meeting decided to extend to the towns and smaller cities throughout the country the rule under which buildings are classified for insurance purposes according to the character and surroundings of the building. This system has been employed for some time in Toronto and is generally acknowledged to be the most equitable one. It is obviously unfair that the owner of a building belonging to a certain class who takes precautions to guard against its destruction by fire should be obliged to pay insurance at the same rate as another owner in the same class who takes no such precautions. The situation and surroundings of a building also have much to do with its desirability, or otherwise, as a fire risk. These circumstances ought to be taken into account by the insurance authorities when fixing the rate of insurance to be paid. Thc more strictly this system is applied the more general will become the construction of fire resisting and fire-proof build ings. It is said, on the authority of prominent insurance firms, that, during the last five years, the rate of insurance on this class of building in Toronto has been reduced by 50 per cent., which

should certainly offer a strong inducement to persons proposing to build to employ fire-proofing methods and materials. Care should be taken, however, to see that when these materials are employed, the system of fire-proofing is carried far enough to place thc building in the favored class. Prominent buildings have been erected in Toronto within the last three years in which the ceiling and floors have been fire-proofed while the stairways have been left open to act as flues and cause the destruction of the building in case of fire. A partial system of fire-proofing like this which disregards essential features, such as those mentioned, is valueless, and the money expended on expensive materials wasted. The record of fires in Toronto last year is very gratifying. Thc total number of fires was 686. For 328 no losses occurred, and for 221 the loss in each case was less than $100. The losses above insurance totalled only $13,289, and the losses without insurance to only $9,434. Only one fire extended beyond the building in which it started, which would seem to point to a high standard of efficiency of the fire department. To what extent improved methods of building construction contributed to this excellent showing is not known, but it may reasonably be presumed that some credit is due in this direction. The record of fire losses in the United States for the first six months of the present year shows the total losses to have been $88,935,000, as compared with $103,299,000 for thc corresponding period of last year.

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Structural Iron and Steel Work