<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	9

HINTS FOR PAINTERS.

<article title=" HINTS FOR PAINTERS " author="">

Something not generally known by painters who are called upon to re-paint an old house, may be learned from the following After cleaning off the old work, prepare three gallons of water, into which put one pint of flax seed, and boil for an hour. Then remove from the fire and add enough water to make four gallons. After this has properly settled, add sufficient Spanish white (whiting) to make it as thick as good whitewash; then add a half pint of raw linseed oil, well stirred in. Then apply with a brush. Should the whiting fail to mix properly, add more water. A flax seed solution containing linseed oil as above, is much better than glue, and will not easily chip or fall off, and it makes a first-class base for painting over. One of the best painter's size is made by heating raw linseed oil in a shallow pan until a black smoke begins to arise, then set it afire. After it has burned a few minutes, cover the pan to extinguish the blaze. Before the oil cools pour it into a bottle containing a moderate quantity of pulverized red lead and litharge. Leave the bottle in a warm place for about two weeks, frequently shaking it; then it will be ready to pour off into other bottles and be fit for use. This makes a size of great value to the painter, as he can rely upon it in any work where a good durable size is required.



<article title=" SETTING TILES " author="">

SETTING TILES.



A booklet recently published by The Tile Manufacturers Association of America, for the purpose of stimulation and encouraging a more general use of tile,



contains some valuable information on the '' setting

and '' hanging " of tile, that should be more generally known. As a preliminary, the following suggestions are laid down ''A good foundation is always necessary, and should be both solid and perfectly level. Tile should always be laid upon a concrete foundation prepared from the best quality Portland cement and clean sharp sand and gravel, or other hard material. Cinders should never be used, as they have a tendency to destroy the life of the cement and cause it to disintegrate. A foundation, however, may also be formed of brick or hollow tile imbedded solidly in and covered with cement mortar. Concrete should be allowed to thoroughly harden before laying the floor, and should be well soaked with water before laying the tile. Lime mortar should never be mixed with concreting. Concrete should consist of one part Portland cement, two parts clean sharp sand, two parts clean gravel, and thoroughly mixed with sufficient water to form a hard solid mass when well beaten down into a bed, which should be from 2 1/2 to 3 inches thick. If the concrete bed can be made over three inches in thickness, the concrete can then be made of one part Louisville cement (natural), one part clean sharp sand, one part clean gravel, and thoroughly mixed with sufficient water, as before directed."

LAYING TILES ON FLOORS.

<article title=" LAYING TILES ON FLOORS " author="">

For floors, the surface must. be level and finished to within one inch of the finished floor line when tile 1/2 inch thick is used, which will leave a space of one-half inch for cement mortar, composed of equal parts of the very best quality of Portland cement and clean sharp sand. The distance below the surface of the finished floor line, however, should be governed by the thickness of the tile. When tiles are laid on wood floorings in new building's, the joists should be set five inches below the

intended finishing floor line and spaced about twelve inches apart and thoroughly bridged, so as to make a stiff floor, and covered with one inch rough boards not over SIX inches wide-—boards three inches wide preferred— -and thoroughly nailed, and the joints 1/8 inch apart to allow for swelling. A layer of heavy tar paper on top of wood flooring would protect the boards from the moisture of the concrete, and will also prevent any moisture from dripping- through to a ceiling below. In old buildings, cleats are nailed to joists five inches below the intended finished floor line, and short pieces of boards 1/8 inch apart are fitted in between the joists upon the cleats and well nailed, and the joists thoroughly bridged. The corners on the upper edge of the joists should be chamfered off to a sharp wedge-like edge, as the flat surface of the joists will give an uneven foundation. When the strength of the joists will permit, it is best to cut an inch or more off the top. When joists are weak they should he strengthened by having wide and thick cleats spiked on each side of them the whole length of the joists. When a solid wood foundation is thus prepared, concrete is placed upon it as directed in the foregoing.

TILING WALLS.



Where tiles are to be hung or laid on old brick walls the plaster must be all removed and the mortar raked Out of the joints of the brickwork to form a key for the cement. On new brick walls the joints should not be pointed. When tiles are to be placed against studding, the studding should be well braced by filling in between the studding with brick set in mortar to the height of the tile work, or brick may be omitted and extra studding put. in and thoroughly braced and bridged, so as to allow as little spring as possible, and this studding should then be covered with sheet metal lathing. Tile must never be placed on wood lath or on old plaster. The brick walls must be well wet with water and then covered with a rough coating of cement mortar, composed of one part. Portland cement and two parts of clean sharp sand. When tiles are placed against metal lathing, hair should be mixed with the cement mortar to make it adhere more closely to the lath. The cement mortar should be half an inch thick, or sufficient to make an even and true surface to within one inch of the intended finished surface of the tile, when tile half an inch thick is used which will allow a space of half inch for the cement mortar, composed as described for rough coating the walls. The face of the cement foundation should be roughly scratched, and allowed to harden for at least one day before commencing to lay on the tile. If any lime is mixed with thc cement mortar for setting the tiles, it should never exceed 10 per cent., and great care must be used to have the lime well slaked, and made free from all lumps by running through a coarse 'sieve in order to guard against '' heaving or swellings," and thus loosening or '' lifting " the tiles. It is very important that the foundation for both floor and wall tiling be thoroughly brushed, to remove all dust and small particles adhering to it, and then wet well before putting on the cement mortar. To insure a perfect bond,, it is best to coat the foundation by brushing over it pure cement mixed in clean water. The very best quality of Portland cement should always be used for setting either floor or wall tile and for grouting the floors, and the very best quality of Keene's imported cement for filling the joints in the wall tiling. Clean sharp grit sand, free from all salt, loam or other matter, and perfectly

