A Century's Review.

<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL XIV—No 157	JANUARY, 1901



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Proposed Office Building for Messrs. E. B. Eddy Co., Hull Que. -- Sproatt & Roiph, Architects. Plan and Sketch View from Gallery of Bible Training School, Toronto—Messrs. Burke & Horwood, Architects.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Elevations and Plans for Cottage—Messrs. R. J. Edwards & Webster, Architects.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Photogravure Plates—Bible Training School, College Street, Toronto—Messrs. Burke & Horwood, Architects.





CONTENTS.

A Century's Review

The Designing of Public Buildings	2

Educational Work of the 0. A.A	2

Manual Training Schools	3

Building Failures	3

Architectural Training	3

The Necessity for Proper Fire Escapes for Public Build-

     ings	3

MONTREAL CORRESPONDENCE

     Architectural Course of the Monument National—

     Building Inspector's Department—Fire Insurance

      Notes	4-5

Welcoming the New Century                  

Architectural Training for Canadian Students 			6

Building Matters in Sydney, C. B			8

The Construction of Ice houses			8

Hints for P Painters			9

Setting Tiles			9

Excavating Cellars us			10

Setting Partitions			10

Questions and Answers

Messrs. H. & S. Lowe, Charlottetown, P.E.I		11

Intercommunication		11

Roof Framing		12

The Strength of Nailed Joints tinder a Shearing Load		13

The Construction of a Roof	.

A Pneumatic Hammer-Saw                    

Early Use of a Building Balance                

Fire Escapes Acts		13

Tests of Masonry and Brickwork		13

Classic Ironwork		13

By the Way                                      

MANUFACTURES AND MATERIALS

    The Quarrier—Plate Glass—Production of	Building Materials in Ontario—Manufacturing Notes	.

Building in Toronto		i6

Heat Required to Raise the Temperature of Air 			18

Legal                                        

Plumbing in Toronto			20

Desecration of the Tower of London			vi <article title=" Desecration of the Tower " author="">





A century's retrospect of architecture is, in the English speaking world, practically a review of the whole extent of modern architecture; that is to say of the period when tradition has given place to fashion, and the individual designer, either in pursuit of the fashion or of his own taste, governs the design both at large and in detail. The history of modern architecture in England is the history of the Gothic Revival, and its consequences. The revival had not developed until the second quarter of the century, but it was on its way when the century opened. " It was the evening of the twenty-first of June, 1788" that George Eliot, in Mr. Gilfil's Love Story, introduces us to Sir Christopher Cheverel seated at dinner beneath a lofty, groined stone ceiling with richly carved pendants, the recently completed portion of a project which, as "an enthusiast for Gothic architecture," he was entertaining for "metamorphosing his plain brick family mansion into the model of a Gothic manor house." We may feel pretty sure that Sir Christopher's efforts were crowned with failure, and that any twentieth century student of architecture who came upon the original of " Cheverel Manor " would find it a monument of misguided fancy. Such indeed seem to have been all the works of the early Gothicists. Rickman, the father of the subdivision of Gothic architecture into periods, though he began studying architecture as an amateur, became in virtue of those studies one of the most successful architects of his time, and built an immense number of churches and other buildings, of which his biographer can only say that "they shew more knowledge of the outward form of the mediaeval style than any real acquaintance with its

spirit, and are little better than dull copies of old work, disfigured by much poverty of detail." Pugin probably did his best work in the Houses of Parliament, tinder Sir Charles Barry, who was too big to allow traditional peculiarities of the style, which was thrust upon him, to fetter his freedom of design. Sir Gilbert Scott's work can only be described as dull, like Rickman's; and the more elaborate it was, the duller. The work of Street, whose law courts are said to have been the grave of the Gothic Revival, was all the more evidence that there was no living power in an imitative revival, because he had mastered the details of his style and worked in it with freedom. But all these experiences of the century only go to give additional proof that "Art is long." We are accustomed to speak of the Gothic Revival as a thing complete in itself. Future generations will perhaps regard it as the first chapter (a stupid chapter, as first chapters sometimes are) in the growth of modern architecture. What was the Gothic Revival? An effort to cast off false conventions and work out what Pugin called '' true principles" of design, after the spirit of the mediaeval designers. But that was too great a work for one generation. It was not for nothing that Moses was directed to lead the Children of Israel by the long road to the Promised Land. A nation that has been long in slavery cannot be free all at once But it is getting there. It was only the Gothic part of the revival that was buried in the law courts. One offshoot of the movement in the form of Mr. Norman Shaw's work was already established at that time. Norman Shaw had published his volume of sketches like the rest, but was not, as a consequence, overpowered by reverence for the outward form of mediaeval work to the ex

