<doctype type="text">216	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ANS. —This will depend altogether on the character of the work. In wood-work it is always best to get the quantities and their cost, then add cost of labor. This mode is necessary, because of difference in quality both of material and labor. The same rule obtains to sonic extent with the work of the tinsmith and the plumber, but with the mason, the bricklayer, the plasterer and the painter it is usual to estimate labor and materials as going together, as the mason will charge by the cubic foot or the cord, or perch as the case may be. The bricklayer has his rate per 1,000 bricks, the plasterer and the painter charge by the yard super. which rates include material and labor. There are, of course, some cases where all these tradesmen charge for material only, and for labor only, but the rule is that their prices include everything.



From J. V. :—In laying hearth tiles is it proper to commence in center of hearth ? I am aware that in laying down tiles over large areas it is the correct thing to start in the centre and work to the edges.

Ans. :—If the tiles for hearth have an ornamental centre, it will be best to begin laying in the center; if tiles are plain, it may be best to start on the edges providing the space takes in the tiles without cutting.



H. H. , London, Ont. , writes :—Could you kindly tell me what effect hot water will have on cement? We are constructing a shallow tank about 8 ft. x 15 ft. and about 8 in. deep. There is no water in the tank except such as is obtained by condensation or sweating of pipes, but it contains steam pipes, the heat of which is constantly varying. Hitherto I have used copper, but would like to have your opinion, as to the advisability of using a thin layer of cement and the action of this cement under dry heat which is not constant, arid also the action of the cement under moisture subject to intermittent heat ?

Ans. :—It is our opinion that a tank constructed of cement would not answer your requirements as well as the copper tank which you are now using. The dry heat would cause the cement to crack. We would suggest that a tank constructed of boiler plate would be most durable and satisfactory.

<article title=" METHOD IN THE SHOP " author="H, T. G.">

METHOD IN THE SHOP.

By H, T. G., IN THE WOOD-WORKER.



We all have a natural antipathy to red tape, and justly so. Red tape is the bane of the factory man's existence ; and yet we must have system in every well—conducted business, so that the manager may be manager in fact as well as in name, and in order that he may know how the various departments in his factory are being conducted, besides having a reasonably clear idea of the profits of such shop. The simpler the plan, the better for all concerned. It shall be my purpose to outline a simple system of conducting a wood—working establishment, so that costs may be figured arid work indexed for reference.

1. We have found it of great advantage in our factory to number all orders consecutively, arid every order ticket or shipping slip referring to said orders bears the same number. The saw bills and the material also are numbered, thus avoiding much confusion of orders, especially when there is more than one for the same customer. Another advantage is found in keeping the time arid materials arid in checking up in-

voices, the order number explaining what job the material is used on. It is very convenient to index the order book for reference to back orders, and the time thus employed is well spent.

2.	have all order slips returned to the office as soon as any piece of work is finished, so that shipping orders may be in the hands of the shipping clerk as soon as possible. This prevents delays arid enables the one in charge to keep the work well under control. The shipping ticket, if marked so as to indicate by name of shop or the workman's initial, where the various articles may he found, will facilitate shipping and avoid numerous questions.

3. The shipper should each night return all slips for goods delivered during the day, arid the orders be checked up and priced for billing the next day. have a place on the slips where the name of teamster and date are filled in, so that if any claim of shortage or error

































should come in there is a record of when the goods were sent and by whom. The driver also has a trip ticket, which he requires the consignee to receipt for his material ; that is, when anybody is on the job to give receipt. These trip tickets are filed away as they are returned, and help to settle many a dispute.

4. It is well in consequence to assort and file all old factory and shipping tickets, and preserve for about a year, as there are often notations or sketches on them that are riot found in the order book, and they prove helpful in duplicating an order or investigating a shipment. The advantages of slips over shop order books is evident iii the method of filing, the returning of slips to the office, arid the convenience of handling small orders ; besides, it avoids confusion to have orders accompany the goods. In shipping' house trim, the shipper can check the goods from the factory ticket and avoid the possibility of part being forgotten.

The expense of such a system is light, as no elaborate style or quality of ticket is needed. The time saved by obviating the waiting for, or running back and forth after order books, and the convenience of making out orders at any time without delaying any one, more than pays for the slight cost of the tickets. Indeed, it is a question whether the cost of good, durable books would not equal that of the slips. After having used this system it would be hard to persuade one to go back to the books again. Herewith is a copy of the order ticket, which is of tough manila paper, about 7 inches long and 5 inches wide. Shipping slips are



ruled the same but on white instead of buff paper, to avoid confusion.

