<doctype type="text">64	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" NEW BUILDING AND PLUMBING BY-LAWS FOR MONTREAL " author="">

NEW BUILDING AND PLUMBING BY-LAWS FOR MONTREAL.

THE city council of Montreal have recently adopted the major portion of the new building by-law prepared under the direction of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. We hope to be able to present to our readers further particulars regarding this new by-law in our April issue. A new plumbing by-law is also under consideration and is expected will be finally passed at an early date.

<article title=" HOW TO WATERPROOF A BASEMENT " author="">

HOW TO WATERPROOF A BASEMENT.



A report has been presented describing the system employed in waterproofing the basement of the Government printing- office at Washington. The soil is sandy and porous, and ground water is abundant. New drains and damp courses were put in and the walls were lined with plates of Neuchatel asphalt, brought to the proper consistency by the addition of minute quantities of bitumen and Trinidad asphalt, and a large dose of very fine gravel. On horizontal surfaces it is simply spread hot to a thickness of about a quarter-inch. For application to vertical surfaces it is first molded into plates on a burlap backing, crushed slag is sprinkled over it and bedded to about half its depth in the hot asphalt. The surface of the wall is plastered with Portland cement mortar, and while this is still soft the asphalt plates, which have been allowed to cool, are pressed up against the wall so as to bed the projecting particles of slag n the plaster. The plates are held against the wall by suitable braces until the plaster has set hard. The braces are then removed, the burlap stripped off and the joints between the plates are closed by heating with a painter's hand furnace and smearing with a hot asphalt mixture, which makes the entire surface continuous. Neuchatel asphalt was used because of its well known durability in the presence of moisture, and because the mixture of asphalt and gravel could be made sufficiently hard to cover the foundations without squeezing out under the weight of the superstructure, as coal-tar or similar compounds would do. The waterproofing appears to be a success, but the contractors were required, however, to guarantee it for five years.



NOTES.



Mr. P. W. St. George, manager of the Electric Fireproofing Company, of Montreal, is on his way to England.

The Michigan Portland Cement Company, of Quincy and Coldwater, Mich., have recently opened warehouse in Winnipeg.

New machinery to the value of $50,000 is being installed in the terra cotta works of Messrs. Hinde & Brownsword at Anvi Island, B. C.

George Battye, of Halifax, manager, announces the re-opening of the Battye Freestone Quarry and Brick Works, which were established in 1809.

A committee of the builders and contractors of Kingston, Ont., has been appointed to consider the advisability of establishing in that city a Builders' Exchange.

The Davis & Pangburn Reversible Window Company, of Chicago, is said to be about to establish a factory in Canada, and are looking about for a suitable site for this purpose.

Brown ash woodwork may have old red walls, the frieze of old blue, thc cornice of huff, and the ceiling of a lighter shade; while the upholstering may be of old gold, red, and blue, and draperies of grey.

The National Portland Cement Company, Limited, of Toronto, has been incorporated with a capital of $1,000,000, to manufacture cement, marl, bricks, lime, etc., and for other purposes. This company is a branch of the National Portland Cement Company, of Jackson, Mich. it is understood to have obtained options upon

large cement deposits in the county of Grey, and that it will erect extensive works.

Cream woodwork may have a soft, warm blue wall with a frieze of ivory tones, with blue tracery, cornice thc same tones as the frieze, ceiling of ivory pink, and the upholstering and hangings of muddy amber.

The National Iron Works, Limited, of which Mr. John Gait, C. E., is president, and Mr. W. C. Bullock managing director, are erecting works at Wingham, Ont., for the manufacture of valves and waterworks supplies. The company will be thc Canadian manufacturing agents for Messrs. Glenfield Kennedy & Co., Kilmarnock, Scotland.

Finds of Aztec antiquities occur almost daily in thc course of sewer construction work on the streets in the rear of the cathedral of the city of Mexico. Recently a stone lion's head eighty centimeters in diameter was discovered. This is an unprecedented find in Mexico. In addition to this two sculptured figures, each fifty centimeters in height, were found.

At thc Pilkington Glass Works, in Lancashire, after a series of experiments, unbreakable, lire-proof and burglar-proof glass has been produced. To the molten glass is added a powerful wire, which produces the desired effect. Doors of this material proved unbreakable, and when subjected to 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit, remained unaffected, while ordinary doors grew red hot.

A veteran contractor of Prescott, Ont., in the person of Mr. Nessfield Ward, Sr., passed away at Brockville, Out., at the age of 76 years. The late Mr. Ward, who was a native of Yorkshire, England, had resided in Prescott for over half a century, where he succeeded in 1854 to the contracting business of his father. He was the builder of many important structures in that. locality.

Messrs. Evans, Coleman & Evans of Vancouver, have recently purchased all rights in an extensive marble quarry located at Sumas, together with deposits of material suitable for the manufacture of cement. It is said to be their intention to establish quarrying and polishing plants and lime kilns together with cement works, with an output of 300 barrels per day, at a cost of $200,000.

Mr. W. H. Knowlton, of Toronto, is now in England making arrangements for a test of Canadian iron ore in the production of scoria, which is made from iron slag. All ores are not suited for making scoria, but it is believed that a half-cargo of ore from the Helen mine which Mr. Knowlton sent over will be found to produce a scoria slag. If this should prove the case it is likely that scoria for the Canadian market will in future be made at some of the Ontario blast furnaces that use thc Helen minc ore.

The very best, though not the cheapest way, to finish white pine, says thc Painters Magazine, is to see that the work is well sandpapered with the grain, then thoroughly dusted. Give at least one coat white shellac varnish and one coat of inside varnish if this is too expensive, substitute liquid filler for the shellac. For hard or yellow pine finish, apply one coat orange shellac varnish and one or two coats light hard oil finish, or omit the shellac and apply hard finish instead. A filler is not required for this wood.

According to numerous experiments made by M. Von Blase, it results that a proportion of less than 5 per cent, of magnesia has no injurious effect on the properties of Portland cement. In the case of poor mortar the proportion of magnesia may attain 8 per cent, without any danger, provided that other conditions are fulfilled. It is time, says thc author, to put an end to the discussions regarding this subject, and to officially fix per cent, as the limit for magnesia, because this proportion is admitted nut to cause any inconvenience.—Moniteur Scientifique.

The elevator shaft. of a building is generally the weak spot as far as fire is concerned, and in case of fire thc top of the shaft. is exposed to great heat, owing to the fact. that the shaft itself acts like a chimney and supplies the draft which causes the fire to spread. If the top of this shaft can be made fire proof the danger can be greatly lessened. This may be accomplished by building a wire cage on the roof, over the shaft, and covering it with several layers of cement, which is then allowed to harden.

A tunnel through two and a half miles of solid granite has been successfully accomplished in the United States, whose it has been necessary to cut through thc Cascade range of mountains. This work is considered one of the most notable engineering feats of the century. Boring was started at each end towards thc centre, and so accurate were the engineers' calculations that at the meeting point the difference of alignment was scarcely one inch. Thc cutting through refractory material was accomplished in 45 months by 800 men, operating 32 compressed air drills.

