<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

composed of three men from the Architectural Association, the Builders Exchange and three prominent plumbers of the city these nine men to meet beforehand and agree definitely on forcing the subject on the council's attention.



FIRE INSURANCE.

<article title=" FIRE INSURANCE " author="">

The recent returns of the various fire insurance companies doing business in Canada show the barest margin of profit, and in some cases an actual loss. These facts have made the companies in Montreal inspect the various large buildings in the central portions of the city and rate each building according to its present possibilities of prevention of spread of fire. This brings to the notice of architects and owners of property the desirability, in more ways than one, of building so that the lire loss will be small in the event of a fire, and make the study of the different forms of fireproofing, sprinklers, fire hose, and other means of preventing fire a timely one and one that is often not considered with the importance it deserves There are far too many firetraps in the city holding low rates of insurance, and it these rates are increased it will tend to make owners of real estate look more fully and we rust more intelligently into the question of' fireproofing. The present building by—laws are far too lenient on this question and faulty fire escapes and lire hose are allowed (and often even none at all) through a lack of any definite regulation on the subject.



 Notes



Mr. Raza and Mr. Venne recently returned from an extended tour through England, France and Italy renewing their acquaintance with many of the English cathedrals besides taking in the beauties of several Italian edifices in Rome and elsewhere.



The Canadian Society of Civil Engineers at their monthly meeting in December, discussed the question of various "Structural Paints' '—a very important subject in that steel is now generally encased in such a manner that it is impossible to repaint it after the building is completed.



The paper read at this month's meeting of the same society was by Mr. Charles Baillarge on "Masonry Dams and Concrete Works.'' Mr. Baillarge is well known as a member the P.Q A. A., and one who sets an example to others in always being present at the annual meetings.



A meeting of the Architectural Association is to he held on the 22nd inst. to consider some proposed amendments to the by—laws. The chief changes suggested are, that the annual meeting should he held during the month of January and that all members standing for election of officers must he nominated at least fourteen days previous to the annual meeting. 



Mr. Arthur Vincent sculptor, of this city, recently spent several



months in Rome for the purpose of making' drawings of the



canopy over the main altar in the Basilica. From these drawings



a facsimile of the canopy one-half the size of the original, has



been erected in St. James cathedral in this city. The canopy is



50 feet in height and 22 feet wide, composed of more titan 30,000 pieces, and weighs 11,000 pounds.



WELCOMING THE NEW CENTURY.



IN response to the invitation of Mr. Chas. Baillarge, the veteran architect, engineer and writer, of Quebec, fifty-five gentlemen assembled in the dining hall of the Hotel Frontenac in that city of the evening of the 31st December to bid farewell to the old century and welcome the new. Seated around the festive board, the company pleasantly passed the time until midnight, when there appeared on the wall at the head of the room " 1901



in electrically lit letters. The effect was very impressive as well as pleasing.



The feature of the occasion was an address by Mr. Baillarge in the closing moments of the old century, in which he briefly reviewed its achievements. It had, he said, been more fruitful of progress, discovery and invention, not only than any of its predecessors, but than all of them put together. But what we

never	or	-	equal, said he, " is the classic

	shall surpass	maybe even



architecture of the Greeks and Romans Can anything be more beautiful than the Corinthian column and its exquisite capital ? Can we beat a Phidias or a Raphael ? Can we even equal them ? Antiquity had also taught us that heavy stones can be detached from their parent quarries, moved transported to long distances, taken hold of and stood on end or elevated to great heights but they left us no trace of how they went about the thing. Of course the transportation to a distance was then as it is nowadays, in the way an enormous stone 40 x 40 x 20', say 32,000 cubic feet, more titan 2000 toils, for

the pedestal of the statue of Peter the Great, of Russia, was some 190 years ago moved to its destination, one hundred miles or more, of timbers hollowed out, lined with iron rails and iron balls between them to make the motion easy. The raising of time obelisks on end was not so apparent, nor as to how at Karnac, stones 80 feet in length by 10 ft. in height and to in depth were placed on the columns 60 feet high ready to receive them. There is, however, no doubt there can be none, that inclined planes were built to do the needful and then removed so that no trace be left for future nations to do the like. The Romans themselves do not seem to have been aware of how to raise the obelisks brought by them from Egypt to adorn the ancient capital. An engraving- of the time shows a scaffolding' of the full height of the stone to be upended but my way of explaining the thing is that the Egyptians did as we would do to-day, tile obelisk being- tapering and its centre of weight at about one-third only from the bottom, attach it at that point and then swing it into place, or build an incline of one-third the height or so, run the obelisk along it endways, the larger end foremost until the center of gravity arrived at the apex of' the incline the stone would then dip down until it rested on the base prepared for it and proper tackle bring it into position. The works of antiquity are t hose rather of brute force or manual labor than due to the methods which to-day have devised engines to do time work, such as the hydraulic ram which enables us to take hold of weights 10 times, 100 times as heavy as those of other days and raise them to any height required, as when the iron tubes at Menai in England 464 feet in length and weighing as much, each of them, as one of Her Majesty's 120 gun frigates of the period (say 5000 tons) were taken hold of and raised bodily to one hundred feet arid set upon the piers prepared to receive them.



The construction of the Brooklyn Bridge, the Firth of Forth Bridge and tile Tower Bridge of London were referred to as examples of engineering skill and progress in the 19th century.



When," said the speaker, our engineering friends across tile Atlantic remained powerless to explain the discrepancies between the indications of the anemometer and the results arrived at the Firth of Forth bridge and the Tower bridge, London, it was your humble spokesman who taught that when wind blow's against large surfaces it separates to pass around the edge of the structure, thus leaving a partial vacuum in the rear against which the atmospheric pressure on the opposite side re-acts, and to test the accuracy of this statement let anyone stand towards the outer center of the building we are now in and lie will hardly feel the wind, whereas when lie approaches the edges of the building he feels the wind there to be doubly increased in force and velocity.



Regarding the new century, Mr. Baillarge ventured to predict that it would witness aerial and submarine navigation, the use of electricity for heating our persons and dwellings, the finding of the North Pole, the disappearance of the horse from city streets the delivery of boiling water from central stations, and the colonization of James Bay.





PERSONAL.



Mr. Frederick G. Todd, landscape artist, of Montreal, visited Toronto recently, and made the acquaintance of some of the leading architects of that city.



Mr. W. F. Ruttal, architect, St. Johns, Newfoundland, encloses his subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER in a decorated envelope hearing the British coat of arms, postage stamps with portraits of the Queen time Prince of Wales the Duke of York and time latter's little soil. In the lower left hand cornier are crossed the flags of Great Britain and Newfoundland.



Mr. J. G. Pennycuick, inventor of luxfer prism glass, died in Toronto a fortnight ago, as the result of a stroke of paralysis. The final interment will take place at Boston, where the wife and children of deceased reside.



Mr. J. M. Gander has been selected the representative of the Toronto Builders' Exchange on tine Board of Management of the Toronto Technical School.

	AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF	ARCHITECTS.



The president's address, delivered at the 34th annual meeting held in Washington on Dec. 12th showed the affairs of the Institute to be in a prosperous condition. The address reviewed the relations of the national government toward time art of architecture the attitude of the Institute toward time youth of lime profession the conditions of professional intercourse, and the position of the members of the profession in regard to the art to which they have devoted their life work.

