<doctype type="text">8	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



design, betrayed in faulty proportion, in incongruous ornament, in lack of nobility of style, that subtle harmony, felt rather than observed which stamps successful architecture with a note of distinction and of power, without pretentiousness, restrained, convincing.



BUILDING MATTERS IN SYDNEY, C. B.



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER).

<article title=" BUILDING MATTERS IN SYDNEY, C. B." author="Baillarge, C.">

Thc extent of the building trade in Sydney and vicinity at present is hardly estimated correctly by outsiders when considered in comparison with that of other points. But it is nevertheless the most important building centre in the maritime provinces today, and the building boom shows no immediate prospect of collapse. A lessening in the amount of construction must conic at some time, but that time is not yet in sight, and the prospects are that the building travel of the coming summer will exceed that of the last. Since the Dominion Iron & Steel Co. have extended their capital by $5,000,000, which move was decided upon about the end of the year, and have determined upon the construction of ship plate and steel rail manufacture, real estate has advanced greatly in price, and the certainty of a large increase in building is established.

At the same time there has been much ungenerous rivalry among contractors in Sydney, and prices have been cut in many cases to a losing figure. Contractors and builders have come into the town from many directions, but not in such numbers as to warrant the necessity of such ruinous competition. There has been enough for all, but there are some firms which have not been satisfied with many orders but must needs under-figure to cut out others. This has been found to be the reason in most cases where the price has been too, and in other eases it has been the result of eager haste and ignorance. There are many builders in Sydney who in other towns could not secure contracts, being too well known, and who have been seizing jobs which they have been none too competent to fill at prices of which they were as little able to estimate correctly as the men who gave them the work.

As in other hastily built towns, the class of men who give their contracts to the lowest bidder and find out their mistake when the house is completed (?) will be largely in evidence until the rush is over.



There are many complaints that the building trade is already over-clone in Sydney, but it is nevertheless a better field yet than most other sections, and such complaints come largely from those who are anxious to keep others away from a good thing Such conservatism, however, will stand in good stead sooner or later. Many incompetent carpenters and apprentices have found openings here and are receiving far more than their services really warrant. There seems a greater need for the good workman who knows his trade and does not get tempted into figuring for himself than for contractors. Such men can get good wages at any time now.



The high price of lumber and the difficulty in obtaining it when wanted is a serious drawback and prices will continue high until spring when there will be a quick drop on water freights being available. There seems to be an opening for first-class woodworking factories which will do more than ordinary work. Freights on manufactured wood goods are very high and most of such goods are brought long distances.



A large number of business buildings have gone up, but very few make any pretentious towards appearance, the majority being quite plain. Some large brick buildings have been erected and considerable stone has been used. The Bank of Montreal, though quite small, is of stone and of good design. The contract was for about $16,000.



The new academy is to cost about $40,000 and is of brick and stone. Work on its foundation is now going on and it is to be completed next summer.

The new town building, which will include an engine house, is nearing completion, and is to cost about $14,000.

A new I. C. R. station will have to be built the coming summer, and it is to be very large and quite expensive.



Numbers of new wooden buildings are being completed on the business streets, and residences are being built in all directions. Few of these latter are expensive or call for high class work. New streets are being laid out at all times, and hundreds of new houses are in process of erection. Many of these appear in little villages in various places among the stumps and trees, which are removed largely after the houses are built.



The steel and coke works lie just outside of what has been

known as Sydney, and cover an area of almost equal extent, though bidding fair soon to be surrounded by the growing town. Their erection has called for a large class of masons and iron workers, though not so many carpenters or wood workers. Their construction has been a mammoth undertaking, and the works comprise such construction as is seldom seen in eastern Canada. The erection of the ship plate and steel rail plants is to be proceeded with immediately, and will require a large number of men.



Glace Bay and its neighboring villages have been growing remarkably, and hundreds of new houses are being erected down that way. In North Sydney the building business has picked up also, but though business is better and many new buildings are under way, there is not the same extension of trade as to the south of the harbor.



 Sydney has been placing a new system of sewerage, and work on this has been pushed forward during the winter months in spite of the depth of frost.

The town is yet to suffer from the want of a better fire system. Though some fire apparatus was recently purchased and installed it does not come up to requirements tinder new conditions. It is to be regretted that the proposed brick district was not established. It was to have included the principal business portion Of the town, and would have been about three-eighths of a mile long and one-eighth of a mile wide. Not enough interest was shown in it by the business men. If a district be yet established it will probably include only about too feet on either side of Charlotte St., from the Post Office to the Reserve Railroad.



Messrs. Elliott & Hopson, architects, of Halifax, have opened a branch office in Sydney, and Mr. Hobson is in Sydney now most of his time. The firm have had charge of the principal works of construction in the town, and have done a large business. They designed and have charge of the new residence being built by Mr. Moxham, manager of the D. T. & S. Co., which is the most important erection in town. It is being erected about three-quarters of a mile from the town. The cost of the building will be about $110,000, and, including the grounds, conservatories, lodges, barns and stables, etc., about $140,000. The house is constructed of Wallace freestone throughout, and its exterior is now nearing completion.



H. A. Magoon, architect, takes charge of the architectural work of the D. T. & S. Co. Mr. Magoon practiced in Chicago for several years, as also in Oelwein, Iowa. In Chicago lie studied under Prof. Debolke. He has just completed the plans for 25 single residences which are to be erected in the spring, and has charge of the construction of 28 houses for employees in Colby, the company's hospital, laboratory, etc. The plans of the new general offices of the company are now being completed. This building will be built in the spring at a cost of perhaps $50,000. It is to be extra well built of brick and stone, size



124x59, four stories.



Mr. J. W. Campbell, architect, is the building inspector in Sydney and has an office in the town building. Mr. Campbell formerly belonged to Dartmouth, though lie came to Sydney from Massachusetts.



R.	B. Whitten architect, is doing business in Sydney. Mr. Whitten is a graduate from the architectural department of the School of Technology in Boston. He left Sydney a few weeks ago for a months trip to Boston and vicinity.





THE CONSTRUCTION OF ICE HOUSES. Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,----In your item of the CONTRACT RECORD, 9th inst., you have reprinted from a Boston paper an article on ice houses The ice trough as proposed to he constructed on a hill-side with northern exposure is no doubt the right thing, and ice would keep well in such a tub t5 feet deep in the ground, 15 feet diameter at top, 10 feet at bottom, lined with poles all around, covered with a goodly thickness of straw. But this deep trough would be tiresome to get at several times a day, when on the ice getting low a ladder would have to be used to reach it.

What we want is an ice house above ground, easy to reach under cover of rain and weather, and such that the ice stored in it will last out till the time for putting in the next crop. Myself amid several others have at our country seats ice houses put up for us by several so-called specialists, but our supply has always melted away by the beginning or middle of September instead of holding out till November at least, as it should do, and better still, as said before, till the next ice crop.

Maybe some of the young gentlemen of the Toronto School of Science will endeavor to design such a structure, requiring as it does a very thorough knowledge of the behavior of currents of warm and cold air.

CHAS. BALLAIRGE.



QUEBEC Dec., 1900

