<doctype type="text">172	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



it from drying. The pointing, while keeping the moisture from coming out, will not prevent the frost from going in and freezing the mortar this will produce an expansion which causes the pointing to lose its grip on the mortar and creates innumerable crevices through which the water easily finds its way. Secondly, all stone buildings even when built in the most careful manner, have a tendency to settle This settlement cracks the pointing. In many cases these cracks are so fine as to be scarcely visible especially if some distance from the ground. But no cracks are too small for water to penetrate driven by the force given it by the wind from an open sweep of miles, as it has in many parts of this country. It is absolutely essential, therefore, that the mortar should have time to evaporate all its moisture and become thoroughly dry, and the building time to settle, before pointing.

Houses built with stone, and having all the windows arched solidly through the entire thickness of the wall with brick, seldom have water dropping from the soffit of the frames for if any water should heat through the stonework or cracks in the same, the bricks, having power to absorb so much of the water, hold it while the rain lasts, and after it is over evaporate it to the outer air.

When impracticable to use brick over the windows, from architectural or other reasons, a piece of sheet lead, going through the entire thickness of the wall, and extending about one lout each side of the window, and turned up two inches on the inside will hold the water until it evaporates.



A style of architecture much in use at this time necessitates exposed gables. These gables are usually finished so late in the season that the mortar has not time to dry before the frost sets in, and in consequence the mortar freezes. Mortar once frozen loses its adhesiveness, and therefore has no life in it. The proper and only sale plan is to use Portland cement and sand (no lime) in all gables. This will set in one tenth the time of lime mortar, and will he hard and dry before frost comes.

Stone gables that rise above the roof, and are only protected l)y stone coping, should have a sheet of lead to cover the entire wall put on under the coping. This lead should project over the inside of the wall, and he turned down over the flashing of the roof. By this means, all water that gets through the joints of the coping will be carried off. In conclusion, with care and a proper observance of the natural laws governing the materials used in its construction, a stone building can he built in the present day just as tight as years ago, when people did not expect to excavate the cellar in the spring and move into the finished house in the fall.



<article title=" SUGGESTIONS FOR USING PORTLAND CEMENT " author="">

SUGGESTIONS FOR USING PORTLAND CEMENT.

Keep the cement perfectly dry until ready to use it in mortar.

Use dry, clean, sharp sand, and use the least amount that will fill the voids. Increasing the percentage of sand reduces the strength and slows the setting. Wet up only so much mortar at one time as can be used before setting commences.

Do not permit the finished work to dry out quickly alter it has commenced to harden cover with wet sand or burlaps and keep wet for a fortnight. Concrete ditches flames and reservoirs should be washed over with a thin cement, grouting last as built. Alter the mortar has set a (lay or two it is well to flood it and keep the water standing stagnant a fortnight.

If the finished work cannot he kept covered as above, keep wetting it by daily sprinkling. Water is the life of Portland cement mortar.

When concrete is laid in large bodies it is allowable to imbed irregularly throughout its mass as many large stones as is consistent with their being well bonded together by the mortar.

In concrete it is desirable that the aggregates should he graduated in size, then they pack closer and require less cement mortar to fill the voids. The stone should be hard, angular and free from dust.

Do not mix lime with cement, it tends to make the mortar crack.

In masonry the stone or brick should he thoroughly wet before laying.

In sidewalks, as fast as the concrete is tanuped to a surface the top coat should be spread on in order to bond the two layers together.

Ordinary lampblack injures cement mortar, mineral colors do not sienna, Prince's metallic, Venetian red, Prussian blue, ground coal or oxide of manganese are good.

Before laying concrete the ground should be saturated with water and rammed to prevent absorption of moisture from the mortar or settling.

The longer a Portland cement is kept the slower setting it becomes, provided it is not kept in an air-tight package.

Portland cement factories can usually furnish either a slow or quick setting cement if allowed sufficient time to meet the requirement.

The better the ultimate quality of concrete the slower it is in hardening.

The aggregate used in making concrete, whether it be crushed stone or gravel, should he clean, hard, angular and durable. If crushed stone he used it must be freed from the dust that adheres to it in passing from the crusher. This can he done by turning water on it. The stone should also he screened, not to secure a material of uniform size but to keep the sizes between maximum and minimum limits.

No parts smaller than coffee beans are longer than one and a half inches in any direction should he used. All dust should he screened or washed out.

The amount of mortar needed will depend upon the percentage of voids between the particles and should he sufficient to completely fill the spaces and bond the stones together.

Good gravel affords a cheap and durable material for concrete, the difficulties are that it is liable to be dirty, the pebbles are not angular, and as used, it often contains an excess of sand—From Hand-Book of Useful Information for Cement Users."

<article title=" GLASS HOUSES " author="">GLASS HOUSES.

When the supply of lumber has been exhausted and the brick makers have struck bottom in their clay beds, glass is said to be next.'' In fact an enthusiastic Frenchman, Jules Henrivaux, is not disposed to wait for the lumber and brick supply to be exhausted. He thinks the superior claims of glass will bring it to the front much sooner. The points in its favor are figured out this way Inexhaustible supply of the materials from which glass is made, its adaptability to all shapes and forms, its durability, and its cleanliness.

Imagine, with Mr. Henrivaux, the construction of a glass house. The foundations and walls should be constructed of a variety of glass, recently invented, called 'stone glass," which has already successfully withstood the severest tests. When crushed it gives a resistance three times as great as granite. When subjected to heat or cold it is found less sensitive than steel. When submitted to friction it shows less wear than porphyry. Shock, as of a hammer blow, it resists to a degree twenty-two times as severe as that which would fracture marble. The test of tension has practically no effect on it whatever.

The walls, then, would he built of glass held together by angle-iron so as to permit a hollow space through which pipes could pass (the pipes themselves being glass work) conveying the hot air, hot and cold water, gas, electric wires, drains and every thing needed for the health and comfort of the inhabitants. Stairs and balustrades, ceilings and wall decorations, mantelpieces and fireplaces, would all he constructed of glass.

The new glass ho use will be absolutely clean and practically indestructible. The whole of its surf ace can he washed from the top storey to the basement, without a trace of humidity being left. Dust cannot collect on its polished face, and the spider will find no place on which to hang its cobwebs.

