<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER ____________



MACHINE-CUT vs. HAND-CUT STONE.

<article title=" MACHINE-CUT vs. HAND-CUT STONE " author="">

In the United States much controversy is now taking place as to the respective merits of machine-cut as against hand—cut stone. The advocates of hand-cutting declare that machine—cut stone when used for building purposes will not weather well. The surface is said to he shaken and stunned by the pressure of the heavy planing machine used. The very life and nature itself, it is said, is taken out of the stone by the planer. Small fillets are ground so that the fingers arc almost able to press the edges off, and heads and other undercut members arc stunned the whole length of the stone. It is urged also that there is yet another evil connected with the use of machinery for stone cutting, and that is the degeneration of the practical workman. If the use of machinery is further extended, it in urged that the new generation of artisans in the art I of stone-cutting will know very little of the fundamental principles of their trade. All they will know is how to set in a mould for the planer, and how to joint the store when finished. The advocates of machinery, on the other hand, declare that the use of machinery, if only by lessening the cost of production, has made the employment of stone possible where otherwise brick and cement, or some other substitute, would have been used. A planing ma— chine will, it is contended, cut finer mouldings in t rue lines, either straight or circular, and leave the stone in a much better state to stand the effects of time than is possible by hand labor. Instances are cited in which stone of a kind easily split into thin slabs bed way'' has been 50 strained during hand labor as to be practically unsalealbe the same stone when machine—cot turning out excellent work. Be this as it may, it is certain that the use of machinery for stone cutting is largely on the increase in the United States, and is gradually spreading to this country. The cost of labor is the most important factor in the matter. It is the economic pressure thus brought along which will effect a revolution in older methods of doing work.

	THE	TORONTO INDUSTRIAL	EXHIBITION.

<article title=" THE	TORONTO INDUSTRIAL	EXHIBITION " author="">

The refusal of the property owners of Toronto to vole the money required for the. erection of new Exhibition buildings, is a clear proof of their dissatisfaction with the management That new buildings are necessary, few will deny, but new buildings alone are not sufficient to ensure the future development and success of the Exhibition. The management must also he improved. The Board of Directors should be re-organized, and the representation of the various interests made to properly correspond to their magnitude. As now constituted the larger representation is given to the bodies whose interest in and value to tile Exhibition are the least. The Board is unwieldy and might with advantage no reduced in size. Some change seems also to be required in the personnel and methods of the immediate management if the Exhibition is to develop along broad lines and be successful It has apparently reached its limit, if indeed it has not began to retrograde, under the direction of the present managers. It must either go forward and increase iii importance, or meet a speedy death. Forward should he the motto, and to that end everything that would stand in the way of progress he removed and the management brought thoroughly up to date. That should be the first step. When that is accomplished public confidence will lie restored and the money for new buildings amid other improvements will he forthcoming.

<article title=" FIRE ESCAPES " author="">FIRE ESCAPES.



The manufacturers of fire escapes are enjoying a harvest of prosperity in consequence of the amendments to the Factory Act. passed at the last session of time Ontario Legislature compelling all factory buildings to he equipped with proper escapes. The inspector estimates Unit in Toronto alone there are 300 factories requiring to be so equipped.

CANADA FOUNDRY COMPANY, LIMITED

TORONTO