<doctype type="text">174	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



without seriously marring it. Some French chalk powdered in cold water should be applied to the spots and permitted to remain for at least twelve hours. The chalk can then be brushed off. If the grease spots still are visible put on more chalk, place a piece of brown paper on this and press for a few moments with a warm flat-iron.

Wallpaper can he fairly well cleaned with stale bread crumbs. Remove all dust from the paper with a feather duster and rub the paper downward with a large piece of bread, touching at each stroke about half a yard of paper. Care must he taken that the paper is not stretched by contact with the crust of the bread, neither must the stroke be made in a horizontal direction. When rubbing down, care should be taken to cut away the soiled part of the bread as often as necessary.

<article title=" ARTIFICIAL BUILDING STONE " author="">

ARTIFICIAL BUILDING STONE.



A rongh sketch of the way this stone is produced in Germany may be of interest. Hydraulic or quick-lime is used and any kind of building sand but the cleanest is preferable in the proportion of 4 to 6 parts of lime to 94 to 95 parts of sand, the variation depending on the quality. After pulverizing the lime, both substances are measurud and mixed by machinery. The mixture is then pressed into bricks, which are afterwards piled on flat cars and pushed into a cylindrical boiler. The latter is then hermetically closed, and steam turned on at from 8 to 9 atm. pressure. In about ten hours the process of hardening is finished, and the stones are ready for use. The hardening in the boiler is explained by the operation of high pressure steam on the freshly pressed stones. Through the influence of calcium hydro-oxides. on the silicic acid of the sand, different kinds of calcium silicates are formed as the accepted standard in the hardening process. The time required for hardening is determined by the quantity of the silicic acid in the sand. It is stated that the cost of production is lower, the stone can be made all the year through, and has a compressive strength of 550 lbs. per square cm. It may be colored, pressed into any shape, and ornamented. There is no loss from breakages, and no drying sheds are needed. Instead of sand, granulated cinder from blast furnaces may lie utilized, as well as waste of all kinds of sand and building stone containing silicic acid.

<article title=" SAFE LOADS FOR FOUNDATIONS " author="">

SAFE LOADS FOR FOUNDATIONS.



Some writers try to calculate from the natural slope, or "angle of repose'' of different kinds of grounds, how much pressure per square foot each kind will safely bear. Assuming the safe load in this case to be one-third of the ultimate strength, they arrive at the result that hard, dry clay will safely bear about 3 tons to the square foot, and soft, wet clay scarcely half a ton. Gravel, by the same rule, is inferior in strength to hard, dry clay, and can only he trusted to about 2 tons while compact earth, in theory, is superior to it, and would carry safely 4 tons or more to the foot. These results are hardly in conformity with experience. The trustiness of a foundation depends on many things beside the "angle of repose of its constituents, says the Irish Builder. Practice shows that firm, compact clay, not dry, but kept evenly moist and unaffected by atmospheric changes, will safety bear, for many years, at least 2 tons to the square foot. Compact grayel, according to the general belief, will support more; but earth, whether "firm" or not, would not usually he trusted with more than a ton, or, at the utmost, a ton and a half on the same area.





The highest chimney in the United States has recently been completed for the Oxford Copper Works at New Brighton, Staten Island. It is 365 feet above the ground level.



The Sun Portland Cement Co., Limited, has been organized at Owen Sound, with a capital of $500,000, to manufacture cement from deposits of marl at McNab Lake, near Owen Sound. The works are to have a capacity of 6oo barrels per day, and are to be ready to begin operations six months hence. Messrs. Mc.

Kenzie Mann and F. H, Clergue are interested,

NOTES.



The British Clayworker calls attention to the enormous waste of cement resulting from neglect in the past of contractors to keep the material dry. The cement, in bags, is shot anywhere near the work and is then covered over after a fashion with a tarpaulin. No care seems to he taken to select such a spot for pitching the bags as shall be dry in the event of continuous rain, arid the result is that much of the cement is ruined.



The effect of temperature changes on a masonry arch bridge has been reported upon by Mr. F. P. Stearns, chief engineer of the Metropolitan Waterworks, New York. Echo bridge, on the Sudbury aqueduct, is 500 ft. long, 18 ft. wide, and provided with a central arch span of 129 ft. On July 3rd, when the temperature at pm. was 79 degrees Fahr., the amount of leakage at a point where measurements were easily made was at the rate of  gallons per minute. On .July 20th, with a temperature of 63 degrees, the leakage was 1.5 gallons, while on several days, when the temperature reached 93 degrees to 101 degrees, the leakage rose to about 8 gallons per minute. The expansion of the masonry is stated to cause longitudinal cracks, which close as the temperature falls.



A correspondent of the Toronto Globe in writing of the Canadian exhibits at the Pan-American Exhibition says

The quality of building stone shown is remarkably high. One of the surprises of the exhibit is the fine appearance of syenite specimens from the north shore of Lake Superior. It has been proved to take a polish pronounced by an American monument worker to he equal to that of the finest Norwegian syenite, which is now imported for special purposes. The Ontario marbles also show well, and one circumstance worthy of note is the fact that a Montreal architect was surprised to find that his country contained marble of such quality, and asked where it could be got.



The American architect expresses the opinion that a drop in prices of structural iron, glass, paints, and other building materials may he looked for at an earl v (late. The basis for this opinion is that the United States Government will probably reduce the import duties on these materials, thus bringing into competition materials of like character manufactured abroad. It is expected that the Government will take this action for the purpose of avoiding retaliation in tariffs on the part of European countries under which large importers of American—man—

ufactured	materials	are depriving the home	manufacturer



of his market, and the artizan of employment



Many novel methods of moving buildings have been adopted in various parts of the country in order to meet local conditions and circumstances, but among the most curious ways of doing work of this kind is that of utilizing barges or flatboats to float buildings across stretches of water. One ease of this kind occurred not long ago in Pittsburg, and a later one is that at San Francisco, where a man having constructed a small hotel, desired to move it to a lot which he had secured at Benicia. The house was first moved to the wharf and when the tide was right was pulled on to a barge by means of a horse windlass, after which the barge was towed to Benicia by a river steamer.



A novel process of manufacturing glazed bricks, whieh it is said is simpler and more economical than the processes generally in use, has recently been discovered by an English maker. He employs marl as the body of his bricks this is placed in the mould or die along with finely divided clay, and then strong pressure is brought into play. The bricks arc then taken from the mould and fired at a moderately high temperature in an ordinary kiln. The glaze is then applied to the surfaces of the bricks and the firing is repeated, this time at the fusion point of the glaze mixture. Generally speaking the glaze mixture is applied in the usual wet condition to the stir-face, but it may also be applied in the form of a powder before the bricks are burnt, so that the marl, the clay, amid the glaze can all be worked into bricks in the same mould and then fired simultaneously.

