<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	217

RITES AND CEREMONIES CONNECTED WITH BUILDING.

<article title=" RITES AND CEREMONIES CONNECTED WITH BUILDING " author="">

All about us, in the present enlightened age, are customs and ceremonials connected with building that had their origin in the Far back pagan days, says the Architectural Record. They have been handed down from generation to generation like the unwritten rituals of a great secret order. When our public buildings are dedicated and public functionaries lay the corner—stone with silver trowels, we are simply following out the customs of our forefathers, with such modifications as the advance of civilization has made necessary.

The study of the customs which have attended building in the various ages is a most attractive one. Mr. Lewis Dayton Burdick has recently published an extremely interesting book on '' Foundation Rites, with Some Kindred Ceremonies ; a Contribution to the Study of Beliefs, Customs and Legends connected with Buildings, Locations, Landmarks, &c.

HUMAN FOUNDATION SACRFICES.

<article title=" HUMAN FOUNDATION SACRFICES " author="">

In Alaska, before the United States began to govern it without its consent, human foundation sacrifices were common. Among the Dyaks of Borneo, when a house was to be built a big hole was dug for the first post, which was suspended over it. A slave girl was dropped into the hole and crushed to death. The kings of Burmah buried four human beings alive at the corners of their capital, that their spirits might keep watch and ward off invasion. In the Japan of the seventeenth century, when a great wall was to be built a slave would voluntarily lie down in the trench and be crushed to death by great stones lowered upon him. Many times in Asia there have been popular panics caused by the fear that the old foundation customs were to be revived. As the Siberian railroad drew near the Chinese frontier, there was a great hullabaloo in Pekin. It was rumored that the Russian Ambassador had asked her Humanity, the present Chinese Empress, for a couple of thousand children to bury under the rails. There was a similar scare in Calcutta when the Floogly Bridge was building. The natives got it into their heads that after long refusal Mamma Ganges had agreed to be bridged on condition that each pier should rest on a layer of children s heads.

Ultimately animals and animal and vegetable products were offered instead of human beings. That Naples is built on an egg is known to all readers of the mediaeval legends about the great enchanter, Virgil. A tallow candle was built into the wall of St. Osyth's Essex A chicken, cock, lamb or something else takes the place of a slave or other human victim. There is a Russian folk—belief that the first person to enter a new house will die within the year unless an animal is killed and buried when the first stone is laid.

CURIOUS CUSTOMS.

<article title=" CURIOUS CUSTOMS " author="">

In modern Greece," Mr. J. G. Frazer tells us, sometimes, instead of killing an animal, the builder

entices a man to the foundation—stone, secretly measures his body or a part of it or his shadow, and buries the measure under the foundation-stone ; or he lays the foundation—stone upon the man's shadow. It is believed that the man will die within the year. In

the island of Lesbos it is deemed enough if the builder merely casts a stone at the shadow of a passer-by the man whose shadow is thus struck will die, but the building will be solid. A Bulgarian mason measures the shadow of a man with a string, places the string in a box, and then builds the box into the wall of the edifice. Within forty days thereafter the man whose shadow was measured will be dead and his soul will be in the box beside the string, but often it will come forth and appear in its former shape to persons who were born on a Saturday." In these cases the shadow is the life, soul or strength, according to a common article of primitive faith no harder to believe, perhaps, than most other things are.



A ROMANIAN FOLK-TALE.

<article title=" A ROMANIAN FOLK-TALE " author="">

But let us borrow a Romanian folk-tale from Mr. Burdick. Radu the Black had promised Manoli and the other masons gold in piles and titles to burn if they would build him the fairest palace ever seen ; but if it was riot up to specifications, he swore that the bunglers should be walled-up in his monastery. Four days the masons worked, there being no union to prevent them. Four nights all that they had built tumbled down—toppled over, we may believe, by the walking delegates of the devil. On the fourth Manoli had a dream of dread. A voice had sounded in his ear that every night would undo the toil of the day if the masons did not build, living, into the wall the first woman that should come upon them. Manoli told his dream to his fellow workmen. All took oath to obey the voice. The next morning Manoli, full of black presentiment, stood upon the scaffold and watched the country round about. His wife Flora the beautiful, was coming with his breakfast. He held her in his arms while the wall of death was rising around her. When she could be seen no more he could just hear her moaning faintly '' Manoli, Manoli, the wall is pressing on me and my life is dying out." And now the palace stood solid. Soon it was finished, magnificent, a wonder of the world. The masons stood upon the scaffolding awaiting Radu and the glorious wage.

By the prince's command the props of the scaffolding were knocked away and the masons dashed to death. Manoli clutched a projecting carving and would have saved his life had he not. heard just then from beneath the wall the feeble moaning voice

Manoli, Manoli ! the cold wall is pressing on me my body is crushed ; my life in dying out." So down among the dead men let him lie and serve him right.

There are some ceremonials still followed in building that it would be worth while to study closely. Such, for instance is the custom of fastening up the '' roof-tree" when the framework of the roof is finally in place. We have heard it said that the symbolic meaning of this ceremonial is that the framework of the house is supposed to have made use of the trunk of the tree, and consequently the topmost crown of the tree itself is hoisted up to occupy its old place once more. If this was the origin of the custom, it was doubtless a rite of propitiation. In this prosaic age, however, the purpose of the ceremonial is evident. It is an invitation from the builders to the owner to recognize (by a donation of liquor or cigars) the progress that has been made. A particularly interesting feature of this ceremonial is the modification that has come about,

