<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



BUILDING CONDITIONS.



There is much activity in building throughout Canada this season. in Winnipeg, the value of new buildings according to the permits issued nearly doubles last year' s record. In Toronto all the architects appear to he busily engaged. Domestic work is calling for a large share of

good taste prevails to a much larger extent than in the past, when the builder undertook to he his own architect. The high cost of lumber has undoubtedly retarded build-









































attention. Some important and interesting buildings of this class arc in progress. while less costly dwellings are springing up on every hand. The majority are being built amount of speculative building of the better class. It is as homes l)V the owners. There is also a considerable gratifying to note that the designs for most of this work were prepared by local architects, and in consequence

ing enterprise, and the strikes of workmen in Ottawa and elsewhere are hindering operations and blocking new undertakings.





RELATIVE VALUE OF FIRE RESIST



ING MATERIALS.



Some valuable data concerning the fire resisting properties of various materials and methods of construction have been made available by a series of tests conducted in connection with the recent Building Trades Exhibition in London. These tests related to floors, partitions, doors, both of wood and iron, and

protective coverings to open spaces. As regards flooring, it was found that by filling up with plaster to the extent of in. the soffit of an ordinary floor having deal joists, a floor was rendered fire-resisting for 45 min. When slag wool was similarly used it stood the test of one hour's duration. A floor made of simple baulks of timber laid side by side, the thickness of the baulks being 9 in., stood an 80 min. test, with a gradual temperature up to 2,000 degrees Fahr. The result was that the under surface of the wood beams was charted to the average depth of about 2 in., but beyond this no damage was done. A floor protected by 5 in. of concrete was destroyed in min. A simple iron and concrete floor was next tested. After an hour and a half the bulk of the concrete collapsed owing to the deflection of the steel plates. A floor constructed of it on and concrete, in which all the ironwork was embedded, stood a very severe test. The lire did not pass through it, and wood strips imbedded in the upper surface of the concrete were uninjured. With regard to partitions, one formed of terra cotta, wired lathing, covered with plaster of paris, stood a very severe test. It was found that doors of oak and teak stood the most severe test, and with regard to windows it was found that blinds of asbestos cloth were a great protection from the spread of fire.

FIREPROOF

GLASS

WINDOWS

THAT ARE

FIRE- PROOF

These windows in a fire-proof building, complete the security, and in any building will thoroughly prevent the spread and advancement of the fiercest flames.



Better than iron shutters (even if they happened to be closed at the needed time) ; fireproof glass remains intact, resisting both the intense heat of the fire and the action of water.

Many practical tests have proved it's efficiency.

Used in conjunction with our hollow sheet-metal frames and other fire-proof fittings, it gives the most perfect protection available.

It's adoption lessens insurance rates.

If you want to know more about "fire-proof windows," write us, it's an interesting subject.

...THE...





Metallic Roofing Co.,

TORONTO. LIMITED,

