<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

portance to the public, (which is not sufficiently regarded in considering this question,) the return of proper value for money invested in building.

For this reason the Association still hoped to get the more comprehensive measure from the Legislature and made three efforts to obtain it ; nor was the opposition they met with such as to give them reason to suppose that there is any real objection to it or that, if it could have been brought to a third reading it would not have received the support of a majority of both sides of the house.

A bill to amend the Act, by making '' Architect " instead of " Registered Architect " the exclusive title of members of the Association, was first introduced in 1893, but too late in the session and was therefore withdrawn.

In 1896 it was again introduced and referred to a committee by whom it was reported to the House, but only on condition that it be then withdrawn. This attempt served as an introduction so that, in the following year, the Bill received support both outside and inside the Legislature ; indeed its supporters in the Legislature, who were drawn from both sides of the House, agreed in assuring the Association that there was a palpable majority in favor of acceptance. But the same committee was appointed to deal with the Bill, and this time they dismissed it finally.

The arguments by which the Bill was opposed were in all cases the argument of interests which feared injury. There seemed to members of the Association, who represented the Association in the matter, no cause for the anxiety thus manifested by opponents, but they felt that their arguments in reply failed to carry conviction because they were regarded as expert. It seemed impossible for any one to grasp the idea that architects in urging a Bill to improve architecture could be thinking of anything but their own immediate advantage.

The objection raised by Mr. Norman Shaw and others in England that no amount of examination can produce in a student a faculty of design-was not raised here but it is impossible to conclude the subject without noticing this protest, raised in the remarkable volume edited by Mr. Norman Shaw, " Architecture a Profession or an Art ;" remarkable as being so ably written and yet founded on so palpable a fallacy. It is not contended that examination, or to speak more exactly the education which is called forth by the necessity of examination, can implant in any one the faculty of design ; but where there is nevertheless the purpose to design, what little faculty there is may be much developed by study under guidance, and scholarship may serve at least to prevent aberration of taste. It is precisely for this order of designers, and for those who would not otherwise know that there is such a thing as scholarship in design, that a compulsory Education Act would have been useful in this Province.

It is in leveling up all parts of the profession that it would do its chief work ; saving us at least from ignorance that does not know that there is knowledge, and helping toward the ideal condition that not only great works but the ordinary types of building should be carried out in a sensible and agreeable manner. As for budding genius it wants training like any other order of mind to enable it to work to the best advantage ; and if there is a doctrinaire position in the whole controversy it is that of those persons who think that knowledge is the death of intuition.

With the failure of its last effort for comprehensive

registration the Association became a voluntary Association in purpose as before it had been in fact, and is now trying to uphold the standard of education in students and of practice in its members by classes and examinations for students and by monthly meetings of members for reading and discussing papers. By an arrangement with the School of Practical Science, students of the Association are able to attend classes of the School for instruction in theoretical subjects ; and a studio for instruction in design under the supervision of a committee of the Association is held in the Rooms of the Association at 94 King Street West, Toronto.

These rooms, the latest departure, will without doubt contribute greatly to the usefulness of the Association, giving it such facilities and comfort in work as make work more easily carried on in a continuous way.

The proceedings of the Association will henceforth be printed in a form suitable for preservation and reference instead of as hitherto, only as a report in the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER. It has been thought fit, by the Editing Committee to preface the first volume by an account of the origin of the Association and the purpose it at first set before itself of obtaining universal registration of Architects in the Province as the best means of furthering the advancement of architecture which it is now endeavoring to promote by the methods of the voluntary Association.

W.	A. LANGTON.



<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The first volume of proceedings of the Ontario Association of Architects printed in pamphlet form has just been published. It comprises seventy-five pages. In addition to the proceedings of the annual convention, it contains a list of the presidents and other officers and committees of the Association ; the names and addresses of the members in good standing, a list of the books in the Association library, a brief history of the Association by Mr. W. A. Langton, and view-s of the Association rooms. The proceedings were published for the association by the publishers of the CANADIAN Architect AND BUILDER, under the direction of the Editing Committee Messrs. M. B. Aylsworth, (chairman), F. S. Baker, F.R.I.B.A., W. A. Langton, C. H. C. Wright, R. J. Edwards.

The Association suggested to the city Council of Toronto recently that a plan of the best possible arrangement of wharves, squares, promenades, glass plots, and trees on the water front be prepared, and that the class and location of buildings to be erected thereon be regulated by by-law. By these means the work of improving the city water front would be greatly simplified, and whatever works may be undertaken, year by year, would form part of a well-considered general scheme.



Mr. Frank Darting, architect, of Toronto, has been commissioned to prepare the design for the soldier's monument to be erected in Victoria Square, Portland street, to the members of Imperial regiments who died while on service in Canada.



Negotiations are in progress for the transfer to the Dominion Government of the Plains of Abraham at Quebec, for the sum of $80,000. It is to be hoped that the result of these negotiations will he the preservation for all time of this historic battle ground.



The unveiling of a monument to Laura Secord will take place on June 22nd, and will he the occasion of a military display. The monument takes the form of a life size bust of Laura Second, modeled by Miss Mildred Peel and cast in bronze. It will be mounted on a granite pedestal bearing a suitable inscription.

