<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

NOTES.



The bricks for the first brick house in Philadelphia, built by William Penn, were brought from England at a cost of £5,000.



Alex. M. Bremner, of Montreal, has issued a neat calendar, the dates being in bold figures. The margins are utilized to direct attention to the many lines of building materials for which Mr. Bremner is the wholesale agent.

An amendment is being sought to the charter of the McClarey Manufacturing Company, London, Oat., to allow the Company to manufacture and deal in hardware, and to increase its capital stock to $3,000,000.



Mr. P. W. St. George, late. City Engineer of Montreal, has been appointed manager of the Electric Fire Proofing Company of Canada. This Company have recently erected in Montreal a factory for treating wood by a process which it is said renders it fireproof. Wood treated by this

process is said to have successfully withstood severe tests by fire in the United States and Europe.

The Toronto Harbor Board have recently reduced the harbor toles from 33 to 50 per cent. The reduction on stone, rough, from to cents to 5 cents per toise; on building stone from 3 cents to one cent on fire and scoria bricks, from 10 cents to  cents on lumber, from cents to 3 cents per thousand board measure.

As the result of the decision of the bond holders to freeclose their mortgage on the property of the Victoria Gypsum Mining and Manufacturing Co. Limited, at Bodeck, Nova Scotia, there will be thrown on the market a gypsum area of over seven thousand acres in close proximity to the Deep Water Spring Break-water, containing all grades of gypsum, from pure white alabaster to the hard rock.

Application has been made to the City Council of Toronto by Dr. J. E. Elliott for

THE PEDLAR PEOPLE

Plaster on

Steel Lath

Pedlar's Expanded Steel Lath has a good key.

That's its strong point.

The mesh is very open.

That's what makes it's key so good.

Takes more mortar than others, to be sure, but this is an advantage, as the open mesh allows enough mortar to pass through to completely embed the lath, making it entirely fireproof.

Have you one of our large Catalogues? Gladly sent—express paid—on request, by mentioning the "Canadian Architect."

OSHAWA ONT.

payment of royalty on the imitation of marble used for covering of columns in the interior of the new municipal buildings. Dr. Elliott claims to be the owner of tile patent process used in the preparation of the material. Mr. T. W. Horn, as assignee of the Mosaic Marble and Enamel Company has issued a writ against the city, Fred. R. Gullett, the Dominion Bridge Company and the Davidson Marble Company to recover payment of $1,589.78 claimed to be due on the marble work in these buildings, the total cost of which was $30, 000.







Every Architect





is Safe in Recommending





PAINTERS

PERFECT

WHITE

LEAD

MANUFACTURED By THE LATEST AND

MOST APPROVED METHOD, SECURINC

WHITENESS, PERMANENCE, AND THE

CREATEST COVERING POWER.



This lead is a new and scientific combination of materials which are in themselves perfect pigments, ground in pure refined Linseed Oil. It will be found on trial to be the whitest Lead ever introduced, besides which it has great covering power, works well tinder the brush, and shows up tints sharp and clear. In thinning, it takes more Oil than any other Lead, and will, therefore, cover more surface. It will also wear better either on inside or outside work than any other paint ever offered before.





Correspondence Solicited. Samples furnished free.



Address the Sole Makers

THE..,





CANADA

PAINT

COMPANY

LIMITED



Montreal and Toronto

