<doctype type="text">154	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

and the rise are given. and the simplest method of finding any other particulars is to put the span and rise down to scale, and find by practical geometry the centre of a curve to pass through the three points, as shown at Fig. 2.





M.M.C.	would like to know how to keep out damp from a l)rick wall 14 inches thick. A detail showing tlie method or methods would be appreciated.





W.J.D., who is a voting carpenter, wishes to know how to find the breaking stress of white pine timber and joists ?



J.D.G.	would like to know how to make kalsomine that can be put on ill successive coats that will not wash up, without mixing with alum or any size ?





Young Chip would like if some reader would send a design or two for a handy tool chest. He writes, I am











going to the North-West shortly, near Edmonton, and I

want to make a good tool chest—and fill it—before going,

and will be thankful for advice or suggestion ?





H.N.:	I have a fire place to put in the corner of a house, with the hearth built down to the foundation, and I wish to know of some good method to triiii the joists around the hearth and chimney breast ?





J.W.S.	writes All wiring tables I have come across are figured in algebra. I am not up in the study and would like to know if there are any books or tables published plain figures so that a person well tip in arithrnetic could make use of to advantage ?





Bricklayer -- How can I make black niortar that will not fade and yet not be very expensive ?





J. B. : —The niethod of kerfing shown in June issue in answer to I N _ does not strike me as being tile best by any means. I submit a method herewith which I think is much better. I first lay off my circle, both inside and outside, giving the thickness of the lumber bent, as at Fig. 3, where AB represents the spring line of the arch, C the centre of the circle. From C. 1 draw a straight line at right angles with AB, extending it indefinitely and bisecting the circle at D. I then take a strip of the same tilickness as that I desire to kerf and saw ill a ken as indicated in Fig. 4, using the same saw that I expect to use in kerfing. I then lay the strip on as shown by- the dotted lines of Fig. 3, and bend the strip until tile ken closcs. I then mark the circle at E, which gives tlie desired distance. After tins I set my compasses from E to D of Fig. 3, and step off the same number of spaces to be bent and proceed to kerf. If in stepping off the kerfs the latter do not conic out all right at the spring line, I usually close tlie compasses up and make an extra cut, rather than leave one out. of course the stuff must lie gauged to show how deep the saw must go.



THE EFFECT OF THE PREFERENTIAL TARIFF ON IMPORTS OF CEMENT.

<article title=" THE EFFECT OF THE PREFERENTIAL TARIFF ON IMPORTS OF CEMENT " author="">

The annual report of the Ontario Bureau of Mines shows flint tile preference accorded to British goods entering Canada has operated favorably to the interests of British cement manufacturers. The imports of cement from Great Britain have largely increased, while those from Germany and Belgium have fallen off in like proportion. The total value of cement imports into Canada (luring the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1900, was $520,593, of which Great Britain contributed $249,280, as against $125,778 in

1899.

TESTING A WIRE ROPE

<article title=" TESTING A WIRE ROPE " author="">

Testing of a wire elevator rope with flatteiied strands to give it increased bearing area on tlie pulleys, was made in Chicago recently. The rope had been in service for five and a half years. The outer strands were found to have parted, but the iiiner ones were unimpaired. This test corroborates the theory that disintegration of a wire rope begiuis at the centre. This fact makes necessary frequent examination to prevent accidents.





CARBONATE OF LIME STONE.

<article title=" CARBONATE OF LIME STONE " author="">

By a iiew process, says the Moniteur de ha Céramique, carbonate of lime stones can be made which have all the



properties oi natural stones, particularly useful as lithographic stones. It is based upon a discovery made by tlie inventor, Mr. P. A. Winckler, that calcium hydroxid dry is transformed in a peculiar manner by hydrated carbonic acid into carbonate of lime. This last is then compressed hydraulically in metal mouhhs furnished with little holes above and below. By employment of a more or less fine



powder it is possible to give the stone a variable degree of fineness of grain. Thus one can evidently make flags of any dimensions, etc. There is also this advantage that the stones can be colored any tint in manufacture.



<article title=" STONEWORKING IN ATHENS " author="">

STONEWORKING IN ATHENS.



It appears that the Athenians worked the marble to an even, h)iit not a very smooth, face with a toothed chisel l)ef ore they placed the blocks in the work, and that they afterwards went over the whole exposed surface and finished it to the gteatest smoothness and nicety, but without polish, taking off in this operation about one-fifth inch ; and this has been the practice on thie horizontal as well as on the upright surfaces, for the columns of Propylaca are sunk in to about that depth below the general level. The place intended for their reception was sunk before the lower cylinders were placed, and lest any inconvenience should arise from thie wet remaining there before the building was completed, a small channel Ilas been cut from the recess to carry off the water. In tIle steps the adjoining laces are carefully finished at the internal angles; l)Ut both are left rough at the external angles, by which means the accidents and wear which take place during the execution would rarely be of any consequence.



<article title=" SUGGESTIONS FOR DECORATORS " author="">

SUGGESTIONS FOR DECORATORS.



A little girl's room has a clado of blue deiiiiii, about three feet high. Above this is a narrow molding, that serves as the bottom of a sort of continuous picture frame, containing a series of the well-known Perry pietllres, reproductions of famous paintings, that have been protected by glass, withi narrow nuoldings covering the glass joints, or at every third or fourth picture. Above these photographs is a wider folding, and then a narrow shelf, which serves as a resting place for all those odds and ends which a child will collect and which are as dear to her heart as treasures of many tiuiies their value. Here are birds' nests or bits of coral or sea shells, with bright colore,d stones or pieces of gain-net goods, while favors froni children's parties are equally well thought

of.	Time upper portion of the wall is hung with a cretonne paper, having bunches of red roses held together with blue ribbons. The woodwork is painted white, and oum the oak floor is a blue and white rlig. The furniture is finished in white enamel, except flue brass single bed, with a coverlet of flowered cretonne.





Wire glass is now the subject of a monopoly. The five companies which own all the patents for thue manufacture of this lire-retardent glass have beeuu consolidated into the Mississippi Wire Glass Company, incoiTorated at Trenton, N.J., with a capital of $1,500,000. The ruling



price for wire glass in stock sheets is fifteen cents a loot for quarter-inch thickness, and it is declared that the consolidation will not be followed by an advance in the present price schedule.

