<doctype type="text">168	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ool chest, and one that is a little removed from the old style of chest, inasmuch as the tills run across the chest instead of longitudinally. This arrangement prevents the necessity' of partitioning off the tills, and also renders the sliding of the tills quite easy as they' cannot well stick at the corners as is the fault with





































FIG. 5—VIEW OF TOOL CHEST.



tills made the length of the chest. Fig. 5 represents a perspective view of the chest with the lid partly raised. Fig. 6 shows a section of the chest across the end, while Fig. 7 represents a longitudinal vertical section. The lids or cover of the bottom space of the chest































FIG, 6 Cross Section of tool CHEST.



which are hinged to the bottom of the lower tills, turn up and catch at the top as indicated. This permits of ready access to the bottom portion of the chest.. When the lids are down the space between the tills forms a























FIG, 7—Long Vertical Section. 



convenient receptacle for overalls or other things when work is not going on. The chest. is handy and I am sure ''Young Chip" will find it easy to make from the description given and the designs submitted.



W.	J. ;—Isn't there some method of coping and

mitreing base or other mouldings besides that of scribing them ? It looks to me that scribing one moulding over another is an awful clumsy way of doing the business, and if there is any other way of doing the work, I would like to know it, if any fellow workman will show me how.





T.	R. Will some reader publish in these columns the proper proportions to give to windows when the size of the rooms are known, also the right height of the window-stool from the floor ? Where I am these are no rules for these matters ; every builder making the size of window openings to suit himself, and the result is that we find, sometimes, windows of different sizes in the same room, and with regard to height of window from floor, the '' rule of thumb'' seems to prevail.



H.	G. Would like to know of some simple method of treating a flag pole cord to prevent it from rotting while exposed to the weather.

	"Brandon" asks	What is the latest improved and



best equipped system of heating and ventilating water closets for public schools?





W.	j. P. :—Wishes to know if there is any way to  give bricks a red color by mixing a mineral in the clay ? Would it. be too expensive to mix ground uncalcined oxide with the clay ? Mixing ordinary



black loam with clay ;.effects the color to some extent, but is apt to injure the strength of the brick. Putting salt in the fire near the close of the burning to a limited extent gives a dark red to the brick but this is apt to take place only when the bricks are subject to a great heat. What is the chemical action of this last ?





<article title=" TRADE UNION METHODS " author="">

TRADE UNION METHODS.

A sample of trade union tyranny was recently made the subject of an inquiry by Mr. N. Clarke Wallace in the Dominion Parliament. A Mr. Robert W. Saul, of Camden East, Ont. in a letter to Mr. Bell, member of parliament for Addingtonton, stated that he went to work on the Royal Military College, i Kingston to build an addition, hut was stopped by the International Union unless he paid $25 to join the union. He offered to join if the union would accept the regular price, but refused to pay $25. Because of such refusal he was deprived of his employment and his family of their means of support. A foreigner could, however, come in here from the United States if he was a member of the union and go to work. Mr. Wallace urged the government to see that justice was done Mr. Saul; who was a Canadian citizen, and that safeguards were placed by the government in the contracts, so that any Canadian citizen, whether a member of the union or not, would be placed on even terms with any other Canadian, and on better terms than any American citizen. Mr. Sutherland, on behalf of the government, promised that the case would be investigated and justice done. The public will look for the speedy fulfilment. of his promise. It is time that one should know how far the tyranny of the unions is to be permitted to go.

