<doctype type="text;ad">

only afraid that when our municipal authorities learn the amount of water that is being used, they will raise the rates on us. You will please show your approval of this motion. Carried.

Dr. Bryce Mr. President and Gentlemen I know your time is limited, and I am sure you have had quite enough from me without discussing the points that have come up, vet there are several that need to be answered. The ventilation especially in the schools in the city of Toronto, attended by 35,000 children, is criminally neglected. Naturally one gets interested in the question. Atter all a health officer is not. a health officer until he runs into actual contact with all the problems affecting the health and comfort of all the citizens, and that is what I have been trying to do for eighteen years, and in the question of ventilation, I may say that this generation in my judgment, is. farther hack than it was eighteen years ago. We recognized years ago that there ought to be an honest attempt to get outdoor air into rooms ; to—day we have forgotten it, and we have been led into the idea that a hot air furnace may be allowed to give us the same air over and over again. I have pointed out in the table which Mr. Baker has referred to the relative purity of air outdoors and in, and if we have many diseases of a communicable character, that the number of germs in a house is an important factor. It is further true that an old house which has been accumulating dirt for a number of years must necessarily be a dirty house. Undoubtedly a hospital is a dangerous place to try and get well in. I recognize the point that Mr. Dick has brought up with regard to cost. No one can doubt that in this country. I am as convinced as I can be of anything that if we realized that the air which is up there at the ceiling is 13 warmer than it is here, that we would endeavor to economize by adopting means whereby it may be kept near the floor thereby economizing heat. Mr. I Langton says that a person in Calgary is not supposed to feel the cold there as much as in Toronto. It is

perfectly true, and if Mr. Langton will watch these figures for a moment he will see a partial explanation of the fact.. We have got a loss of heat from the body. As we all know moist air conducts heat. rapidly while dry is a non-conductor. Further, if it be remembered that the air of Calgary is usually dry and cold, capable of holding very little moisture, we will see why a man's body does not lose much by evaporation. If I have aroused an interest in what seems to me to be a very practical subject, I will feel myself compensated for any trouble I have had in preparing the paper. There is a practical question asked by Mr. Burke which I neglected to answer. He asked how we are to find out the humidity of rooms. You need only to arrange the ordinary dry and wet hall thermometer and with a set of tables may determine the relative humidity readily.

Mr. Burke Can you introduce too much moisture in winter?

Dr. Bryce If you get lip beyond 75 or 80 you would probably have too much, because you are going to lose heat unduly by a damp air. The difficulty is the other way, because in all artificially heated houses we do not get the moisture

Mr. President: I think that it is a generally understood thing that we do not confine our member on the Council to the city. There is just one difficulty that it we get too many outside of the city we have a difficulty in getting a quorum. There have been generally two members of the Council who are not Toronto residents.

Mr. W. R. Gregg Read letters from Mr. Dick and Mr. Gouinlock with drawing their names from the list of nomination for Council and from Mr. Baker resigning from Council. Under  Mr. Baker r withdrew his resignation.

The election of members of the Council was then proceeded with resulting In the election of Messrs. Edmund Burke Lawrence Munro of Hamilton and Eden Smith.

The convention then closed

At a subsequent meeting of the Council the following officers were elected : President Grant Helliwell, Tot-onto 1st vice-president, F. S. Baker F.R.I.B.A. Toronto 2nd Vice-President, John A. Pearson Toronto Treasurer, W. A. Langton, Toronto Registrar W. R Gregg, 94 King- street west, Toronto. Council : Fred Henry London A. H. Gregg, Toronto Lawrence Munro, Hamilton Edmund Burke, Toronto.

Ornamental Metallic Finish

Foremost among practically popular goods for decorative finish and



superior utility, are our



Metallic Cornices

Metallic	Sky Lights and Crosses and Finials





In Cornices we make many stock designs, and in addition will furnish any desired size or shape to order— your choice is unlimited.

Our Metallic Skylights are made with hollow bars of galvanized steel or copper—supplied in any size or style—for any roof.

Our Crosses and Finials of all descriptions are made of copper or galvanized steel—furnishing graceful designs to suit all tastes and purposes.

All these goods are light in weight, easily handled, fire-proof, and pre-eminently satisfactory for all types of buildings.

Consult our Catalog for full and interesting information.





METALLIC ROOFING COMPANY, LIMITED

Wholesale Manufacturers	TORONTO, CANADA

