<doctype type="text">220	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



all, is the qualification which is the most prized by the architect and the builder. Wherever practicable, it will be advisable to examine any old structures which may have been built of the description of stone proposed to be used. This hardness of stones affects their use in various ways, and there are several means of determining this property, which includes tests for the resistance of stones to friction or to ordinary wear and tear when, for instance, they act as paving stones. Under the same heading is comprised the resistance to shook and impact, to boring, and the attacks of the chisel. When freshly quarried, stones are generally rather softer and more tractable under the tool than when, some time afterwards, they have got rid of their quarry water. Although the chemical composition of building stones is not, per se, of any great practical value, yet the aid of chemical analysis- or, in other words, a chemical test is required in order to discover the existence of foreign substances, which are to be found in all stones, and also the proportions of silica alkalis, and lime they may contain. For instance, if there should be too large a percentage of clay in stones, they should not be exposed to sudden and frequent changes of alternate damp and dryness, since they rapidly disintegrate under such changes. Stones also which, similar to the dolomites, contain a certain amount Of magnesia, are seriously deteriorated by the action of sulphur, which, in the state of sulphurous and sulphuric acid, exists in abundance in both the atmosphere and the soil. Equally, if not more, important than the chemical test, is that performed by the aid of the microscope, which reveals the manner in which the constituent particles or ingredients of the material are mixed together and incorporated. It may not perhaps be generally known that some descriptions of stones which are of excellent quality when quarried in summer, are worth little or nothing when taken from the quarries in winter time. Limestone and marble are par particularly liable to this defect.

Another property of building stones which is desirable to investigate is that of absorption, which is approximately proportional to its porosity or permeability. This demands another trial, which may be termed the porous test, and is one of considerable utility. The best stones absorb the least proportion of water or of other fluid, which is an important consideration, when they are exposed to the influence of the gases and acids held in rain, with which they frequently become strongly impregnated. If we now pass on to the action of frost upon stones, it will be at once apparent that another test must be called for. Certain specimens behave in one manner, and others in another, when acted upon by exceptionally low temperatures for any length of time. Some gradually and slowly disintegrate, go to pieces, and break up. Others develop a process of superficial peeling off by the formation of scales, while others, again, suddenly fly into fragments in precisely the same manner as if they had been blown up by dynamite or other powerful explosive. One of the difficulties attending the successful application of a freezing test is the impossibility of assimilating the condition of the experiments with those obtaining under the natural phenomenon of congelation. Various methods have been employed to imitate the operation of freezing. One may be mentioned which consists in immersing the specimen in a highly concentrated solution of sulphate soda. As the compound forms into

crystals it causes a partial disruption of the stone, by breaking off pieces of different sizes. Although this method affords some indications of what may be the effect of natural frost upon building stones, not much reliance can be placed upon it. Recently apparatus have been employed which subject the stones to a cold equal to 30 deg. below freezing point. A few concluding remarks will accentuate those already made, which unmistakably indicate the necessity for the tests to which we have already drawn the attention of our readers.

It is well known that our information respecting the transverse, tensile, and shearing strength of different stones used in the constructive arts is not nearly as full as it ought to he, and that our records of what has been ascertained regarding those properties are exceedingly meager and incomplete. The results of experiments conducted with regard to the crushing resistance, demonstrate that there is a wide difference of strength per square unit, even in the same descriptions of stone. The varying results are due to the fact that the circumstances were far from being identical in the individual tests. Some of the samples, which were mostly in the form of cubes, were left rough on the sides and beds and others were dressed and sometimes polished. The last mentioned bore six tons more than the first, per same unit of area. Our want of accurate knowledge—— which is fortunately in the course of being supplied— regarding the tensile strength and the transverse resistance of stones, has not been productive of any great damage or injury. Nevertheless, that is no reason why we should not make ourselves thoroughly up-to-date in everything that has been accomplished towards elucidating and placing on a better and more scientific basis the details of a subject so important.

<article title=" GALVANISED IRON " author="">

GALVANISED IRON.



Writing on the eminent suitability of galvanized corrugated iron for the rapid erection of fireproof and weather-proof temporary buildings, Mr. Martin mentions that galvanized iron sheets are always fixed overlapping horizontally as well as vertically; hence the joints are as watertight as the sheets themselves. The term "galvanized" as applied to the iron sheets under consideration is incorrect, in view of the fact that no galvanic action is necessary to coat iron with zinc. A sheet of iron, the surface of which has been chemically cleaned, will when dipped in molten zinc take up enough of that metal to afford an efficient protection against the weather for years. Hence the iron is really "zinced" and not "galvanized." In dry air at ordinary temperatures iron will not rust. When heated to redness, however, black scales of iron oxide are formed, and when at a white heat the whole metal is gradually converted into the same substance. Pure water, which is free from carbonic and free oxygen, will not tarnish polished iron, but if water contains these substances it attacks it vigorously, especially in presence of acid vapors of any kind. Zinc which is used to coat the iron sheets, is also found in combination with carbon and oxygen, in which condition it is known as calamine, the ore from which it is extracted for commercial purposes. Exposed to the atmosphere, zinc oxidizes slowly, and since it is insoluble in water a zinc coating affords an effectual protection to the underlying metal as long as it lasts. Acids will dissolve the zinc oxide as well as the zinc itself, however, so

