<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	223

PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE OF STAINED GLASS WINDOWS.

<article title=" PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE OF STAINED GLASS WINDOWS " author="">

A stained glass window is more properly described says a writer in The Architects' Magazine, as one of coloured glass, for it is on such a glass that the artist paints in monochrome it is true— his design, and the staining of the glass, if resorted to at all, plays buy a very insignificant part in the decorative scheme. Perhaps one may he excused for describing the leading as the most important part of a stained glass window, for the very good reason that without the leading it would be necessary to paint a window in one piece. It is the lead which renders it possible to make up a composition of any number of pieces of coloured glass, and thus gives the artist an almost unlimited range.

In tracing a stained glass window from its inception it should be stated that the artist first makes a small colour sketch to scale, and from this he produces a cartoon in black and white of the exact size of the window space to be filled. The cartoon is now given to the Workman, who produces what is called a cut line

on tracing cloth ; that is, he makes a tracing of the principal lines of the artist's picture, showing how the glass is to be cut to meet the needs of the colour scheme. Next is the turn of the master glass-cutter, who, in association with the artist, chooses the glass to be used in reproducing his picture, and when the choice has been made the glazier's skill is brought to hear in cutting the glass according to the indications given by the tracing. The glazier having completed his work, the pieces are put together in form on a sheet of plate glass placed over the cut line or tracing. Any portion of the coloured glass which has showing through it a principal part of the design, such as a head, a hand, or a piece of drapery, has traced on it so much of the artist's work in the pigment—brown being the colour, made up of black, red and amber. The pieces of glass are so placed as to show between them the black lines of the tracing -the outlines of the figures, &c., and every part where different colours are to be arranged in juxtaposition and it is where the black lines are revealed that the lead subsequently assumes its appointed position.

Thus disposed in perfect scheme so far as colour is concerned, the '' Stained glass " is waxed into position on the slab of plate glass and then lifted on to an easel, where the task of painting is completed with all the care the artist can bestow on his work. It should be borne in mind that the painting is carried out solely in the monochrome already mentioned, and that it is the coloured glass showing through the brown pigment which produces such wonderful and, of course, almost imperishable effects. It has been mentioned that coloured and not stained glass is he correct term to apply to the principal medium of '' stained glass " windows, and here it may be said that practically the only staining resorted to is in the production of gold colour. This is rendered possible by silver staining on white glass, a pretty effect very common nowadays in house decoration. It is really opalescent, but against the light a fine golden colour is shown. When the artist has finished his painting on the easel the pieces of glass are again separated and are fired in a kiln, being placed therein on iron trays. Heat having done its part in burning the pigment picture on to the glass the whole thing is waxed up again and retouching is resorted to, if necessary, with, of course, in that event, refining.

Finally comes the glazing with what are termed culms of lead -long strips, grooved on both sides, to carry the glass. All the joins are soldered, and when the window is placed in position, iron bars from three-quarters to an inch in thickness are forced on to the mullion to support the picture, wire being soldered on to the lead, which holds all the portions of the colour scheme in position, and bound round the transversing iron.





CORRESPONDENCE

CANADA FIRST (?)

<article title=" CANADA FIRST (?)" author="">

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR.—During the last year or two a number of new bank buildings have been erected in Toronto at considerable cost. In these buildings the most expensive kind of materials have been employed, including a large quantity of wrought iron grilles, etc. Probably not less than $25,000 worth of this last mentioned material has been purchased, and so far as I know scarcely any of it was made in Canada, the material having all been imported from the United States. As one of the manufacturers in this line, I have never been asked to submit a tender for this material although I have successfully filled orders for prominent Canadian architects in Montreal and other cities outside of Toronto. It would be a satisfaction to learn on what ground so much money has been paid to foreign manufacturers by Canadian architects. Is it because satisfactory material cannot be obtained from Canadian manufacturers or is the price or the imported material less than that of the Canadian made article ? As a Canadian manufacturer I do not expect to be given any preference, hut think I am entitled to be asked to tender for this kind of material on equal terms with the foreign manufacturer. Canadian architects rightly object. to commissions for important Canadian buildings being given to foreign architects. To he consistent they should, as far as possible, employ Canadian material, and thus assist in the development of home industries



Yours truly,



 Manufacturer. 







PUBLICATIONS.



Linear DRAWING AND LETTERING (for Beginners)—By J. C. L. Fish, Asso. M. Am. Soc. C. E Associate Professor of Civil Engineering in the Leland Stanford Junior University. Published by the author. Palo Alto, California. 7 x 10 1/2 oblong. v + 65 pp. 46 figures Limp cloth, $1.06 post-paid.



The opening chapter of the book gives instruction regarding the proper care and use of instruments This is followed by courses in linear drawing and lettering and an introductory chapter on drafting.



Blank Book for Lettering,' by the same author, is designed to be used with Linear Drawing and Lettering." Price, 25c



Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co., of Boston and New York, have just published a new book on Applied Perspective for Architects and Painters,' by Wm. P. P. Longfellow. Following an Interesting introduction on perspective in Nature, are a series of problem to show the application in art and architecture of

what may be seen in Nature		These problems deal with a variety

of	matters essential to the training of artists and draughtsman.



The book comprises 120 410 pages, with 108 illustrations. The price is $3.00 net.





PERSONAL.



Mr. W. E. Doran, architect, of Montreal, is again mentioned as a probable candidate for the mayor's chair in that city.



Mr. Lewis Maxwell, a pupil in the office of Gouinlock & Baker, architects Toronto, who has recently been indisposed through lung trouble, is now sojourning at the Gravenhurst Sanitarium His many friends will be pleased to learn that he is getting along  satisfactorily.





The six most lofty structures is Europe are the towers of Cologne Cathedral, now 516 feet 9 inches high the towers of Rouen Cathedral, 491 feet, 8 inches the tower of St. Nicholas, at hamburg, 473 feet, inch tower of Anvers Cathedral 472 feet cupola of St. Peters, Rome, 469 feet, 2 inches, and the cathedral spire at Strasburg, 465 feet, 2 inches.

