<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER





































<article title=" BY THE WAY." author="">



BY THE WAY.



THE great stone lion which for thirty years surmounted Robert Walker's " Golden Lion" store on King street east, Toronto, has gone into obscurity, temporarily at least, in consequence of the tearing down of the building to make way for the large hotel. The lion was constructed of solid stone, in five parts, bolted together with iron rods. It measured ten feet in length and weighed three tons. The modeling was well done, and, viewed from the street, gave a satisfactory appearance. If gifted with speech, the old lion would be able to tell of many interesting sights and changes witnessed in the thirty years during which he occupied his exalted position. He saw the flickering gas lamps replaced by electric arc and incandescent lamps fed by hundreds of wires traversing the streets the slow-going horse car give way to the clean and commodious electric car travelling at a speed of ten to fifteen miles an hour ; the introduction of the telephone, bringing thousands of persons into easy communication for business and other purposes ; the substitution of asphalt and granite sets for wood block pavements the transformation of Toronto Island from a barren waste of sand and swamp into a beautiful pleasure resort. He also saw the erection of the new municipal and legislative buildings, a new union railway station, a dozen or more handsome office buildings, and many stately and attractive residences. Unfortunately he was called upon to witness the downfall of the great establishment which he was designed to represent, and the decline of trade in his locality, which however is likely in a considerable degree to be restored by the erection of the new palace hotel. I should like to think that a place of honor may again be found for the old lion whose dignified proportions, in common with thousands of other citizens of Toronto, I have frequently admired.





FROM an interesting paper on Church Bells, presented by H. Rose before the London Architectural Association it is learned that the parts of a bell are as follows the

cannons,'' by which it is fastened to the stock the ''crown," or top of the bell; the waist,'' and the ''lip,'' which forms the lower margin. The "sound bow," or thickest part, is between the waist and lip. It is here that the clapper strikes ; if in. too high the full tone is not given, and if in. too low the bell may be cracked. The clapper hangs from the "bow staple" and has a

prolongation below the striking surface, termed the flight." It may be noted, says the writer, that, by

Common Law, a place of worship of any denomination may make use of bells, but it has been held that, if used in such a way as to become a nuisance, they may be proceeded against, as was done in 1851, when an action was brought against a Roman Catholic community at Croydon. In Derby they used to ring the church bell when fish arrived by coach. St. Alkamund's five bells were supposed to say, "Fresh fish come to town." St. Michael's three bells, being somewhat skeptical, " They sunken " ; and All Saints' ten bells, as suggesting a remedy, added, " Then put a little bit more salt on them.





THE London Building News reproduces from the January number of this journal the pen and ink sketch from balcony of the Toronto Bible Training School, and remarks '' The plan of this Trans-Atlantic school is a very good one, and as seen in the accompanying perspective sketch, its exterior, with the high pitched roofing slopes and domed gables in half timber, might almost be taken for an old block of country side buildings in Normandy." The News is kind enough to say that " The Architects' Edition of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is admirably printed, being produced with style and finish."



A copy of the catalogue of the Fourteenth Annual Exhibition of the Chicago Architectural Club, has reached us. It contains the competitive designs for the first travelling scholarship of the club, sketches of foreign work, a number of designs by American architects, and an address by Frank Lloyd Wright, to the Chicago Arts and Crafts Society on "The Art and Craft of the Machine."



PUBLICATIONS.

From the Engineering News Publishing Co. of New York has been received a copy of a new book of graphical tables for computing the size of iron and wood beams and columns. The author, Benjamin E. Winslow, in his preface states that his aim has been to include all ordinary cases that are likely to occur in building construction.





Willie Rich Say, Sammie, my father's home was built on a architect's plan.



Sammie Poor—Aw, dat's nawthin my dad's home was built on  de installment plan."



An extract is stronger than the original substance. A concentrated campaign in a few good papers is more effective than small space in a great many.—Current Advertising.

