<doctype type="text">206	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

BY THE WAY.



.\t the Canada end of the arch bridge across the Niagara River just below the Falls may he seen one of the most striking bulletin signs that has recently been erected writes Edward Hurst Brown in the Painters' Magazine. It is built in front of the ruins of the Clifton Hotel that was destroyed by fire several months ago, and is fully thirty feet high by somewhat over a hundred feet long. It is intended to advertise the International Navigation Company, which runs a line of steamboats from Buffalo to Slates Point, in Canada, some two miles above the falls. From the American side one would almost imagine that a steamboat has been transported to the top of the cliff, two hundred feet above the river, so realistically has the bulletin been painted. It represents the steamboat New York, of the line, painted in natural colors, with flags flying and crowds of people upon her decks. Above the top of the bulletin the steamer's funnel projects, and the two masts that rise above her upper decks are carried upward as real masts, from which two large flags float in the breeze, adding to the naturalness of the effect. The American flag at the stern is painted, but at a little distance cannot be distinguished from the real flags of bunting, save for its brighter colors and the absence of motion of its drapery. It is only after a second glance that one loses the sense of startling reality and begins to have the truth impressed upon him that after all this is but an advertisement, and that the painted announcement of the company's steamers and their hours of departure forms a part of the picture. Perhaps it is wrong, from an aesthetic standpoint, to intrude this example of the bulletin painter's art amid the sublime grandeur of the scenery of Niagara Falls, but. nevertheless it is a most effective advertisement and a remarkably clever example of the possibilities of the work of the modern sign writer. The man who could conceive and execute a bulletin sign like this is no mere mechanic, but is well worthy of the name of artist.



The opinion prevails that a much better result might have been secured at equal cost in the decoration of King and Yonge streets on the occasion of the Duke of York's visit. The business men and property owners on these streets consented to an assessment of 90 cents per foot to cover cost of decorations. The decorations consisted of barrels filled with sand placed twenty feet apart with wooden masts about 3 inches in diameter in the centre of each barrel, the barrels and masts being covered with cheese cloth and the masts wreathed with tissue paper. Suspended from the top of these masts were festoons of tissue paper carrying small flags and incandescent lamps. Leaving out of account the festoons between the masts, it will be seen that the cost of the barrels and masts amounted to upwards of $15.00 apiece, for which sum it is believed that it would have been possible to have obtained properly designed masts covered with staff and fitted at the bottom with stands. Whoever was the contract or for the work as carried out must have realized a very handsome profit.

<article title=" PRACTICAL HINTS " author="">

PRACTICAL HINTS.

STRENGTH OF Winding ROPE.—A one and one-eighth inch round steel rope, weighing two pounds per foot, and with a breaking strain of 84,000 pounds, should sustain itself with a length of 42,000 feet before breaking from its own weight. Taking the usual factor of safety of seven, then the safe working length of such a rope would he 6,000 feet. If a weight of three tons is hung on the rope, equivalent to a loaded cage, the maximum length at which such a rope could he used, with a factor of safety of seven, would only be 3,000 feet

	PAPERHANGER'S FOLDING	PASTE BOARD.

<article title=" PAPERHANGER'S FOLDING	PASTE BOARD " author="">

A cheap, light and useful table, as shown in the sketch, can be made in the following manner. Select two planed boards, yellow pines for preference, halt an inch in thickness and about 7 ft. long, as free from knots as possible. At about 9 in, from each end screw from the front side of board ledges, 1/2 in. thick, then select a piece of sound red deal 1/2 in. thick, cut four legs, each 1/2 in. x 1 1/2 in. x ft. long, fix four good





















T hinges to the ledges, as shown in sketch, leaving room for the legs to pass each other when folded in. A useful height for the boards is 2 ft. 6 in., and from the floor at the point where the legs cross, bore a small hole, and put a nut and bolt through to keep it together. This can be removed when necessary. Haying got the table together, proceed with strong butt hinges to connect both the boards, obtain four iron stays and fix on the same, two for the stays about 2 ft. to in. long at hooked end similar to window stays, also two for the ends as shown in sketch, fixing the latter about 9 in. higher than the side stays so as to give greater strength. These can all be so fixed as to fold in with the legs when taken down. To render the



























top secure, fix two staples in the side of ledge and slide an iron rod through the ends of the width of the table, fitting as tightly as possible. This table can be put up in a minute or two and taken down as quickly and it will last for years.



NOTE.



Old London Bridge, around which so many historical incidents and associations linger, is to be widened by 12 feet, to accommodate the ever growing traffic. Statistics show that more than 100,000 persons and 22,-000 vehicles pass over this bridge each day. It is proposed to devote 9 feet of the extra width to the use of foot passengers. The bridge rests on the wooden piles of an older bridge, and soon after it was reared, in the 'thirties of last century, the foundations made an unequal settlement. The defect was put right, and the

present architects are confident that the new burden can be safely added. The alteration is expected to occupy three years and to cost 100,000. 

