<doctype type="text">176	THE ARCHITECT ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



STUDENTS' DEPARTMENT.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION.



At the recent convention of the Architectural League of America, short papers were presented by representatives of the various clubs composing the league, treating of different phases of the subject of the proper education of architects, which had previously been assigned to each club for consideration. For the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club, Mr. Wm. Rae contributed the following as the views of the club on the questions submitted to it, which were

"How much mathematical and engineering training should an architect have ?"

Should design and construction he separated so as to train specialists in each of these lines ?''

(A) . An architect should have as much mathematical and engineering training as will enable him to solve, by means of fomulas derived from the experimental research of scientific experts, every problem the erection of a modern building may involve in the safe and economical use of the materials of its construction, including steel construction, heating, lighting, ventilation and sanitation.

In considering this question we have borne in mind the difference between education and merely a knowledge of the expedients of modern practice, for these expedients vary so much in different localities and change so from time to time, so many men devising their own, and ever learning fresh ones, that we think no rule may he laid down concerning them.

The use of formulas and tables thus derived we think one of the most justifiable expedients of modern Practice.

The architect's work is the harmonious association of all the crafts, which harmony can only be considered complete when the possibilities of each craft in relation to the whole arc perfectly developed, and to do this a knowledge of the nature and functions of every material used is necessary.

(B). Design and construction should not be separated, so as to train specialists in each of these lines, because a specialist is one who, in addition to the ordinary knowledge of his craft, acquires a special knowledge of one line, not one who has acquired a knowledge of one line only of the general knowledge of his craft.

Design in architecture is surely, as seen in the study of the highest design—the human figure—constructing beautifully. Certainly, thc most intellectual part of the aesthetic satisfaction derived from the contemplation of the human figure. comes from the perception of the harmonious grace of its constructional requirements.

Could we imagine a figure built up of compression members covered with tension-members and concealed beneath a coat of ornament ?

What we understand by architectural design has to be based upon the use of some material to what material shall we limit it ? Stone and wood only ? We do not know what the material of the future may lie there may he no stone or wood. Times change, and we must change with them.

<article title=" EXAMINATIONS AT THE ECOLE DES BEAUX-ARTS " author="">

EXAMINATIONS AT THE ECOLE DES BEAUX-ARTS.

The spring entrance examinations of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts are unlike any others outside of Paris. For six months previously, says the London Architectural Record, the ateliers or studios are filled with men preparing for these examinations. Early on the chosen day the streets in the Quarter are filled with men carrying drawing boards and other utensils, and when at eight o'clock the gates of the Ecole are thrown open hundreds of young men file in, shouting at the top of their voices. As his name is called each goes past thc guard and up the stairs to the little rooms, or loges, to secure a place in which to do his work. These loges are about 10 feet by 12 feet each, and hold six men comfortably. They are by no means ideal working-rooms, being dirty and ill-lighted, and opening off a long narrow passage; altogether they are about as uninspiring as one can imagine.

To the average person the idea of an examination suggests an ordinary room, presided over by a dignified professor with the utmost quiet prevailing, so that one can almost hear the scratch of the pencil. Who can picture an examination held while hundreds of men are singing, whistling or yelling and running up and down a passage ? Yet this is just what happens at the Beaux-Arts when the men are making the sketches of a given subject (required to be completed in twelve hours) which determine whether or not they shall enter the greatest architectural school in the world.

The uproar is constant, the noise deafening. From the moment the men assemble in the court. till the last one leaves the school at. night this noise is constant. First one set and then another takes it up. One wonders that any work can be done.

At the last examination there were no professors in  sight, only guardians, whose principal occupation seemed to he to sell food and drink to the students and afterwards to dispose of the beer and wine that were left. As a resuit, at about lour o'clock the guardians, who were supposed to see that the men did not make use of books or photographs, were assembled in one of the vacant rooms discussing politics and drinking and adding to the noise made by the students.

But notwithstanding all the apparent drawbacks the drawings were being made. After studying all the morning on the schemes, most of the men would eat and then start on the finished sketches. As time went on and darkness set in out came candles, for there is no gas or electric light in the rooms and about six o'clock some of the men handed in their finished work. Others, a little pressed for time, would be working with a will to finish before it was too late. When a party of visitors make their appearance at the door of this loge the busy one would call out " Charette " And this would be respected) for it means, I am in a hurry ; need all my time. Don't bother me." At eight the guardians collected the drawings most of which were completed. Then the men went out, still shouting.

On Sunday thc professors went over all the drawings and marked them. On Monday afternoon the results were announced. As early as 4 p.m. hundreds of men assembled in thc court of the Ecole to wait until the doors were opened at seven. If noise prevailed before it was nothing compared with that which now was heard. With nothing, to do but wait, and with every nerve strained in expectation, it is perhaps excusable if the 500 young men let themselves loose.

Finally the doors of the great hall were thrown open and the men crowded in. The noise was stilled in an instant, and one could almost have heard a pin drop as the names of the men and the marks they received were called out. Thus the examination was conducted.



Salisbury Cathedral has the same number of windows as there are days in the year, is built in the early English style. They are triple windows, formed from an elegant combination of three lancets:

As many days as in one year there be,

So many windows in this church we see;

As many marble pillars here appear,

As there are hours throughout the fleeting year

As many gates as moons one year does view— Strange tale to tell I yet not more strange than true.'



In the United States and also in Europe efforts are being put forth to secure the enactment of laws to provide for the examination and licensing of architects. The Council of the Society of Architects of London, in view of the Bill for the Registration of Architects now before the British Parliament, have held a series of meetings of architects in various towns throughout Scotland. Similar meetings have been held throughout England to ascertain the attitude of the architects on this important subject. The meetings were open to the public. With the growth and success of the movement for registration in other countries, should eventually come the amendments which are required to make the Ontario Architects' Act a workable and useful measure.

