<doctype type="text">

colors we cannot give commercial names, because the manufacturers have their own fancy name for each, and it is best to order simply aniline soluble in water, designating the color wanted, as black, red, green, blue, violet, brown, yellow, &c. The stains so produced can be mixed to give the various effects for imitating natural wood or any fanciful effect desired, and by adding a small portion of vinegar may be kept from mould and also from fading too quickly.

<article title=" BIRCH STAIN " author="">

BIRCH STAIN.



1.	One ounce of bichromate of potash is dissolved in pint of boiling water, allowed to cool, and, if too

strong, diluted with more water.

2.	One ounce alizarine yellow ground up in water to creamy consistency, then diluted with 1/2 pint of boiling water. Strain when cool, and add a tablespoonful of good vinegar. If too strong dilute with water.

<article title=" CHERRY STAIN " author="">

CHERRY STAIN.



This can be made in various ways, and we give several different recipes as follows

1.	Equal parts, say, lb. each of burnt and raw Italian sienna of good rich transparency, ground very line in water, mixed thoroughly with gal. of water and 1 gill of vinegar.

2.	One pound of good bright Venetian red ground in water and thinned with 3 pints of weak glue size will serve very well as a stain for cheap work. If the wood is very soft, add more glue size.

3.	Boil in a brass or copper kettle 6 oz. annotto in

gal. of water until the water shows a reddish color, then add 1/2 oz. of potash or a similar quantity of concentrated lye, and keep the kettle on a slow fire for 15 minutes longer, set away to cool, when it is ready for use with a brush or sponge.

4.	One ounce alizarine yellow and oz. Eosine G dissolved in 1 pint of boiling water. When cold, add 2 tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. Before using try the stain, and, if too strong, dilute with water to obtain the desired effect. Should the effect be too red, mix enough aniline brown stain with it to suit fancy.



ASH STAIN.

<article title=" ASH STAIN " author="">

Ash is so close to light oak that it can be imitated with the stains suggested for light oak, the bichromate of potash solution being best for the purpose.

ROSEWOOD STAIN.



1.	Three-quarters of a pound of rose pink, 1/4 lb. genuine ivory black, ground fine in water and thinned with 1/2 gal. of water and gill of vinegar.

2.	Boil 1 lb. of logwood chips in gal. water for three hours and apply the stain warm.

3.	One ounce Eosine G, 1/2 oz. aniline black (usually called nigrosine) dissolved in 1/2 gal. hot water, to which is added on cooling, gill of vinegar.

<article title=" BRITISH COLUMBIA " author="">BRITISH COLUMBIA.

A correspondent writes that a number of important buildings, including a new public library, warehouses and Methodist church are in progress in Vancouver at present. Man dwellings are in an unfinished condition owing to the rainy season having set in, yet others are being commenced. Our correspondent adds, however, that there is not enough work to keep the local contractors busy, consequently competition is very keen and prices little if any above the safety point.

<article title=" PROPOSED PLUMBING BY-LAW FOR LONDON, ONT." author="">

The City Council of London have given a proposed plumbing by-law its first reading, and it is expected to be finally passed and to be put into operation at an early date. The subject has been up for consideration several times during the last three years, but action thereon was deferred. The London Advertiser says

"When the city's sewage system was submitted to the Provincial Board of Health for approval, that approval was granted, subject to this condition—that the city should pass a proper plumbing by-law. In preparing this by-law the best features of the model by-law of the Provincial Board of Health, the New York by-law. and a by-law prepared by the Ontario Plumbers' Association were combined. It was then revised by the city engineer, and the engineer of the waterworks, and ought to contain all the points that are essential. it was then submitted to the council by Dr. Campbell, but at the beginning of each year it was referred to committee and buried with other business that the aldermen did not wish to tackle.

"The reason has been that it was thought by some desirable to have a plumbing inspector to enforce the by-law ; and there were difficulties in the way of appointing such an officer.

"The regulations of the by-law are two-fold. They provide the material and method of construction, so as to produce the best sanitary results, and, at the same time, insure for the property-holder good material and work for his money. For example, it determines what kind of pipes shall be used for drains and how the)' shall be laid, with the style of traps best suited the minimum size of soil pipes and material of which they are to be made ; character of water-closets in houses and how they should be ventilated ; the manner of making connections in plumbing ; the proper ratio of size to weight in different kinds of pipe used the manner of jointing pipes, arid other particulars.

In order to insure the enforcement of the by—law, it is provided that when a plumber has a job to do he shall apply to the city engineer for a permit, and shall submit the plans and specifications of his work. If they conform to the regulations, the permit is granted. The architect should see to it that the plans are carried out. Of course, if there is no architect, it might be said the property-owner would be at the mercy of the plumber, because there could be no official inspector. But the danger will not be great. Any plumber will be willing to live up to the regulations when he knows that they apply to everyone ; and, if he should not, he becomes subject to the penalties of the by—law as soon as his defects are discovered. It might be better to have an inspector, but, even without that official, it is well to have the rules laid down and the defaulting plumber made subject to law."





The following method of constructing a concrete tank, given by an English correspondent, may perhaps be of interest to some of our readers A round hole is dug, say 6 feet in diameter and 10 feet deep, and the bare earth is rendered with cement, the only bricks used being in the crown. These tanks can be constructed cheaply, they rarely fail, and they are durable. Some have been in use for sixty years.

