<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE MERCHANTS' BANK OF CANADA, WINNIPEG " author="">THE MERCHANTS' BANK OF CANADA, WINNIPEG

The extraordinary progress made by this ENERGETIC western city prompted the Merchants' Bank to be in the very van of business, and with the fullest faith in the permanence of this progressive movement, decided to erect a substantial 8-storey fire-proof bank and office building, on a splendid SITE at the corner of Main and Lombard streets.

The designing of this important work was entrusted to Mr. Andrew T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., architect, of Montreal, who has designed many bank buildings throughout the Dominion. Most of the ground floor is occupied by the bank, and the other floors are all laid Out as offices. The subsoil in Winnipeg is a somewhat soft clay, and as this is probably thc heaviest building for its area that has been erected there, special precautions had to be taken with the foundations.

The ground storey of fine enamelled creamy white Indiana limestone on a plinth of granite above that the storeys are of a toned red pressed brick from St. Paul, with a great deal of stone dressings, and surmounted by a very elaborate and handsome ornamental copper cornice.

The banking room is handsomely finished in antique oak and marble, and has an ornate and rich elliptical arched ceiling. The floor is of ornamental mosaic, and the large windows afford magnificent light. The vaults are strongly and elaborately built, and nothing has been spared to make the building complete in every respect. Two electric elevators supplied by The Fensom Elevator Co. of Toronto, give rapid service to the offices. The elevator enclosures are of very handsome ornamental design, being of specially designed rot, metal and finished in antique brass.

The staircase is of iron and marble. The entrance is lined with rich marbles. The staircase goes up to the roof, and as this is the highest building in Winnipeg, a very extended view is obtained of the city and surrounding country. The offices are finely finished in hardwood, with plate glass windows and hardwood floors.

The general contractors were Messrs. Black & Co., of Winnipeg The bank fittings were executed by the Canadian Office & School Furniture Co., of Preston, from designs by the architect. Mr. Frank Peters, of Winnipeg, and Mr. Robert Wilson, have very efficiently superintended the work.



The Milton Pressed Brick company, limited

Architectural terra cotta, ornamental brick

Milton, Ontario



The Canada Paint Company, limited

"Elephant" brand of White lead paint

Montreal and Toronto



The Vokes Hardware Company, limited

Office, bank, and house hardware

Toronto