<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" A MASONRY SPECIFICATION " author="">A MASONRY SPECIFICATION.



The Committee on Masonry of the <assoc>American Railway Engineering and Maintenance of Way Association</assoc>, in a recent report to that body submit the following general definition of masonry

"Masonry, in its widest sense, includes all constructions of stone or kindred substitute materials, in which the separate pieces



are either carefully placed together, with or without cementing material to join them, or, if the pieces are not separately placed with care, are encased in a matrix of firmly cementing material.''



The committee also submit the following form of specification

<article title=" DESCRIPTION OF STONE MASONRY " author="">DESCRIPTION OF STONE MASONRY.



All Stones used for masonry shall be sound, durable, well seasoned From sources approved of by the engineer, and shall be laid on their natural beds.

Mortar, for laying up stone masonry, unless otherwise expressly stated, hall consist as follows Either one l)art by volume measured loose of approved Portland cement to three

parts of good, sharp sand, or one part of approved natural cement to two parts good, sharp sand, all to he very carefully measured and mixed, and to be used within one hour after mixing, and always before it shall have commenced to set.

Mortar, for pointing, shall consist of one part Port land cement to one or two Parts of sand.

(Space for additions.)



Finished copings, parapets bridge—seats and other finely dressed special stones—Work that comes under this head shall be of selected stone, of the best quality, free from detects, shall he very accurately cut, being finely bush—hammered where called for, and as per plan and dimensions given. To be laid to 3/8-inch joints.



(Space for additions).

<article title=" FIRST-CLASS MASONRY " author="">FIRST-CLASS MASONRY.



First-class masonry will be laid in Portland cement mortar, in regular courses, each stone being carefully cleaned and dampened, if desirable, before setting. The face stones shall be rock faced, with edges pitched to a straight line, and no projections exceeeding 3 inches. A draft line, 2 inches wide, shall be cut at each angle in the masonry. The beds throughout and the joints for 12 inches hack from the face shall be dressed to lay to ½-inch joints. No course shall be less than 2 or more than 30 inches in thickness except the coping, and the thickness of any course shall not exceed the course below it. Stretchers shall not be less than 3 feet long, and not less than 18 inches wide, nor in average width than 1¼ times their height, and at no single place less in width than height.



Headers must not he less than 4 feet long, where the wall is of sufficient thickness, and the majority shall exceed that length. Where the wall is not over 5 feet thick, they shall extend entirely through the wall. Headers will extend at least 20 inches beyond the width of the adjacent stretchers. The usual arrangement shall consist of headers and stretchers, alternately arranged, so as to thoroughly bond together the face stones and the backing for rare exceptions, two stretchers will be allowed to one header, by special permission, to cover each such case. The stones of each course of the face must break joints at least one foot with those of the course below. No hammering will he allowed on any stone after it is set. Each stone must be set upon a full bed of fresh mortar, the broadest bed down and brought to a firm and level bearing without spalls or pinners.



 <article title=" BACKING " author="">BACKING



The backing shall consist of large-size, well-shaped stones laid in full mortar beds and breaking joints so as to thoroughly bond the work together. The spaces between the larger stones shall not be over 6 inches in width and shall he thoroughly filled with small stones and spalls laid flat, and all spaces flushed with mortar or good cement grout. The courses shill correspond with the face stone, but may be





<firm>Canada Foundry Company, limited</firm>

Ornamental iron department, wrought iron fences

Toronto, Ontario



