<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="The O.A.A. Convention" author="">The <assoc>0.A.A. </assoc>Convention

condemnation of the main building, open up chances that a good landscape designer might turn to good account; and before the ground plan of the Fair is fixed for another period, by the erection of the new buildings, the block plan should be carefully considered by the architects, if necessary with expert assistance. In all important undertakings in which the treatment of grounds is involved, the best results appear to proceed from a joint committee of architects and a landscape architect.





The annual meeting of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> was attended, with three exceptions, entirely by

Toronto members. The meeting was entirely harmonious and there were indications of increased sympathy with the educational objects, which were a principal theme of the Convention. The Council and Committees have evidently done a good deal of work during the year in arranging the scheme of subject matter and classes, and in actual tuition. The principal lack appears to be in students. The wedding is read y but they that are hidden appear to be not worthy. It seems a pity that there is no power to compel them to come in. If the special committee of the Legislature, which threw out the bill to make membership of the Association the only way to practise architecture had attended the meeting on Tuesday afternoon, they would perhaps think that an Association which has kept on its educational work without the powers it asked for might well have been entrusted with those powers.



There was no doubt nothing altogether new in the papers of <person>Prof. Capper </person>and <person>Prof. Laird</person>. If there had been we should perhaps have had less cause to praise them. They represented the standard ideas of the present time in their subjects ; speaking with authority, as men in a position to know, and in a position which requires them to know, what are not only high but practical aims in these matters. They helped Toronto efforts in the way of confirmation and encouragement from without, and the Association did well in inviting others than members of the Association to come and hear them.



<article title=" AMERICAN STAINED GLASS " author="">AMERICAN STAINED GLASS.



Is American stained glass an improvement to a church'? A window has recently been inserted in <building>St. James' Cathedral in Toronto</building>, which raises the question acutely. The disagreeable wall-eyed appearance the opalescent glass gives on the outside is a general objection to the use of American glass, but in the case of St. James' there are particular reasons why, for considerations of inside effect, it should not be used. One of the beauties of this church is the abundant light coming from the aisle windows which light indeed is a necessity, for the nave seats are dependent upon it

If the scheme, of which the new north east aisle window is a beginning, is carried out, this characteristic of St. James' will be gone, and we shall have instead an area of gloom provided apparently for the display of a series of illuminated pictures along the sides of the church. The practical discomfort will be intolerable, but it is the artistic loss that is to be most deplored. Any one looking at the church with a seeing eye can even now note the difference between the present effect

and a future in the gloom of American glass. The shafting of the columns and the lines of the woodwork are now touched with light from the aisle windows so as to delight the eye. The carving of the cedar organ cases was beautiful under the side light that each received. Now only one is touched with light ; the other under the immediate influence of the new window has

















































lost that charm ; indeed the carving is not strong enough to stand the test of dull and diffused lighting.

One can but look forward with regret to the gradual extinction throughout the church of its principal source of beauty. The windows themselves will be among the features which suffer. The glass alone is not the measure of the window. The arch, inside of which the











































lancets are grouped, gives the real size of the window as intended by the designers ; and it is essential to the design that there should be light enough to let the relieving arch and its quoined jambs be seen. All this will be upset if American glass is introduced, by the submergence of these details in the general gloom. The windows which it is intended to beautify will

