<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATIONS " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATIONS.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not bold himself responsible fur the expressions or opinions of correspondents but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions to issue following their appearance.]







From another ''Subscriber."—In your answer to a subscriber last month explaining how to lay tiles, I think you did not go far enough with the explanation. All you said on the subject was correct, but was hardly enough to satisfy the requirements of a man who had













<article title=" TILES LAID IN CONCRETE AND SUB-FLOOR " author="">

FlG. 1 TILES LAID IN CONCRETE AND SUB-FLOOR





never had any experience in tile laying, and if you will grant me space I will endeavor to add a few more useful suggestions to what has already been said Where the whole floor is to be laid in tiles, and the building is a new one, the joists on which the tiles are to be laid, should be set at least five inches below the intended finished line, and should he spaced about 1 2 inches apart and thoroughly bridged, so as to make a stiff floor. The joists should then be covered with sound one inch hoards, from three to six inches wide. These boards should be left about 1-8 of an inch apart, so that the swelling of the boards will not buckle them, and they should be well nailed to the joists. A layer of heavy tarred paper should the!) be put 01) the boards, which will have the effect of preventing the moisture from getting on the hoards. I show in Fig. how the work should be done where a sub-floor is employed as described above. Concrete of the proper kind is then laid on the sub-floor to the right thickness; the concrete should consist of one part of Portland cement, two parts of clean sharp sand, and two parts of clean























<article title=" TILES LAID ON BEVELED JOISTS AND FLOOR " author="">

FIG. 2.—- TILES LAID ON BEVELED JOISTS AND FLOOR.





gravel, the whole thoroughly mixed—while dry- and the!) sufficient water put in to form a hard solid mass. This must be placed on the sub-floor and beaten down into a solid bed, and should be from 2½ to 3 inches thick; if it can be made a little over three inches thick, so much the better. Never use ordinary lime mortar in any shape when preparing a bed for tiles. The surface of the concrete must be level-and finished to within one inch of the finished floor surface, when tiles one half inch thick are to be used, which will leave a space of one half inch for cement mortar, which must be composed of the very best quality of Portland cement, and clean sharp sand in equal quantities. The thickness of the tiles will govern the thickness of the layer of cement mortar. 'The tiles may then be laid in accordance with the rules given last month. If tiles are to be laid in old buildings, then cleats must be nailed to

joists five inches below the intended finished floor line, and short pieces of boards laid 1/8 of an inch apart must be fitted in between the joists upon the cleats and well nailed, and the joists thoroughly bridged as shown in Fig. 2. The corners of the upper edges of the joists should he chambered off to a sharp edge as shown, as the flat surfaces of the joists would give an uneven foundation. If the joists are of sufficient strength to admit of trimming them down an inch, so much the better. If the joists are weak, it is a good plan to nail well cleats on each side of them. When the foundation is prepared as described, proceed to finish as directed as for the sub-floor. The contractor is more often called upon to lay tiles in hearths and vestibules, than for floors, and it may not

























FIG. 3.—ARCHED AND TILED HEARTH.





be out of place to give a few hints regarding doing such work. As far as vestibules or entrances are concerned, the rules already given will apply but with hearths, conditions are a little different. The best hearths are laid on a brick arch as shown at Fig. 3, and which requires no further explanation, as putting in the concrete and the cement mortar is the same in all cases. The diagram shows the manner of construction When no brick arch is employed, the method shown in Fig. 4 will answer the purpose fairly well. In this case, the sub-floor should be formed of two inch planks ; as ordinary boards would be too weak to carry the work, and the weight to which the floor would likely be subjected. It is needless to say that the work in every case should be honest at)d strong. The cost of laying tiles varies somewhat for labor done, but ordinary work may be done in towns near Toronto for from $1.50 to

























FIG. 4.—HEARTH LAID IN CONCRETE AND PLANK.





$2 per yard super. For ornamental or figured tiles and mosaics a much greater price will be demanded.



These prices, are of course for labor only. The tiles themselves vary in price according to style and quality. English tiles are much the better, and wear better than American tiles, but cost more. The American tile, however, does good service and looks well.

