<doctype type="text">the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



weak edition will be left to tackle the joint between frame and brickwork. Moreover, I have shown in most cases the frame-sill throated and projecting over the stone sill, the weathering of which is taken back behind that throat (1, 1, 1, A, B and c), another suggestion by <person>Mr. Douglas</person>.

To come, now, to the different types of windows. First, sash windows These as generally constructed, keep out the water fairly well but for incessant rattling in a wind, just when you want to go to sleep, nothing can compete with a sash window. The sashes have shrunk in thickness, and there is now unnecessary space for them between parting slip and lining or bead. Slips of oak, or felt or leather (h h, sheet A) fixed in an existing window might stop the rattle. If they did, they would prevent the sashes being opened, so you

But all this means a window shut tight—an abomination at least in a bedroom. However, fairly large slots in the meeting-rails, which could be closed with little shutters, might be adopted. I have shown a great number of "water hollows" (as they are called

''air hollows" would be a better word—m, in, m ; A, B and c). These help considerably in keeping out draught and the weather generally. Any wet that gets to them is carried down at once in the case of jambs, gets down as soon as it can in the case of sills, while in the heads it slips out of the holes drilled for that purpose. The greater object, however of these hollows is the air-cushion which they form. This prevents forced air from making any progress. Those air hollows marked n, n, n on sheets A, B and c are emergency hollows so that in case of bad fitting the winds that



































































<article title=" CASEMENT WINDOWS OPENING OUT SHEET B " author="">CASEMENT WINDOWS OPENING OUT SHEET B.



might as well screw the sashes up altogether. However carefully the sashes are made, however well-seasoned the wood may be of which they are made, either they will rattle or they will not slide (at least after rain). The great thing is to press both sashes tight against the parting slip, it struck me the other day that the slope of the sill would help the lower sash to hug the parting bead if the sash could be constantly pressed down, and the slope made steeper than usual (j, A) ; similarly a fillet (k, A) in the head would help the upper sash if constantly pressed up. All we want now, is a wonderful fastener which will, at one and the same time, push down the lower sash, push up the upper sash and pull the meeting rails tight together. 