<doctype type="text;ad">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" HOLLOW WALLS OF ARTIFICIAL. STONE " author="Palmer, Harmon">HOLLOW WALLS OF ARTIFICIAL. STONE.



Mr. Harmon S. Palmer of Washington, D. C., was one of the first men in America to foresee the merits and possibilities of Portland cement in the construction of buildings, and for the last fifteen years has been exclusively engaged in cement building. About eleven years ago he devised the Palmer Hollow Block process which lie has improved on at different times since. Mr. Palmer realized that the great strength of Portland Cement did away with the necessity of a solid wall and that hollow walls were cheaper and more sanitary. These were the fundamental ideas. He advanced the art step by step from the first crude and cumbersome way of moulding between planks and then building with solid bricks, until now but one single operation is  necessary.



The time required for laying these blocks is one - third less than the time required for laying brick, and the mortar required is far less.



With the use of hollow concrete building blocks, the sanitary conditions are claimed to be superior to those of any solid wall as the outside resists the rain and dries quickly, while a solid wall often remains damp all winter. The hollow space affords facilities for inserting gas and water-pipes, electric wires, speaking tubes, ventilators, etc., thus cheapening construction.



One part of Portland Cement and five parts of sand are used to make the concrete. The blocks may he made where the building is erected, only a few days being necessary for them to harden sufficiently for use. One skilled hand alone is sufficient to superintend the work which can be done by ordinary laborers. One block is equivalent to some forty bricks; the saving in labor, time and mortar is evident. Then again, the wall being hollow, an air space is provided and there is no need of lathing, the finishing plaster being applied directly to the inner face of the wall.

Thomas McLaughlin, Secretary-Treasurer Raven Lake Portland Cement Company, Limited 16 King St. West, Toronto, is the sole authorized agent for the Dominion of Canada for the sale of Palmer's Patent Hollow Concrete Building Block Machinery and Process and the Right to use the same in exclusive territory.





NOTES.



Recent excavations at the Phillipsburg Railway and Quarry Company's quarry at Stanbridge Que., are said to have disclosed the existence of large quantities of stone for dimension, bridge, monumental and decorative purposes.



A recent visitor from China to Toronto, states that a great deal of building is going on in Hong Kong, with an active demand for structural steel and other building material that could be supplied by Canada if a steel plant was in operation on the Pacific coast.



The Royal Academy has made an appeal to its members and to the public for subscriptions towards the rebuilding of the Cam mile at Venice. We are disposed to join in the protest made by the London Architectural Record, against the panile of rebuilding the structure in the original style instead of making it as our contemporary expresses it "a product of its own time in its design."



The automobile has attained considerable popularity in Toronto, where the asphalt pavements amid easy gradients are extremely favorable to its use. Quite a number of the new residences constructed this year have automobile stables attached. No doubt in the near future these will be regarded as necessary adjuncts to all residences of a certain, value.





Raven Lake Portland Cement Company, limited

Sole authorized dealer in Canada for Palmer's Patent Hollow Concrete Building Blocks

Toronto, and Washington, D.C.



A.	W. Adams

Automatic Self-Locking Sash Lock

Toronto



Imperial Veneer Company, limited

Veneers for paneling, wainscotting, flooring, cabinet work

Toronto, Ontario, 

Mill at Sundridge, Ontario



