<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



training, where a student, be he never so willing, can at best but pick up" desultory fragments of the subject. In a busy office

each assistant is bound to have his special work allotted to him, without reference to his own requirements as a student or, if he be a beginner, all around him are too anxious to have him show that he can bc of some use to them, to think of his own immediate studies as the matter of first importance to himself Travel and study are an alternative, but 1 do not think they are of the most effective service till a student has both learned what to see and how to see it and both these require the previous training which systematic study of design can best give.

As against this academic instruction, it has been urged that such a course of training will stifle genius—a charge which need not, I think be very seriously refuted ; no sincere education can so fail of its primary object namely , to '' draw out'' the faculties and develop them, is to succeed in stifling the superior powers that we call genius and secondly that it will tend to create a dead level of correct mediocrity dull and wholly lacking the freshness of untrained spontaneity '[his, too, appears to me hardly to need refuting The efforts of untrained spontaneity are not generally I fear much more successful in design than in painting or in sculpture in architecture they too often lead to a wholly unregenerate straining after originality, that appeals successfully neither to reason nor to good taste. Nod academic training fully justifies itself, it  succeed in making mediocrity less wayward controlling its vagaries and sparing us those frantic abortions in design that remain a lasting instrument

potent for evil—in vitiating public taste.

I would not he thought for a moment to speak slightingly of originality no gift can Lie more precious. Hut originality in  architecture is not to be attained through the medium of blatant disregard of accepted forms of architectural expression It is  rather it seems to me, to be attained more modestly by absolute sincerity in design coupled with, or rather dominated by , that rare gift, the imaginative power that naturally expresses itself in form or composition it is beautiful, not ugly. The French use the phrase "voir en beau" or " en laid," to express this faculty, or its opposite One man will "see," or realize to himself, a design under a form that naturally lends itself to beauty of line or mass or composition in the hands of another, on the con-trary the same idea will be embodied under forms that are less pleasing, artistically not satisfying. But I cannot think that the former will risk any loss to this admirable faculty, if he seek to educate his powers along the lines I have endeavored to suggest; while the latter may at least have the asperities of. diction modified by familiarity with established and well accepted forms.



Perhaps few great architects have shown more striking originality in design than Sir Christopher Wren, in the wonderful series of churches with which h lie enriched London during nearly halt' a century after the great fire of 1666 Of them all the great cathedral of St Paul's is assuredly his master—piece, I suppose the most beautiful and imposing church that the Protestant faith has raised in its final form, it is a triumph of academic discipline over daring, hut not successful, amateurish spontaneity. Those of you who are familiar with the design as originally approved—in <person>King Charles l</person>warrant, it is declared to be " very artificial, proper, and useful' will recall the really grotesque design for the central dome. "A nightmare conception," it has been called, "of two domes and a telescope steeple. It is even surpassed in grotesque extravagance by an earlier scheme of Wren's for the reconstruction of Old St. Paul's, in which a dome was to he ''surmounted by a huge open-work pine-apple, 68 feet high, of monstrous and horrible design". Yet the dome of <building>St. Paul's</building>, as actually erected, is one of' the most beautiful in existence its most conspicuous characteristic being, as has well been said, "its magnificent sanity'.

The reason for this astounding aberration of England's greatest architect is, probably, simply the lack of academic training. Wren entered upon the practice of architecture as an amateur, and, genius though he was he never wholly overcame this lack of preparation for his great career ; in St. Paul's itself, for which the long series of London churches was <person>Wren</person>'s very wonderful preliminary' study-ground there are still minor blemishes in spite of years of patient study——it is idle to deny- them—that seem only' the result of this want of training in classical design.



Originality' does not then, I take it, imply departure from traditional forms in architecture so much as honest, unaffected and gracious use of them in sincere application to the requirements of modern building. Hence it is said that I do not give my 'adhesion to these who would try to cut themselves admit from the architecture of past times in order to he "modern." Not from ignorance, but from full and critical knowledge of the past can we create a tradition for the present

It is idle to seek to evoke a ''modern style " in the sense in which ''Gothic" or ''French Renaissance" were styles at different periods of French architectural history, when builders —both designers and workmen-were all familiar with certain current forms and methods and were restricted to these alone. With our immensely fuller knowledge, we cannot be so restricted, it we would. We can express ourselves in many ways in solution of the same problem, whereas in earlier times one, current, way only' of expression was known and, therefore, consistently- practiced. And modern architecture gains in this immensely' fuller vocabulary, so to speak, if wisely', not extravagantly', used.

The historical study of architecture consequently forms the natural basis for architectural Only by' knowing the best that has been done can we do the best that can he done to—day. Study of architecture in the past should not, if rightly guided, cad to mere archaeological copying or repetition in our work to-

day ; but it should, if its lessons are properly' learned and its teaching taken truly as our inspiration bring home to us the best that the past has clone and set before tins an ideal that will serve us as both a standard and stimulus to solve our modern problems as honestly and well. Only out of full and loyal knowledge of past tradition can we to-day' hope to achieve in our work results that will be as true and as expressive of our modern life.

In the course in architecture which I have had the privilege of planning out and developing at McGill University', I have sought to give effect to this conception The full curriculum embraces four years, of' which the first is preliminary , devoted chiefly to Mathematics, Physical Science and Drawing, with the very useful addition of practical instruction in the workshops, designed to impart some knowledge of the nature of materials of construction, to familiarize the student with the more important tools, an and to give him some manual skill in their use. Only in m the second year is the more special work in time different departments of architecture and engineering begun with us.

I need not dwell upon all of the work in detail I apologize for intruding myself upon you in this direct way. I desire only to emphasize time main conception that has guided me iii the organization of the architectural course.

In the first of the three remaining years the teaching is chiefly devoted to a rapid survey of architectural history from ancient Egyptian to modern times, touching successively' upon the great eras of European civilization amid tracing the evolution of architectural styles in their constructional forms and methods.

The student is thus placed in touch, so far as may be, with time broad lines of his subject, and the present is linked with the

past in continuous development. 'this, it seems to me, should hove an important influence on the student's attitude ; for, fascinating though the archaeological side of' architecture may' he, it is not as archaeology but as architecture that time modern student should regard it.

In conjunction with these historical lectures, a course on the elements of effect architecture and time main principles underlying the two great divisions of architectural sty-he, the classic and the gothic, naturally, I think, arises ; for want of a better name that called it Elements of Architecture And from the first, so soon as the student has acquired a little familiarity' with the more obvious means of architectural expression, such as the Classical Orders, (which remain, I think, time best primer, so to speak, time most reasonable and effective introduction to architectural form), he is set to express himself' in elementary' design of plant and building.

In the next year time historical course is devoted to a study in detail of the architecture of the Renaissance clown to modern times in amplification of the earlier general course, while both third and fourth year students take together the more special courses.  These comprise detailed study of ecclesiastical, domestic and public architecture the lectures still dealing with the historic evolution of architectural styles and with the problems and requirements of modern work. A course is also give in upon general art  history, so as to place the architectural student in touch not only with the decorative details of the different styles of architecture, butt also with contemporary forms in other branches of art, especially the decorative arts employed in building

I have only mentioned time sub bearing on design, as the central theme round which, in my opinion, architectural study' can best he developed in an university course 1 have perhaps spoken at too great length already of thc work of my own department at <building>McGill University </building>; it so I again apologize Butt I have stud scarcely anything of that other side of architecture, construction for which the scientific training of an university course offers very direct and effective preparation. For modern construction in its more recent progress touches engineering in

of calculation and in its accuracy of design

its completeness	- 

And again let me guard against the charge of disregarding time practical training needed



In an university course it is not possible, nor is it attempted, to supersede that side of training from,

' professional practice which is only fully' to be gained by- practical employment office amid on works This, time more business side of professional work, must always be learned in actual employment under time conditions obtaining in every-clay life. Amid such practical knowledge of the work before him should, whenever possible, be acquired by' the student concurrently with time higher training flue university' offers, by seeking, during his free months, employment in connection with works in operation or in progress of execution

This training is manifestly of the greatest importance for the equipment of he student Butt, necessary as this

complete	in practical training is, arm university course can tumid does provide for something more, for a thorough grounding the principles upon

which professional practice is  ultimately based, an education which can hardly ever be otherwise at all adequately- acquired

 but which, though too often hacking, is essential for attaining the best and highest work in architecture In design and composition—the key note of the art of architecture-success depends for the most part out the dime training of the critical aesthetic faculties ; and for such training the education offered in an university course is very directly and specially adapted for most, the surest ; for many the only road.

I have limited this paper to time consideration of but one side of academic education ; I hate had hut time to mention time other, the training on time mathematical and engineering sidle which is so important a factor in the modern very wonderful development of constructional engineering; the consideration of

