<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" EXPERIMENTS WITH FIRE-PROOFED WOOD " author="">EXPERIMENTS WITH FIRE-PROOFED WOOD. A series of tests of wood TREATED with various fire-PROOFING processes was carried out recently at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology under the direction of the new Insurance Engineering Experiment Station. According to the New York Times, in general temperature of thirty-five hundred degrees Fahrenheit seems to have reduced both treated and untreated wood to charcoal rapidly and easily, both of them blazing while exposed to the heat, although the treated wood ceased to blaze in a few seconds after being removed from the furnace, while untreated wood continued to flame for several minutes. In another experiment, intended to test the comparative resistance of the two kinds of wood to this temperature, it was found that it took about a minute longer to reduce the treated wood to charcoal than the untreated wood. At lower temperatures the fireproofing treatment appeared to be more effective. At eighteen hundred degrees Fahrenheit both the treated and untreated woods blazed and were reduced to charcoal; but when simply dropped on a red-hot iron plate the pieces of treated wood

merely charred at the point of contact while untreated wood blazed up and was consumed, In the final experiment a block-house was built of pieces of each kind of wood and subjected to fire for five minutes. The treated wood burned where most exposed to the fire, hut not readily, resisting for ten minutes before it fell, while the untreated blocks blazed up, and the structure fell in five minutes, In this test different samples of fireproofed wood were used together, and it was observed that some samples resisted the fire longer than others; but the Times reporter says that some sticks simply painted with fireproof paint "withstood the flame fully as well as the woods treated to a fireproofing solution which soaked through the entire stick". In regard to the question whether the fireproofing imparts any objectionable quality to wood, Professor Norton, the director of the experiment station, said that he had found the treated wood much more injurious to tools than untreated wood, both because it was harder and on account of some chemical action of the fireproofing solution on the steel, which caused the tools to rust very quickly.





The Canadian Bridge company,  limited

Steel buildings, roof trusses

Walkerville, Ontario



A.	W. Adams

B.	Adams' Self-Locking Sash Lock

C.	Toronto



The James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, limited

Gas or electric chandeliers

Toronto



