<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PRINCIPLE AND METHOD " author="Langton, W. A.">PRINCIPLE AND METHOD.



The paper on the Field of Decorative Art, printed on another page. and the discussion which followed the paper, suggest a great want in the literature of architecture. Book upon book has been written upon the historical development of architecture, but always regarding it as a historical document. The sequence of styles is perfectly established, but to whom is it of real use except to historians ! Architects value books on the subject chiefly for their illustrations, and use them, not for the purpose with which the book was written but to help themselves in some way to design modern work. In other words every man, unconsciously or half unconsciously makes for himself, according to his light, rules founded upon the principles of beauty, that is to say the causes of attractiveness, in the buildings he is studying, in order that he may bring into being, not the same design, which he knows to be impossible (if he is experienced), but the same attractiveness, and for the same reason, in his own work. It is needless to say how slow this process is and how ineffectual in many cases, where nevertheless the beauty of the building studied obtains full appreciation. A mind capable of conception is very often not strong in analysis. It wastes time and energy in feeling its way to the results What is necessary to enable it to work rapidly and surely is a framework of principles and method supplied from without This is the real use of the architecture of the past to the architects of the present—as architects; to supply models from which the causes of beauty may be deduced. It is only upon some such scientific basis of design that it is possible to invent with ease. No man can mass design by accident, and it is in massing that design really consists. As all design consists in this, all ages supply matter for its illustration. Yet how little has been said about it. We learn in works on architecture that the Greek pediment was low in pitch, that the Romans pitched their pediments higher and the Gothic designer's gable was highest of all ; but no lesson in design is drawn from this. WE learn in every case merely what the designers of a period did ; and, so far as construction in design is conveyed at all, we are taught only how to carry out historical unity in design. Experience teaches that there is more in preserving historical unity than the

mere avoidance of offence to the eye of the educated. We avoid also offence to the educated eye. A mixture of different historical characteristics is fatal to the harmony of design. Knowing this, but not knowing clearly what is essential and what is not, the wise man goes by his book ; and as he becomes skilled in the styles, comes, as all men do, to enjoy his skill, and love correctness for its own sake. That is to say from hatred of solecism he commits a wholesale solecism every time he builds.

This is not much to show for a faithful study of architecture. There must he more to he got out of it than that, the lesson of the history of architecture should be, not what the past designed, but how it was designed. The beauty of every great example has a reason. To return to the three classes of gables--there is reason, as shown by <person>John Beverley Robinson</person>, for the varying pitch. The Greek front, solid widely spread, is suitably finished with a low pitched gable, while the Roman, more slender and vertical, naturally cocks it up and the Gothic more again. This is the kind of truth we should learn from the history of architecture. To know how to he Greek or how to be Roman or Mediaeval is merely to put one's self in fetters. To know why all three were good is to give one's self the freedom of design in any age—even in our own.

Mr. <person>H. G. Wells</person>, who is so fond of carrying his scientific observations into the future, has, in his new book of "anticipations" about the state of the world in the year 2,000, some speculations about the conditions of building. He is of course heartlessly scientific and says, (I quote at second hand) that he expects the engineers of the future to be the great men of their time, but the architects to be opposed to progress, because they are 'too highly cultured and not sufficiently educated." By ''cultured" he evidently means trained in precedent, and by "educated" trained in science. Making allowances for his scientific point of view, and the probability that his idea of an architect's education is limited to a study of the properties of iron and concrete and sewage, the accusation, whether it is likely to be justified, or not, gives a judicious pointer as to the need of more scientific education for architects in the future ; an education which shall be scientific in all directions ; in design as well as in construction. The constructor has become inventive ; the designer must become inventive too. I am well aware of the horror of lean iron forms, and of the necessity of forming new ideas of beauty, that the idea of architectural invention brings before a well regulated mind. But surely to study the principles of design is the very way to prevent the realization of this horror. There cannot be more than one set of principles of beauty in this world, even if it is possible to conceive of there being another set in any other world. It looks therefore as if to take Mr. Well's advice and devote ourselves more to " education" and less to "culture" is the surest road to making beauty keep company with the necessity that is coming to us of keeping design abreast with construction in our own times.

But a new departure in design is not what this article is about. It is clear that principle and method are the only road to such a departure when it becomes necessary. Culture, in Mr. Wells sense, has already met a Waterloo in the tall buildings of New York. In their case, it is not until the dusk comes on, to obliterate

