<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BUILDING STONE IN THE NORTHWEST " author="">BUILDING STONE IN THE NORTHWEST.



Until recently the impression prevailed that there existed in the Canadian Northwest but little building stone. Investigation has revealed however that extensive deposits of more or less excellent quality, are to be found between Winnipeg and Lake Winnipeg extending as far west as Stonewall and east to Whitemouth Outcroppings are noticeable at Stonewall, Stony Mountain, Little Stony Mountain, Lower Fort Garry and East Selkirk. Stone from these points was used by the Selkirk settlers very soon after their coming to the country. Lower Fort Garry gives evidence of the use of this stone by the Hudson's Bay Company; the Kildo— nan church, and St. Andrew's church at the rapids are later examples. The early tombstones were made of the same material.

The Stonewall quarries have been considerably developed. Those at Stony Mountain have been used very largely for building in connection with the penitentiary The main quarry at little Stony Mountain is owned by the city of Winnipeg and from it enormous quantities of stone have been used on the streets of the city, both as curb and foundation stone and for concrete and macadamizing From the Selkirk quarry has come most of the ornamental stone used in Winnipeg.

Mr. Garson, formerly a contractor of St. Catherines, while erecting some buildings at Rat Portage, searched this territory for a stone which would meet his requirements, and located a deposit of 60 acres about two miles from Tyndall station on the C. P. R. and 29 miles from Winnipeg. He proceeded to develop the quarry and has already taken out 75000 tones of stone from an area of an acre and a half at a depth of less than 20 feet. As to the appearance of the stone, Mr. D. A. Dowling, B. A. Sc., in his report on the geology of the district says " It presents a peculiar mottled appearance, which adds much to its beauty as an ornamental stone. This strange mixture of brown and white is difficult to account for. In some cases it appears as if its origin might be due to seaweed remains. Often the cob re portion approaches the color of yellow ochre and seems impregnated with iron, while the intervening spaces are more or less colored. So marked is this mottled condition that stone from this section can be distinguished at once from other stone in the Lake Winnipeg district."





The death is announced of George Farquhar, a prominent contractor of Toronto.

<article title=" PUBLICATIONS " author="">PUBLICATIONS.



Modern Carpentry — a Practical Manual — by Fred T. Hodgson, Architect; Frederick J. Drake & co., Chicago, publishers.

This new work, by a well known author, consists of 195 pages enclosed within cloth covers, and copiously illustrated It treats in plainly understood language of carpenter's geometry and joiner's work, and gives many practical examples of best methods of performing various kinds of work. The book concludes with a number of useful tattles and memoranda for builders.





The London Builders' Journal tells of a contractor who has carried sleight—of—hand (on a large scale) into the domain of building construction. He was recently building a dozen 'louses, each with a kind of underground kitchen which the local authorities required to he connected with the rooms above by a staircase. Now a dozen staircases are expensive, and it occurred to this enterprising contractor that it would be much more economical to have one only. So he bought a substantial staircase and fitted it up to the first house, got the local inspector to examine it, and obtained his certificate. The staircase was then removed to the second house, where another inspection took place, followed by another certificate, and so on through he whole twelve houses. In the last house the staircase was allowed to remain but-—verb. sap.——in the others its place was taken by a step-ladder.



<firm>The Milton Pressed Brick and Terra Cotta Company, limited</firm>

Pressed brick and architectural terra cotta

Milton, Ontario





<firm>THE





CANADA

PAINT

COMPANY

LIMITED



</firm>Makers of the "elephant" brand of white paint

Montreal and Toronto

