<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



under all circumstances. If the soil is good—that is, solid and strong, with no tinder-lying strata of movable sands or soils, a safe rule for the width of footings for the wall is one and a half times the thickness of the walls of the building to be supported if such a building is not more than three or four stories high; so that if a wall is two feet thick, then the footings should not be less than three feet wide. If the soil is yielding or composed of sand and loam, or gravel and loam, or soil streaked with veins of clay and sandy clay, the width of the footings should be double the thickness of the wall. In some cases it should exceed these thicknesses, but in no case when the walls are over 40 it. high, should the footings be less than from 2 to 4 times the width of the thickness of the wall. Isolated piers for columns or direct weights on small areas need more careful treatment and call for greater skill in deciding on area of base and here no definite rule can be laid down only by proportioning the area of the base to the load to be carried and not exceeding a certain limit. The following rule, however may be used to demonstrate the manner of arriving at the area of the base of a pier on medium good soil:

Height of pier, 20 feet.

Size of pier, 2X2 feet.

<article title=" Material stone and mortar " author="">Material stone and mortar.

What is the safe area for the base, taking the average weight of stone and masonry at 200 pounds to the cubic foot? Rule. —-2 X2 — 4 X2 o" = 8o cubic feet of stone-work. Sq. ft. x 200 lbs. = x 6,000 pounds. Assuming that 15 pounds to the square inch is a safe bearing, we divide 16,000 pounds by 15 and the answer is 1066.10 10 square inches equal to an area of



























FIG. I. STEPPED FOOTINGS.

<article title=" STEPPED FOOTINGS " author="">



about 33X33 inches, or 2'-9"x2'-9". In estimating the weight of a wall only one foot in length should be taken ,—as for instance, a wall is 20 feet high by two feet thick, in every running foot of the wall we have 2 feet, which being multiplied by 20 equals 40 cubic feet, which, in turn, being multiplied by the weight per cubic foot (200 pounds) gives us the answer, 8,000 pounds

in every running foot of the wall. By using the same calculations as for piers, we find the weight also the area required for footings. Footings, of course, must be brought to width of wall gradually, not by a sudden off-set but rather as shown at Fig. 2, where the width of foundation is reduced, step by step.

<article title=" EBONY VARNISH STAIN " author="">

EBONY VARNISH STAIN.—This stain may easily be prepared by dissolving 1½ pounds of orange shellac and 4 ounces of resin in one gallon of methylated spirits, afterwards adding 2 2½ ounces of brilliant black analine (soluble in spirits). Stir well and pass through a fine strainer, when it is then ready for use. Apply quickly and evenly with a wide camel hair brush.

<article title=" THE PREVENTION OF DAMP IN WALLS FROM EXTERNAL CAUSES " author="McLeod, James">THE PREVENTION OF DAMP IN WALLS FROM

EXTERNAL CAUSES.*

BY <person>JAMES MCLEOD</person>.



The question of excluding damp from walls is one of admitted importance: a dry house is a healthy house, a damp one nothing less than a dangerous dwelling, for damp is one of the most prolific and most generally acknowledged sources of disease. A damp wall checks the passage of air through its pores, is cold, and the evaporation from it lowers the interior temperature of the building, and consequently occasions a rapid radiation of heat from persons dwelling within its influence. This combination of damp and cold renders the building most unhealthy, and its inhabitants are liable to colds of every kind. Besides being so unhealthy, damp walls are uneconomical, by reason of the great absorption of heat by the evaporation of the moisture from their surface, and the consequent increased consumption of fuel required to keep the interior of the building. warm. Dampness also causes an early decay in the materials used for the construction of the building. The decay of stone or brick is almost invariably the result of damp, either by its own action—by the freezing of the water in the walls—or by the acids which are conveyed into the stone by the moisture. The damp in masonry also communicates itself to the woodwork, and causes rot throughout the building. It also causes the discolouring of the plaster and painter-work, spoils the interior furnishings, has a most destructive influence on books, and altogether renders the building most unwholesome.

These matters are of no moment to the man who builds to sell and cares not how soon his work goes to pieces, but they are of the greatest importance to the occupier, who wishes a healthy home.

With the good building material which we have at our disposal in this district damp is an evil which we never reckon on in our work, and one which should give us little or no trouble, provided good material is put into the work and the workmanship is properly done. The materials in common use with us are stone, brick, timber and, occasionally', concrete.

Stone and brick are chiefly' used, and these I shall deal with mostly; concrete is employed in places where those other materials are not easily obtainable, or for special purposes. Timber is only used for temporary structures, and need riot be considered by us.

The treatment of stone and brick walls for the exclusion of damp is in most cases similar.

The walls of a new building are always damp. The quantity of water which is conveyed into a wall in the process of building is very' great. Suppose for instance, that 100,000 bricks are used in the construction of a wall, each weighing 7 lbs. Even a good brick can stick tip from 10 to 20 per cent. of its weight in water, but us assume 10 per cent. as what gets into it by the manipulations of the bricklayers; also assume that the same amount of water is contained in the mortar, a quantity much understated. The mortar forms one-fifth of the wall; thus nearly 100,000 lbs. of water, equal to about 10,000 gals., may be assumed to be put into the wall in the process of building.

The absorbing power of good sandstone is little less than that of brickwork; most limestones are very' porous; Portland stone is said to be capable of absorbing

*A paper read before the Glasgow and West of <assoc>Scotland Technical College Architectural craftsmen's Society </assoc>on March 21st, 1902.

