<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE  - Woodstock - " author="">CORRESPONDENCE 

A LEGAL POINT.

To the Editor of THE ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



A. J. B., Woodstock, Ont., writes Last spring I gave the contract to build a house, the contractor for the carpentry work signing an agreement to do the work according to plans and specifications, he finding all materials except hardware. The job is now nearly completed, but the carpenter refuses to put in the cistern which is clearly shown on the plans and marked

cistern,' but is not mentioned in the specifications except in the excavations. Can I compel him to put in the cistern? If so can I order one put in and stop payment from contract on his refusing again to put it in ? By answering this you will greatly oblige.

ANSWER It is a difficult question that is asked, with the slender data given; the writer does not say whether the house is of brick, stone or wood. If of brick or stone, the cistern, which we understand is in the ground, and either stoned or bricked up, then it is clearly the mason's duty to make the cistern. It the building is of wood, then there is a doubt that can only be cleared up by a close reading of specifications and agreement. If the carpenter agreed to (10 all work mentioned or shown on plans and specifications, then he must make the cistern. One thing is certain, the owner cannot order the cistern to be made by a third party and deduct cost from contractor. If, however there is a doubt, the owner may refuse to pay up the contractor until the work is finished, which will throw the onus of entering an action on the contractor. Another and a better way, would be to have the architect settle the matter, if owner and contractor will agree to this method.



The London Builders' Merchant reproduces from the June number of this journal the illustration of interior of St. Annes des Plaines Church, One, Of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, our British contemporary is kind enough to say

The journal is in every way of the highest class, beautifully printed on good hot-pressed paper, while the reading matter is well written by experts in the various subjects. The illustrations are also good, and include some excellent photogravures on separate sheets, in addition to photo-blocks in the text. The illustration which we give will show to our exporting readers

that as the most artistic work is expected in Canada, so similar materials are necessarily in demand."





Don Valley Brick works

Fine grade pressed brick

Toronto



The Canadian Bridge Company, limited

Bridges, steel buildings, roof trusses

Walkerville, Ontario



The Jas. Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, limited

Morrison low tank closet combination, bathrooms

Toronto, Ontario