<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ed at a school or institution where trades are properly taught.

Here arises the question as to how he should be taught.

Formerly apprentices commenced at the very foot— that is to say, they did the chores or simple tasks which are part and portion of carpentry. For instance, he turned the grindstone, swept out shavings, picked up nails, ran errands, carried material, melted glue, etc. By this means he gradually acquired knowledge of shop routine and learnt names of objects, tools, appliances and stuff. This is an excellent start, and, in my opinion should be still continued, for the reason that every youth should be acquainted with and have a knowledge of what he will handle and manipulate before he commences to do so. At the end of three months he might go to work at the bench, practice sharpening edge tools, planing, sawing and nailing, the use of the tri-square, jointing, gluing and other simple operations. These, being primary and important, must be learnt properly and thoroughly; otherwise good work cannot be executed.

Here 1 would impress the absolute value of due and careful attention being paid to ingrafting rudimentary principles in trades, especially in the carpenters' trade. These form, as it were, the foundation or basis of the art, and, if not sufficiently acquired, will always be wanting to the workman and cause in him a regret that he be so imperfect in them, and a recriminating thought that his teachers had been incapable may also arise. Therefore, they should be well and correctly inculcated into the mind of the future mechanic.

Most boys look upon this time as more or less of a playtime, when they may learn and play. This is not objectionable, and to me it seems natural and consequent with the exuberant spirits of youth, but they must not be allowed to idle or be lazy, as this would he deleterous. If a boy wants to rest or converse, let him talk to the men while they work; but keep the subject of conversation on some detail of his occupation. If one is to succeed at anything he must he interested in it and really like it.  It is not enough that his occupation is to be the means of giving him a livelihood; there must be more than this, namely, real interest in the desire to acquire skill and mastery. Every youth, who desires to become a good workman, will have this feeling, and every successful man, as a rule, is and has been an enthusiast in boyhood. While the future mechanic is learning to work correctly with his hands practically, he might he advantageously instructed at night in theoretical carpentry. This can be done by his attending night-school during the winter months, or by self-instruction through good books at home. I regret to say that such useful teachings as the theories of trades are rarely to be found taught in night-schools even in the great cities If they are taught at all it is by general form, as "Applied Mechanics." This method is, to my mind, too theoretical to be useful and too general to be applied practically.

One thing, however, should be taught in every school, so that all future tradesmen may be instructed in it, and that is drawing I cannot overestimate the value of this indispensable adjunct to every carpenter's education. It is simply the keystone of his guaranteed success, and should it be lacking, he will, as an uncompleted arch, be inadequate for his work.

To learn to draw is to learn to think, to reason, to be accurate, to be neat, to be attentive and to conclude tangibly and intelligently. A knowledge of drawing is like all other knowledge a power; for it enables the young mechanic to comprehend the ideas formulated by a more highly educated mind than his, in order that he may create in wood shapes, forms and constructions.

When a boy is in the shop or working outside, it is always advisable to entrust him, to a certain extent, with important work. This gives him responsibility, and also adds dignity, with a sense of timidity and care in doing it. When one is doing routine work he is liable to grow careless or indifferent, and the work entrusted to a learner should improve in character with every piece satisfactorily completed.

As a moral suasion in the shop much depends on this. Good treatment is absolutely necessary to the forming of every boy's personal character. I do not mean that the usual discipline of the shop should be relaxed or varied, or that special privileges should be allowed learners, as this would be injudicious and possibly erroneous. What I do mean is that the efforts of the beginner, be they ever so crude or ineffectual, ought to be encouraged, and his mind instructed and trained to do right. Perseverance is often rendered difficult— aye, sometimes impossible—in the face of ridicule or for want of encouragement, therefore consideration should modify reproof, and an incentive to persevere be given to those who are seemingly dull or languid.

Determination will often make a youth become an excellent workman, in spite of all sorts of hindrances but difficulties are obstacles to be surmounted, and should be removed from the path of him who desires to learn, that he may become more apt, more fit, and more accurate. In concluding these few general principles, allow me to suggest the advisability of instructing our modern apprentices and young workmen in the science of machinery. Woodworking machines are now used in almost all shops of any pretensions, and will, owing to the increased facilities and rapidity of action they give, be more extensively used. The knowledge of how to use machines, I now know enters largely into the price a modern carpenter is paid, and in a little while no one will be able to get a job unless he can operate some machine, for the days are coming when machinery will supplant handwork to a greater extent than it has already done. All observing carpenters realize this, and it is therefore of paramount importance that the future generation of mechanics be versed in their manipulation.



<assoc>TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE</assoc>.

The annual meeting of the Toronto Builders' Exchange took place in the offices of the Association, <building>Yonge St. Arcade</building>, on January 20th. The meeting was largely attended by representatives of all branches of the trade, together with supply merchants. The President, Mr. <person>Thos. Christie</person>, presided. The financial statement was most satisfactory and was duly adopted.

Mr. <person>Jno. M. Gander</person>, the representative of the Exchange on the Technical School Board, gave an interesting rcport of the working of that institution.

Mr. <person>H. Martin</person>, representing the Exchange on the Industrial Exhibition Board, also gave a report of his term of office

The Exchange decided to adopt the plan of daily

