<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" COST OF GLAZING " author="">COST OF GLAZING.

A correspondent of the Painters' Magazine asks What is it worth to lay glass on a greenhouse imbedded in putty, lapped three-sixteenths of an inch, tacked on outside with staples and cleaned up in good shape? how much per light, each 16 by i6 inches, scaffold five to eight feet, some cutting to do and ventilators to work around.

ANSWER.--If the work is new, and no old, hard putty to be removed, we should judge the work, exclusive of material, to be worth at least ten cents per light, as the work is really more difficult than glazing ordinary new sash with lights of similar size. But we would point out that you, being better acquainted with all the conditions of the work in question, should be able to make a closer estimate than we can at long range.



<article title=" COLOR AND ITS APPLICATION TO DECORATION " author="Haite">COLOR AND ITS APPLICATION TO DECORATION.



In a recent paper on this subject presented before the Northern District of <assoc>the Incorporated Institution of British Decorators</assoc>, <person>Mr. Haite </person>said that there were two systems of decorating ceilings. One was the hand-decorated ceiling, in which every possible outrage that could be imagined was perpetrated, and would continue to be perpetrated. In decorated ceilings by mechanical or manufactured decoration there was not the same possibility, and he was glad that it was so. Figures of human beings should not be used in the decoration of ceilings under any consideration whatever. He had had the <building>Sistine chapel </building>suggested to him as an instance to the contrary ; but he believed that Michael Angelo, who painted that ceiling, would have protested against placing the human figure in positions in which it could not possibly be seen, unless they lay on their backs in the centre of the room or at one particular point. As regards ceilings decorated by the aid of manufactured material, it was not by the mere application of the material, but by its use and adaptation that a decorator deserved the name. A completely satisfactory decorative effect would be practically impossible unless the ceilings were decorated or coloured. It the ceiling be left white it set up discords, instead of being in harmony. In his opinion strong colour could be used more satisfactorily on the ceiling than on any other portion of the room, inasmuch as it had no background, no pictures and no furniture. After speaking of colour and colour theories, Mr. Haite said he objected to varnishing, and said that decoration might best be keyed up by making the doors or over-mantels brilliant in colour. A colour should not be too pronounced ; it was objectionable to have four or five colors announcing the fact. Decorators would find that they could often pull a scheme of colors together by the various colors so designed that they appeared to the observer to be a single colour. He spoke of the excellent influence of colour upon national character. Good colouring would dissipate half the worries that troubled people, which would seem trivial and unimportant. Depression was caused by the leaden hue of the skies and the monotonous grey of the streets. The introduction of trees into the thor oughfares of our cities had increased the joyousness of life and given us a greater and a wider sense of beauty.

He pleaded for tessellated tiles and for coloured glass and bricks in facades of buildings. He pleaded

also for colour in dress. Colour should be broken by colour, and not by neutrals—not by gold, silver, black or white. As photography was neither an art nor a science, but a connecting link between the two, so decoration might be said to be the connecting link between architecture and painting. It was both an art and a craft. It required many qualities, depending as it did upon construction for its existence and relying upon the treatment and selection of colour for its satisfactory expression.



<article title=" PEELING OF PAINT ON NEW SPRUCE TIMBER " author="">PEELING OF PAINT ON NEW SPRUCE TIMBER.

A subscriber of the Painters' Magazine, writing from <firm>Kings Co</firm>., N. B., speaks of the blistering and peeling of paint within one year, when applied in his locality to new spruce clapboard work, and says that this almost invariably takes place, but that he has had jobs to stand several years before peeling began, and thinks it was due to the fact that he usually does not apply paint until new work has been up for several weeks. lie is now making the experiment of following up the carpenters with the paint in order to see whether there is any real foundation for his idea.

In reply the editor says:- There is not any doubt whatever in our mind but that the blistering and peeling in so short a time is, to a great extent, caused by the condition of the timber to which the paint is applied, yet, while it is a good idea to let the wood go unpainted for a time, we hardly think that a few weeks would be a great help towards seasoning, except in very warm, dry weather. We are rather inclined to believe that the original seasoning of the timber has a great deal to do with the result, but above all, that you are using a better material for priming than the other painters, who have such poor results. Green wood and moisture are the cause of blistering in oil paints, but poor priming is usually the cause of the flaking or peeling. Boiled oil or fatty oil should never be employed in mixing paint for priming coats, nor should zinc pigments or ocher or other brittle earth paints be used to any extent. Pure white lead with lampblack or pure white lead with a small portion of fine washed yellow ocher, thinned with pure raw linseed oil, a little turpentine and drier, make the best priming for new spruce clapboards.



<article title=" AN ELECTRIC RADIATOR " author="">AN ELECTRIC RADIATOR.



The increasing use of electricity for domestic purposes renders interesting some account of the new electric radiator which has been brought out in London, England, and referred to by the Architect as follows : The device consists of a movable form, something like an asbestos fireplace. It contains four large electric heat lamps in a polished copper reflector. The heat is generated by current from an electric supply main. All that is necessary to fix them ready for use is to connect the flexible wires attached to each radiator to an electric plug which forms part of every installation. For high or low voltage they are equally adapted, heat lamps of the requisite capacity being supplied, and they work satisfactorily on alternating or continuous current. The standard size of these radiators consists of four heat lamps, sufficient to warm the air of a room 12 feet square, with a consumption of

unit per hour, but they can be regulated to one-half by means of the switches attached. For larger rooms

