<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" ACCIDENTS ON BUILDINGS " author="">ACCIDENTS ON BUILDINGS.



The subjoined memorandum on the causes of common accidents that occur on buildings in course of construction or repair, and hints for their prevention, has been issued from the <assoc>British Home Office</assoc>. The modifications introduced have been made upon the suggestions of leading experts who have been consulted

In the following memorandum, reprinted from the <firm>Builders' Reporter and Engineering Times</firm>, an attempt is made to explain and illustrate those accidents, the causes of which may be considered controllable by the builders arid workmen.

The dangerous conditions in building operations may be divided into two classes—(a) those arising from imperfect scaffolding, and (b) those arising from the lifting and carrying of material.

<article title=" SCAFFOLDNG " author="">SCAFFOLDNG--I The two principal methods are known

































































respectively as the north and south country systems. The northern, as the names indicates, is principally used in Scotland and the north of England, although of late years t has also found favor in the south; the other method (see fig. I) is essentially the south country system.

2.	The first method is invariably used in conjunction with power, generally' a steam crane. 

3.	When one crane only is necessary it is fixed upon a triangular platform built upon three legs, one at each angle, and is raised to such a height as to be well over the building to be erected. The crane stands over the principal or king leg. Owing to the guys it cannot make a complete revolution; if power is required that can be utilised on all parts of the building, the erection has a square platform with a leg at each angle ; two cranes are then fixed, being placed diametrically opposite to each other.

3.	The three or four legs, as the case may be, are of framed timber, bolted, and are weighted to the ground by masses of brickwork. The whole is so well built that accidents occurring through faults of construction are extremely rare.

4.	The greatest dangers arise when the crane is imperfectly fixed, and when the weight of the crane engine and load is too much for the king leg on which it rests, and when the legs are not sufficiently far from the king.

5.	With regard to the first point, the guys of the crane should always be carried to the centre of the secondary legs and chained down to the masses of brickwork which weight these legs at their feet. This chain requires frequent examination, especially when a heavy load is being raised, as, owing to the vibration of the scaffold, it becomes loose, and if not tightened the crane would lose its rigidity and accidents would be likely to occur.

6.	in the second case, where the weight is great, the king leg should have an additional centre upright running from top to bottom. (See fig. 2, which is a plan of a king legs)

7.	The second form of scaffolding presents many points of interest. In order to render this report more intelligible, notes are given on the sketch (fig. I) which explain the technical terms used. There are two varieties, again, of this form of scaffold, and their use depends upon the material of which the building is being constructed, viz., either of brick or stone.

8.	Where bricks are in use one row of standards and ledgers only are necessary, the putlogs resting outwardly on the ledgers and inwardly on the wall (where header bricks have been left out for their reception.)

9.	On stone buildings, and more especially when ashlar fronted and where an opening in the wall would leave a permanent disfigurement, a double set of standards, &c., are necessary to carry the putlogs. (See fig. 3, which is a section of what is known as a mason's scaffold.)

10.	A few points with regard to these erections,

11 The different marryings, tyings, &c., should be carefully watched, as scaffolds have been known no come down owing to the cords slipping. This happens more especially when the cords have been used damp, the influence of a hot sun causing them to relax considerably. Wedge driving between cords and posts is the usual method of tightening.

2.	The boards on which the men work should be carefully kept in position. Fig 4 shows the usual position of the boards. Carelessness may and does result in these losing their place, and if by so doing they take the position shown on fig. 5, what is known as a trap is formed. Fig. 6 illustrates the working of a trap. It will be noticed that when on the boards it is not easy to tell where the putlogs are. This creates to a great extent the danger. A certain preventative would be for the putlogs to be used in pairs, the boards then instead of overlapping could be placed end 1.0 end (see fig. 7); in overlapping boards get out of place, and a second man or two may catch his toe against thc end raised

13.	Two of the commonest forms of accidents occur on these scaffolds, the falling of the workmen, and the dropping of the material from the upper floors of the erection. On the outside of the scaffold, also at the

