<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



The announcement that a manufacturing company has leased until Au gust first next, the Machinery Hall on the Industrial Exhibition grounds at Toronto, as a storage warehouse, paying therefor a rental of $300 per year and for extra insurance suggests the inquiry:

Why might not the other important exhibition buildings be thus utilized for ten months of every year and made to yield a revenue ?

x x x

It is especially easy for a plumber to lose his reputation for good workmanship," said a prominent members of the Guild. ''After you have as you suppose put in the very best materials and workmanship, the system has perhaps no sooner gone into use, than lot a leak develops, due to a flaw in the tap, and straightway the plumber's work is condemned and his reputation with that particular customer at least has suffered and through no fault of his own."

x x x

The fall of the Campanile at Venice serves to confirm the old adage that declares : "It's an ill wind that blows nobody good ! " The accident has created a general feeling of alarm regarding the safety of the other famous structures of the city. Investigation has apparently been started none too soon, for it is said that cracks and fissures have been discovered on every hand and the wonder is that the walls of some of the buildings have held together so long. During a recent service in the Church of St. John and St. Paul the capital of a small window column fell from its place and created a panic. The prospect before the builders of Venice is most encouraging

x x x

In the Middle Ages many of the principal buildings, devoted to religious uses, were designed by monks. Interest in architecture by the clergy of the Roman church continues to the present, but as a rule the designing of their buildings is entrusted to architects in

regular practice. It appears, however, by an announcement in the press that the Rev. Father J. Bouillion, Canon of the Roman Catholic Cathedral at Ottawa, Ont., has prepared and had approved by a religious community in New York plans for a church edifice of colossal proportions, to be called the Nova Sancta Sophia. Accommodation has been provided for 60,000 or 70,000 persons. The structure is to be surmounted by a dome 420 feet above the ground, while the interior is to be enriched with columns of rare marbles and costly mosaics.



<article title=" PATENT STORE FRONTS " author="">PATENT STORE FRONTS.



One of the new inventions, covered by half-a-dozen patents in the U.S. and Canada is the Coulson Corner Posts and Transon Bars. This is of great importance to all architects and builders, and a large number have already been ordered for different points in Canada. The great feature of ibis invention is that plate glass can be put in from the outside. It has the advantages of least obstruction 10 light, greatest strength for holding large windows safely, and least danger and trouble in setting or replacing large plate glass.

Instead of a heavy wood frame, "The Coulson' is made of a narrow light Piece of soft wood set into a groove, in the back of which the angle of a steel T-bar is stink and firmly fastened by lag screws. The glass being set and firmly secured by wooden stops the advantage of an all-wood bearing for the heavy plates is secured with the rigidity of the iron T-bar added. The face of the posts and bars, together with the wood slops which make lip the outside may be covered with polished brass, sheet aluminum, oxidized nickle plate or copper sheeting, firmly screwed to the wood after the glass is set, presenting a beautifully neat and light appearance of a single metal or wood strip between the several plates of the window.

For artistic windows, for economical and effective displays or advertisements this new invention is especially useful and we predict a large sale throughout Canada.

The Metropolitan Plate Glass Insurance Co. of N. Y. made a thorough investigation of the Coulson and they have highly commended its use to all architects and builders. They also stated that the invention was the very best to lessen losses occasioned by handling plate glass.

A visit to the works of the Coulson Co. show a busy section of the city of Columbus, Ohio. They will be pleased to send their illustrated book to all applicants.





Raven Lake Portland Cement Company, limited

Sagent of palmer's hollow concrete blocks

Washington, D. C.



J. W. Coulson and Company,

Patent store fronts

Columbus, Ohio



