<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



nearly secret as possible (some of the devices employed will be dealt with later.)

TABLE CASES.--These open at the top and are of the height of tables, and, as tables, stand upon legs. They are usually very shallow, the interiors being viewed from above. The table case is also made with the top leaning towards a ridge, sometimes very steep and sometimes very flat, but invariably placed so that the interiors

PEDESTAL CASES.—These are usually of the centre or table-case type, and instead of being upon solid low bases or legs are placed upon pedestals, bringing the bottoms of the cases up to a height of about 3 feet or 3 feet 6 inches. The pedestals themselves are generally used as cupboards or for nests of drawers, &c.



WINDOW ENCLOSURES.--These are composed of doors and frames fixed to the back of the stall board, an airshelf extending from the enclosure frame to the window, which is usually only in front, though it is sometimes at the front and one end, and occasionally at the front and both ends. The ends not bounded by the shop windows generally have splayed mirrors set at a good angle. to give the spectator the impression of a double stock. Now as to the Methods of Construction. First take the wall case before described. There can be no limit to the size of this form of case. It is not usual to make doors (or sashes as they are sometimes incorrect-

COUNTER CASES: JOINTS BETWEEN TOP RIM CROSSBAR AND

UPRIGHT FRONT BAR.

are viewed through the tops, which are hung to the ridge. The ends of these cases are sometimes hipped and sometimes of the gable or spandrel type. When table cases are made to fix against the wall they are known as wall table cases.

COUNTER CASES.—As their names imply, these act as counters when placed upon the under fittings and counter front. They have clear glass tops and risers, and are usually between 9in. and 12in. deep, with a width varying from 19in. to 27in. Access is obtained by the shopman from behind. The rim of wood is of the smallest dimension, never being more than 34 in., but usually 5/8 in., round, and generally polished black. When the cases are to be polished black, the top rim, even in the most common kinds, should be of ebony, as by the continual wear caused by serving a stained deception very soon reveals its secret. Counter cases

<article title=" COUNTER CASES: JOINTS BETWEEN BACK CENTRE UPRIGHT AND TOP AND BOTTOM " author="">COUNTER CASES: JOINTS BETWEEN BACK CENTRE UPRIGHT AND TOP AND BOTTOM.

COUNTER CASES: JOINTS OF FRONT CORNER OF BASE AN!)

CORNER UPRIGHT.



are made with square and semi-circular ends, and are not usually more than 14ft. long. When a greater length is required, two or more cases are butted together. the joints being kept in position by dowels in the base. As the accompanying details show, the work required will try the patience rather severely.

Air-tight drawers sometimes air-tight in themselves and sometimes placed in nests in air-tight cupboards, also come within the scope of this paper.

ly termed) more than 2ft. 9in. wide. Everything is planed up and set out in usual way, but the first parts to be glued up must be the doors, all attention being given to the squaring, &c. The frame is then fitted up, all the tenons being made i 12 in. longer than the width of the stiles or rails, as the case may be (excepting when the case has a finished end). A hole is mortised through the tenons beyond the frame, in order that a wedge may be driven through to act as a key, or draw bore pin, to draw up the shoulders. The whole frame is put together in this manner, and is afterwards cleaned off flush on the back side, the sashes also being cleaned on the back side and carefully shot to size. The frame is then taken to pieces and the single-or double-grooving plane (whichever is to be used) is stuck in the edge from the back side of the hanging stiles of the frame, and tongues are glued preparatory for the double hollow. Then the single square-grooving plane

