<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



undue liability to settlement. On the other hand, for well-dressed ashlar masonry, t he finest sharp-grained sand obtainable should be used, there being only very small cavities to fill up, and the very thinnest possible joint being required.

Beyond this, it is necessary in all cases that the aggregate should, under a magnifying glass, display either sharp edges or a roughened surface or both, in order that the matrix may adhere to it; for, while there is little necessity to stick the bricks of a wall together, if they be properly laid, it is quite necessary that the mortar should form in itself an homogeneous substance else it will crumble into dust or wash out of the joints. Chippings of a soft stone crushed in a mortar will form an excellent aggregate, when obtainable, especially if sifted to various grades of fineness for different work; and old bricks similarly crushed are even better, as being rougher in texture. Sharp pit-sand is, perhaps most commonly specified, but it should be really sharp, and not, as is frequently the case, rounded by attrition—in reality, from the bed of an old river, though now dug from a pit. In the same way it should be free from salt, and pit-sand from a prehistoric sea beach is sometimes as salt as that gathered on the existing shore, for salt attracts moisture, and a wall built with salt sand in the mortar will scarcely ever dry.

For the same reason sea-water must not be used for mixing ; but this objection against the use of sea-sand and sea-water disappears in the case of many boundary and retaining walls, WHICH need not become dry, though the result of their use is frequently an unsightly fungus-like efluorescence on the face of the wall.

So far as the matrix is concerned, an ordinary mildly hydraulic ground stone lime is in almost universal use for ordinary building. Pure or poor limes are alike unsuitable, having no setting properly, but merely drying, and being consequently easily washed away by rain ; and, although some prefer to reduce their lime to powder by slaking, it is much better to buy it ready-ground and to mix the sand with the hot lime day by day as it is required, the usual proportion being about three measures of sand to each measure of lime.

Many architects specify 2½ measures of sand per measure of lime for good work, but it is doubtful whether the resulting mortar is greatly improved. On the other hand, if plaster of Paris be mixed with the lime, a greater proportion of sand can be carried without loss of strength, though it is hardly worth doing, owing to the extra cost of the plaster and to its solubility. 

If a stronger mortar he required, as in very thin partition walls, or in weight-carrying piers, Less lime should take the place of the ground stone lime, or else Portland cement should be used. With cement as the matrix, the proportion of sand may be raised to as much as 6 to 1 in almost all cases. Cement mortar must only be mixed as required, a little at a time, else it will commence to set before it is finally worked up with the trowel before use, and if this occurs its strength becomes greatly impaired.

Colouring substances ought not to be mixed with mortar, particularly if they are of an earthy nature, like the umbers and ochres, but a dark mortar, very suitable for the facing of red brickwork can be made by using blacksmith's ashes or foundry sand in place of ordinary yellow sand.

Lime mortar is best mixed in a mortar mill, the sand and lime being shovelled in as it revolves, three spadefulls of one to one spadefull of the other, only just enough water being added to bring the whole to the consistency of porridge ; but cement mortar, having to be made in small quantities, must be mixed by hand. Like cement concrete, it should be mixed dry, the water added through the rose of a watering pot, and then mixed again with wet.—G. A. T. Middleton, A. R.1.B.A., in The Irish Builder.



<article title=" NOTES " author="">NOTES.



Win. Clark, proprietor of stone quarries at Sackville, N. B., recently committed suicide.



The building trades unions in Montreal claim that the steps they are taking to perfect their organization are not directed against the local contractors, but are designed to assist the latter in preventing competition from outside contractors.



The heavy rains in all parts of the country during last summer seriously interfered with quarrying operations in many sections. Preps were utterly inadequate to keep the floods down so that work could be carried on with addition to this many more or less serious wash-outs have been reported.



Just east of Amherstburg, Ont., a quarry has recently been opened by an Indian, probably one of the first of his race to take up this industry on a business basis. The quarry is worked by Mr. T. B. White, son of the late Wyandotte Chief, Mondoron. The quarry contains a surface deposit of moulding sand of good quality.

Mr. Win. Owen, of London, Eng., when in Toronto recently is understood to have disposed of the American and Canadian rights on a brick manufacturing machine, which he states will

produce 150,000 bricks per day, the product being capable of withstanding a crushing strain of 200 tons to the square foot. The machine will make building and paving brick and also paving slabs 3X2 feet in size and 6 inches thick.

A short time ago cinematography photographs ,were taken of a monster blast at the Bonave Granite Quarries, Scotland. This is the first time, we believe, that moving photographs have been taken of a great blast, although few subjects are more picturesque. Very striking photographs have been taken of blasts fitted in this country, but inasmuch as they register only one phase of the explosion they lack the interest that complete series would show. —Stone.

Belfast.—[Scene:	A rent agent's office, Royal avenue vicinity].



—Tenant (who lives in a jerry-built) '~ Half of the ceilin' in my kitchen fell down last night, and I want you to replace it." Clerk: " What caused it?" Tenant : ~' The young man lodger upstairs sneezed." Clerk : Well, Some people think that because they pay five bob a week for a house they can carry on just as though they were the only people in Fort William Park."

—-Belfast Nomad's Weekly.



The summary of the building business in twenty-three of the principal cities of the United States for August, shows an increase of about 6 per cent over August, 1901, which is not nearly so good as that for in!)', although very satisfactory, considering the fact that August is always a slow month in business, the cities which show the largest increases are San Francisco 163 per cent, Los Angeles 130 per cent. Evidently the Pacific coast is prosperous.



The union carpenters of Buffalo served the following notice upon John Feist & Sons: "John Feist & Sorts must insist that all non-union carpenters employed by them must be gotten by this firm to join the union, and allow a walking delegate to address them in a body." These men had presumably refused to join the union, and so an effort was made to use compensation through their employers. Mr. Feist refused to be made the tool of the union, and in consequence the union men in his employ went out on strike, despite the fact that the employers were a patty to a contract with the union in regard to wages and conditions of employment which did not forbid the engagement of non-unionists. Because the firm in question refused to deny the right of tree labor it had the contract it had loyally observed thrown in its face, with the consequent stoppage of work upon important contracts. The tyranny of misguided unionism would make a despot blush.—Montreal Gazette.

