 <doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



appear unpleasantly narrow, and, the reason for the subordination of the side lancets to that in the centre not being apparent, the grouping will appear to be without reason.

The case is one of conflict between the windows and the church— which is to receive first consideration. The church ought certainly to be the object of consideration, and the first consideration in choosing glass for <building>St. James' Cathedral </building>is that it shall let in light. The only glass that is likely to satisfy the requirement is toned white antique English glass. Figure subjects depending chiefly upon the leading and tones of white, with colour only for emphasis and adornment, would not only shine like jewels in the church and exactly suit its architectural requirements but are eminently suited for sacred subjects. There is something in the pure tints of antique glass, and the necessity for direct purpose in their application more suited to a religious purpose than the soft and sensuous colours of opalescent glass, and the accidental effects which are a principal object to the makers of American coloured windows. Abundance of colour is in itself no hindrance to religious feeling. The mosaics of <building>St. Mark's </building>are as splendid in colour as they could be made, the robes of Perugino's angels are not only brightly coloured but are lined with another bright colour, and the edges are turned over to show the lining But in these examples the work is carefully and delicately done to beautify the object to which it is applied. The more pains it receives at their hands the more we receive an impression of serious purpose in its presentation, and the more the subject is exalted. In American work, on the other hand, the subject appears to be hut a peg upon which to hang ingenious experiments in accidental effects of colour, procured by manipulating the surface of the glass. The resulting effects—mechanical and accidental— exalt the manufacture but not the subject. The technique is hampering rather than helpful to strong purpose in subject, and, in the American school of' glass workers, purpose in subject is not the strong point. The new window of St. James', which represents the descent. of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, seems to be better than usual in this respect, yet it is impossible to avoid feeling that it does not convey the essence of the scene it depicts There is commotion among the Apostles, but it is at something external to themselves. There is not a sign of that possession that required from St. Peter, a little later, the defence that they could not be drunk at that hour of the day. '[he Apostles have an air of gentle piety, devoutly regarding an apparition of The Dove, which suggests the source of the tongues of fire that are seated upon them. One of them looks round at his neighbor, which it is impossible to conceive of him doing at that moment.



Mr. <person>Harry Simpson</person>, architect, was a candidate for a seat at the Public School Board at the recent municipal elections in Toronto. Although failing of election, his popularity is attested by the fact that he secured upwards of 1700 votes



<assoc>The Central League of School Art of Toronto </assoc>has decided to purchase five large pictures representative of different. styles of architecture, together with a collection of other pictures which will be circulated among the public schools of the city.

Branch Office of the	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER <building>Imperial Building</building>.



MONTREAL January 17th, 1902.



The building trades in general were perhaps less actively employed than usual last year. Since the great boom of '89 Montreal has not witnessed feverish activity in building. We must take for granted I presume, that a city which has acquired a certain development and has passed the formative period, must count on extraordinary events to create unusual activity. Something like the great Expositions at Chicago or Paris would probably be necessary. As a matter of fact Montreal has but met. the wants of the normal expansion of a city of its size since the street widening craze passed, and has not responded to any demands for wild and unnatural expansion.

The year 1901 stands lower in the volume of building operations than many previous years, much lower Indeed than the following figures show. In 1889 eighteen hundred permits were granted. Since 1890 a notable decline has been noticeable, 1893 recording one thousand and 1894 five hundred with an aggregate value of $2,750,000; while in 1901 we have 752 permits with an aggregate value of about $2,800,000, being less than any previous year by about 25 per cent. if we remember the weakness of the former reign in the Building Department.

A great many buildings were erected then with total disregard to by-laws add without a permit being taken out, while to-day one has to be taken for a ridiculously small alteration of $30.00 as we have seen this week.

As two or even three inspectors could hardly control all buildings in course of erection in a city of the size of Montreal the new building inspectors upon entering into office established the following system which proved most effective. Every applicant on submitting his plans receives a placard or poster which he is expected to post up in a conspicuous position, together with his permit from the City Surveyor for depositing material on the street. All policemen on duty report to the head of the district police station any work in progress without the official posters in evidence, which in turn is reported officially by the last named to the building inspector in chief.

We can further explain the steady decrease of building operations on the ground that the city is gradually filling up within its comparatively limited area. People are forced so to speak to seek accommodations in the

