<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

The inside finishings and arrangements are constantly being changed to suit this and that occupant, and can also be remedied through defects or weakness showing itself. But that upon which the whole structure depends and is held together is covered up and out of sight, where no one can even see what is taking place.

Whether it needs a coat of paint or not, it matters not, it could not be given. And thus the very vitals of the structure that should be watched with the greatest care are hidden from view and neglected because it cannot be helped.

Some day, some time, there will he a collapse, caused by the iron being eaten away, thereby weakening the structure, causing a strain here and a break there, throwing the whole out of plumb. Is it not a serious matter ?

The life of the best paint used on this class of work is from two to three years at the furthest, for two coat work. If there has been rust painted over on the work, it will eat itself out and through the paint in less time. Outside structural work, such as bridges, viaducts and buildings of any kind, should have attention every two years.

In this time paint loses its life, as it were, and should be replenished by a fresh coat.

The moisture and dampness that naturally arise from the earth, and affect the lower stories of our buildings, are almost as destructive as exposure to the outward elements. Although there is no rain to wear it away, or sun to crack and blister it, yet the destruction is more vital because there is no let-up, but a continual eating of the paint from one side and the iron from the other.

Our cellars are never dry, and the natural dampness feeds upon every thing that is made from metal of this character, and the few coats of paint that this material is coated with stands a very poor show to keep back the ravages of this monster after two or three years.

The question of a proper protective for this class of work has agitated the minds of chemists and paint makers in this last decade to that extent that it is al— most given up, and new ideas are being brought forth and experiments being made on another tack altogether. If the life of oil and pigment is limited to a few years, there must be a coating used that will harden and last as long as cement itself to make it safe, especially for such work as can not be got at after it is once erected An adamantlike coating that dries something similar to cement would be far preferable than an elastic coating, and the sooner it is brought out the better and safer will our iron structural work be considered.

The question that has always been prominent with mechanics in the paint line, is that there is nothing better than an elastic paint. The more oil used the longer it lasts. This is true as applied to any surface, but more security in preserving iron sealed up and hidden from view demands a more lasting coating.

The expense should not be allowed to enter into the question, when we consider the awful results that may happen, and surely will occur in time with all of our iron structural work.

It has been said that to rightly protect any surface is to give it plenty of paint, and to apply it often.

This will properly apply to all outside exposed work, but not to the work spoken of above. One chance in its history is all that it will ever get.

If it is not properly, done and anything happens, it

will not be charged to the painter, or to the paint used on the work ; but in all probability to the mechanical skill in erection, or to the engineer in charge of the work, or possibly to the architect who planned and designed the structure. Still the little thing, possibly of an improper protective coating for the iron used on the work, and the improper care in applying it, was the real cause of it all.

It is the little things, the insignificant matters, that we really lose sight of, and think they are of small moment, but they often amount to more than they are credited with.



<article title=" EXPENSE OF BUILDING IN MEXICO " author="">EXPENSE OF BUILDING IN MEXICO.

Mexican architecture is one of the most conservative in the world, for although the latest materials are utilised, the design is in no way changed to meet the altered circumstances. The population also have the characteristics of their ancestors of some two centuries ago. Although the price of living is low, and rates of wages are accordingly moderate, the eventual cost for the construction of a house in Mexico is equivalent to over three times the price of building the same house in the United States. This is in some measure due, says the <firm>Builders' Reporter</firm>, to the high price of certain materials, but the chief reason is the indolence of the Mexicans. American contractors engaged in the building business in Mexico have found that one American mason to whom they have to pay 8 dols. per day in Mexican silver will do as much work in bricklaying as twenty Mexicans, who can be hired at $1.25 a day. Mexican carpenters are paid from $1 to $1.25 per day. The hanging of a door is considered to represent a prodigious day's work for a man. It is curious to find that a Mexican stone-cutter is fully as good a workman as an American who receives more than seven times the amount of wages. With the exception of the best work, very little stone is introduced, the local clay being used instead. When kiln-dried the clay serves as terra-cotta ornament, roofing tiles, bricks, etc., and coloured glazed tiles are also formed of it. It is frequently used as stucco arid plaster. The walls are frequently decorated by means of coloured washes



<article title=" THE WIRE SAW AND PNEUMATIC CHISEL IN STONE WORKING " author="">THE WIRE SAW AND PNEUMATIC CHISEL IN STONE WORKING.

A correspondent of The Quarry agree with the opinion expressed by that journal that the successful working or otherwise of the wire-saw depends very largely on the constituents of the stone it has to cut, as it will work fairly well in one stone and be a total failure in the next. He says; " I have found these failures arise not only with wire-saws but with other stone-working tools. I have been concerned lately in some experiments with pneumatically-driven chisels for stone dressing, and found them work well with many stories, but with some hard stones containing much silica they have been a failure. The stones I am alluding to are at present dressed by hand for paving, setts & dries successfully, but when a pneumatic chisel, making some 1,000 strokes per minute, was used, it was a failure, as up to date I can get no steel to stand it, although I have tried samples from five leading English manufacturers; in all cases it turned up at the edge after a few minutes' use. After some 30 years' experience in this connection, I have come to the conclusion that stone conversion is rather a

tricky thing, and every stone must be carefully judged on its merits.

