THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<doctype type="text">

for the rake angles. Always remember that the part of the moulding that is vertical, when in place on the cornice, must be placed against the side of the box when the mitre is cut. To get the cut of the raking mouldings at the peak of the roof, take the pitch angle of the roof A B C, and lay across the top of the box as at

o	N and L. P ; then drop the perpendiculars from the points 0 L P N, and the cuts 0 N and L P will he the ones required, putting the moulding in the box as shown at R. Of course, the ordinary mitre can he cut in the box by the usual methods.



From Young Builder :—There is a way of getting























the lines for cutting hoppers by using the steel square. Will you kindly publish the methods and oblige ?

Ans. :—There are several ways of getting hopper lines by the use of the square, among which is the following Fig. 2 exhibits the manner of getting the 1st line required, while Figs. 3, 4 and 5 indicate the application. Fig. 2 shows the square with the slant a flare of the hopper, which in this case runs from 2" to 2". By placing a rule across this we find the line to he 17 inches. The angle of the mitre in the horizon is 2 and 12. The base line from the corner of the square to 12 is 12 inches. The pitch line is 5 inches longer than the base line. Add inches, the excess of the pitch line from the base line, and we have 12 and 17 inches of level and mitre. The application of this is shown in Figs. 3 and 4. For a butt joint the sides slant two ways on each angle. The angle on the horizontal is a right angle. The excess of the pitch from the base line on one side is five inches, and on two sides is 10 inches, making an angle or joint of 12























and 10 inches on the square as shown in Fig. 5. The latter figure shows the application of the rule named, the material being square. The rules shown may he easily demonstrated on the bench, by aid of the steel square and a board 10 or 12 inches wide.



From H.E.N., Montreal: I should like to know what

sort of paint is supposed to he the best for painting a

galvanized roof, the iron having been on for or 6

years ?

Ans. : If the roof has no rust spots in it, we would advise a good coat of red-lead and pure linseed oil, then one or two coats of some mineral paint and lin

seed oil. See that the roof is perfectly clean, with all rust spots rubbed off, if any, before paint is applied. A good job may also he obtained by painting the roof with some one of the oxide paints and linseed oil—give two or three coats.



<article title=" PROTECTION OF STEEL AND IRON IN CAR AND BUILDING CONSTRUCTION " author="Koons, Charles">PROTECTION OF STEEL AND IRON IN CAR AND BUILDING CONSTRUCTION

By <person>Chas. Koons</person>.



There is no building material that needs as much protection from the ravages of the elements as steel and iron.

There is no material that will show decay as quick, and become weakened as quickly as this product, when exposed to the natural dampness of the atmosphere in its raw state.

Paper read before the <assoc>St. Louis Railway club</assoc>, May 16, 1902

All woods will stand in any kind of weather for some time, without protection, and not show any signs of decay. Most every other metal is free from the effects of moisture and dampness. But iron and its numerous products will begin to show signs of decay if exposed for even one day.

No sooner is the metal made into form, either from forge or furnace, after becoming cooled, than the rust begins its work formed from the dampness of the atmosphere, which penetrates and settles into every nook and crevice; gradually shaping into a reddish coating that readily tells too plainly that a devastating enemy is at work. Rusty-looking steel or iron is an unnecessary evil that should he banished from every mechanics sight as soon as possible, and especially on the finished product is the painter's worst enemy for the reason that he knows that he cannot do justice to his part of the work unless the entire coating of rust is eliminated before he begins. Thus it takes an enormous amount of labor to prepare an iron surface before any protective coating in the shape of paint can he placed upon it.

All signs of this devastating fiend should be cleaned off and entirely destroyed before commencing with paint coatings. If any of it is left, it is bound to develop and feed upon the paint itself until it comes through the coating, he it one or a dozen coats.

It has also been known to work the other way. It will eat the iron in such a way that it becomes weakened, and in time will cause the whole mass to decay Thus it shows what a serious thing it is to paint over rust spots.

This is often done through carelessness or ignorance of the workman, not knowing that he is only aiding this enemy to destroy his work.

To rightly protect this material, it should he cleaned and painted just as soon as possible the grease and dust that naturally gathers in a car shop is also a direct detriment to proper protection for iron and steel, especially for a first coat.

Dust and grease, such as is used in a machine shop, doesn't make a very good paint, and what is added, he it very little, through not being properly cleaned before the paint is applied, lessens the durability just that much.

Vegetable oil paints, no matter how good, will not stick to mineral or animal oil grease; the two won't mix and dry properly. But the worst enemy is the rust germs that. are imbedded in the pores of the iron.

These infinitesimal spots that form on the raw iron,

