<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BUILDING PROGRESS IN THE NORTHWEST " author="">BUILDING PROGRESS IN THE NORTHWEST.



WINNIPEG, Oct. 6th, 1902.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER



SIR,— With your permission I will run briefly over the building operations both Architectural and Engineering that have come under my notice since I arrived in the City some six months ago.

In Architecture little can be said from an aesthetic point of view, as the artistic side, owing to the conditions that govern all new cities, is still inchoate, and criticism in this direction must be touched upon very judiciously. Constructionally, work is good as is exhibited in the warehouses, etc., that have been built during the past two or three years. Previous to this time the importance of good foundations was overlooked and there are very few buildings that can boast of no cracks. The settlement in most of this work is caused by a substratum of very spongy-clay something of the nature of a quicksand- —about 6" thick and found at a depth of anywhere between ten and fifteen feet below the surface. Up to quite recently the practice has been, generally speaking, to disregard this altogether. Below this stratum a good hard clay is obtained which extends down to any necessary depth.

Apropos of clay, I think I might say a word about it, regarding the local brick. Whether it k the quality of the clay or the fault of the burning I do not know, but the " kiln run" that is generally used is a very inferior brick. Unless extreme measures are taken and a great percentage of what is delivered, rejected, very poor work is obtained. Also, as all local brick is of a yellowish gray color, a very hard, cold looking building is the result, and no soft effects can be secured, which are so helpful to many designs, especially in domestic work, when the red brick is used. A red brick is manufactured at Lac du Bonnett and Rat Portage, but the former is extremely soft and useless for good work, while the latter is just a-trifle better In stone, the same remarks regarding the cold hard effect of the brick may be applied to the local material (Tyndal). It is a hard grey limestone with iron colored streaks occasionally showing It is a splendid stone to use where construction is the primary object, but not satisfactory for carving or fine or monumental work. It is being used extensively this year and the-stone from some quarries shows considerable improvement on what has been used previously

The season opened up so late this year that few buildings are in such an advanced stage as to allow of criticism touching de

sign. The most important block, and the only one that can be said to be anyway in course of completion is the Merchants' Bank office building, (A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., Architect, Montreal.) This will be ready for occupancy presumably about the end of the month, although the Bank are in possession now This is a seven storey building and stands out very prominently as a modern office building and might almost be termed a "sky scraper" if comparison with surrounding work was to be considered. It is built of red pressed ( Milton) brick and Bedford stone, the effect of which is at once bright and harmonious and the workmanship throughout is of the first order. A colonnade is formed above the height oft he two top floors, with engaged columns supporting a copper entablature. The total depth of this is I think a little too great for the tout ensemble, but otherwise the exterior is generally pleasing. I enclose a photograph by which you may notice the points I have mentioned. The plan, generally speaking-, is that of a good office building with two elevators. The ground floor is occupied, principally by the Bank, In the Banking room proper an elaborately ribbed elliptical ceiling is used, which is very affective, but it is perhaps just a trifle overcrowded. The finish of the wood work in the fittings is excellent and challenges the work of any outside Firm.

Of the other work in progress the Strathcona Apartment Block (Geo. Brown, Architect) in perhaps the largest It has a foundation tion to about ten feet above the ground level of Tyndal stone and over this grey brick. This building is on the site of a foundation that was laid for an Hotel some twenty years ago, but the work owing to the boom and other reasons never advanced above the level of the ground, and it remained there till this spring. This building will be ready for the roof very shortly.

The Canada Life Assurance Company are having extensive alterations made to their premises and in fact, as the work proceeds, it is hard to understand why any of the old building was left standing at all. The only portion remaining intact is the wall on Main street and Portage avenue, from the level of the first floor joists to the top of the second floor windows. The whole of the ground floor wall is to be taken out Two stories are added to the old work, and with an extra thirty feet to the south a large five storey building will be ready for occupancy about the 1st January.

St. Stephen's Church, Portage Ave., which is being entirely built of Tyndal stone is well under way, also St. Mary's Academy which covers a large area, and when completed may be considered a great addition to the educational buildings if the city. The number of small houses in course of construction in the suburbs is astonishing, but the better class of residences is as yet very much in the minority.

Regarding engineering work, I think that very little is being



Canada Foundry Company, limited

Wrought iron fences, architectural iron work

Toronto

