<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" NOTE ON PORTLAND CEMENT MORTAR " author="Hogg, Charles P.">NOTE ON PORTLAND CEMENT MORTAR.*

BY <person>CHARLES P. HOGG </person>M.I.C.E

<article title=" From Transactions of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders,Scotland " author="">From Transactions of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders,Scotland

The object of this note is to draw the attention of engineers and others to the influence of the quality of the sand used in making Portland cement mortar. The subject was incidentally referred to in the paper on "Limes and Cements their Nature and Properties," read by Mr. <person>Alexander M'Ara</person>, before this institution last session in which he said, "As to the quality of sands, they are of very wide variety, so much so, that one part of an inferior, or soft clayey sand, will reduce the strength of mortar as much as three or four parts of clean, sharp, granite sand."

Engineers have devoted a great deal of care and attention to obtaining Portland cement of the very best quality, and of late years, fineness of grinding has been strongly insisted upon, in addition to the usual tensile test, it having been found that the fine granular residue had no cementitious value. There is no standard specification for Portland cement, but the following may be taken as a fair example of present-day practice "The Portland cement shall be ground to such fineness that it will pass through a sieve of 2,500 meshes to the square inch, and that a residue of not more than 10 per cent. will remain in passing it through a sieve of 3,600 meshes to the square inch. Briquettes of neat cement, after being immersed in water for seven days, shall hear, without breaking, a tensile strain of 360lb. per square inch. The cement when made up neat, must not at any season of the year set in less than one hour."

In large contracts, it is usual to specify further, that the cement is to he emptied out on the wooden floor of a dry shed and turned over several times This not only cools the cement, which is often delivered hot, but by air-slaking renders the free lime harmless.

If the cement is allowed to lie on the floor of the shed for several months, tests made from the exterior of the heap show a considerable decrease in the tensile strength of the cement, but those made from the interior of the heap generally show an increase. The results of a number of tests on this point show that the tensile strength of briquettes made from the exterior of the heap increase by nearly 300 lb. per square inch from seven up to 26 days, while the increase during the same period on briquettes, made from the interior of the heap, would probably not exceed 200 lb. per square inch.

What is known as the sand test is sometimes also specified in these terms "The cement for testing is to be gauged with three times its weight of dry sand, which has passed through a sieve of 400 and has been retained upon one of 900 meshes to the square inch. The cement and sand having been well mixed dry, about 10 per cent. of their weight of water is to be added, and briquettes formed in moulds. The briquettes, having been kept in a damp atmosphere for 24 hours, are to be put into water, and to remain for 28 days, and they must then bear, without breaking, a tensile strain of 160 lb. per square inch."

The test for freedom from expansion, or contraction, is seldom specified, but it is important, and it is easily carried out by making two pats, 3 in. or 4 in. in diameter, on pieces of glass or slate. One of these should

be placed in water, after it sets, and the other left in air. A good, sound, well matured cement should show no signs of cracking or lifting in either of the pats.

Now, while engineers have taken all these elaborate precautions to obtain Portland cement of the very best quality, they have, generally, been content to specify simply that the sand shall be "clean and sharp," and the consequence is that, in many cases, sand is used for Portland cement mortar which reduces the strength of the mortar to a much greater extent than the amount of sand added would lead one to expect.

The sand test is supposed to be carried out with sand of standard quality, hut where is such a sand to be obtained? In practice the question resolves itself into the cement manufacturer supplying the very best and sharpest of sand he can possibly procure. There is always the difficulty of obtaining a standard sand, and there is, further, the objection that. tests made with a standard or normal sand give no indication of the strength of the mortar obtained with the sand in use on the work under construction. The general consensus of opinion is to the effect that the finer the cement is ground the stronger will the mortar he with any given quality of sand; but if a soft impure sand be used, the advantage of fine grinding would have been far better spent in obtaining cleaner sand or in washing and cleaning the impure sand. Both mud and shale are highly objectionable in Sand for cement mortar. The percentage of mud in any sand may be obtained approximately by placing a quantity of the sand in a cylindrical glass vessel containing water, shaking the contents together a little, and then allowing the materials to settle. The particles of sand go down at once, and the fine mud in suspension in the water settles finally on the top of the sand.

The importance of using really good sand for Portland cement mortar is so great, that the author is inclined to advocate the adoption of the sand test rather as a test of the quality of the sand than the cement. Taking the tensile strength of the neat cement as a standard, he would reject any sand which reduced that strength beyond a given percentage.

Taking the qualities of the various sands into account, tests lead to the following conclusions as regards cement mortar (1) That sand containing particles of shale should be avoided as far as possible, more especially if the shale is inflammable. (2) That, generally, coarse sharp sand is to be preferred to soft. fine sand. (3) That sand containing any trace of clay, mud, or earthy matter should be washed before being used. (4) That sandstone shiver sand is as good as the best sand.

<article title=" TREATING MARBLE " author="Ricardo, Halsey">TREATING MARBLE.

Compare a slab of marble, hand polished, with one that has been polished b machinery, says Mr. <person>Halsey Ricardo</person>, In the first instance, the surf-ace is full of life and movement ; the light falls on its tiny depressions and irregularities, awakening wayward reflections strengthening and palliating its colors, developing its lustres and translucencies, so that it becomes rich in story as well as in hue. In the other there is the dead level of polished surface, unassailably perfect, but, comparatively speaking, uninteresting. The life and vivacity of the marble are gone ; it is merely a polished record, with the pleasant part of its individuality rubbed away into wearisome uniformity

