<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CRUSHING BLAST FURNACE SLAG " author="">CRUSHING BLAST FURNACE SLAG.



An important industry has grown up in the Schuylkill Valley region of Pennsylvania in crushing the slag found in the huge cinder banks surrounding the blast furnaces. This material is crushed to all sizes, and is used for roofing, concrete, macadamizing and the manufacture of patent stone. The demand for it has steadily increased and it is being shipped to points as far east as Boston, and as far south as New Orleans. One or two large cinder banks have already been exhausted, but there still remain many millions of tons. There are large crushing plants now established at Leesport, Moselem, Mt. Laurel, and at Bechtelsville. It is declared that only the slag produced years ago is of value, as the recent output of the furnaces is worthless for these purposes.





<article title=" LOADS ON FOUNDATIONS " author="">LOADS ON FOUNDATIONS.



The following are the safe loads recognised by the New York Building Code :—"Soft clay, one ton per square foot ; ordinary clay and sand together, in layers, wet and springy, two tons per square foot ; loam, clay or fine sand, firm and dry, three tons per square foot very firm, coarse sand, stiff gravel or hard clay, four tons per square foot, or as otherwise determined by the <person>Commissioner of Buildings </person>having jurisdiction." In Chicago the highest load recognised is 4,500 lbs. per square foot. It is necessary therefore to devise remarkable methods to overcome the shortcomings of the natural foundations. The expense which is sometimes inevitable is exemplified by a building in San Francisco which is 75 feet square. Below the surface of the site, at a depth of 25 feet, is a concrete platform 96 feet by 100 feet, and 2 feet thick. On this is a layer of 15-inch rolled girders, making a continuous beam 96 feet long above are alternate layers of concrete and girders, and the area thus constructed is 70 per cent. greater than the actual floor area of the building. By this costly arrangement it is calculated the pressure on the earth's surface will not exceed 4,500 lbs. per square foot.





<article title=" AN INSTRUMENT FOR DETERMINING THE HARDNESS OF WOODS " author="">AN INSTRUMENT FOR DETERMINING THE HARDNESS OF WOODS.



In every description of wood, by a practical man says Mr. <person>Herbert Stone</person>, in a paper read before the <assoc>Society of Arts</assoc>, the elements of weight, hardness and colour are considered. Sometimes the weight per cubic feet is given, and the colour, apart from its fluctuations, is often accurately pictured, but the hardness is a quality which is practically left to our imagination. I have been so much impressed with the necessity of some means of measuring the degree of hardness that I have constructed an instrument which is capable of giving a fairly accurate reading of the resistance to impact of a wood (not of its hardness pure and simple, because the resistance to impact is made tip of elasticity plus hardness), but it is a fair parallel to the impression of that which we call the hardness makes upon our sense of touch. I will not weary you with a description of this contrivance, but will merely mention that the principle is as follows A steel ball of a known weight falling a definite distance upon a surface at an angle of half a right angle will fly off in a horizontal direction, and describe a curve or trajectory which will be longer or shorter according to the amount of force absorbed

by the wood. A self-recording arrangement and all necessary adjustments are attached to the machine. The hard and soft zones of a wood give different readings, so that a number of trials have to he made and an average struck. I take the average of ten trials, displacing the wood five millimetres between each.



<article title=" ANCIENT METHODS OF FLOORING " author="">ANCIENT METHODS OF FLOORING.



Before Portland cement and concrete were introduced, builders had recourse to some strange expedients for flooring says the <firm>London Builder's Reporter</firm>. <person>Sir Hugh Plat </person>maintained that ox blood and fine clay tempered made the best floor in the world, end that this mixture laid in any floor or wall formed a very strong and binding material. The usual method for earthen floors was to take two-thirds of lime and one of coal ashes well sifted with a small quantity of loamy clay, to mix the whole and temper it well with water. The stuff was allowed to lie in a heap for eight or ten days. This process was repeated at intervals until it became smooth, yielding, tough and gluey. The stuff was then laid to a depth of about 3 inches thick, during the hot season for preference and smoothed with a towel. Floors of that kind were in favour for mailhouses. If cheapness was required coarser materials were used. For better-class floors, in addition to the preceding mixture, a further mortar coating was laid down to a depth of half an inch. This consisted of lime made of rag stones, tempered with a little white of eggs, the more eggs the better, to a very high pitch. It was necessary that the second layer should be laid down before the under-flooring was too dry, so as to insure their incorporation. If the flooring was rubbed with oil it was supposed to assume a polish which gratified the eves of housewives.



<article title=" BUILDING LEGENDS AND CURIOSITIES " author="Baillarge, C.">BUILDING LEGENDS AND CURIOSITIES.

There is much that is curious and legendary associated with the matter—of-tact art of building. Thus, it has been written of the spire of <building>Chesterfield Church</building>

which many consider wonderful, though, as a fact, it is only somewhat out of the perpendicular— Poor devil! poor spite,

To make a spire a laughing-sight.



This rhyme refers to the perversity of the builder, who originally erected the church without a spire, but, being compelled to add one, made it crooked. One of the legends attributes the mischief to the Prince of Darkness, who one day, being fatigued, folded his wings and rested on the steeple. Some of the incense which was being wafted in the aisles below escaped from the church, crept up the steeple, and tickled the archfiends nose to such purpose that he gave a terrific sneeze and so dislocated the steeple that it has been twisted ever since ! Another tale in connection with this church is that on the occasion of a wedding party passing into the building the steeple bowed to the bride and bridegroom and has remained crooked ever since. The same tradition attaches to an old church at Lancashire, of which it is said

<building>The church at Little Winwick</building>,

It stands upon a sod

	And when a maid	married there

The steeple gives a nod.



Alas ! how many ages

Their rapid flight have flown,

Since on that high and lofty spire

There's moved a single stone

