<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PLASTERERS' GRIEVANCES " author="">PLASTERERS' GRIEVANCES.



The Plasterers' Section of the Toronto Builders' Exchange recently deputed Wm. J. Hynes and J. M. Gander to confer with the Toronto Chapter of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club relative to certain grievances which the trade are seeking to have remedied. One of these relates to the trouble and expense incurred in making repairs to work damaged by contractors and workmen belonging to the other trades. The plasterers would like the assistance of the architects in reducing the amount of repairs from this cause, and suggest the insertion of a clause in all specifications which would make a contractor lible for payment for repairs made necessary by wilful or careless damage done by himself or his workmen.

Another cause of complaint is the lack of uniformity in the terms employed by the architects in their specifications to designate particular kinds of work. It was suggested that a glossary of trade terms should be prepared and adopted for use in specifications, and

that all specifications for plasterers' work should he made as nearly uniform as possible.

The architects have approved of this suggestion, and have promised their co-operation towards putting it in practice.

The question of liability for repairs caused by careless workman is a difficult one to deal with, it being next to impossible in many instances to fix the responsibility. It seems to be generally agreed that the plumber is the worst offender in this matter. The practice of destroying new floors by dumping radiators onto them and turning them end over to wherever they are to stand, and the apprentice's habit of leaving the impression of his shapely black hand on the newly finished plaster are cause for righteous indignation on the part of both architects and plasterers.

Mr. Hynes has been requested and has consented to prepare a paper for incorporation in the annual proceedings of the Ontario Association of Architects giving a glossary of terms used in the trade and other information in a model specification for plasterers' work.





The Gutta Percha and Rubber Manufacturing Company of Toronto, limited

Patent interlocking rubber tiling

Toronto, Canada



The Vokes Hardware Company, limited

Manufacturers of "Acme" cold storage and refrigerating hardware

Toronto



