<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the measurements of anything on the line of section, hut also the measurements of anything seen beyond, such as doors, &c.

5. Elevations.—-—The various elevations are shown to give an idea of the completed view of the building and, together with the sections, give the heights of the various windows, &c., the widths corresponding to those given on the plans. They also give the kind of windows and doors used, and position of rainwater pipes, &c.



<article title=" TILES FOR SLATES IN CHINA " author="">TILES FOR SLATES IN CHINA

At the risk of imitating <person>Artemus Ward</person>, I must commence my account of Chinese slates by stating that there are none, writes a special correspondent of the <firm>Slate Trades Gazette</firm>. Slates are not used, as far as I can gather, because there are none to use. The fairy presiding over the distribution of geological favors seems to have passed China by. Hence, the Chinese, in giving their reasons for not using slates, may imitate the French priest who said he had twenty reasons for not ringing his church bell when the king passed through his village. His first reason was

"We have no bell."

The Chinese have no slates ; had slates existed in the country, no doubt the Celestials would have found out the use of them, as they have of every other natural product of their astonishingly rich country. Failing slates, they early took to roofing their houses with tiles. They are used universally, except in the poorer class of houses, which are thatched with straw or reeds ; or, in the case of the huts of the huge beggar population, with anything that conies handy. I have seen a roof made of an enamelled iron advertisement of <firm>Nestle's</firm> Milk, some straw, old tarpaulin, a side of a Gossage' s soap box, the lid of a kerosene oil tin, and some sods. A patent for that roof is about to be applied for!

Apart, however, from artistic roofs like this, Chinese houses are roofed with ordinary tiles, of which, though no expert, I cannot speak well. They seem to have all the vices capable of being possessed by tiles. They are invariably black and of coarse, gritty clay. This shows itself in the surface texture, which is rough and sometimes even covered with sharp points, so that the finger might easily be slightly torn as it passed over. Their capacity for absorbing moisture is enormous. The only parallel I can find for it is that of an inveterate toper of liquid. I should say that a Chinese tile easily holds its own weight of water. Those of good quality cost five dollars ( 20s.) a thousand. Those of poorer quality cost three dollars a thousand. The surface of a cheap tile would make a capital file it is so rough.

In laying them the Chinese have not learnt the art of pegging them. Each tile is held in its place by the weight of the one above it. It can easily he seen that to enable the tiles to keep their places at all they must overlap one another very considerably. They do so, in fact, to such an extent that each tile overlaps quite three quarters of the one below it. The result of the extreme porosity of tiles, and their want of pegging is disastrous to the roof in two directions. First it adds enormously to the weight of the roof, and in the case of a large building it is normally great, and when rain falls heavily, as it can do in China, the weight is

something terrible, often leading to the complete collapse of the building. When Shanghai was first founded, Chinese tiles had to bc employed for foreign houses but the advent of galvanized roofing—--cheap, clean, fast, secure—is becoming universal for such houses. This may be grevious news for the master slaters of Great Britain, but truth must out. I am writing this shielded from a heavy rain by a galvanized roof. Another consequence of the loose character of Chinese slates is that Chinese roofs are in a chronic state of disrepair. They never look tidy, as cats, in their nightly gambols, displace the tiles. The roof is a favorite place for the Chinaman, in hot weather, for fresh air ; he climbs the roof to gain a vantage point to witness fires, and every step across the roof displaces a tile or two. If a typhoon does get under a tile it plays havoc with the root, and from one cause or another these Chinese roofs always look untidy The country ought to be a paradise for that bete noir of the slater, viz., the ''jobbing bricklayer." But a roof must show daylight through it before the average Chinaman will have it mended. He is like the Irishman with whom a traveler remonstrated one day on the state of

his roof. '' Why don't you mend it ?		'' I can't,"

said Pat '' it's wet."	Why, then, don't you do it in

dry weather? " " Sure," said Pat, " what's the good when it's dry." Only, the Chinese have the pull over Pat as to the weather. In this climate, with its months of splendid dry weather, roofing is not of the importance that it is in Britain.

I have not seen any tiles shaped like the English red pan-tiles. They are all simply concave, and are laid one on the other with the concave side uppermost. They are laid in lines, with a gutter between each line, as thc illustration will show. The bottom tile of each row is slightly raised by a closed end, upon which appear designs, beautifully chased, of flowers, or gods and goddesses, and these give pretty finish to the roof. As to the laying of tiles, a Chinese contractor tells me that a workman will lay about half a faung a day, a faung being about 10 feet square. This means that he lays 200 tiles a day. Wages are low A man earns 30 or 40 cents a day ( 6d. or 8d.) , according to cir-

 cumstances.

In the method of Chinese tiling, the tiles are set up edgeways all along the ridge. This, of course, adds enormously to the weight.

in conclusion, I may add that while my description of ordinary Chinese roofs is, I think, correct, I must in justice say that when all thc lines of tiles are in order, they look well, while the roofs of the temples are frequently very beautiful On quite ordinary temples and guild houses the ridge of the roof has the most attention lavished on

it. The ridge of <building>the Guild House of the Shansi bankers, Shanghai </building>is made of exquisitely colored porcelain. The symbol of the sun is in the centre, with a sacred dragon at each side. Such roofs, with their yellow, red and blue tiles, with their quaint dragons and monsters, and their graceful upturned gables, are as fine as any in the world while one of the great temples in Pekin, with its roof of delicious sky-blue tiles, is one of the sights of the world—that is, if the allied troops, during their civilizing ( ? ) campaign in that city, have not totally destroyed it, and rubbed the world of one

the choicest productions of human art

