<doctype type="">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION

" author=""> INTERCOMMUNICATION



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender atta hed not necessarily for publication The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions to issue following their appearance.]







From '' "Bowmanville" I am about to build several brick buildings, and the owner does not wish to use pressed brick, but desires to have the work done nicely, and the color of mortar to harmonize with the bricks. I have the privilege of using either red or cream coloured bricks. How can I make coloured mortar that will not fade with age ? Any hints that may help me will be appreciated, and may be of service to other contractors who may be in the same condition as I am placed.



ANS.—If the bricks used are light coloured, light or cream mortar may be in harmony, but for dark red or purplish coloured bricks, white or cream joints are oppressive to the artistic eye, and it is better to use a dark mortar of some kind, preferably the same color as the bricks. By a judicious assortment of the bricks and harmonious choice in the color of mortar, a skilful bricklayer could so vary the shades of his brickwork that an otherwise plain building would have quite an artistic appearance and one that would

square foot, and at 105 miles an hour the pressure is 54 lbs. per square foot. The highest velocity on record is that of 121 miles an hour, which produces a pressure of 72 lbs. per square foot. If then, for example, a chimney-stack is 10 feet above a roof, and it contains 3 flues each 9 X 14 inches placed end to end, so that the



























FIG. 2.



stack is 18 inches thick and feet wide ; then we find by taking ''moments" of the forces about the base of the stack, that a gale of wind blowing at the rate of 58 miles an hour—a common velocity—and producing a pressure of 16¼ lbs. on every square foot, would overturn the stack on its base. If the flues are placed side by side and the stack is 2 feet thick and 3 ft. inches wide, it would require a pressure of 26½ lbs. per foot to overturn it, or a velocity of wind amounting to 7312 miles an hour. The pressure of the wind on an octagonal or a circular shaft is less than that on a square one of the same diameter, that on a circular or cylindrical shaft being two-thuds of that on a square one ; and the pressure on an octagonal shaft is four-fifths of that on a square shaft. The resistance, however, is less in the circular and octagonal shafts on account of their being a smaller quantity of material used in their construction. The above calculations are based on the supposition that the shafts are perfectly plumb and upright, but if a shaft is at all '' off





last for ages. To make a dark mortar, and one that will last, use furnace ashes and lime, pulverize the ashes. Pounded red bricks or red tiles, mixed with lime, make a fine red mortar; cheap mineral colours may be mixed in with the mortar to intensify the colours. It is likely, however, that it will be a matter of economy to purchase prepared mineral mortar colors, as these may he obtained now through any reputable hardware store. Perhaps, by varying the colors of both bricks and mortar on the same surface, in accordance with a pre-conceived plan, a fine and novel effect could be produced.



From ''Builder."-— How high is it safe to build a chimney above a roof, without " staying" with braces?

ANS. With the data furnished it is somewhat difficult to decide this question ; however, we may give a few general rules. The pressure of the wind may be taken as proportional to the square of the velocity with which it travels, and when it impinges on a plane surface. It is known that a velocity of 35 miles an hour produces a pressure of 6 lbs. per square foot of surface directly opposed to the current ; with a velocity of 70 miles an hour the pressure is 24 lbs. per

FIG. 3.





the plumb" it will offer mud- less resistance to the force of the wind.



From "Contractor" -- I desire to get some information regarding the proper way to build a balloon frame and prepare it for brick veneering, and am particularly anxious to know how the work is finished under the eaves. Will you kindly help me out, and if not asking too much, give a few sketches as to how the work should be done?

ANS.—The first requisite is a good solid stone foundation of hard bricks, with a stone sill course dividing the foundations from the upper work. The

