<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



little book called, "The hardwood Finisher," which every young painter and wood finisher should have.



From " Wood-Worker" :—An old country carpenter tells me there is a tool for cleaning out the "grooves" or "housings" for shelving, step-ladders, stair-strings, and similar work, and is called an old-woman's tooth. Will you kindly describe the tool and the manner of operating it ?

ANS.—There is a tool sold in tool stores called a 'dado," which is used by carpenters for cutting grooves across the grain for shelving and similar work. It is made like a rebate plane, with the addition of "spurs" on each side and a brass depth regulator. These tools are made in sizes from ¼ to 1 inch in width so that grooves may be made to receive shelving

the "plough irons" may be used as a cutter. The shoe 0, may be screwed on, though this shoe is not absolutely necessary, but it makes the tool work more smoothly. The cutter can be "tapped" down to make it cut deeper whenever it is required. Fig. 3 shows the tool in operation.



<article title=" ANNUAL CONSUMPTION OF PORTLAND CEMENT IN THE U. S." author="">ANNUAL CONSUMPTION OF PORTLAND CEMENT IN THE U. S.

The following table gives the annual consumption in barrels of Portland Cement in the United States since 1892, and shows the wonderful growth in the demand for this product





















of any thickness between those figures inclusive. The "Old woman's tooth," or "Hag's tooth," as it is better known by, is a different tool altogether and may be set to any depth, but the sides of the grooves must first be cut with a saw before it can be used. We show in the illustrations Figs. 2, 3, and 4, the tool and method of using it To facilitate sawing to the right depth, on a tenon saw fix two strips of wood, B, Fig. 2, by two

























wood screws as shown, putting one strip on each side of the saw so that the bottom edges are distant from the teeth the depth of the groove desired. A part of the wood to be removed may be taken out with a chisel, and, except where knots are present, this can be done at one stroke. The remaining wood can then

<article title=" COST PER BARREL OF CEMENT " author="">COST PER BARREL OF CEMENT.

The following shows in tabular form a fair estimate of cost of manufacturc per barrel of finished cement for a thousand-barrel-per-day plant and also a five hundred barrel-per-day plant, as given in the prospectus of a new Canadian cement manufacturing company





















The above estimates have been proved in the light of experience to be such as can he realized in practical work.

They include interest on investment for works and also repairs. These items make all earnings above this amount in the nature of double dividends.



be removed by the bag's tooth. The form of the tool is shown at Fig. 4, and can easily be made of any hardwood— beech or maple being the best—and one of

Spain possesses one of the largest buildings in the world. It is at once a palace, a museum, a library, a picture gallery, a monastery, a church, and a burial place. This wonderful edifice is called the Escurial (a hill or heap of stones taken from a quarry) ancient is located about twenty-five miles north-west of Madrid. It was commenced in 1503 by order of Philip II of Spain, and was intended partly as a royal burial place for the Kings of Spain and partly as a commemoration of Philip s victory over the French at St. Quentin in 1557. It is built entirely of granite and measures 744 feet in length by 580 feet in breadth. At each corner is a tower 200 feet in height. Thc building is supposed to represent an enormous gridiron lying upside down, and this shape is believed to have reference to St. Lawrence, who was martyred on a gridiron. Twenty-one years were spent in building it and it cost £2,500,000—an enormous sum at that time even for a palace. It has been twice partly destroyed by lightning and was sacked by the French soldiers in 1708. It is said to contain 14,000 doors and 11,000 windows.

