<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

small. The essential distinction which lifts this division above the small library class is the extension beyond the power of control by a central office. Detailed supervision passes from the hands of the librarian into that of a staff ; and the librarian's office, instead of being the first thing to meet the eye, should be, though accessible, retired. In other words the library has reached the sub-divided stage and sub-division the unified sub-division which keeps all purposes apart but all in touch with the books is the main thing to be brought about. The borrowers should be kept as far as possible from the readers ; the children from the grown-tip readers ; and the newspaper readers from both. In short me principles illustrated by the plan of the <building>New York library </building>may be applied on a much smaller scale, as long as there are similar combinations of purpose.

The small library has more direct poetry than any, and is an attractive problem. But its basis is severely practical. The poetry consists in the building's unity, and therein lies also the practical basis. A librarian with one or two assistants must attend to everything and oversee everything. Hence the public functions must be all on one floor and as far as possible all in sight from the administrative centre. This will make smooth the path of the librarian It is necessary also to make his paths short. A few unnecessary feet to be traversed, coming and going all day everyday, mount up in the aggregate to a great deal of unnecessary work ; and the more easily the librarian can do his work the better the public is served.

The problem is therefore to arrange space for purposes of different kinds, all so separated as to avoid mutual annoyance, yet all in close communication with the librarian's office.

It would be well to assume a fair standard of accommodation for the present purpose, taking the stage of library development suitable for a small town It is for libraries of this kind that Mr. <person>Carnegie</person>'s recent gifts to towns in this country will he chiefly applied. We may then perhaps assume not less than I. For the public ; a reading room for the grown up people, a reading room tot- children, and ample space apart from these for the Coming and going of borrowers. 2. For a librarian at delivery desk and a private room in connection with it ; for talking is not the thing in a library, and it the librarian wants to talk at length he should have a place for seclusion, for the sake of the public as well as for the sake of privacy. There should be also working room for unpacking, marking and cataloguing the books. The unpacking room would he best in the basement, but the other work should be done on the ground floor, in close connection with the librarian's office. 3. For the storage of books ; plenty of room now and an opportunity to grow.













































The last sub-division is the most difficult part of the library plan on account of the continual increase of the number of books The difficulty is complicated by the present manner of admitting the public to the book-

shelves. It the librarian is to keep an eye upon the stacks where the public are handling the books, undoubtedly the circular stack room with radiating stacks is the best. It future extension of the stack room is to be considered, undoubtedly the circular form is not the best. One is inclined to think that there is too much stress laid upon the need of making a sort of policeman of the librarian. There is a New York story of a man who came down Broadway, under an umbrella, in a heavy shower. The doors on both sides of the street were full of people taking shelter ; people who had flat umbrellas and wanted them. The man lowered his umbrella at a shop door, looked round upon the assembled multitudes, stood up his umbrella against the wall and went in. . The public will police each other if there are enough of them. There is also such a thing as creating a sentiment of honour by assuming it—judiciously. To some minds it might become a sort of sport to circumvent a fussy librarian by irregular borrowing ; whereas if this were assumed to be (as it is) an act of public dishonor too mean to be thought of in connection with respectable people it would cease to bc a temptation. There will always be a sprinkling of the naturally bad ; but the best means of throwing difficulties in their way is to tone up the rest

The librarian's principal business is to help the public to get the books they want or ought to have and the principal need in the book room is plenty of space for the needs of this generation and a chance for the next to enlarge it if 1 hey want to.

The most obvious arrangement of these functions is to place the book room and working offices in the rear, the reading rooms and delivery hail in front and the librarian between The delivery hail and desk will come naturally in the middle and the reading rooms on each side. Fortunately the reading room for grown tip people is usually required to be of a larger size than that for children so that it is not necessary to make the front part of the building symmetrical in plan. In a building of such small size and so few parts, symmetry is difficult to manage without producing a dull exterior effect. If there are supplementary public rooms on an upper floor to be approached the clear sweep of rooms on the ground floor is most easily preserved by throwing the staircase to the front, where t will be of great service in establishing an unsymmetrical balance of parts.

Inside there is room for a large effect. It has been urged that, for the purpose of keeping all parts in view from the delivery desk, the library should consist f an area under a single roof ; subdivided, on the floor only, by desks, seats, bookcases and balustrades. Fortunately this expedient would not so well serve the end in view as a more architectonic method. It is the floor that. is to be kept clear not the ceiling. The continuous ceiling would be a great sound carrier and is better broken. For architectonic purposes also—to give a sense of seclusion in the various rooms it will be necessary to sub-divide the ceiling; for the eye measures a room by the ceiling rather than by the floor. If therefore the rooms are divided from the hall by an open screen of columns there will be a satisfactory sense of seclusion in the reading rooms while thc eve can range the whole length of the library, with a sense of space increased by the intervention of columns ; and everything will be in sight from the delivery desk. Columns are a slight obstruction to a person immoveably seated in a pew at. church, but none at all to one moving about ; and the delivery desk has usually a bowed front. to give it greater extension into the hail.

It is not possible in a short space to enter further into the question of plan, much less to discuss matters of detail ; high light in the reading rooms, artificial ventilation screened from dust, washable floors, the make and dimensions of book cases, etc.

The present article is only an attempt to appreciate the situation as help to imagination in planning.

<person>W. A. LANGTON</person>.

