<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE MAKING OF VENEER " author="Chambers, W. T.">THE MAKING OF VENEER.



Thc Imperial Veneer Company Limited, have large works in Sundridge, Parry Sound District. Their Manager, Mr. W. T. Chambers was kind enough to explain the process of manufacture to our representative First the logs are put in large vats, or tanks, and boiled for from six to twelve hours. Then after being peeled they are carried with large cranes, and put into the veneer machine, which works automatically, and cuts the veneer, from 1/32 "tip 3/8" as required. The veneer comes off in one continuous sheet, but for convenience is cut into about 30 ft. lengths. It is then taken to the clipper, arid cut to size; from there it goes to thc dry kilns. where it remains until perfectly dry. If it is to be used as single stock, it is taken to the shipping room and done up into bundles, or crated ready for shipment As the company make a specialty of built up stock, suitable for all kinds of panellings and furniture, the building up is the most important part of their work. For this purpose the company use a water-proof glue. They exhibit samples of wood that have remained in water for twelve hours, and are seemingly as perfect as possible. The process of glueing up the veneer is of itself very interesting. When the veneer comes from thc dry kiln, it is taken to the glue rollers or spreaders Two large sixty ton presses stand near by; on the bottom or base of the press is laid a large crawl suitable for the panel to be pressed on this is laid the first or face sheet of veneer; then the center or filling is run through the glue boiler, and laid with the grain of the wood running opposite to the face; then the back is laid on that with grain running same as face. When forty or fifty panels are laid up, the press power of sixty

tons is turned on, and under this immense weight, the material is compressed into a small space. When the pressure is at its g greatest the upper and lower crawl are bolted together and it is then wheeled to a drying room and allowed to dry thoroughly; from there it goes to the trimming table once more to be cut to exact size and then to the sander and polisher, when it is ready to ship. The company have orders from some of the largest English and German firms, as well as the local trade







PERSONAL.



Mr. John J. Honeyman architect, has recently removed from Rossland, B. C. and opened an office in the Molson's Bank Building, Hastings Street, Vancouver, B. C.



The death is announced at St. Louis of Mr. James Stewart, the contractor who recently made a record for rapid construction in England in connection with the new Westinghouse factories at Manchester. The late Mr. Stewart lived for many years in Kingston Ont. following his arrival from Scotland in 1842, and erected a number of prominent buildings in Kingston and Ottawa.





The announcement of The York Manufacturing Co., 1027 Yonge 5., Toronto, manufacturers of laundry apparatus, first appears in this number.



Wm. H. Sumbling, who has had much experience in the manufacture of laundry machinery has established a factory in this line at 643 Yonge St., Toronto His announcement appears in this number.





The Cement Block Machine Company, 

Cement blocks, sills, heads

Toronto



Clare Brothers and Company, 

makers of the Preston Hot Water Boiler

Preston, Ontario

