<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<person>Howard Walker </person>the American architect was an eye witness, from some distance, of its fall and describes the angel at the apex the feature of the structure that ultimately lay the farthest from the site—''slowly descend, swaying, but upright"; and members of his family, who were close to the tower, told him that "spurts of lime-dust puffed from the tower about 20 feet up from the ground and that then . . . the base of the tower spread "like the roots of a tree?"



Another witness is an architect who writes to The Builder giving a measured plan of <building>the Campanile </building>which he made 27 years ago. The gist of his observations is that the inner and outer shells, between which runs the sloping ascent vaulted in brick, were tied together by wooden bond timbers some of which were decayed. ''hi many cases" the timbers were cut out, he supposes on account of decay, and had not been renewed. lie noticed 'several serious cracks in the structure", which he "attributed to the decay of the bond timbers".



Further evidence is given by the ruins themselves which show:—first, that "large numbers" of the bricks were old bricks Roman bricks, stamped with a stamp which identifies them as coming from Altinum, a city which was ancient when Venice was new—; and, secondly, that the walls were badly built, n some cases being mere shells, (those jerry building ancients again!) filled in with rubbish.



When one thinks of an inclined plane of brick 3 feet  inches wide and 875 feet long (by this English architect's plan) resting its accumulated weight at the bottom upon walls which were badly built of bricks which had already served their term a thousand years ago; which have been suffered to decay behind the concealment of a marble loggia and have been deprived by decay and careless cutting of their wooden vaulting tie; it is no wonder that the base of the tower spread "like the roots of a tree."





<article title=" THE R. I. B. A. COLONIAL EXAMINATIONS A CHANCE FOR ARCHITECTS " author="McDonald, A.">THE <assoc>R. I. B. A.</assoc> COLONIAL EXAMINATIONS A CHANCE FOR ARCHITECTS.

There is seldom anyone who has had a liberal education who does not later in life wish that he had the chance again, knowing what he now knows of what kind of study would be the best for him to pursue. If it were possible for men to take up their calling for some years before finishing their education there is no doubt that the finishing process would be done more intelligently and with greater interest and profit. Architects of all men find that practice opens their eyes not only to new fields of study but to the need of more careful study of what they have already learnt. In particular is it true that increasing experience inclines them continually to the study of the academic examples. Whereas in their younger days they were apt to think a general acquaintance with the historical styles was all that was desirable for this country, and that more intimate study was better expended on current examples; as they increase in experience, it is current work that receives only general attention and they long, generally in vain, for time and opportunity to study old work even out of books. It is not impossible, even in the midst of practice, to pursue these studies to some effect, but it would require much energy and more method to accomplish anything systematic. A

day's work does not create an appetite for evening studies, and without a definite end within sight there is little chance but what these studies will be indefinitely postponed. With something to fix a limit both in time and in extent it is easier to begin and to keep going. here then is a use for the Colonial Examination of the Royal Institute of British architects.

The examinations consist of two days given to a sketch design; it was an almshouse in the examination of this year. After this there are papers on the following subjects

i.	the NATURE AND PROPERTY or BUILDING MATERIALS ; their decay, preservation and quality, and their application in building.



2.	THE ARRANGEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION of BUILDINGS, in relation to health, drainage, water supply, ventilation, lighting and heating.



3.	Specifications AND ESTIMATING. A specification of the work in various trades. The measurement and cost of building work, The conditions for building contracts.

4.	Construction. Foundations, walls, retaining walls, arches, vaults, floors, roofs, etc., and constructive details in all trades.



5.	CONSTRUCTION, Construction in iron and steel. Showing underpinning and dealing with ruinous and dangerous structures.



None of these papers would afford much difficulty to an architect. Any practising architect ought to be able, we may gather from these examination papers, to go into the examination hall without preparation and pass with sufficient credit. He might perhaps also pass in the remaining paper----—6. 

<article title=" THE PRINCIPAL STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE " author="">THE PRINCIPAL STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE: their features, mouldings, and ornament, so that if the right to put <assoc>A. R. I. B. A. </assoc>after his name is all he wants the only thing that need stand in his way is the five days' effort necessary and the six guinea fee.

But this paper upon the architectural styles is worth more to Canadian arch tects than to be merely an instrument for acquiring letters. It makes the very motive that is wanted to stimulate to continuous application in the study of historical work. The ultimate goal- —freedom of design—is not less surely attained if the attention is fixed for a time upon the examination as an intermediate object. The examination, like a half way house, will make the way seem shorter. But its prime use lies in its supplying a fixed line of study and a fixed time for its accomplishment, These are a great help to a lonely student.

If the loneliness could be got over a greater difficulty still would be removed. Association is always a help to students, and will he particularly so to the architect student who has other work to do and to whom it is desirable that this course of study should present as much as possible the appearance of recreation. Why should it not be made something of the nature of recreation, by a number of architects agreeing together to take the examination and meeting together once a week or so to talk over and analyze the characteristics of the styles ? Both the Ontario Association of Architects and the Province of Quebec Association have attractive rooms, with conveniences for associated work, and, examination or no examination, this is the sort of work to do there.



There is more reason for meetings of this kind than

