<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



last, not that he thought it the least of a foreman's qualifications, but that he realized he was addressing a meeting of honest men, and he spoke with a wide and varied experience of foremen and clerks of works, and be was pleased to think that there were very few foremen in the city of Bristol holding positions in the building- trades that touched secret commissions. [he foreman should hold the balance true between employer and employee and show no favour.

A foreman possessing these qualities can always secure a good job and a fair wage ; he would earn the respect of workmen, employer, architect, and all Co fl cern ed.



<article title=" RELATIONS OF EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES IN THE BUILDING TRADES " author="">RELATIONS OF EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES IN THE BUILDING TRADES.



The thirteenth annual convention of the National Association of Builders held in Washington, D. C., on 0c. 28th and 29th, was largely devoted to consideration of labor issues in their relation to the building trades. Papers on the subject were presented by Thomas F. Armstrong of Philadelphia, and William H. Sayward, of Boston, the able secretary of the Association. The latter urged employers to recognize and confer with the unions when organized and conducted on proper lines. The unions should he taught the injustice of their policy of interfering with the right of non-union workmen to sell their labor under whatever conditions they might consider satisfactory or advantageous.

Mr. Sayward concluded his exhaustive paper with the following: ''In conclusion I wish to point out what seems to be a peculiar advantage for the building trades in carrying out this policy, showing, as 1 have previously indicated, the strength given by the very conditions which primarily seem a cause of weakness. It will he remembered that I endeavored to show that the diversity of trades involved in each and every building operation, each trade standing by itself, with a distinct employer and a distinct set of workmen, gave opportunity for almost limitless interference, in some cases a small and comparatively insignificant trade blocking progress of work as effectually as a larger trade. This may be turned to advantage by so concentrating the action of employers that any strike in any single trade, even on the work of a single employer, shall result in a lockout of all trades by all employers. This is coercive action, and it should he the study of employers to avoid

it.	But it would be legitimate under certain conditions, which I will endeavor to indicate in describing specifically how I think these labor issues can he most effectively met on the lines of the policy I have been discussing.

I should begin by having employers in the various building trades, the best, the most responsible in each branch in every community, united together for the specific purpose of dealing with labor issues. I should have this central body, acting in the general interest, at a seasonable time in each year, issue a call to all organizations of workmen in these various trades, requesting that they formulate their desires as to wages, hours and general conditions for the coming year and transmit them to the general employers organization, this latter organization committing itself to laying the desires of the workmen thus expressed before the employers' organizations in each respective trade, and engaging still further to bring about agreements between the

employers and workmen through joint conferences. All conferences to be upon a uniform plan and all agreements to be under the observation of the central body in order that there may be no conflict in the terms and conditions of the various trades.

These agreements being effected and made public SO that the community may understand exactly what has been done in its interest, the central body will then be

a position to demand and secure observance by both parties of the terms of the agreement.

For instance, should any branch be embarrassed by stoppage of work in apparent violation of the agreement the central body will immediately take it up, make public investigation and fix the blame and penalty. Should the blame be upon the employers' organization it would have to withdraw from the position taken, or lose affiliation with and the support of all the rest of the central body, a serious matter. Should the blame he upon a workman's organization it would have to withdraw from the position taken, or the central body would at once cause all work to be stopped in all trades, an equally serious matter and one which would speedily end the recalcitrancy of the guilty organization

If it be too difficult to get a central body thus effectively organized, the same thing can be accomplished by the most prominent general contractors banding themselves together for the same purpose and the same policy of action In some respects this is the more attractive form, inasmuch as it limits those who must be in harmony to a much smaller number. But in any event this line of action gets all its strength and value upon the setting up of preliminary agreements to settle all matters of mutual concern by and through joint committees, these joint committees to formulate working rules under said agreement.

With these agreements existing it will be hard for either party to evade the penalty which will result from breaking the contract, hard for the guilty parties to avoid the just condemnation of the public. But, in my opinion, and this opinion is based upon many years of experience, the discipline spoken of will rarely, if ever, have to be applied, for agreements fairly entered into and made public are seldom violated."





<article title=" MORTAR " author="">MORTAR

Like all other compounds, mortar depends for its quality upon that of its constituents, and also upon the proportions in which they are used, and the method by which they are mixed. To all intents and purposes, it is an exceedingly fine concrete, composed of an aggregate and a matrix mixed with water, its purpose being to fill up the interstices in the joints between the bricks or stones of which a wall is composed, so as to provide an even bedding surface, and render the wall watertight, adherent properties being rather valuable for securing this than needed to prevent the bricks from being pulled apart.

Thus it comes about that the more close is the jointing of a wall, the finer should be the grain of the mortar, and of its aggregate. A coarse rubble wall having wide irregular in mortar joints would be best with a mortar made of a fine gravel or crushed stone, or, at least with one which contained a considerable amount. of pea sized lumps as well as finer sand amongst the aggregate, to assist in filling up the larger hollows without

