<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



From <person>W. B.</person>- --Would it be safe to take away a central pier from under a lintel having a span of 8 ft.— the stone being a free-stone 8½ x 8 inches, with two stories of brickwork above it?

Ans.—Something would depend on thc thickness of the brick wall, a condition you have not given us, but, under any circumstances, it would not only not be safe, but dangerous to remove the pier without first supporting the wall above. First needle and shore the wall above the lintel, and fully support the wall above ; then insert a relieving arch of proper thickness and laid in cement ; or put in two steel beams, not less than 8 inches deep, separated apart equal to the thickness of the wall. Wedge up tight with slate and cement mortar, and then take out the pier. This is the proper way to do work of this kind. Never subject a stone or brick lintel to a sudden strain, or you will surely have an accident. It is no trick to support a brick wall by shoring and needling.





<article title=" THE WASTING AWAY OF BRICKWORK " author="">THE WASTING AWAY OF BRICKWORK

Many influences combine to bring about the gradual destruction of brickwork, and these are for the most part atmospheric, In this country, says the British Clay— worker, we have not to contend with those sharp changes of temperature which are noticeable, for example. in South Africa and in many parts of America. There temperature changes are amongst the most important of the destructive agents. Great cold causes contraction and heat again produces expansion, and the alternate expansion and contraction which may go on from clay to day in countries where the days are hot and the nights cold play havoc with bricks and tiles.

Equable temperatures do not have much effect upon brickyard goods even if they be high or low, so long as these temperatures are maintained for a considerable time destruction chiefly takes place at the moment of change from high to low or vice versa. Very few goods are tough enough to resist sharp temperature changes over any great range. We have seen the effects of such changes in mountainous districts, where the native rock is continually undergoing- a comminuting force which tends to convert it into small fragments; such fragments accumulate at the base of cliffs and rock-faces as '' "tailings."

Moisture is not very fatal to good brickwork unless it is followed by frost, and then the destruction is very great, for the water in each little pore becoming converted into ice expands and exerts a tremendous force, which shows in the cracking and scaling of the material. Everyone knows the expansive power of ice who has had the misfortune to suffer from burst water-pipes during the thaw which has followed a severe frost.

In towns and cities where many fires burn and the atmosphere is laden with the products of combustion, the degradation of brickwork may proceed very rapidly, especially if there is much lime in the composition of the goods. In some districts where great manufactures go on the atmosphere is continually acid, and this must exercise a ''rotting" effect upon all building materials which are susceptible to contact with acid.

But the alkalines may also operate, and that very markedly, upon brickwork, given suitable conditions. It has been noticed by the writer, and by others, we

doubt not, that the alkaline sulphates, e. g., potassium and sodium sulphates very frequently form incrustations which have a strong action tending to deteriorate brickwork. Magnesium sulphate also is capable of acting in the same way Sometimes these alkaline compounds which form destructive incrustations on brickwork can be traced to the presence of alkaline sulphides present in the original clay, and, again, they are sometimes due to the sulphur existing in the fuel used in firing the kilns.

It has been proposed by certain foreign architects who practice in districts where great trouble is experienced from the destruction of brickwork by alkaline incrustations, to lay down a maximum limit for the presence of such impurities in bricks, and to reject all goods which show an excess over this limit. The amount of sulphur di-oxides in a powdered sample brick is estimated, and a direct test for the influence of sulphates is also made, the bricks being treated in a vessel with a saturated solution of sodium sulphate by boiling for half an hour and then exposed to a current of air until an incrustation appears



<article title=" RAPID BRICKLAYING " author="">RAPID BRICKLAYING.



Particulars were recently given in these columns concerning a piece of rapid bricklaying performed under an American contractor on the Westinghouse Company's new factories at Manchester. The record there made seems to have excited feelings of emulation amongst British bricklayers. An object lesson that caused some interest was afforded recently at Minehcad, when Mr. <person>A. J. Spiller</person>, builder, of Taunton, undertook to lay a thousand bricks, Mr. <person>G. Babb</person>, of <building>Warwick House</building>, being his assistant and carrying- all the bricks and mortar to him. The pair set to work at six o'clock, and with one hour interval for breakfast, and about fifteen minutes for refreshment at eleven, finished their selfimposed task at a quarter-past two o'clock, <person>Mr. Spiller</person> desired to show what could he done by a skilled workman (though out of practice for very many years) and an unskilled labourer.





<article title=" TO PREVENT THE FREEZING OF GAS-PIPES " author="">TO PREVENT THE FREEZING OF GAS-PIPES.

A simple but effective device for preventing the freezing of gas:pipes is described in the illustrated <firm>Zeitung fur Blechindustrie</firm>, consisting- merely in the insertion of a wider piece of pipe just where the conduit issues from the ground or wall. For a conduit of a diameter from to ½ in., a length of from 20 centimetres to 30 centimetres of a pipe I in. in diameter suffices. The deposition of the water particles contained in the gas, which on leaving the works have a temperature of about 10 degrees C., naturally takes place just where the gas is subjected to the most abrupt change of temperature —i. e., on its issue from the ground. If the external temperature is sufficiently low, the deposited water immediately congeals, and clogs the conduit. As soon as the gas has acquired the temperature of the conduit, the deposition of water and congealing cease ; and this is said to be the case a short distance beyond the first cooling point. Therefore there should be no congealing beyond the inserted wider piece, and this piece is wide enough to accomodate a thick ice-crust and to still leave a free passage for the gas.

