<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE GROUNDS OF THE TORONTO INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION " author="Burke, Edmund">

THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE GROUNDS OF THE TORONTO INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION.



When it was proposed last year to erect three new buildings on these grounds, one of them being of much greater area titan any of those now in existence, it was felt by the members of the Toronto Chapter of thc <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> that thc time was opportune for a rearrangement and improvement of the avenues and grounds as far as circumstances permitted.



The development of a satisfactory scheme, and its adoption before the location and commencement of the new buildings, was considered to be a matter of paramount importance as, once placed in a wrong position, changes or improvements would be permanently blocked or delayed for many years.

The Chapter spent many evenings in working out suggestions for these improvements, several members submitting sketches.

The good points of the various schemes were assimilated into the plan which was most favorably received, and although it was not felt that this plan was at all perfect, especially as the Chapter was in ignorance of some of the requirements, it was submitted to the Exhibition Board which passed it on to the <assoc>Parks & Gardens Committee </assoc>of the City Council.

instance as nearly as possible on the old walks and roads, which are indicated by dotted lines.



The making of the new avenues and the widening of the old may be spread over a series of years if necessary, and no large buildings, except those referred to, need be removed till they are worn out or obsolete.

The scheme, in brief, is as follows:— The main avenue or mall 120 ft. wide to be located south of

the present main building with appropriate entrance gateways on Dufferin street. The mall to open into a circle 300 ft. in diameter from which will branch avenues leading north, south and east too ft. wide, and north-east So ft. in width. The triangle between these avenues would be occupied by <building>the Art Gallery </building>and the <building>Dairy Building</building>, while the <building>Manufacturers and Liberal Arts Building</building> would be located on the south side of the extension of the mall leading to the grand stand, and just west of the small horse ring, and not immediately south of tile present main building as shown in the cut. This will permit the main avenue running north and south to be extended in a direct line to the lake. All these avenues to have their axis radiating from the centre of the circle, which would be their focal point, after time manner of the avenues in Washington, which are admitted to be among the finest and best planned on this continent.





































































Since the revival, with the new year, of the project of erecting the new buildings a committee of the Chapter, in consultation with members of the <assoc>Exhibition Board </assoc>and the Park Commissioner, have evolved a modification of the former plan, eliminating the impracticable features and providing satisfactory sites for the proposed new structures.

It is not claimed for this plan that it is a complete or entirely satisfactory solution of the problem, as such is practically impossible under existing conditions, but it is claimed that it will be an immense step in advance of the present lay out of the grounds, and some approach toward the type of grounds so well illustrated in the planning of the Pan American at Buffalo.

The commendable features of the grounds at Buffalo were the broad Plazas, direct Avenues, well defined axis, interesting focal points, and well placed buildings.

Our scheme embodies these features as far as circumstances will permit

The new buildings can be located in the positions shown with but little change, this year, in the roadways or approaches, while only one large building, (<building>the Annex</building>, or <building>Women's Building</building>) and three or four unimportant buildings will require removal.

It will be observed that the new avenues are located in every



It will he observed that the plan illustrating the above article does not correspond with the text. The location of the Manufacturers and Liberal Arts Building was changed after the engraving was prepared, and too late to alter it, as a result of a conference between the Park Commissioners, the architects of the building and the members of the Toronto Chapter, at this week's lunch.

The vistas at the ends of the avenues could be closed by appropriate architectural features such as a tower, arcade or pergola, while the circle could he accentuated by a generously  proportioned fountain, embellished wit Ii groups of sculpture.



As the work of development went on year by year an esplanade could be formed at the mere expense of cribbing, the filling being done by the street commissioners department.

In this esplanade a lagoon or lagoons could be formed with appropriate architectural features on the margins

If possession of the garrison commons should be acquired, the esplanade could be extended a long distance eastward, making a magnificent foreground or front to the grounds

The banks along the shore, which are now but a disgraceful dumping ground for rubbish, could be terraced, with suitable balustrading and steps, making an unsurpassed vantage point for viewing aquatic displays in the lagoons beneath, or the lake beyond.

These suggestions are confessedly somewhat crude, and require working up into a systematic and well thought—out scheme.

This being done it should be quite practicable to do something each year however towards time final completion of the scheme. The vital point is to secure and adopt a well devised

plan now and adhere to it till the work is finished, be it ten or twenty years hence



<person>EDMUND BURKE</person>,

Chairman of Chapter

