<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" The Flat Iron Building " author="">The <building>Flat Iron Building</building>.

dence in municipal management of any eneterprise larger than a peanut stand, and will he very slow indeed to vote for any further projects involving large expenditures under the direction of the City Council. Municipal management is perhaps beautiful as a theory, but in the light of practical experience, it must rank as a dismal failure.



IT is quite possible to get tired of seeing pictures of New York's Flat Iron Building, which represent it as about

10 feet through and twenty stories high. The plain fact is that this is an illusion, a representation from a trick point of view. The building is at the junction of two streets which meet at an acute angle. It has therefore converging sides, and as the point of convergence is rounded the ground plan is like a flat iron. It is in the rounded end that the interest lies for sensational picture makers. As every foot, in such a site in New York, is precious, the end is carried out to as small a round as is at all serviceable inside, and this, for tile height of the building, is pretty sharp. Now, if the spectator takes up a position where he just loses sight of one side, he seems to be looking at a building which is of the size of the side in view and only as thick through as the rounded end. It all lies in the plainness of the round and in this point of view. It is just like American journalism which regards facts only as something to be rummaged for possibilities of startling copy—to always represent the building thus, without a word. The illusion is interesting, but. why not explain that it is an illusion ? Something like the following would do, '' This building, though in plan like a flat iron, can, by choosing a judicious point. of view, he made to look like a washboard. See our illustration."



THE latest intelligence about the



Island improvements that are going to make Toronto the Venice of America,

the Mecca of summer pilgrims, the convention city, is that the Park Commissioner is to take a little run of a fortnight to see what he can see and when he comes back he will settle the matter. By all means let Mr. Chambers go for a trip. He probably works hard and deserves a change. He may perhaps learn by travel what a park is like, and stop spoiling the sweeps of the Queen's Park and High Park by clotting them with his little, spikey evergreens. But what nonsense it is to talk of his taking a little trip and coming back prepared to design a park and lagoons for the island ! The suggestion is his own. He accounts for his failure to produce the plan he undertook some months ago to make, by saying that he must go away first to see other places. It is a fatal error to suppose that the assembling together of ideas picked up in different places is a plan. The assemblage remains a mere assemblage even if the ideas are suitable, which they are not likely to be. At the best it is a bric-a-brac park at the worst it is a hodge podge. What we want is a design ; something that has character throughout ; something that has lines ; something that lies in masses ; a park of which the details seem to suit itself, and do not remind one of something else. Is Mr. Chambers likely to learn to plan such a landscape by running round the parks of the United States for one

<article title=" Toronto Island Park " author="">Toronto Island Park.

<article title=" The Toronto Exhibition Buildings " author="">The Toronto Exhibition Buildings.

breathless fortnight? Let us get down to business, by employing somebody to design who can design ; and let Mr. Chambers keep in order what is designed. That is his proper business.





Now that the new exhibition buildings are in place, it is evident that they' are not in the right place. The art gallery

and the dairy building lie, with reference to one another, in a manner that can only be described as higglcdy piggledy ; and the dairy building is so placed as to cut into the axial avenue which, in the plan of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects, it was shown to face. This plan was accepted and filed. lt was ingeniously laid out so that the new buildings would both face the present winding roads conveniently, and vet be found properly placed, when the time comes that there is somebody in charge with larger ideas, and the avenues are widened and made more stately. The plan has been inaccurately carried out, and every deviation is an injury to the grounds. The worst offence has been in moving the main building west far enough to set it hard upon the edge of the future main avenue. Of course the road will now have to deflect so that the building may be properly set back from it. This means that there will be no view of the lake down that avenue, as was intended, and as there ought to be.



However, the main building is wrongly placed ill ally' case It is easy to see now, after the walls are up, that it is out of place altogether where it is. To place a building 350 feet long so as to block, for half the Fair, t he look out to the lake, which is the feature of the site, is a fundamental error. It ought to be where the old main building and the horticultural building now stand. Query As the new building is mostly iron roof, how would it pay to take it down when the old building is condemned with its final condemnation, and put it up again where the old building stood ? A better plan would be to stop the new building where it stands the walls about complete but no roof yet on the ground—and when the Fair is over for this year make a fresh start, by pulling down the old dam building and the horticultural building and moving the new main building to their site. This may sound outrageous, but in the end the $ 15,000 that it will cost will be well expended. The building will be put where it can be left ; and, in any case, a proper arrangement of the grounds is worth more than $15,000 to the city. The question of the Fair grounds is really a serious quest ion for Toronto, and this foolish city hall officialism which makes it impossible to get anything done properly is such a costly game that meditation naturally turns to reflect upon the comparative economy of a staff of first class, well paid, permanent officials. But how are we going to get that done?





EVIDENCE as to the cause of the fall of the Campanile of San Marco is ac

cumulating and all the evidence points ill the direction of a spreading strain upon the walls at the bottom. It is difficult to image how, from any other cause, the tower could collapse vertically as it did. It came down as a tall chimney that is felled by the simultaneous destruction of underpinning all round.

<article title=" The Fallen Campanile " author="">The Fallen Campanile

