<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 



From " Carpenter" Is there a method of cutting raking mouldings for a roof gable by using a mitre



ANS. Yes, there is a way a mitre-box can be made in which you can cut raking mouldings for gables or any similar work First make an ordinary mitre box, good and strong with sides about as wide as the moulding to he cut. Make the plumb cuts down the side of the box as shown at A, Fig. 2, and cut the mitre across the top as in a regular mitre box. Then to get the side bevel, measure the diagonal of the rise of one foot run of the common rafter, measuring across the steel square from 6" to 12", for a quarter pitch, which will be nearly 13½ inches. Now lay down









FIG. 2.—MITRE Box FOX MAKING MOULDINGS



your square to 12 and 13½ inches, the same as laying out a mitre, and use the long bevel for the cut across the box. The down bevel, will of course, he the same as for the common rafter as already shown. This rule applies to any pitch, by taking the pitch line of one foot run, and taking this with 12 to obtain the mitre, applying the long bevel for marking off the cutting lines on the top of the mitre box. The same bevel will serve for mitring the rake facia, and frieze, or any raking member to a level on standing plumb.



From Bricklayer: Will you kindly publish a method of describing an oval without being obliged to use a string or a trammel, and oblige?

Ans:	We presume it is an ellipse "Bricklayer" means, not an oval, which is an egg-shaped figure. The diagram shown at Fig. 3. is the usual way of























FIG. 3.—METHOD OF DESCRIBING AN ELLIPSE.



describing an ellipse by using straight lines or "ordinates". Half the end is spaced off into 12 divisions and half the side is spaced into 12 divisions. The straight lines are then drawn from these points, and the crossing of the lines forms the curve. Each quarter of the square is operated on in the same manner, thus forming the complete ellipse. The greater the number of spaces, the more correct the curve.



From Mason: Will you please describe a method of removing lime and cement stains from tiles that are laid in a vestibule?

Ans:	It is easier to prevent stains, than to remove them after they have been made and allowed to stand for awhile. Anything that would dissolve or otherwise remove cement from the pores of the tiles would very likely ruin the tiles themselves. The surfaces of the

tiles should be well cleaned, and all the cement washed off as soon as the work is done, and when dry, rubbed well over with raw linseed oil. The oil will subdue the stain, brighten up the tiles and make the stain almost invisible. Care should be taken in laying tile not to get the faces of them smeared over with cement.



<article title=" AIR-TIGHT CASE MAKING " author="Sweet, W. T.">AIR-TIGHT CASE MAKING.*

By W. T. SWEETT.



For some years there has been forming quite a new branch of trade, that of air-tight case making.

In all the joints of doors and glass of show cases, window enclosures, etc., the interiors of which are to be air-tight and yet easily accessible, it is necessary to have perfect truth of surfaces and a minimum of friction. Air-tight cases may be divided into two classes, namely, exhibition cases (being cases which are very rarely opened after the exhibit has been enclosed) and shop show cases (those in which a shopman displays his wares).

It is very rarely that any system of tongues, or































<article title=" COUNTER CASES: JOINT or TOP CROSS BARS " author="">COUNTER CASES: JOINT or TOP CROSS BARS.





hooks, is used in the joints of the doors of exhibition cases. These doors are usually shot into a very close joint, so close in fact that the two surfaces touch one another, causing a considerable amount of friction when opened and closed. A velvet pad is placed in the rebate in order to make the joints perfectly air-tight.

In the second instance the cases required by the shop keeper must necessarily be made air-tight by something more substantial than velvet ; so that, almost without exception, these cases have an arrangement of tongues, etc., which will be described later.

in designing show cases the great aim should be lightness of material, causing the least obstruction to a full view of the interior.

The majority of cases made by men not adept at the work are displeasingly substantial in appearance, for it is astonishing what strong cases and doors can be made with frail framework carefully glazed. Exhibition and show cases generally are known by the following names:

WALL CASES.---These have their backs, and sometimes their backs and ends, to the wall. When two cases of the same size are to be fixed back to back they should be of the wall-case type, the doors being in front.

CENTRE CASES.—These stand in the centre of shops, about exhibition floors, etc. so that the public can get all round them, the means of access being kept as

* A paper read before the meeting of the British Institute of Certified Carpenters held on August 4th, 1900.

