<doctype type="text">



piece of steel under compression; the atoms or crystals that compose it begin to flow. Are these crystals of such hardness and density that they cannot assume another form and therefore must necessarily move around or upon each other, or do they adapt themselves to thc conditions and elongate and compress inherently? What is this adhesive property that hinds them together under stress, as the substance itself becomes more compact or elongated? Is it a cement? Is it the attraction of the atoms themselves ? It seems to me we want to know more about the composition of steel, its simple elements and their properties, before we can understand the action of strain in the substance. It may be the association of ideas, but when <person>Mr. Wright </person>used the word flow, I immediately thought of liquids, (Laughter), and I think it would enable us to understand more clearly the action of stress on steel if we could conceive it as a rigid fluid. I would qualify the adjective to the extent of the action of stress upon steel; or, take a bar of soap and we can more readily understand this action of compression or elongation. Mr. Wright has shown us a number of tests with widely differing results, and in some cases by merely hardening the steel, the results vary from twenty-five to fifty per cent. He has carefully led us step by step into such a bewildering maze of tests and figures, and left us there, that I think we feel justified in asking him to tell us what factor of safety we are to employ in the future. (Hear, hear.) In the earlier part of his paper <person>Mr. Wright </person>briefly touched upon the architectural aspect of engineering, wondering if it were not possible for the architect to evolve an aesthetic section of a steel beam or column, exposing them and treating them as part of the design. There are tremendous possibilities in this proposition. Imagine the section of a steel beam in the Queen Anne style, or a Romanesque channel, and then think of it—think of the midnight oil consumed by the engineer in locating the elusive ''moment of enertia" or the ''radius of gyration" of such fantastic shapes (Laughter). Until a fire-resisting steel is manufactured, or a steel of something more than the nondescript colour it is at present, a colour that is pleasing and integral, we are justified in painting to get the desired effect, or in covering with such materials as will protect it against lire. (Hear, hear). From the standpoint of economics, in that the shapes that are rolled are universal and are of such contour that they lend themselves readily for assembling, in that the effort is to obtain the greatest strength with the least area of cross-section, or un

till that day dawneth when we shall view with a sense of exquisite pleasure the lines of a Z bar column, let us rather bear the ills we have than fly to others we know not of." It is beyond question that the science of engineering has kept pace with the times, manfully meeting and solving the problems that the advancement of civilization unearthed, whilst its kindred profession has been content with the laurels gained in An	Yachtine

-FOR Interior Use.





















<firm>The Imperial Varnish and Color Company Limited</firm>,

Toronto, Ontario,







<firm>The Canadian Bridge Co., Limited </firm>Walkerville, Ontario.



STEEL Buildings, ROOF TRUSSES





GOLD Water Paint for OUTSIDE and INSIDE USE



<firm>W.A. FLEMING & CO.</firm>

771 Craig St., Montreal.