<doctype type="text">

the other sill which provides little more contract with the bedding. This would be better, to my mind, if the WEATHER bar were exposed (as in band c). The tall fascia in front of the bottom rail allows, of course, the bottom sash to be raised for ventilation through the meeting rails, without causing draught below. The shape of the fascia .provides an emergency air-cushion at n, and lessens the risk of the fascia and bottom rail sticking together.

So much for sash windows. Of casement windows with the lights hung at the side and opening out, there have been suggested SO many sections of the bottom rail and sill, and so many plans of jambs, most of which have their good points, that it is difficult to know which is the best. That marked j,j,j on sheet b seems to me to be good enough. There is little doubt that rebated

in order to make a really satisfactory arrangement. Here I may mention that before writing this paper I thought it would be a good thing to get the opinions of some of the local joiners and contractors on the whole subject of weather-tight windows. I therefore wrote to five or six prominent firms, but only received replies from two. One said they could give me no information; the other, Messrs. <person>William Tomkinson</person> & Sons, were good enough to send me a pamphlet, on <person>Elliott</person>'s fitting to wood case-merits opening in, saying that they had always found them satisfactory.

In the section of sill marked j (sheet c) I have shown Elliott's metal channels, for I cannot think of anything better. It would be unpleasant for anyone to lean the elbow on them if thinly clothed, but otherwise they would be very satisfactory. Between the jambs marked





































































<article title=" WATER-TIGHT WINDOWS SHEET " author="">WATER-TIGHT WINDOWS SHEET C.



rails in a casement would he a great advantage if they could only be made quite certain of fitting well to the frame and yet without danger of sticking In this case (jjj) there is always an emergency air hollow, n,n,n; k is a usual section; q can only be applied to the hinged side, of course; k would do for the other; r would be good if the fitting could be guaranteed the splays lessen the chance of sticking;k,q and rare all copied, and so are the sills marked s, of which s a seems about the best. The mullion t is also copied, and looks satisfactory, though I personally should always feel afraid of the rebates. All these details (sheet b) would equally apply to a fanlight hung at the top, except that q could only he the head.

Wood casements hung at the side and opening in are more difficult to make weather-tight. It seems necessary to call in the use of metal in some shape or form

J I have shown a plan of hooked meeting-rails; the righthand jamb has obviously no connection with these meeting-rails.

K,K are plans of jamb for one window with metal bars. These would he very satisfactory if well fitted. q,q are sections of sills often used, and here copied.

For fanlights hung at the bottom, the left-hand jamb (the hinged side) of j and k would not apply, but the other jambs and heads would; and for the bottom rail that on the transom r would, I think, do well enough.

Fanlights hung at the centre (horizontal centre) can, I suppose, never be made quite weather-tight, especially at the centre; s and t show ordinary method. It is better, if you must have a fanlight hung at the centre, to have it of iron, as there is then less unrebated portion at the centre.

In the plans of jambs, sandt, I have shown the beads

