<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the days of "the grand old gardener and his wife", and as he will be when he walks the golden street of the new Jerusalem. It is this permanent quality of honour that attracts the regard of the architectural profession. The superficial points in professional etiquette may change ; ideas of professional dignity may change ideas of remuneration may change; the basis of these is not too deep for joking; but the matter of getting work is.

The truth seems to be that there is only one way of getting work that is right, and that is that an architect should always do his best work: put his best goods upon the market, that is to say, and let them speak for him.

It is a hard condition, for growth from small to large work may be slow. People who employ an architect for important work, like to see something that he has done of the same kind. " We judge ourselves by what we think we can do, but others judge us by what we have done," is a maxim which exactly fits the case of the young architect and states his difficulty. Competition (a question by itself) is accepted as a means of making a rapid step between small work and large. But, competitions or not, the step is sure to come in time to the really able and usually before long ; so that, though, like all other right conduct, some patience and faith and self-government are implied, the condition, though severe, is not more than a man should accept.

Why is this the condition of honourable practice? Because the moment a man reaches out for work he is reaching out for somebody else's work If the work would not naturally come to him, it would naturally go to someone else. He reaches out for it ; uses a "pull," asks, persuades, or merely works the magnetism of his personal presence—highly magnetized for the occasion—and the deed is done ; he has knifed a neighbour.

This is the bottom fact that makes the profession uneasy about going about to get work. It is the disregard of others that is the dividing line between honourable and dishonourable practice. When another architect is already engaged, it is easy to recognize that he has rights and the better members of the profession are strict about riot interfering there. It is a more uncertain state of affairs when work is in the air, and seems to he only waiting to be grasped. It is agony not to grasp it, but there is always a sense of shame before other members of the profession in doing so—and is not this the cause, that it has to be taken from some other member of the profession. If it is our's we may wait for it; if it is not our's whose is it? Somebody else's. Then for "taken from some other member of the profession", we may read, "stolen from some other member of the profession". It seems strange that men should think their duty to their wife and family obliges them to steal from some other man's wife and family. And this in a Christian land. Surely before we adopt the (reputed) American practice we should pause to think where we are going.

<person>W. A. LANGTON</person>.







The most magnificent work of architecture is the <building>Taj Mahal, Agra</building>, Hindustan It is octagonal in form, of pure white marble, inlaid with every sort of precious stone. The work took 22,000 men 20 years to complete, and though there were numerous gifts and the labour was free, the cost was £3,200,000.

<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.

In view of the injury sustained by several persons by the recent fall of a balcony in London, the Builder suggests that District Surveyors should be instructed to examine balconies on streets through which processions will pass during the coronation ceremonies.

	x	x	x



I am interested to learn by what standard candidates for membership in the <assoc>Ontario Society of artists </assoc>are judged ? A certain amateur artist was asked by the society to allow some of his works to be hung at the recent exhibition. His pictures attracted favorable notice and several of them were sold, yet I am told the artist was refused ad mission to membership in the society.

	x	x	x



The death of a man who recently fell over the stair railing in the <building>City Hall, Toronto</building>, has called attention to the proper height for such railings. The coroner s jury appointed to enquire into the cause of the accident returned a verdict of accidental death, but expressed the opinion that the railing was too low, and to insure safety should be made higher. On the contrary the architect of the building, Mr. <person>E. J. Lennox </person>states that the railing corresponds to what has always been regarded as the standard height, namely 2 feet 6 inches. The matter is one which architects would do well to enquire into, lest some day they find themselves in the position of' defendant in an action for damages.

	x	x	x



A young architect came to me the other day with a grievance which I am sure is shared by many citizens of Toronto. He had been out with his camera with the purpose of getting pictures of some of the best examples of domestic architecture in Rosedale, the annex, and other residential districts. In almost every instance he found a telephone or electric light pole, a real estate agent's sign or some such disfigurement so placed as to make it impossible to secure a satisfactory photograph. There is little encouragement given the citizens to build tastefully so long as unsightly poles and signs can be planted in front of their doors. It is time that the telephone company should follow the example of the electric light company which of late, in the best residential localities, has been steadily putting its wires underground.

x x x



The property owners on Spadina Crescent, in one of the principal residential districts of Toronto, recently made the discovery that a livery stable was to be established in their midst. When they had set about getting up a petition to the Council, they learned that the limit of time allowed for filing a protest had expired. They are consequently without redress. This is but another instance of the hardship to which property owners are subjected because of the defective character of the city building by-laws. Owners of property should not be required to be constantly on the watch against encroachments upon their rights. The by-laws of the city should afford them protection. Under the existing bylaws, factories and other objectionable buildings can be erected anywhere regardless of their effect on the beauty of the locality and the value of surrounding property.

