<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will. nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance,]





From a "Manitoba Builder": Is there any quick method of "laying out" the ends of shingles in semi-

































octagon shape, also of gauging off timber to make it

octagon shape?

ANS:—The following diagrams and explanation are submitted, which we think will meet our correspondent's requirements. Plane the shingles even with the edge of the work-bench, as shown at Fig. 1, and at 7

be set, where gauge lines—shown by dotted lines— must be made. These lines, of course must be made on the whole four sides of the timber, and the wood must be removed from the corners to these lines, when the octagon will be complete as shown in section A. The width of shingles or timber makes no difference. This method may also be used with success in the rounding of timbers, such as masts, spars, or flag

staffs. First make the timber octagon and then work off the angles until the rounding process is complete. If the timber is to be tapered, lay off each end of the stick, and then instead of gauging, strike chalked lines to the points where the timber is to be removed.



From a "Young Builder": I wish to heat a small house of my own with hot—water, but, as it is impossible to have any cellar or basement under the house I will be compelled to place the boiler on the same floor on which most of the radiators will stand. There will be rooms down stairs and 4 above to heat. Can I do this in such

a way as to be successful, and not to cost more to run when completed, than if the boiler was in a cellar?

ANS :—With regard to this query we cannot do better than quote the following on the subject, which is from an authority ''Buildings in which similar conditions exist are successfully heated with hot water































































and 17 inch marks on the steel square will be the points on the end of the shingle from which the corners may be cut. To make a square timber octagon, place the steel-square diagonally across the timber as shown at Fig. 2, and mark where 7 and 17 inches are shown on the square, and these points will he the distance from the edges of the timber to which the gauge must.

systems, and the economy of their use is said to compare favorably with heating by stoves. The system of piping best adapted to such conditions is what is known as the overhead system. In the overhead system the heating main is carried up from the boiler to the highest radiator anti run horizontally with the branches to the different radiators, drop mains being taken from

