<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



wall I would remove all plaster and stone composition in thin coats. Where dampness is caused by the entrance of rain water into the body of a wall from the roof I would recommend repair of the leaks through which rain water finds its way into the wall and diversion of the drain of the roof, if possible and economical.





<article title=" HOW TO HANG CANVAS WALL COVERING.

" author="">HOW TO HANG CANVAS WALL COVERING.



The New Art jute canvas wall hangings, or "burlaps," as they are sometimes called, for decorative purposes have reached such a state of perfection that they are destined to become as popular as any other medium used by decorators. After having gone through a period of many experiments by the decorators themselves—who for some years back have had to contend with the many imperfections of the raw material, in the coloring of the material as well as its application—a condition has been reached where the manufacturer has now placed on the market a specially prepared burlap that has not only an even texture and uniform dye, but it has also a coating of sizing on the back whereby it is practically as easy to apply burlaps to the wall as it is to apply the ordinary wallpaper. There is not the latitude, however, in the quality of workmanship when hanging burlaps as there is in hanging of wallpaper. There is only one way to put it up, says the <firm>London Decorators' and Painters' Magazine</firm>, and that is, of course, in a first class manner, and therefore the best class of workman only should be entrusted with the responsibility of applying this material. The foreman should select a man who is noted for his careful attention to the details of good measurement and cutting to advantage, as it will soon be discovered that it is not quite so simple a matter to cover up bad work in measuring, cutting or trimming, with a patch here and there, as it is with the ordinary patterned wallpaper.



Burlap for decorative use is now made in all widths under various brands, from 36-in, up to 108-in. It is put up in rolls of from thirty to fifty yards long. It can be obtained in a great variety of colors and finishes as well as textures. The most popular finish is the dyed colorings, which are especially adapted for all sorts of background purposes, and can be used to advantage in libraries, smoke-rooms, dining-rooms, dens, art galleries or halls. It is also to be obtained in painted, lacquered, illuminated or oil-stained. It can be used to very good advantage in the natural color of the burlaps, and has been very successfully used on walls of art galleries for the purposes of exhibiting etchings, photographs, water colors, Indian relics and oil paintings because of the plain ground from which all lines are eliminated that might clash with the lines of the picture.



For special effects or, for various reasons which we will take up and describe later, it is desirable to use the natural color or preferably the bleached which forms a better ground, and after material is in position, the frieze may be colored, stained or decorated. When properly handled burlap lends itself admirably to staining and decorating by either stencil or hand work, the fact is the introduction of burlaps has enabled the decorator to be somewhat independent of the print manufacturer, as it is possible by the use of the stencil process to produce designs and colorings specially appropriate to the apartment wherein they are to be placed, and notwithstanding the fact that it is so nearly perfect, burlaps as a decoration is yet in its infancy. Great things will yet be done on burlaps, that it will he impossible to produce upon any other surface. Not only has burlaps as a decoration made rapid strides in popular favor on its own individual merits, but its success in conjunction with other materials has been marked, especially when used in conjunction with old effects or other applique ornaments.



While it would be a great pleasure for the writer to take up space and time in the description of the

various decorative possibilities it is his wish to make the present article of as much practical value as it is in his power to do. He will therefore leave the fancy work for some future article, and devote the present entirely to a description of the 'How to do it" part of the work



The walls should be first prepared by the removal of all the old paper or distemper which may have been left on from some previous work. All large cracks should be properly cut out and filled in. All of the wall surface should then be rubbed down and properly sized. Reduce all protruding spots by rubbing with pumice-stone. The sizing consists of the ordinary glue used in the usual way by soaking first, and the melting and thinning as is thc case with ordinary wallpaper, with the possibility of, in some cases, using a little black treacle, Venice turpentine or brown sugar to make the size more adhesive and less brittle. It is sometimes desirable but not absolutely necessary to line the walls with a good stout lining paper. The burlap manufacturer produces a lining fabric for this purpose, which is cheap and far superior to paper. Lining paper should be hung horizontally, or con— trawise the hanging of the wall covering. This will prevent any shrinkage that is liable to occur with the best of materials. Aside from this precaution, it is sometimes desirable to run a strip of water color about  in. in width from the ceiling to the floor wherever a joint is to be made. This takes a little more time but it pays in the end, because in the event of the workmen making a poor joint a slight opening might remain if it is only the width of a hair-line it will show when the light shines directly on it. It can be specially noticed at night when the conditions are such that the artificial light is usually thrown directly upon the walls from a centre chandelier, which light is sure to discover any imperfections of this kind, while in the daytime the light coming from one end of the room, as it usually does, it gives only a side light which will cast shadows on the joint and therefore disguise any defect similar to the above description. There is a well-known brand of burlap on the market which is absolutely guaranteed not to shrink.



In the measuring and cutting of burlaps the method is no different than that employed in measuring and cutting wallpaper the room being measured to ascertain how many lengths it will require, the same being cut about in. longer than the actual measurement, to allow for difference in the height of the walls at different parts of the room. In hanging we recommend to use the lengths as they come off the roll, reversing every other length, so as to get the same edges together, thus preventing shading. With the prepared burlaps it is usual to trim the edges, which is done with straight edge and sharp knife. Be sure and keep the knife very sharp. It is pasted in the usual way by laying the burlap face downwards on the table and pasting the prepared side.

When placing the burlaps on the walls great care should be taken not to pull or stretch it in any way as it will yield very readily, as it will as readily shrink up again to its original position. If in accommodating any uneven condition of the wall it becomes necessary to stretch the burlaps even slightly, to obtain a perfect butt-joint, strike with the open hand some 6 in. or 8 in. back from the joint (while in the act of hanging) the stretch necessary takes place at a distance some 6 in. from joint and the adhesiveness of thc intervening space prevents its returning.

In hanging the pieces over the doors and windows I would specially caution the careful workman not to hang these pieces horizontally as it is very tempting to do to save time, as the difference in the direction of the weave of the material will cause it to appear as a different shade and will thus mar an otherwise good job. I find it advisable to do the door and window tops as I progress around the room instead of leaving them to do after all of the long lengths are put up, which is the invariable custom with the average workman.

