<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



cheap white lead, as it is often adulterated with barytes (sulphate of barium), and avoid new lead, as it is deficient in covering properties and damages the colour in its oxidation.

White paint is the most healthful of all paints, because, apart from its artistic effect, it shows dirt better than coloured paint, and thus indicates the necessity for cleaning. A glossy surface is more sanitary than a dull or ''flatted" surface, as it affords less hold for dirt. In selecting papers or decorations for the walls of bedrooms, and indeed for all living rooms, avoid large staring patterns, and agressive contrasts of primary colour in masses. The less pattern there is the better ; a simple background of agreeable tone is more restful and suited to a bedroom than any assertive decorative treatment. A room simply decorated with a pale cream (not blue white) ceiling and cornice, cream enamelled woodwork, and papered, painted or distempered walls in a lint of soft non-arsenical green or blue, for a warm, sunny aspect, or in warmer tones of terra cotta, pink, or yellow for cold, dark rooms, will be quicker and more soothing to the senses, and thus more conducive to repose than more gaudy treatments. In purchasing paperhangings take care to procure them from a firm of repute, who can furnish an authentic guarantee that. no arsenical colours or other poisonous ingredients are employed in the process of manufacture. The fermentation of the paste used in hanging papers and relief materials is a danger which can be avoided by the addition of a lump of alum, the size of a filbert, to a pail of paste. This helps to thicken the paste, giving better and more adhesive body, as well as having a hardening and non-fermentive action. The addition of a small quantity of oil of cloves also assists in checking fermentation.

Lastly we have to consider the floor, which should be sized and varnished all over, merely having a loose rug, thus providing a thoroughly sanitary surface, which can be kept clean and germ-free without the use of the scrubbing-brush. All open joints should be stopped to prevent dust dropping through into the space beneath. Permanganate of potash is an excellent dark stain for clean floor-boards, and has the additional merit of its disinfecting qualities. The same general principles apply to the decorative treatment of the reception rooms, staircase, etc. Paperhangings, where used, should be, preferably, those with a hard, smooth surface, such as the hot pressed silk fibres or oil printed papers, not flocks nor mica papers, which catch the dust, and whose particles became detached in course of time, thus failing to comply with sanitary requirements.

Painted and panelled walls and ceilings, hand—painted decorations in flat-ornament in monochrome, colour, or stencilling, with the embellishment of gilding in mouldings, and other ornamental details ; plaster or compo-mounted enrichments, hardwood panelled wainscoting, parquet floors, and every kind of decorative treatment that does not afford absorbent surfaces or dust-collecting ridges, shelves or scrolls may be freely employed in entirely sanitary scheme of decoration.

In bathrooms and toilets do not have wooden enclosures to baths, sinks, or w.c.'s, as such places frequently serve to harbour filth, and thus become a nuisance. Let every part of the sanitary fittings be open and above-hoard, so that any leakings can be detected, and every part accessible for daily cleaning. Corners behind w.c.'s and corners of rooms generally, would be more hygienic if slightly rounded to prevent the collection of dirt. The walls of bathrooms, lavatories, and the domestic offices should be covered with varnished paper, paint, or preferably, with ceramic or enamelled metal tiling, so as to be impervious and washable. The latter forms of wall covering are strongly to be advocated for larders, pantries, and store-clipboards. The floors of bathrooms, w.c.'s and lavatories, also larders, should be cemented or asphalted. Mosaic of marble or glass is a material more often employed for the flooring of halls, steps, and lavatories in this country than for mural decorations, due chiefly to questions of cost, but it is a matter of regret that this sanitary, artistic, and durable material is not more largely used for decorative purposes.

In conclusion, a word may be given to the necessity for ample inlet and outlet ventilation for every room, to promote the health of the occupants and to preserve the decorative adornments. The least injurious form of artificial lighting in all respects is the indcandescent electric lamp, and where gas is used every burner should have outlet ventilation to carry off the fumes Carefully search for cupboards under stairs, also cellar or vaults. See that all such places have cement floors. Limewash them twice a year, and do not let lumber and dirt accumulate. Abolish brick or wood dustbins, and have iron portable pins. Bear in mind that soap and water, fresh air, sunlight, and cleanliness in general are as much to do with health as elaborate drainage and the complications of modern plumbing, and there is the advantage, moreover, that such simple things are within the reach of all.





<article title=" REQUIREMENTS OF A SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR " author="">REQUIREMENTS OF A SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTOR.



A contractor, to be successful in turning out good work and in making money, must possess a great amount of practical ability ; he must thoroughly understand, practically, every branch of his work in its ever-changing phases ; besides he must have acquired a fair smattering of the theoretical side, to understand, if not to calculate, the laws of strength and stability If he be a bricklayer he must have an idea of the principles of foundations, arches, piers, buttresses, etc., besides a rough knowledge of the chemical and physical properties of limes, cements and other materials. If he be carpenter, a knowledge of the governing principles of roof and other trusses, beams, columns, etc., is indispensable, and an intimacy with the nature of woods is also essential. If he be a plumber, a familiarity with sanitary science and an insight into the laws of traps, vents, flow of water, and a hundred and one other points is imperative. And so on through every trade—in short, we are brought face to face with the survival of the fittest ultimatum, that to attain to full success a contractor must understand all about his particular line of work that he can learn by watchful experience and by incessant, unremitting study during his spare moments.

It may be said that it is impossible for a contractor to study any theory because his education is, as a rule, such that it does not fit him to understand formulas and technical terms, and, even could he elucidate them, he, as a rule cannot spare the time. All that.

