<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

rooms throughout are finished with fibre plastering. The laboratories and class rooms are or sizes varying

from that necessary to accommodate 60 students to 180, the larger class rooms having high ceilings and the walls finished in brick.

Each separate department has the necessary laboratories and workrooms in connection therewith, and also its own library and student's rooms and lavatory arid cloak room accommodation for students of both sexes.

The ground floor of the <building>Physics and Geology Building</building> will be fitted up for a Museum, the walls being finished in brick and the floors in concrete. It is the intention to fit the class rooms and laboratories with the most approved appliances and apparatus.

<building>The Grant Memorial Hall</building> will have a seating capacity for about one thousand persons. The plan consists of a large nave or auditorium, adjacent to which on the east and west sides will be narrow aisles, the walls of the latter being designed to receive the general trophies of College life. The aisles will be carried up to receive the galleries, which will run around two sides and the south end of the entire Hall.

Over the arcade between the aisles and the auditorium will be arranged clerestory windows, which will ultimately be filled with memorial glass. On the north end of the building will be a dais capable of seating two hundred persons, and it is also arranged so as to be able to be used for the various stage entertainments consequent in College life.

The alcove at the north-west corner of the hail will he arranged for a grand organ. Adjacent to the dais will be suites of reception and robing rooms. The interior of the Hall will be finished in half timbered and stucco effects ready to receive the decorations.

<building>The Engineering Building </building>equipment is worthy of note. The building itself will contain lecture rooms and laboratories necessary for the work of civil and mechanical engineering and surveying. A draughting room occupying the entire upper storey of the building will accommodate about 125 students, adjacent to which will be the necessary rooms for photography and blue print development.

In the ground floor of the building are situated the laboratories in connection with the mechanical engineering work, and in connection with this floor will be the plant for the lighting and heating of the buildings on the Campus.

The boiler room will ultimately contain boilers of 600 h. p. in units of from 100 to 200 h. p. each, both fire tube and water tube type, and some of which will be equipped with mechanical stokers and economizers. The entire plant will be operated by mechanical draught, thus permitting the boiler plant to he placed in a central location on the Campus without the accompanying disfigurement of a huge smoke stack.

The engine room will contain engine and generator power for the light and laboratory work in the various buildings, and is also arranged so that the plant can be used in connection with the students' work Ultimately all the present buildings will be lighted and heated from this central station.

In the new buildings will be installed the fan system

of heating and ventilation, which will be supplemented by direct radiation. The steam is conducted from the main station through mains insulated with the most modern underground pipe insulation, the return water being taken back to the boiler house from all the buildings, except the <building>Arts Building</building>, where it is run through an economizing coil and into drains The fans, which will be run by steam, will propel the healed air into all the class rooms and laboratories and corridors, which will in its turn be exhausted through brick ducts into the roof chamber, from which exit will he obtained. The lavatory ventilation and also ventilation from Physics laboratory has been kept entirely separate from the general ventilation system, and is exhausted by means of electrical fans. The fan system as installed will permit a change of air, even in the larger class rooms, once every twenty minutes if necessary.

The entire buildings on the Campus are being erected from the designs and tinder the supervision of <firm>Symons & Rae</firm>, architects, Toronto, at a total cost, including equipment, of about a quarter of a million dollars.

