<doctype type="ad;text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CONTRACT CONDITIONS " author="">CONTRACT CONDITIONS.



In settling the general clauses of a specification, reliance is too frequently placed upon forms which have served for previous contracts, says The Builder. Although no trouble may previously have arisen, it is not safe to assume that immunity is secured, as the following case may demonstrate. In the specification used by a well known architect IN connection with an important building contract, one clause apparently reserved to the architect the right of dealing with all provisional amounts as he might think fit. Similar wording has been employed in several specifications of a like nature, and a feeling of security was thereby engendered. Hence, when the proper time arrived the architect proceeded to issue instructions for the preparation of materials and appliances involving outlay to the value of some thousands of pounds. The building contractor and the firms concerned were equally satisfied in their

own minds as to the meaning of the clause in question, but the proprietors suddenly interposed with a claim to decide for themselves as to the disposal of all provisional sums, refusing to recognize all instructions given by the architect. Legal opinion was taken on both sides, and it then appeared that the clause relied upon did not leg-ally confer any power upon the architect unless with the previous consent of the proprietors. Matters then became somewhat unpleasant, and an interesting series of lawsuits at one time appeared to be imminent, but ultimately all differences were amicably adjusted. The example to which we have referred clearly indicates the desirability of looking with caution upon forms of expression whose actual value has not been ascertained with certainty.



The J. F. Pease Furnace Co., of Toronto are sending out a handsome booklet referring exclusively to their combination heating system.





W. A. Fleming and Company, 

Cold water paint for outside and inside use

Montreal



Cement Block Machine Company, 

Architectural cement blocks

Toronto



A.	W. Adams

Adams' Self-Locking Sash Lock

Toronto



The Gutta Percha and Rubber Manufacturing Company,

Patent interlocking rubber tiling

Toronto, Canada



