<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE PLUMBING BUSINESS—- SOME SUGGESTIONS AND CRITICISMS " author="Bishop, John">THE PLUMBING BUSINESS—- SOME SUGGESTIONS AND CRITICISMS.*

BY <person>JOHN BISHOP</person>

As manager of waterworks properties and also as owner of a plumbing and heating business, 1 have had twelve years' experience with master plumbers and journeymen plumbers. You may consider my remarks unbecoming to one who is actively engaged in the plumbing and heating business, but I hold that it is proper for us to criticise the manner and method of conducting the business.

I have heard the plumber accused of a peculiar pedigree, namely sired by a national association and damned by the suffering public, yet I know that under the most favorable conditions, our business is a difficult undertaking. When you compare the many who tail to the few who succeed, it requires nerve to place your money in this business It is enough to make one serious, to see man after man lose his last dollar while apparently trying hard to win out. Trying to analyze the cause of so many failures has given me material for my remarks.

A day does not pass without your ear being tickled with some remark about the immense profits of the plumber, but as I face an association comprising ninety-five per cent. of the master plumbers of Kansas, I see no diamonds upon your honest breasts. Few of us own the place of business we occupy, or the house in which we live ; many of us do business upon borrowed capital. When we realize what a small amount of money actually sticks to our fingers, although large sums are handled by us, there must certainly be something wrong, and I have come to the conclusion that it proves a lack of business ability. I sometimes think we have been hypnotized by the oft repeated accusation of making a large percentage and actually lose sight of the principal. A man cannot succeed at this business unless it is conducted upon business principles. I can show you plumbing shops that look like opium dens, and plumber's books that look like a Chinese laundryman's accounts. Such combinations cannot win in this business. When a man seeks a plumber, he does not want to be required to go into a second-hand joint or junk shop. Do not require your customers to don jumpers and overalls to protect their clothing when they come to your place of business.

The display room of a plumbing shop should be as neat as a dry goods store. You cannot make prospective customers believe that can sell cheap be-

You

cause your goods are dusty and fly speckled, and your windows and ceilings are cloudy. On the contrary, such an appearance is properly construed to mean old-fashioned, unsanitary fixtures. We can profit much by observing how other lines of business are conducted. If it pays the clothing merchant to dress his windows, it will also pay the plumber. It dues not make any difference how small the shop may be, or limited the capital, it is a good investment to always keep a tidy place. Some master plumbers are afraid to own the goods they are offering for sale, at least they do not have confidence enough to invest in a creditable display stock. The day of hunting up a customer with a catalogue and trying to sell plumbing fixtures by showing pictures is past. The man who can show the goods and thereby prove his ability to complete a contract

*	Paper read before the <assoc>Kansas City Master Plumbers' Association</assoc>.

within a specified time will get the good cash business. It is always a safe investment to have the fixtures for complete bath-room on display, and it is as essential as the sign over your door. The more complete and diversified the stock, the greater the opportunity for making sales and securing contracts. It is well to remember that loss and shrinkage in value is only to be found in cheap stuff. Ask your customers to come and see your display, and the best way to do it is through the newspapers A man, if not ashamed of his business, should give public notice of where he can be found and what he is doing. If you put in a good bath-room, your customers will have no objection if you give publicity to the matter through the newspapers. In fact, he will be pleased to learn that you are informing his friends of the fact that he has modern plumbing in his home.

Master plumbers often make a mistake in being careless in keeping their books and accounts. If you cannot do the book work promptly and properly, it will prove a good investment to employ a competent bookkeeper. A good acquisition to any plumbing shop is a girl with a type—writer ; it insures legible letters, intelligent accounts and a neat office. It also tempers the wrath and subdues the profanity of your irate customer when he calls to settle his hill. It never pays to send out a crude statement. The customer is liable to jump at the conclusion that the material and labor furnished him were on the same order. The plumber should mail his customer a statement the moment the work is completed, whether it is contract or jobbing work. It is business, he is entitled to it, and when you call to see him the first of the month he cannot plead that lie has not had an opportunity to check it over. Try this plan and see if payments are not made more promptly. The jobbing house and manufacturer mails you a statement immediately upon the shipment of your order, and it is only business for the plumber to do the same.

We must understand once tot- all that old methods are obsolete. Master plumbers must adjust themselves to changed conditions. Business must be done on a closer margin, and profits must depend upon the volume of business done. Let us get in line with the times and modern up-to-date methods. Master plumbers must take more pride in their business. They must identity themselves with the welfare of the city. They should belong to commercial organizations and contribute time, ability and money towards advancing the interests of their city, and the knowledge, experience and acquaintance thus gained, will return liberal dividends. The master plumber should so interest himself in the up-building of his city that lie will be recognized as engaged in an honorable and creditable business. To he engaged in this business does not absolve a man from the duty he owes as a good citizen of contributing his share towards up-building his city or participating with political, benevolent and charitable associations for the betterment of his fellow—man. The plumber has no right to be a hanger-on. He should work for and advocate those things that will make his city more prosperous and a better place in which to live.

Let us practice what we preach by equipping our homes with modern sanitary fixtures. The master plumber who has no bath—tub in his home, or does not

