<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Profitless Contracts " author="">Profitless Contracts





























































<article title=" Smoke as an Explosive " author="">Smoke as an Explosive.

is one of the greatest stumbling blocks to the advancement of the profession. There cannot be good-fellowship among architects while petty jealousies and disloyalty prevail. Neither can clients whose attention is drawn to these things be expected to hold the profession in highest esteem.



A Toronto contractor assures us that builders in that city are receiving very small profits from

their undertakings. The times are prosperous and plenty of building is being done, but it is claimed that the keenness of competition and high prices of labor and materials are proving an off-set, and standing in the way of proper returns to the contractor. There are said to be about two-hundred building contractors in Toronto at the present time, which is far too large a number even in prosperous times like the present. Some of these men are so anxious to get a large amount of work that they tender at ridiculously low figures and thus lower the standard of prices all round. A much wiser course would be for all tenderers to allow in their estimates for a fair margin of profit, and thus assist in securing for builders their share of the results of the prevailing prosperity. If when the times are good little or no profit can be made, the outlook will be gloom y indeed when hard times shall return.



A lecture was recently given by William McDevitt, Insurance Inspector, before the Fire Insurance Society of Philadelphia, in which the explosive quality of hot smoke was demonstrated. The author explained that. in a fire, free carbon rises and mixes with hydrogen; methyl-alcohol, creosote and other gases are also present in smoke. These gases become heated to the point of ignition, and an explosion is the result. Of itself, smoke would explode at a temperature of from 600 to 800 degrees, but frequently the smoke is ignited by sparks or by coming into contact with a flame. Very thick smoke, when ignited, becomes a pillar of flame, and rolls through a room with such force as to shake the walls and make the windows rattle. If sprinkled with water there would be no explosion. Where formerly firemen tried to keep smoke in, under the impression that it smothered the fire, they now immediately break in windows or skylights to let it out. The construction of a central shaft in large stores and other buildings was recommended as one of the best methods of avoiding smoke explosions.



The beauty of the Muskoka

Lakes and their value as a health

resort have been published far and wide over the continent. As a consequence the number of persons who summer there is steadily increasing year by year. Dr. Bryce, the efficient head of the Provincial Health Department is keenly alive to the necessity of securing the adoption of such sanitary precautions as will maintain as nearly as possible the original purity of the air and water on these lakes. Most of the hotels, including the new Royal Muskoka, are fitted with the septic tank system of sewage disposal described by Dr. Bryce in his admirable paper read before the Ontario Association of Architects last year. Last summer the further step was taken of placing a septic tank on one of the Muskoka Navigation Coin-

<article title=" Sewage Disposal on Vessels " author="">Sewage Disposal on Vessels.

pany's steamers. The experiment is said to have proved entirely successful, all the sewage from the vessel with the exception of the liquids was consumed by the bacteria in the tank. It is probable that next year all the steamers on these lakes w11 be provided with septic tanks, thus stopping to a large extent the pollution of the water and greatly reducing the possibility of the spread of disease.



<article title=" C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION " author="">C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

The publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite architectural students in Canada to submit designs in competition for a suburban or town house to cost not more than $2,500.

The building is to be designed for an inside lot having a frontage of 50 feet, situated on the west side of a street running north and south. The adjoining lots on either side have houses on them 30 feet back from the street line and 10 feet from lot line on either side.

Competitors are required to submit two elevations or a perspective, together with plans of basement, ground, first and attic stories, drawn to 1/8 scale in a manner to permit of reproduction within the limits of a double page of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, viz., 10 x



 inches in size, also details to a larger scale of important or special features of the design. Drawings must be made with PEN and PERFECTLY BLACK INK on WHITE DRAWING PAPER, OR CARDBOARD. No BRUSH WORK WILL BE ALLOWED.



Competitors should state the materials proposed to be employed in construction.

Drawings for this competition should he signed with a motto only and be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing the same motto and enclosing the full name and address of the designer and the name and address of his principals. They should be sent FLAT by post or express, charge prepaid, addressed "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Toronto, Canada—Student's Competition," and must reach this office not later than noon on Saturday, January 10th, 1903.

The members of the joint Educational Committee of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club have kindly consented to judge the designs submitted in this competition, and their decision will be final.

The prizes offered are First prize, cash $15.00 second prize, cash $10.00, third prize one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER ARCHITECTS' EDITION



The publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER reserve the right to publish any of the designs submitted and to withhold the prizes if in the judgment of the jury the designs should not be found worthy of the awards.

Intending competitors are requested to read carefully the conditions of competition, and to strictly comply with the same in every particular.



Messrs. Ouellett & Levesque. architects, of Quebec, have registered a partnership.



A brilliant dark green for front gates or doors can be got by first and second coating on old work with two coats of Prussian blue and at least two of verdigris, 10 be finally finished with good, clear varnish, when the work, if properly done, will last for years, and cannot he successfully matched with any other greens oil the market.

