<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" STRUCTURAL WORK IN AMERICA " author="">STRUCTURAL WORK IN AMERICA.



In the course of a very interesting series of papers on structural costs recently published in the Engineer, the practice in tall building construction in America is set forth in a manner which shows clearly how economy is attained by keeping down the labor costs, says the Engineering Magazine.

The framework is so designed that the metal shall be handled the least number of times in the making. Planing is generally conspicuous by its absence, rolled or sheared edges taking its place. Rivets are so disposed that power driving can he used to the best advantage. Joints are so arranged that they require the minimum of work on site, and their rivets can be readily put in by pneumatic tools. hand work is seldom to be detected—everything is as the machine has left it; as many girders, stanchions, beams, etc., are duplicated as is possible; stanchions are throughout spaced regularly; girder riveting is made alike in like spans—plates being added or dropped off as required for strength, thus one girder web plate template will often answer throughout the building; cast iron bases, pockets, shoes, and connection, where used, are just as the fettler or the tumbling barrel has left them; holes are cored or punched according to material; everything, in fact, is made most evidently for work and not for show. When first seen one is tempted to think off-hand that there seems much waste of material in places and much skimping of it in others. Brackets seem large and unwieldy, whilst cleats seem small and insufficient; girder flanges appear light, and stanchions ruggedly gigantic, or vice versa, according to the object of the building.

But one has only to study things out. a little to realize that all this is of set purpose. We are so used at home to providing against so many chances that are never likely to happen concurrently, that our structures have taken a character of their own and we miss these characteristics when viewing other work. In workmanship can be saved by a slight sacrifice of material, the American carefully considers it. In no land are scientific principles better understood than in his, but he is much keener after the dollar than to sacrifice it for the sake of theory, and he will unerringly fix on the cheaper way of carrying out his principle. He keeps as far way from the smith's fire as he can, and does not enlarge his scrap heap with useless croppings and clippings, and as a direct consequence gets work made very much quicker, on the whole much cheaper, and quite as good and sound and equal to what is demanded of it as though it had been made to a government specification and was finished all over.

It may be argued that this sort of thing is not compatible with good work, but there is no reason why it should not be so. In masonry structures there is no attempt made to dress the inner faces of stone which is to be backed by rubble or brickwork, and since the structural work of a modern steel building is entirely inbedded it should he made to fulfill only those demands which legitimately come upon it.





Tommy--Say, Papa, what is a wash drawing ?



his Papa —A picture to be used as an advertisement for a new brand of soap.





Canada Foundry Company, limited

Ornamental iron department

Wrought iron fences, architectural iron work

Toronto, Ontario

