<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE GARGOYLES " author="">THE GARGOYLES.



The Gargoyles are a grewsome group Their styles arc really various They always live in "Singles," and Are not at all gregarious,

For their expressions are so sour, So vicious and nefarious,

And their positions socially Are certainly precarious.



For they must live beneath the eavers And on the copings balance,

And form around the roofs and tiles A most unpleasant valance.

They make "bad faces' from the roof (There's no one they've respected),

They hold themselves aloft, aloof, With jeers

And leers

And sneers gives proof

Of manners much neglected.

NOTES.



"Comfortable Homes" is the title of an unusually attractive booklet referring to and descriptive of the "Economy" hot water heating boiler recently placed on the market by the Pease Furnace Co., of Toronto.

Elsewhere in our columns will be found the advertisement of the oldest established bell foundry in America, that of Mencely & Co., WEST Troy, N.Y. Their specialty is in casting the highest grade pure copper and tin bells, and their chimes and

peals are all attuned by a new, special process said to be far superior to any other method. This firm recently furnished a chime of 10 bells to the St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Berlin, Ontario. They also supplied the fine chime of bells in St. James Cathedral, Toronto, said to be the heaviest set of chimes in the Dominion. The firm is now making a chime of 10 bells for the next oldest church in Canada, St. Johns English church, Lunenhurg, Nova Scotia, the giver of this chime being the Hon. Lieut.-Col. E. C. Kaulbach, M. P. the bells will be suitably inscribed. This firm quite recently furnished a fine bell for St. Mary's R. C. church, London, Ont., besides many more too numerous to mention here. Architects wishing to secure bells of best quality will do well to communicate with this old, reliable foundry.





The Gutta Percha and Rubber Manufacturing Company 

Patent interlocking rubber tiling

Toronto, Canada



The Vokes Hardware Company, limited

Constructional hardware

Toronto, Ontario



