<doctype type="text">THE Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



rather the flat area covered by the roof to the outside of cornice projection, multiply this by the length in inches of the common rafter for one foot run and divide by 12, and you have the area of the roof. When the roof is made up in parts having different pitches, the rule just given may often be conveniently employed. Find the flat area as before covered by the roof of each given pitch and multiply this by the length of the common rafter for one foot run of that pitch, remembering that if the length for a foot run be taken in feet the product will be square feet, but if taken in inches the product must be divided by 12 to reduce to feet. The sum of the areas thus obtained, will be the area of the roof. The area of a roof having different pitches can be obtained by dividing it into triangles or rectangles and calculating the area of each, but this is a tedious way and no more exact than the rules given herewith



<article title=" THE DEVELOPMENT OF ROLLED BEAMS " author="">THE DEVELOPMENT OF ROLLED BEAMS.



There have been so many engineering triumphs during the nineteenth century and there are so many champions to uphold the supremacy of particular examples, it is not surprising that their relative value has not been established. But as regards statical construction nothing arose during the century to surpass the determination of the forms of beams and columns, says the London Builders' Reporter. Previous to 1820, when Tredgold by means of experiments on a small scale was able to ascertain the most efficient section of a cast-iron beam, the forms which were in use would now be considered as absurd. The limitation of the resistance to extension offered by cast-iron was, however, an obstacle to its general employment for beams. The elaborate and costly experiments of Eaton Hodgkinson and Fairbairn, which were confirmed by those ordered by Robert Stephenson to discover the most suitable form for a wrought-iron beam which would serve as a substitute for cast-iron, were crowned with success. It was established beyond doubt that with two horizontal flanges united by a web a beam was produced of which the strength could be calculated beforehand, and which was not liable to the uncertainties or accidents which diminished the confidence in the use of cast-iron. The flanges might take the form of a series of cells or chambers and the web might become a framing of struts and ties, but the principle of a great structure like the Britannia Bridge was identical with that of a small girder made up of angle-irons and plates and which could he utilized for a factory floor or for a bridge over a lane. From that apparently simple conclusion structures have become possible which have not only revolutionized the practice of bridge building, but have enabled civil engineering to accomplish its main purpose of facilitating communication between men 

The simplicity of the normal wrought-iron beam was an inducement to inventors to devise arrangements for its production by rolling. If angles, tees and channels could be turned out in unlimited quantities, why should not a form which might be described as a double tee or a quadruple angle iron with a web be also feasible? Various sections of rails could he rolled, and why not I beams or joists? A strike of carpenters in Paris had extended the use of iron, and, moreover, English architects began to realize the advantage of having floors which resembled the French, and in which rolled

iron was an element The production of joists was therefore quickened, but for a long time the sections were limited in their dimensions. An increase of size was effected with difficulty Twenty years ago the great Cockerill Company in Belgium rolled no larger sections than 12½ inches by 6¼ inches for iron, and 8 5/8 inches by 4 inches for steel. The biggest steel joist which has been available up to the present measures 20 inches by 7 inches, although the Americans have a 24 inches by 7 ½ inches. The difficulty is as much with the width of the flanges as with the depth. As a rule the flanges were supposed to measure one-half the length, and thus such proportions as 12 inches by ( inches, 10 inches by inches, 8 inches by 4 inches, 6 inches by 3 inches have become familiar among builders. After a certain limit the proportion is diminished—16 by 6, 14 by 6 and 1734 by 634 are recognized market sections.

The inefficiency arising from the inadequacy of small size sections was overcome. Plates have been added to increase the width of joists, and two or more have been rivetted together in order to obtain the desired height. At one time it was generally accepted that for all girders which exceed 12 inches in depth it was economical to construct them of plates and angle—irons, but in a great many cases there is not sufficient time for the building up of beams.

What we have said is of course familiar to our readers, but it will help to explain he satisfaction in which every growth in size of rolled joists is received. The whole history of the world, it has been stated, would have been altered if Cleopatra's nose had been an inch longer or shorter. The possibility of being able to obtain a 24-inch instead of a 20-inch girder may have an important influence in fixing the character of a building. What, then, is to he said of an improvement in rolling mills by which 30-Inch girders can be as easily procured as 7-inch joists were at one time ? The advantages would be difficult to estimate on account of their vastness.

But increased length is only one of the improvements which architect's and engineers have long desired in rolled joists. The new Differdange beams can also have no less a breadth than 2 inches, or nearly 5 inches in excess of what has been available. The old ratio no longer rules in them, for it is possible to obtain sections in which the height and width correspond. The following are some of the sections which can now be ordered :—9½ inches by 9½ inches, TO inches by 10 inches, 10¼ inches by 1014 inches, 10 5/8 inches by 10 5/8 inches, L inches by 11 inches, 11 ½ inches by 11½

inches, 12 inches by 12 inches. Then we can obtain a whole series of sections between 12½ inches and 29½ inches in height which have flanges with a width of 12 inches.

It is needless to point out the power of resistance which is derived from the increase in the width of the flanges. In calculating the strength of a girder we have to consider not only the area of material but the breadth and depth. In many cases the depth or height has to be reduced to a minimum, and the loss of advantages must be made up by greater width For instance, a 16-inch by 6-inch joist is supposed to carry a safe load of 20 tons on a 20 feet span. But a 12-inch by 12-inch joist would perform the same work and allow a saving of 4 inches in the depth of a floor. Girders should be always sufficiently deep, but when space has to be measured in fractious of an inch compensation must be found in width. There are also numerous other cases where width is essential to steadiness. When steel joists are used for columns or stanchions the width of flanges aids stability to an extraordinary extent.

