<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURE OF TORONTO " author="Brown, R.">THE ARCHITECTURE OF TORONTO.

Under the title " Notes from Toronto," Mr. R. Brown, of Boston, a well-known designer of special furniture and fittings, contributes the following to the British Architect

On a bright Sunday morning —the last day of August- --I found myself on a train crossing the Niagara River below the falls. While the train moves slowly, the Customs officer passes through, just as we are on the middle of the bridge, and presently we are in Canada. A quarter of a century had passed since I was on this same spot—seeing Niagara on my way from West to East in 1877, the year of the great fire at Saint John, New Brunswick. With that city and Halifax, Montreal, and quebec I was familiar, but Toronto was new ground to me. As I drove from the station I saw it was entirely different from other cities in the Dominion. Whereabouts are the oldest parts of the city," I askcd my landlady over the Sunday dinner. The question did not elicit a direct reply, which was explainable by the fact that in my rambles about the city for three and a half days afterwards I found no ancient buildings and literally no slums.

The site of the city is somewhat level, with only a gentle rise from the shores of the lake northward. The streets run north and south, east and west, but the regularity of this gridiron plan is relieved by much variety in the streets and avenues. The business section, bordering the lake, does not cover a large area, and one soon comes out of it into quite urban-like districts with fine wide avenues planted thickly with rows of trees, and grass and garden plots in front

of the houses. The poplar—a favourite with architects—here adds beauty and variety to the long vistas.

Toronto's growth is but a century. Ninety years ago it had only a handful of people, now it has about three hundred thousand inhabitants. The place is new and decidedly modern, yet, architecturally speaking, it is neither crude nor raw. By a wise building law, all the modern dwellings are built of brick, not wood, which of itself is a great relief from the clap-boarded houses common to the suburbs of Boston and other New England cities. These houses are for the most part of good red brick, plain and unpretentious, compared with the wooden houses about Boston, and their architecture reflects English influence and instincts in many little ways, such, for instance, as the use of the steep pitched gable to the street, often the crowning feature of a bay window.

An early type of the house is to be seen in cottage-like structures of one storey and attic. These are of timber framed together with the whole exterior surface rough cast with plaster Excepting the windows and door trimmings, the eaves, cornice, and gable rafters, no wood shows. At the angles of the building the square corners of the plastering meet without any protecting board. These houses must be about fifty or sixty years old, yet they seem in fairly good condition to-day. They recall similar looking cottages in Scotland, only in that country the walls are of rubble stone, and jambs and angles hand stone quoins, but the rough cast plaster, with its coat of whitewash was the same.

In Toronto there is a large proportion of people of Scottish birth and descent, and these cottages were probably built by early settlers from Scotland.





Canada Foundry Company, limited

Artistic elevator cars, enclosures, railings, tellers' cages, etc.

Montreal, Halifax, Ottawa, Winnipeg, Vancouver, Victoria, Rossland



