<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

Many of the buildings were carried out in what was called the " Romanesque" style, and we recognize at once the influence of Richardson. The Municipal Buildings, by Lennox, are in this style, and the favourite materials of the ''Master," red freestone for walls and red tiles for roofs, have been used. This building is well designed as to proportions and disposition of masses. A high central clock tower is a prominent feature, inside of which visitors are carried up to the clock chamber, where a fine bird's eye view of the city is to be had. In the interior of the building, in one of the main corridors, a beginning has been made in the way of mural painting by an artist named Reid.

The Provincial Parliament Buildings are also in the Romanesque style, but the result of the whole is not as good as the former building. The Board of Trade Building-, another structure in the same style, is very good.



The Union Railway Station is broad and simple in its general treatment, a good type of what a station should be.

In the building of banks there seems to be quite a development. Some of these are outside the general business section, generally on corner sites. The)' are in another style of architecture, which for want of a better name we might call "modern British," hut good, and temperate in treatment. On one of the principal business streets, King Street, a very large hotel is now approaching completion. It is of light grey freestone, several stories in height, finished with a flat roof—always to my thinking unsatisfactory. I was told a New York architect designed the "King Edward Hotel," and a local architect is carrying out the work.

In the Queen's Park, a residential part of the city, I saw some fine houses of brick and stone. One of these, just completed, is "Georgian" in style, and was built for Mr. Flavelle, a wealthy citizen. The surrounding grounds are artistically laid out, the whole work reflecting great credit on the architects, Messrs. Darling & Pearson, of Toronto. I had the pleasure :of seeing another house, smaller and of a different type, that of Mr. Andrews, by the same architects, which deserves much praise for its simple but very artistic treatment.

Like all cities whose growth has been rapid, the business streets of Toronto present some strange anomalies—for instance, across the street from the Municipal Buildings are some of the older buildings, low in height. One wonders why they have not been taken down long ago, and substantial buildings for business purposes erected in their place. A great deal of rebuilding will soon have to be done in the business part of the city. It seems strange to see some of the streets disfigured by tall timber masts carrying wires aloft, which somehow suggests a Western frontier town of mushroom growth However, there is much hope that Toronto's streets, as far as it is possible, will be made more beautiful, for an association of architects, artists, and others has already been formed with this end in view—a most laudable object. The streets are well paved (with some kind of cement) and thoroughly cleaned.

The atmosphere is clear, and there is but little smoke from manufactories Trees are thickly planted down the avenues. Here are three elements that already help for beauty, so that the association has chiefly to look ahead, to advise on the placing of new buildings, to form a few more green squares at the intersection of thoroughfares, and to assist the general adornment by statues, fountains, and other works set in appropriate places.





William H. Sumbling

Laundry Machinery

Toronto



Meneely and Company

Great clock bells

West-Troy, New York





Cabot's Creosote Shingle Stains and Sheathing and Deafening Quilt

Montreal and Toronto



Metallic Roofing Company, limited

Artistic, sanitary, durable metallic walls and ceilings

Toronto, Montreal, Winnipeg



