<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" EXPANSION OF CONCRETE " author="">EXPANSION OF CONCRETE.



Recent experiments by <person>Prof. W. D. Pence </person>at Purdue University, go to disprove the hitherto accepted theory that the co-efficient of concrete is similar to that for the expansion of steel. It was established by the experiments that the co-efficient of expansion of gravel concrete is 0.00000 54 per degree Fahr., and of broken stone concrete 0.00000 55 per degree Fahr. The coefficient of expansion of steel is generally taken as 0.00000 65 per degree Fahr. That means about 15 per cent. less for concrete than for steel. In the case where steel beams and concrete are combined, the difference must produce stress in both materials. Concrete of course cannot sustain tensile stresses equally with steel, but Professor Pence holds that the stress per degree during changes of temperature would not exceed a quarter of a pound per square inch, and if there was a very great change of temperature, say 100

degs., the stress would not be more than 25 lbs. pet square inch. In Chicago provision is made for expansion in concrete in retaining walls by having a joint at every 50 or 60 feet. But in small walls it is advised that joints should be provided at every 30 feet or thereabouts. Professor Pence believes that temperature stresses cannot be serious for the following additional reasons:—(I) The chief range of temperature from that which prevailed at the time the concrete first adhered to the surface of the steel is downward, producing a compressional stress in the concrete section, since the steel contracts more rapidly than the concrete. (2) The changes of temperature in the structure will be gradual, owing to the fact that concrete is a poor conductor of heat. (3) Reinforced concrete beams will sustain on the tension side, without rupture, a proportionate distortion of from ten to twenty times that at which the simple concrete beam would fail. (4) Interior stresses are relieved more or less by the slipping of the metal bars in the concrete.





<firm>Milton Pressed Brick Company, limited</firm>

Architectural terra-cotta

Milton, Ontario





<firm>Clare Brothers and Company</firm>

Heaters, Preston Hot Water Boiler

Preston, Ontario



