<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Smith's Sound quarry. Some of the large Welsh firms are beginning to take an interest in the possibilities of this country as a slate producer, little, if anything, inferior to their own. One of these firms informs me that our slate is much superior to any imported into Great Britain from foreign countries. They add that there is a great future for slate in Newfoundland."



Aside from the slate quarries at Smith's Sound there are other deposits of slate in the neighborhood that will well repay development. There is a tract at Keels, Bonavista Bay, controlled by a gentleman in New York, which was worked in a small way some years ago. Samples of slate from this property show that it is excellent in color, quality and cleavage. The vein faces the water, running half a mile or more along the shore. It goes inland about the same distance. At certain seasons when the weather is favorable boats could be loaded in a cove on the properly. When this would not be available there is a good harbor but a short distance away. The slate is of the true Welsh purple, and there is plenty of the unfading green. It is undoubtedly the same vein that is found at Smith's Sound. This would have certain advantages that are not to be found at the latter place. Close to the quarry is the small fishing village of Keels, with 200 or 300 inhabitants. Five miles away and connected by a good road is the seaport town of King's Cove. The absence of any settlement near Smith's Sound makes it difficult to keep the quarrymen at work longer than two or three months. The Keels quarry could also be worked very economically. The top is only five to ten feet, and some good slate could be taken from this. The joints are regular, so that blocks could be taken out easily. There would be little expense in removing the waste, as the sea would carry much of it away. This property has been brought to the attention of slate men in England, and it is probable that it will be fully developed before many months. The Newfoundland slate is very popular in England, and there is no difficulty in selling it, even in competition with the Welsh product.



Prof. Howley reports that the Reid Newfoundland Company vigorously prosecuted work at their granite



quarry near the Topsails during the greater part of the summer of 1901 Much of the material raised was utilized in bridge construction, and a large amount was dressed for a new railroad station to be erected at Riverhead. They also manufactured 14,000 paving blocks.



Among the resources of the province that Prof. HowIcy thinks would well repay the development are gypsum asbestos and mica. In the district of Bay St. George there are immense deposits of gypsum. Between the years 1891 and 1894 a considerable amount was exported from this locality to the United States, but since then the fields have remained unproductive. In Canada the gypsum industry has attained to large proportions. Asbestos and mica are known to exist in large quantities on the Labrador and in the Island of Newfoundland. Much of the short fibre asbestos could be used for plastering purposes, this material, under the name asbestic, being very popular in the Canadian provinces. Mr. Howley says "From what we know of our Labrador territory there would appear to be in that region room for a vast mica industry in the near

future It is certain that the country possesses an abundance of the material of large size and superior quality, nor is the Island of Newfoundland itself destitute of some good mica.''



<article title=" DEMOLITION METHODS " author="">DEMOLITION METHODS.



It is interesting to learn something of the methods employed by the Chicago Wrecking Co. who were given the contract to remove and dispose of the Pan-American Exhibition buildings. A force of 700 men was employed on the work Railway sidings were laid in the grounds, forming a circuitous route, but in contact with each of the palaces. The materials were dispatched to various parts of the States. Some of the buildings were sold in their entirety. A sawmill was erected on the grounds, and every piece of timber cut into given lengths and sizes. Even the nails were assorted as soon as drawn Glass windows, piping, flooring, ironwork machinery, doors and sashes and fittings will all be used again. The ''staff" taken from the buildings was sold to farmers as a fertilizer. A catalogue was prepared by the Wrecking Company and distributed throughout t lie country. The material ordered was sent direct to buyers from the Exposition grounds.



<article title=" ADHESIVENESS OF MORTAR " author="">ADHESIVENESS OF MORTAR.



The well-known French expert in building materials, Mr. R. Feret, considers that if a mortar does not possess good adhesive qualities it must be condemned. He has recently concluded exhaustive investigations of the adhesive powers of mortars, from which lie draws; the following conclusions: The adhesive power of a mortar varies with the nature of the surface of the substance to which it is applied; thus, it depends upon the fineness of the grain of the bricks, and varies directly with their porosity. Low adhesive powers seem independent of the dimensions of the inequalities of the surface of contact, so that stone has no advantage over brick; in fact, the total breaking load is almost the same, in the case of a good sand mortar, whether the surface of contact is smooth or irregular. Clean bricks take the mortar better than dirty bricks, but there is no evidence to presume that old brick work, which has been demolished and squared up, is not just as good as new brick, as far as presenting a good surface for adhesion is concerned.

Very little variation is shown when a given mortar is mixed with Portland cement. Actually the adhesion is greater with bad cement, sometimes, than with better qualities. The finer the grinding the better the adhesive power for the same mortar or cement.

Mortars made with sand are influenced as regards their adhesiveness by the fineness of the grains of sand, and it is curious that the adhesive power is greater, according as the proportion of coarse grains increases. If there is, however, a certain ratio between the coarse and the fine grains, which gives the best adhesiveness, and the optimum result is when there are no medium-sized grains present, but only coarse and fine. Adhesive power is not proportioned to the amount of cement in the mortar, and it does not appear advisable to exceed a certain percentage.

The chemical composition of the water has nothing like the significance that has been asserted ; it is the quantity that tells The adhesive quality attains its maximum when the mortar is not only plastic. but inclined to be " sloppy." Beyond this the adhesive quality lessens.

