<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of 2 2½ in. or 3 in., the two tied together by bonding bricks or metal ties. The 4½ in. portion of the wall is usually built on the outside of the main wall The metal bonding ties are supplied in many different forms of cast and malleable iron and steel. A strip of steel, twisted in the centre to slop the passage of water and turned up a little at the ends to form a key in the joint, makes a good tie. All metal ties should be galvanized to prevent corrosion and consequent loss of strength, and the little cost involved is compensated by the lasting power of the tie.

It is a good plan to leave openings in the brickwork at the foot of such walls, so that at the finish of the work the bottom of the air space may be cleaned of the droppings and rubbish which may have accumulated during the building. These holes may afterwards be built up, or they may be covered with gratings to form ventilators.

The advantages of hollow walls are that they prevent the damp penetrating the wall further than the airspace, and if the thin portion is placed to the outside the damp is kept from the greater portion of the wall and at a greater distance from the interior of the building.

The air-space not only excludes the damp, but it acts as a non—conductor, which helps to keep the building warm.

The introduction of a vertical damp-course into the interior of the wall is another method which may be adopted. It consists of melted bitumen or asphalt run into the joints of the brickwork as the wall is being built, forming a continuous sheeting of water-proofing material in the interior of the wall. This makes a satisfactory job, and if properly done it will keep out the wet most effectively.

Of the various ways of waterproofing existing walls, Portland cement rendering is perhaps the most common with us. If this is carefully done, it is certainly successful, although the effect is not generally pleasing; 3

of good sharp sand to 1 of cement makes a "good

parts	b

plaster, and care should be taken that the wall is rough enough to form a good key for it, or it may scale off after a time. It may be finished with a rough-cast or a smooth trowelled surface.

A building with impervious walls although excluding damp from without, includes internal damp and allows no ventilation through its pores.

So much for the treatment of the walls themselves. I come now to the remedies (or rather the precautions which have to be observed) in the constructional work

Projecting eaves are an advantage, and the more they project the more protection they offer to the surface of the wall. The objection of them is that they shade the wall from the drying influence of the sun's rays; thus damp which does get in is retained iii the stone and causes rapid decay.

Cornices and all projections should be constructed to throw off the rain by means of throating and weathering, and everything should be done to keep the Water off the face of the building.

All masonry, such as chimneys and parapet walls should be provided with a suitable damp-proof course just at the roof level to prevent the rainwater from getting into the wall beneath. The rainwater gutters should have a sufficient fall to carry the water off quickly; they should be examined frequently and kept

clean. The down pipes should be large enough to convey the maximum flow and prevent the frequent overflow of gutters.

In case of stoppage in gutters or down pipes overflows should be arranged, and these should be of sufficient length to throw the overflow water clear of the wall or projecting parts of it. Snow—guards should always be placed in gutters behind parapet walls and similar positions where the snow is likely to lodge and check the flow, and these should always be arranged to give a good run of water. These snow-guards should always be constructed of creosoted timber.

In conclusion, it must be evident that it always pays to use only the best material and workmanship in the building, as patching is always unreliable, and it is often found that it costs more to make good bad work than it would have cost had it been done right at first.





<article title=" DRY ROT IN DWELLING HOUSES " author="Greenwood, Alfred; Ball, W. J.">DRY ROT IN DWELLING HOUSES.



The first portion of a useful and interesting paper on this subject by Mr. <person>Alfred Greenwood</person>, M. D., D. P. H., and Mr. <person>W. J. Ball</person>, M. S. A., M. S. I., is published in the Public Health Engineer. Having had many' opportunities of seeing houses affected by dry rot, the writers decided to investigate the subject with a view to determining the nature of its exciting and predisposing causes, arid also the principles involved in its prevention and they offer the following notes as a preliminary contribution to further research. Dry rot may be described as an infections disease of timber which, under favourable conditions, through the agency of a fungus, occasions the destruction of the vegetable tissue in the walls and cells of the timber and finally reduces it to dry dust. The term should only be applied to those diseases of timber of fungoid origin which do not occur in the living tree. Wet rot is the term which should be applied to diseases not of fungoid origin, and which do occur in the living tree. Many observers have confused the terms dry rot and wet rot, and also have erroneously described as dry rot certain diseases of timber which have been caused by worms, etc.

Following are the conclusions drawn from the cases of dry rot which have come tinder the writers' not ice

(1) The houses which were built at lower levels than those on the opposite side of the street were inure liable to become affected by dry rot ; (1a) The diseased timber gives off a peculiar musty smell ; (2) The character of the materials employed in the walls arid beneath the floors was of a porous nature ; (3) The clay foundation, being of an impervious nature, retained damp

(4)	Clay soil was in contact with the porous, local, hand-made bricks in the walls ; (5) The floor levels were slightly above the level of the adjoining street

(6)	There was no through current of air beneath t he joists ; (7) The sleeper walls were solid, and not honeycombed or pierced ; (8) The distance between the underside of the joists and the surface of concrete was small ; (q) The joists were built into the walls without allowing for a free circulation of air around the ends

(10)	Linoleum was used to cover the surface of the floor in every case ; (11) The fungus showed the greatest development in each case between the fireplace and the inside kitchen wall ; (12) The '' spores" were thickest iii the cupboards, the mantels and other projections having thinner coats. These spores formed a reddish—brown powder, and when inoculated into

