<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



merely to give to solitary work the pleasure of society. Association in study both broadens and quickens apprehension. "Iron Sharpeneth iron ; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend." Several pairs of eyes means several points of view, and united research and united criticism will get to the practical essence of the matter more quickly than solitary study. Moreover it is remarkable how much easier it is to remember what has been enjoyed in common than what has been enjoyed alone. The person who, in reading Shakespeare for the first time, observed that he indulged largely in quotation, would never have been so familiar with these passages if he had read them first for himself. One may read











































<person>MR. A. MCDONALD</person>,

President Winnipeg Master Carpenters and Builders' Exchange.





and enjoy without remembering ; the thing to fix a passage in the mind forever is its application by some one else to point an idea. Common study will contribute in this way to a common stock of knowledge that is clearer, more vivid and more practical than any member of the body could attain to alone. There is likely to be noticeable results in the way of vigorous design proceed from such a group of associated artists.

It is as artists that architects will meet one another in such a field of work as this, and it seems to be a law that capacity in the individual artist develops only by association. Solitude may nurse reflection, but art is execution and needs contact with the effort of others. The best work in art has always originated from a group of artists. The diverse results in individuals of a group show that association does not weaken character. Artists cannot suck one another's brains. Each man's ideas must grow in their own way, but they grow best in an atmosphere where thought is free. If a school of architecture, however local, could grow from united effort in study, so much the better. We suffer for want of unity ; from the dissipation of effect that comes from individualism ; and if by any possible means we could attain to such agreement of type in any town that excellence in a building would consist not in being different from its neighbours but only in being more excellent, we should have a town that would have architecture, no matter what the type.

This is looking a little onward from the R.I.B.A. examination, but study of originals and associated effort are two things which are apt to go far in results.

<article title=" SOUTH AFRICAN TRADE " author="">SOUTH AFRICAN TRADE.

With the ending of the war in South Africa will come a period of great development in that country and a consequent demand for many lines of manufactured goods. German and Austrian syndicates are said to be forming to exploit the South African market With cool audacity the continental countries which indirectly supported the Boer cause and obstructed the British, are now seeking to reap the commercial advantages arising out of the conditions established by Great Britain at an enormous cost in men and money. The United States have also been exporting largely to South Africa, and their trade returns for the first half of this year show a substantial increase above the same period of 1901. It seems only fair to her own interests that Great Britain should impose some restrictions in the form of duties on foreign goods entering the South African market, thereby giving a preference to home and colonial industries, which will have to bear a considerable portion of the expenses of the war, and compelling foreign countries to contribute something for the commercial advantages which are the direct result of the long continued and successful struggle conducted by Great Britain. Canadian exporters of manufactured goods should lose no time in establishing trade connections in South Africa, and should be properly represented at the South Africa, British and Colonial Industrial Exhibition to be held in Cape Town from November to February, 1903-4.

Building materials, especially bricks, lumber, doors and sashes, and structural iron and steel are in large demand. The United States have already secured some valuable orders in this line. The establishment by the Dominion Government of a direct freight service between Canada and several of the principal South African ports is a gratifying assurance that this country proposes to secure its share of this trade.

Most of the business must be done through importing agents. Lists of these in the principal towns should be secured, personal letters addressed to them acquainting them thoroughly with the character of the goods to be offered. Exporters should also be prepared











































MR. A. MCCORMICK,

Secretary Winnipeg Master Carpenters' and Builders' e



to send samples and submit tests of their materials, as in many instances these will be demanded. Care should be taken to ascertain the financial responsibility of all firms with whom correspondence exchange opened, before sending goods forward, especially in the case of commission firms among whom there are many "sharks," who make their living out of "consignments" The principal demand is for goods of medium quality and moderate price. Whatever the quality of goods for which orders are secured care should be taken by the exporters to maintain uniformity, otherwise they may not expect to hold the trade.

