<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" UNIVERSITY TRAINING IN ARCHITECTURE " author="Capper, S. H.">	UNIVERSITY TRAINING IN ARCHITECTURE

By <person>PROF. S. H. CAPPER</person>, McGill University, Montreal.



There are various architectural topics that are the subject of perennial discussion, according as one's view leans, with natural bias, to one side or another in matters essentially many—sided.

"Whether architecture is a profession or an art ?" is such a topic ; upon it discussion—- nay, controversy both hitter and prolonged, has raged interminably; and, in England at any rate, even serious division of council has resulted, with somewhat. dissipated energy and hampered action for a time as a natural consequence.

Closely allied is the quest ion of the	training for an architect during his period of preliminary studentship ;—what course will best fit him to do his best ? It is a question I venture to think, of somewhat vital concern to us in Canada. At present, as a people, we arc neither very wealthy nor very powerful ; we have not yet worked out our scheme of national education at all completely ; it is not yet established, as it should he, broad and harmonious, on really national lines , on the contrary, to one coining hut newly from Europe, it seems in too many ways seriously provincial in spirit and narrow in result. On the other hand we have across the border-line a great nation for our neighbour. both powerful and wealthy, eager and resolute, and bent, it seems to me, at solving the problem of how to place the maximum of education and special training within reach of all. Those visitors to our meeting who have honoured us by coming from across the border, and whom we all most cordially arid gladly welcome here to-day, will not, I am sure, misunderstand me, when I urge the need for our doing our uttermost, in honourable, friendly rivalry to maintain our own position worthily alongside our greater neighbour arid to strengthen our determination not to be out-distanced in that race, the goal of which is national life lived worthily, and the highest development of the intellectual life of all.

In Toronto and in Montreal we have now in Canada two schools for the training of architects. Of the former I naturally do not venture to speak in detail, standing in the presence of many who know it well arid can speak with an authority in regard to it that I cannot claim. But I do not doubt that I am right at any rate in this, that in both we are still at the stage of

missionary effort" in our endeavour to promote the thorough training of young architects in the Dominion too often our voices are but as those of one crying in the wilderness where there are none that listen and whence architects do trot come forth. In Toronto I do riot know exactly how the matter stands at present, but in Montreal during the five year's that I have been at McGill University, encouragement arid discouragement have been fairly evenly commingled. Personally, however I have had the deeply interesting experience of organizing from the beginning and planning out the lines of development for what will, I trust prove a sound and stimulating school of training in architecture on broad university lines of education 

In so many-sided a field as architecture which is, it seems to me, an art and a profession, both, and (perhaps) something more besides, there is room for many kinds of activity try and many types of mind. To one the solution of problems of construction with the extraordinary wealth of mechanical resource at the disposal of the modern constructor is the side of architecture that appeals most strongly ; to another, it may be rather the problems of social interest, the housing of the poor, the proper provision for the care of the sick in hospitals, or even the progress of sanitation and the realization of its laws arid their requirements to sonic it is tire nice adjustment of plan and interior arrangement to others it is the wider field of the composition and design of buildings as a whole and the joy of seeing thoughts take concrete form, as they are realized in actual execution.

It is significant, this many—sidedness of architecture, and justifies in a measure its claim to be at once the broadest of the arts and the foundation of the rest. It brings tire architect into touch directly with almost all the other arts, professions and handi-crafts, from sculpture and painting to law and medicine and to industries of very many sorts.

And the training for the architect must be broad to correspond f Ire is to be adequately fitted for his work. It cannot, of course, prepare him to the extent of endowing him with all the knowledge in all the branches that he may, in the course of his practice, require to master and make use of ; that is out of the question ; lint it should lay the foundation for such acquirement by training the mind to grasp readily the dominant factors in the problems that ask for their solution in well-balanced and harmonious architectural design.

Of the many and varied qualifications that go to make the successful architect in practice, some are of' the distinctly practical type, such as business aptitude, faculty of organization and attention to practical detail, while or tiers are as distinctly of

theoretical and academic type ; most notably is this true of power in design. Between the two comes construction and engineering, leaning now to the more practical, now to the more academic side, according ding as it is the more ordinary, rough-and-ready customary building, or the altogether higher work in calculation and design of the scientific constructional engineer. That this last requires mathematical and scientific training, and is a fitting subject for university instruction, surely needs no argument or proof The enormous advances made in but recent years in modern steel- construction especially are, I suppose, for the most part the direct result of such scientific study and research. But if we accept this main rough division into the two



* Paper read at the annual meeting of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>, Toronto January 1902

sides, the practical and the academic, for the former class let it be at once conceded that the best preparation is tire actual stress of daily work at the office desk and the experience that is only to be gained by study at first hand in closest touch with buildings in course of actual execution. Nothing can ever take the place of such practical training, which must always remain an absolutely essential part of the preliminary equipment of an architect. No plea for academic education is ever intended to lose sight of this ; nor is it the case that for this practical training academic education is either specially adapted or required. But, while hose who urge so strongly that your architect must be '' a practical man " are not at all beside the mark that contention by no means covers the whole of the ground of an architect's education it does not touch what is after all, if I may be allowed the phrase, the truly architectural side of architecture



Ii is doubtless in tire ordinary relations of life—though I am not quite sure that I quite to qualify the relations of architect amid client as always " ordinary ''—a matter of great personal convenience to be on this eminently practical footing, obviating friction and promoting smoothness that may almost be prosaic. Heaven forbid that I should not fully endorse time eminent desirability of being "a practical man"

Even the staunchest advocates of practicality, however, will admit that a great monument of architecture is not to be measured ultimately by the business capacity of its designer, but by some other and higher quality altogether. <person>Jacopo Sansovino </person>is said to have miscalculated the roof for the famous library of <person>St. Mark's at Venice</person>, and to have spent a time in jail as the result. While languishing then he doubtless came to hold a very exalted appreciation of the practical advantages to an architect of being practical but and the many thousand travelers who know nothing, perhaps of Sansovino's piteous time of incarceration, for whom the library of St. Mark's is one of the buildings that make  the Renaissance  architecture of Venice so fruitful and delightful a study, are apt to think less of the in "practical man" '' than of the brilliant artist and designer, who has left us so impressive a monument of his genius and skill.



The pre -eminent quality of architecture is in truth design, and this power of design is the vital touchstone of the greatness of an architect It is in virtue of design and composition that tire great buildings of the past differing utterly, it may be, in point of architectural style, yet, one and all, appeal to us in varying degree. Historical associations may of course, affect us greatly; other considerations too, may have to be allowed for in our appreciation , ', yet architecturally appraised all buildings owe their fame in chiefest measure to this power of composition and design. The same is true of our modern work. It stands to reason, therefore, that anything that will foster and quicken



power of design must tend to the best equipment of an architect for his life's work. 

For design, I venture to claim that academic training is the surest road for most, at any rate, to the achievement of success

that in no other way can the student readily obtain the grasp of the subject , , the breadth of view, necessary to attain in to the best use of time power that may be his. Design is the expression given to a building . if consistent, convincing arid harmonious, the building will have dignity and the incomparable quality of Style. Ship—shod designing will mar any building and make it commonplace and lacking in distinction. With design, then, the architectural student's preparation should begin, and with design it should continue to the end, not (of course) to the exclusion of other necessary studies, but in conjunction with them. Design it seems to me, should form the basis the backbone (so to speak), of his course of study from tire earliest moment possible, and around it the rest of his subjects should so far as possible, be grouped. And I base my plea for university training for architects precisely on the ground of the pre-eminent importance of training in design and upon the special facilities a university course affords for carrying out such training consistently in fullest measure.

Nay, I do not hesitate to go still further arid to argue that tire chief objection usually urged against academic preparation for professional life, the objection namely that it is "impractical" is not in itself a disadvantage in this particular connection In studying out an architectural design in developing his ideas so

as to bring out of them the best result he can, the student must at the outset, at any rate, be left as little hampered as possible by fettering limitations, such as, economy of cost restrictions and inconveniences of site, etc. The object of his study is to teach him to think architecturally and to express his thoughts suitably arid with grace of diction in the language of his art ; to mould them into forms that shall be purposeful and fitting as well as beautiful and gracious.

It is by no means an easy alphabet to learn; like any other language if I may pursue the metaphor, in takes long to master; it means no short apprenticeship in grammar arid expression for the artistic faculties are slow of development sometimes and always require careful, even toilsome, training. My contention is that for such training or preparation as a general rule, is more apt or better than that provided by air university course on education. It can offer a well-arranged and systematic scheme of education such as cannot readily be equalled by any other training. Moreover it can and does most especially develop the study of design, that being precisely the side of architecture that most lends itself to academic teaching it thus lays special stress on what, in my view is the central subject the foundation of the whole while it is precisely the subject most difficult of adequate and serious study under ordinary conditions apart from such a systematic course It cannot be acquired in ordinary office

