<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BUILDING STONES OF NOVA SCOTIA " author="">BUILDING STONES OF NOVA SCOTIA.



From a paper read before the Nova Scotia Institute on the Nova Scotia minerals for the Paris and Glasgow Exhibitions, we abstract the following notes regarding the location, character and extent of the deposits of building stones in Nova Scotia. The quarries are in most instances conveniently situated for either railway or water transport and for effective quarry work. These notes refer to the quarries in the northern part of Cumberland County, which furnished samples of their products.

Quarries at River John.—No. 1. This is the only quarry at present working in this district. It is situated at River John and about a quarter of a mile from I. C. Railway, and is connected therewith by a good road.

It contains a reddish sandstone of fine grain, and has been opened for about 350 feet in length, exposing a face so far of about 14 feet. Stones are cut here up to about 33 cubic feet, though almost any size could he obtained with larger machinery. The seams are very regular in formation and lie nearly horizontal. Worked for nearly a year.

No. 2 adjoins the first quarry, and resembles it in general characteristics, though the stone is of a lighter color.

No. 3, about a quarter of a mile up the river from No. 1, was worked for six years intermittently. Many grindstones were cut in this quarry, which yields a firm gray sandstone.

Wallace Harbor.—The Wallace Gray Stone Co., Wallace Harbor, John Stevenson, manager. This quarry is situated at Wallace, and a great part or the stone is shipped by water, though it is connected with the I. C. Railway by a good wagon road about two miles long.

Though the stone is carried to the wharf by horses, a tramway (gravity) could easily be operated the quarry being situated on the hill. The distance is about a quarter of a mile. This quarry has been worked for a period of nearly thirty years off and on, and is still only partially developed. It produces an average of about 1,500 tons ("quarry") a year, of fine grained sandstone in two colors "olive" and "bluish."

Blocks up to ten tons in weight and measuring fourteen feet are cut, and the greater part of the stone is shipped to the Boston and New York markets. The poorer stone is sold locally.

Wallace Harbor.— The G. P. Sherwood Co., T. C. Dobson, manager. This quarry adjoins the quarry of the Wallace Gray Stone Co., and the same remarks apply to it.

At Wallace Bridge the famous Battye Quarry is being

operated by George Battye. Stone has been taken from this quarry since the year 1809, and there is still much in sight. It is situated on the 1. C. Railway and the Wallace River. Chief market, New York and Eastern States cities. Blocks up to ten tons are cut. At present 25 feet of rock is shown in the face, with seams measuring from two to six feet in thickness. This is composed of a very uniform and beautiful sandstone, suitable for monuments as well as construction work.

On the River Philip, about five miles from Pugwash, is situated the quarry of McLeod & Embree It produces a handsome red sandstone contained in seams from two to seven feet, and shows altogether 20 feet in the face. Blocks cut to eight tons. Has been operated for upwards of 30 years, and usually ships to the States. This year all the stone quarried is being supplied to Toronto.

The Atlantic Stone Co., Limited, R. S. Hibbard, Manager.—The quarry of this company is situated on Cumberland Basin, 3½ miles from Joggins Station, on the Canada Coal Company's Railway, and 16 miles from I. C. Railway. The stone is shipped chiefly by water, in vessels up to about 300 tons. The market is mainly in the New England States, though the stones are occasionally sent much further west 2,000 tons shipped per year. This quarry produces a very superior form of grindstone. Stones from halt an inch to 14 inches thick, and up to seven feet in diameter are cut, though almost any size that could be handled is procurable.

At Lime Rock, West River, Picton County, are sandstone quarries yielding good building stone. Samples are shown by Mr. J. H. Eraser. In the Merrigomish district the strata lying above the Productive measures yield grindstones and fair qualities of freestone.

Other localities are Pictou, and Glenfallock. On the Basin of Minas, Cornwallis, Johnston Brook, Horton, Falmouth, Kennetcook, Nine Mile River, and Old Barns, have yielded freestones in some cases of delicate shades and good texture. In Cape Breton sandstones from the Millstone grit and the Coal measures have been used to a limited extent for building purposes.

<article title=" SYENITES PORPHYRIES AND GRANITES " author="">SYENITES PORPHYRIES AND GRANITES.—Granite is very abundant among the older rocks of the province. Among localities which have furnished it for building purposes, may be mentioned Shelburne, Queens and Lunenburg Counties. It also occurs at Aspotogan and various points thence to Halifax. As already mentioned, in describing the Gold fields, it runs continuously from Halifax to Windsor, and thence westward, It occurs again at Waverley, and runs through Musquodoboit, Jeddore, Ship Harbor, Sherbrooke, and Country Harbor to Canso. It occurs inland at the head waters of many of the Eastern rivers, and is estimated to cover a large area of the Atlantic coast district. It has, however, been quarried only at points accessible to shipping. At Halifax, it has been used a good deal about the fortifications, and a number of houses have been constructed of it, its cost, rough, being from $2.25 to $4.00 a ton.

In the Colequids there are masses of flesh and red colored syenite, which have afforded very handsome polished samples; but as yet have not been worked for construction. Porphyries and syenites occur in various parts of Cape Breton, but their economic value has not been tested. The following localities may be mention-

