<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

ble away. In the case of wood, the fibres begin to slip past or tear apart from each other. Now, in the case of steel, if I understand <person>Mr. Wright</person>, this action is altogether different. When stress is applied the substance begins to flow. Perhaps I should not say altogether different, but the nature of the substance, as we conceive it is so very different from that of stone or wood in that it is a more unified or compact mass, that the strain, the resultant of the stress, travels

through it, or is transmitted, or flows through it, more in unison with the inherent conditions that are generated by the stress. There is a something in the nature of steel, its elasticity, its plasticity, its resilience, its resistance, its recuperative powers, in that up to a certain point it will again assert itself, or assume







































The stress strain diagram for steel in compression when the stress is determined by dividing the load by the original cross-sectional area is as indicated in the annexed diagram, FIG. 4.

These compressive tests were made on a Riehle 200,000 pounds machine, and as the screws were kept running at a uniform rate, a set of readings of the times required to produce the stresses were registered on a chronograph simultaneously with the measurements of the deformation or strain. On plotting from these results the stress strain curve and the stress time curve, it is found that they were identical when the scales correspond.



<person>Mr. Pearson</person>: Whilst listening to Mr. Wright's very able paper, I have been brought to look upon the action of stress upon the elements that. compose iron and steel in a different light from what I have hitherto regarded it. When such building materials as stone and wood are subjected to stress one can readily understand the action that takes place. In the first instance when stone is subjected to pressure, the small molecules are disrupted from their setting in the basic cement and the material begins to fracture and crum

its normal condition—that, of all the materials we employ, places it in a class by itself. Now it is because of these integral qualities, that there is a greater unison, a closer affinity between the elements that compose steel and the conditions that arise when strain is present. What is this substance, what is steel? We seem to know very little about it. We understand it to be composed of innumerable crystals, and these crystals, I suppose, are composed of atoms. Now, imagine a





<firm>Zanzibar Paint Co.</firm>

HOUSE PAINTS

SHINGLE STAINS

ANTI-RUST PAINTS





Toronto.