<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NOW AND THEN IN THE SUMMER " author="">NOW AND THEN IN THE SUMMER



"Wot ! go up that blooming ladder, which is near three storey high ?

Oh, chuck it, guv'nor not much Why you'll ask me next to fly,

Or hang en by an eyelash to the gutters dizzy height.



It's June, you must remember, and the sun is shining bright.

You'll get other men to no it? and a chap's been round to-day

Who	said he'd take the top stretch ? Well, he's a blooming Jay.

I'm a painter, that's wot I am, not a blooming acrobat;



You can get some other feller, I'm' not going up, that's flat,



Aye, here's my brush and duster, and a large and small sash tool,



So dub up the 'spondulicks.' Do you take me for a fool ?

I've worked for all the best firms for twenty miles around

They don't want me to take top stretch, I'm always on the ground.



I in a painter, that's wot I am and a clubman, too, to hoot,



So your offer of the top stretch work it ain't a goin' to suit."



And while his hack time's reckoned up, lie's grumbling ad lib.



He's a very curious fellow in the summer is the ''skib."



<article title=" IN THE WINTER " author="">IN THE WINTER.



"Paint the cornice hanging over with a rope around my waist? All right, sir, we can 'rush' it. Now', youngster, you make



haste



Fix	the rope around my arm pits, Sixty feet ? Pooh, that's no height.

I can walk along the coping, for my weight it is but light,

I wouldn't give it three coats, sir. We'll manage it with two



And if it had a coat of size I think, sir, one would do.



And before you go, there's one thing I should like to mention, sir.

Pill's been sloping round the corner for a pint, which isn't fair,

I don't wish to say a word, of course, about a feller mate,

But when he came this morning lie was twenty minutes late.

And that other chap you've got on don't know' how to behave, lie

Wos larking- all the morning in the kitchen with the slavey.

I sees you have contracted for to paint the staircase wall

We can fake it up by washing it----it won't want paint at all

I know you've had to take it low, for work you can't refuse.

Leave me to do the 'faking' dodge. I'll see, sir, you don't lose.

We'll rush the work through proper!" !" And his promises ad lib.

In the winter are forgotten in the summer by the "'skib."

—H. F., in Decorators' and Painters' Magazine.





<article title=" SANITARY HOUSE DECORATION " author="">SANITARY HOUSE DECORATION.



A paper on this subject read by Mr. Louis Hanks at the recent Congress of the British Sanitary Institute held in Manchester, contains many useful suggestions He advised decorators, in commencing the sanitary decoration of a house, to begin at the top—in the loft if there is one—arid work downwards, cleaning and removing dirt from all recesses and hidden corners as they went. Such places are often, he added, overlooked and left as disease spots in a smart house. The loft especially receives the floating dust and impurities in the vitiated air arising from the lower parts of the house ; therefore clean it out, remove all dirt, provide that a skylight can he opened, and brush down and whiten every part of the walls, floor, and under-surface of roof, either with limewash or carbolic distemper. Do not leave the open joisting or rough plaster to accumulate more dirt. but put a thin flooring all over the loft and thus gain useful storage room, which, being lighted and ventilated, will make the whole house healthier. Where air and sunlight can enter, microbes will be conspicuous by their absence. Every scrap of old paper on walls or ceilings, and all old distemper throughout the house, should be soaked, scraped and washed off to the bare plaster, except perhaps in the case of a tightly-hung varnished or painted paper, which already presents an impervious surface Insist, as one of the first principles of sanitary decoration, on the stripping of walls and ceilings, and

disregard all pleas or fears as to fetching down the loose plaster. If the plastering is so weak that it is held up by the paper or old whitewash, that is surely a pretty good indication that it needs repair. The desirability of enforcing the stripping of old wall-paper and distemper by the passing of a by-law to that effect may be commended to the attention of sanitary authorities. Always use some disinfectant in the water employed in stripping and washing down the interior of a house, both as a sweetner of the rooms and as a protection for the workmen in case there may have been infectious illness on the premises. Safe and effective liquid disinfectants are so cheap nowadays that there is no reason for omitting this simple pro— caution.

A solution of soda in warm water facilitates the removal I of old paper and the effective cleansing of the surface. Wherever there is a sign of dampness trace and remedy it at its source, to protect health and prevent damage to the decorations. In slight cases it may suffice to line the damp wall surface with lead foil or pitch-paper or to paint it before repapering, but all serious dampness should be thoroughly removed. Having stopped all cracks or imperfections in the plaster with Parian or Keene's cement and rubbed down the plaster to an even surface, the walls and ceilings are ready for decorative treatment, which must depend on individual taste arid the finances at command. In clairecolling or sizing walls or ceilings preparatory to papering, and also in the process of distempering, the smell of size is often very offensive, and that is not to be wondered at when its organic nature is considered. This odour can be almost entirely neutralized by the addition of a gill of turpentine to a painful of melted size or distemper. This is actually an improvement to the body and binding properties of the material as well as a deodorant.

In hanging papers, embossed pulp, or canvas materials or painted or varnished surfaces, a clairecolle of size and soda should be used—half a pound of soda to a gallon of melted size—to give a "bite" to the material to be hung and to prevent blistering. The clairecolle for unpainted surfaces should be melted size with a little whiting and turps as aforesaid, no water, Many of the sanitary, washable distempers or water paints— so largely employed nowadays—contain a percentage of turpentine, boiled oil, or other vehicles, as well as an admixture of dry white lead, zinc white, or soluble glass, together with some disinfectant. Such truly sanitary pigments cannot be too highly commended, as they are cheap, produce artistic and durable effects, and possess better covering properties than oil paint. One hundred-weight of such a distemper will cover 840 sq. yd. , while the same quantity of oil paint will only do an average of 500 yd.

Little need be said as to the composition or application of paint to walls or woodwork beyond urging the use of zinc white (oxide of zinc), or Charlton white, as being non—poisonous, and therefore more sanitary than white lead (carbonate of lead), the poisonous nature of which is well known, although it may be safely used with proper precaution. If white lead paint be used it should be genuine old, ground white lead, mixed with pure American turps and Baltic linseed oil, with the addition of litharge driers or terebene, according to the weather in which it is used ; and such paint gives off little or no odour or volatile particles. Do not use

