<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attaches not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]





From a "Sarnia Boy": I have not been long at the business of a " Builder" though a reader and subscriber to THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, from which I have learned a great deal. I wish to ask some things about ''Veneered Buildings", what are the best ways to put them up, and should they be finished.

ANS.—The frame of a veneered building is constructed in the ordinary balloon style, and should be sheeted on the outside with good inch lumber—it will be all the better if sheeted on both sides—if not sheeted, which is sometimes the case, the frame should be well braced and made stiff. There must be a good stone foundation under all the outside walls, and this must project fully 4½½ inches beyond the line of the woodwork to receive the brick if a inch wall is intended; if a nine inch wall is intended, then the foundation must project nine or more inches beyond the woodwork If there is no sheeting used, the brick wall should be plastered on the inside, a process that will strengthen the wall and cut off much wind and cold. The brickwork must be well fastened to the wood wall at regular intervals, either with nails driven into the woodwork an inch or so, and the heads of them built into the joints of the brickwork (in this manner they act as anchors) or the bricks may be held to the brickwork by regularly prepared anchors, kept by hardware merchants. The best mortar for veneered brickwork has one-quarter cement in its composition. Where it can be afforded, there may be a stone or cement plinth around the building, and stone or cement sills for doors and windows. Wooden sills are often used; they must be set in mortar, painted two or three coats with good paint and then sanded. They should be anchored to the woodwork. The brickwork over windows and doors, must he arched, and well tied to the wooden wall.—See answer given in January No., for further information On veneered houses.



From "Banker": We are placing a new floor and ceiling overhead. Two or three of the " bank boys" sleep overhead, and we are in want of some scheme to deaden the noise. Please publish a method in your valuable journal and oblige.

ANS.—An examination of the illustration, Fig. I, will give a good idea of an excellent method of deadening sound. Strips are nailed on the joists as shown,

















and on these rest boards, called "sound-boards;" on these spread a mortar made of lime, sand and sawdust. This "pugging" or mortar may be from 2 to 3 inches thick, spread evenly over the boards and close to the sides of the joists.



From "Young-un"—I am building two stores for a

gentleman, two stories high; the lower stories are 14 feet high, and the upper ones which are intended for offices, photograph gallery, etc., are 10', 6" high in the clear. The first storey is to have walls 14 inches thick up to top of second floor joists, and the top storey is to be a single brick or nine inches thick. The walls are to be rendered or plastered inside, then strapped and lathed and plastered. Will these walls be strong enough ? The shops are 22 feet wide. (2) The owner objects to my using "soft" or salmon bricks and is tinder the impression that the walls are too weak and would be further weakened by the use of soft bricks. (3.) Is there any danger of the walls being injured by the frost if the bricks are laid during the month of December ?

ANS.-—(I) A 14-inch wall for the first storey will be ample to carry all that will ever likely be placed upon it if the joists are sufficiently deep to prevent much deflection. It is quite common and good practice too—to make the top storey walls 9 inches thick. We do not know of a single failure of a 9-inch wall in cases of the kind named, when the walls were properly put up. The plastering and strapping help to make the wall much stronger (2.) It is the common practice to use salmon brick in all inside work of walls for such buil- dings as yours. Of course the bricks used should be fairly burned and hard enough to be handled without " crumbling." Every kiln of bricks contains a certain percentage of ''softs" which are sold along with the other bricks, when sold " kiln-count" and these " softs" are generally built in inside walls. A little judgment is necessary in placing salmon bricks. They should not be laid over openings, or where there is much weight to carry. (3) With regard to laying bricks in frosty weather, this is done now all over the country, and so far as we know there have been no serious results follow. Much depends on the mortar used, which in all cases should be of the best for winter use. There is some difference of opinion as to the consistency of the mortar. Some bricklayers contend that the mortar should be ''thin," so that it will spread easily, others that it should be as dry and stiff as possible. The latter entails more labor but in our opinion is the better method for winter work.





From a ''Village Painter" :—Please explain how the fine finish on woodwork is obtained after the varnish has been rubbed down with rotten stone."

ANS. :—Apply to your drug store for a box of surgeon's cotton wool and a mixture of equal parts of alcohol and sweet oil. Make a wad of a part of the cotton wool, then lay the wad on the neck of the bottle containing the mixture, and turn the bottle up for a moment to get a little of the mixture on the wad, then rub a small portion of the work until the polish satisfies you. If necessary repeat the operation with the bottle until you get the desired finish, then take another place adjoining the first and finish that, and so until you have finished the whole. Remember and always rub with a circular motion. Be careful not to get your wad too wet with the mixture. All varnishes will not take a high polish. It is best to use a hard-drying polishing varnish made for the purpose. The varnish should be hard and dry before any finishing must be attempted or failure is sure to follow. Excellent directions for wood-finishing are given in a

