<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



cannot go into effect until the opening of the winter term next year. The establishing of a scholarship of this character should awaken a deeper interest by the students in the study of Architecture, as well as in the P. Q. A. A. and the work of the Architectural Department at McGill.

<article title=" trades unions " author="">

THE ways of the trades unions, like A Peculiar Objection those of the heathen Chinese, are sometimes peculiar. News of what appears

to be the very latest cause for a strike comes from Grand Rapids, Mich. The union bricklayers of that city have refuscd to work on a building because the foundation walls are constructed of cement and are carried up a few feet above the ground level. Members of the union state that the action was taken because of the effect the use of cement as a building material will have on their trade, the new construction not requiring the services of skilled bricklayers and stone masons, and threatening, in case of the universal adoption of the cement construction, to deprive them of a large part of their employment and thus drive them into other fields. It is a foregone conclusion that this action must fail to seriously retard the use of cement for building purposes. The adaptability of the material for foundations and for the entire construction of certain classes of buildings, such as warehouses and factories has been so far established that its extended use in this direction in the future is assured. On the other hand, it does not seem probable that it will become popular in the construction of residences and other buildings in which a high standard of architectural effect is sought for. After all, therefore, its effect on the employment of bricklayers will probably not be serious. In any case the unions will not be permitted to dictate to owners, architects and builders what materials they shall employ in the construction of buildings.



A correspondent writes that the table on page 110 of the new edition of the Canadian Contractor's Hand Book,

showing the number of bricks in walls of various thicknesses, will not apply to bricks manufactured in Toronto. This is no doubt true, but the table is correct for some other localities, as for example the Maritime Provinces. Our correspondent's complaint again draws attention to the fact that there is scarcely any limit to the variations in size of bricks manufactured in this country. As an illustration in point, an architect who has some work in progress in a northern town writes "I am putting up a block of stores, and because of the brick famine in this section, I am compelled to use three makes of bricks—one from Barrie, another from Stayner and the third by a local manufacturer. No two makes are alike in size. This causes a great deal of trouble in bonding." The three manufacturers from whom this architect obtained his bricks are distant from one another not more than fifty to sixty miles. It will thus be seen how sizes vary even in what might be considered the same locality. In short each manufacturer appears to be a law unto himself. In another column will be found a table similar to the one in the hand Book, but based on the largest size brick made in the Dominion so far as we can discover. This may be of some value, but from what has been stated it will be seen that no table that could be compiled would

<article title=" A Uniform Size for Bricks " author="">A Uniform Size for Bricks.

<article title=" City House Exteriors " author="">City House Exteriors.

meet the requirements. Steps should be taken by the government or by the Architectural Associations and Builders' Exchanges to compel Canadian manufacturers to adopt a standard size for bricks, and put an end to the inconvenience arising from existing conditions.



WIDE differences of opinion exist

among architects with regard to what must be considered important features

of their work A discussion took place recently among members of the profession with reference to the outside appearance of city dwellings. A certain well-known house in Chicago was cited, which in the opinion of one architect had more the appearance of a prison than of a residence. The answer was that the interior of this house was entirely satisfactory and that the windows and doors faced upon an attractive inner court. Some of the parties to the debate contended that the exterior of a house facing the street might be of almost any character ; that the owner and architect were not under obligation to make the exterior of such a building pleasing to the public ; that the main requirement was to make the interior satisfy the desires of the owner Others strongly combated these views, and held that in order that cities might be pleasing and interesting-, it was necessary that attention should be given to the exterior treatment of residences as well as other buildings. Against this opinion was cited the American style of street house, which is so designed as to convey the idea that the occupants live, to a large extent, on the street. This style of house has large porches and verandahs, bow and other windows set low so that the interior is plainly visible from the street. There is something to be said in favor of both sides of this question. Perhaps the solution lies in the architect taking a middle course—that is, in making the outside or the house as attractive as the funds at the disposal of the owner and architect may permit, without in any way sacrificing the interior It is undoubtedly proper that a dwelling should afford those who occupy it the necessary privacy, but it does not therefore follow that it should present to the observer from the street the appearance of either a barn or a prison.



<article title=" OUR BRITISH OFFICE " author="">OUR BRITISH OFFICE.

Owing to increased British business, the publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER have established a branch office at 22 Grand St. Helen's, London, E. C. Persons interested in the building trade are requested to avail themselves of the facilities thus afforded for securing information regarding the demand in Canada for constructive materials. Our representative will be pleased to call personally in response to a request. Address the C. H. Mortimer Publishing Co., 22 Great St. Helen's London, E. C.



In Prussia the Minister of Public Works has determined to pre-

scribe by circular the necessary rules which are to be observed for the proper control, in manufacture, of the qualities of cement.



In future every depot will be required to have a test office. The tests will riot make it impossible for any but a specialist 10 carry them out; a knowledge of the use of the instruments and reagents will be all that is necessary. This knowledge can be acquired in either the Stale laboratory or in one of the cement works. Thirty pounds is to be advanced to each depot for the

purpose of buying the necessary instruments which are to be of the same pattern as those in the Charlottenburg laboratory.

