<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



only to help the designer it is a study, and is better condensed afterwards in small form for the working drawing, which needs nothing hut the details, and which has to be handled and copied and filed.

BLUE PRINTS.—The articles in the Brickbuilder do not take notice of blue printing in the architect's office. There are blue printing establishments to which the work is sent out, and which render monthly accounts based on a charge per square foot. Orders are sent Out by means of an order book made of alternate yellow and thin white leaves. By means of carbon paper and lead pencil the order is written in duplicate. The perforated yellow leaf is sent out with the drawing and the white book-leaf remains, to he used in checking the monthly account. Both yellow and white leaves are ruled and printed in the same form with headings under which to note the essential points, viz., the order number and date, the building number, the sheet number, the number of copies required, the kind of print (blue, black, etc.), the material (paper or cloth) and the size—first in the dimensions required and again decimally in square feet. This last column, when totalled on all the order slips of the month, gives immediately the means of checking the amount of the monthly bill.

<article title=" ISSUE AND RECEIPT OF DRAWINGS " author="Langton, W. A.">ISSUE AND RECEIPT OF DRAWINGS.--A book should be always at the office boy's hand, ruled for record of drawings sent out. The headings of the rulings would be the issue number, the building number, the drawing number, title and description (tracing, print, etc.), the purpose of the issue, the issuer and the dates of issue and return. Receipt forms should be sent with the drawings and it a receipt is not returned another form should be sent out. The guide in this case is the issue number. The entries in the book and the receipts filed are in the order of the issue number, and this number should be marked on a drawing when it is sent out. Every time it is sent out it will receive a new issue number. When the drawing is brought back the issue number points to the place where credit should be given, and the date of return is entered instantly. To find out where a given name or a given drawing are in the list, in answer to an enquiry whether certain contractors have received a drawing or where a certain drawing is, it is necessary to run the eye down the list of names or drawing numbers. This is said to be rapid enough.

W. A. LANGTON.





<article title=" ORIGINALITY OF DESIGN IN ARCHITECTURE AT THE EXPENSE OF BEAUTY (SLATER) HOW SKY-SCRAPERS CAN BE MADE MORE AESTHETIC

" author="Baillarge, Charles">ORIGINALITY OF DESIGN IN ARCHITECTURE AT THE EXPENSE OF BEAUTY (SLATER) HOW SKY-SCRAPERS CAN BE MADE MORE AESTHETIC

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—Under " Notes" in your last issue page 135, you cite Slater, vice-president R.I.B.X., as saying that there is too great a tendency nowadays to mcrc eccentricity or originality among the younger architects, white beauty of design or aestheticism is neglected."



There is abundant truth in this, as witness man of the designs for even pretentious dwelling houses, which would bc more appropriate as club houses at fishing and sporting stations in our forest reserves.



In your "C A. & B. Students' Competition" at page 130, for the design of a dwelling house ona 50 foot lot, you vcry properly advise students that the adjoining buildings are within io fect of their respective boundaries thereby leading them to infer that the proposed building should also fall short in its dimensions of the whole frontage of the lot to bc built upon. This is most essential in certain cases, for light and air on all sides, and more especially where costly structures to show to advantage must be kept away or isolated from adjoining buildings, except Qf course

along the business streets of a city where land is expensive and every foot of it has to he made available.

If Mr. Slater would, when he visits Quebec, take a walk along our "Grand Allee" or St. Louis road, he would, while deprecating eccentricity of design in a certain house with a most fortresslike basement, deplore the vicinity of such a costly structure to

those on either side of it. In fact it so abuts on or against the gable end of the house adjoining it to the eastward that one cannot tell whether the more salient and ornamental turrets and chimney stacks of the former bclong to it or to the latter, it is



only when looking at it directly from the strcct that one can tell

which is which.

Now, sir, this is a pretentious building in every respect, said to have cost some $37,000, and it is really a pity that the architect, a Montreal man, did not advise his wealthy patron to purchase a wider lot for such a splendid structure, original though it be in design

With regard to tall buildings of the sky-scraper persuasion, it is singular how in coursc of time one can become wedded to such a style of architecture whcn treated in a way to produce the impression that the building is made up of a lesser number of horizontal sections. Your engraving of the facade of the London Globe Insurance Building, of Montreal, is proof of a good attempt at this, where the two lower floors or stories of the building are so to say combined in a way to look like but onc by separating them by a salient cornice from the stories above, and the attic or eighth floor is apparently eliminated by being separated from the floors below by a heavy eave cornice, which I believe it would have been preferable to bring down another story, and thus reduce the intervening the stories to four, while leaving two above the main entablature to form the attic portion of the edifice

Your engraving also of the splendid new bank for Winnipeg would imply that had the two lower stories been made one of, apparently, which impression would have been given by separating those two floors from the reminder of the edifice by some salient horizontal feature such as a continuous balcony or ornamental bracket, and by making far morc salient the cornice betwccn the upper story and the one below it, or even, as in the case abovc alluded to, by bringing down this cornice in a way to leave two stories above it for an attic; then would also this facade have acquired something of the classical features looked for in building in general where some proportion is looked for between the three horizontal sections of an edifice—it's base or pedestal, it's shaft or main section, and it's capital entablature or attic.



It must be admitted that where a tall and narrow building, such as there are so many of in New York and Chicago, one absolutely unrelieved in any way by separating horizontal salient features, the thing we look upon is far from being one of beauty; but when, as ;n the Ncw York Waldorf-Astoria there is, coupled with great height, a corresponding breadth of base, with a combining of the stories together in threes or fives and even sevens, there may still result a species of aestheticism, which when taken with the absolute necessity in our time for such multifloored or storied structures render the building less distasteful



A pertinent example of this is now being given on Broadway, New York, between 73rd and 74th street, where the new Ansonia Departmcnt Hotel, so called, which is about 200 feet square, is to be seen, or soon will be, with its 16 story facadc broken up into three sections, of which thc basement combines the three first floors of the building the attic or upper portion the two or three upper flats, arid the main shaft or middle section, thus reduced to only 8 or 9 stories and in a way, as above inferred,to cause it's facades, thus divided by salient balconies, to become really acceptable from an aesthetic point of view.



CHAS. BAILLAIRGE,



Architcct and Engineer



Quebec, Que.





The Queen City Plate Glass & Mirror Co., Ltd., have made extensive additions to their already large plant.



The Brick Manufacturers of Ontario have organized an Association with the following officers:—president, 8. E. Bechtell, Waterloo; vice-president, Robt. J. McCormick, Warwick; secretary, Alex. Johnston, London; treasurer, Henry Janes, Delaware; executive committee, Messrs. J.W. Cawrse, London, and John Karn, Brownsville.

