<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" AN IDEAL DOOR, SASH AND BOX FACTORY " author="">AN IDEAL DOOR, SASH AND BOX FACTORY.



At the mouth of the Trent, one of the finest and steadiest rivers in North America, and of which the water flow is remarkably constant and unvarying, <firm>Gilmour & Company, Limited</firm>, of Trenton, Canada, have established one of the most complete and tip-to-date manufacturing plants in the world.



Some idea of the truth of this assertion may be gained hr a perusal of the following interesting items regarding the resources and affairs of this concern.



To begin with, their different factories, covering an area of over 100,000 square feet, are equipped in all departments with the latest and most approved machinery that provides them with appliances sufficient to cut up 25,000,000 square feet of lumber per year of which lumber a great portion is brought in the log from the company's own limits and driven by them to their mills at Trenton, to be there sawn into the sizes required for the manufacture of hardwood and pine veneered and solid doors, sash, boxes, dressed lumber lath, shingles, flooring, and, in fact, every species of wood goods required for the building trades, including their famous patent lumber doors, which, during the past year, have been meeting with such success in the large markets of New York and Chicago, and which they are at the present time shipping to all parts of the world.



In view of the fact that this firm enjoys large connections in Canada arid the United States, they have also at their command tire finest procurable assortment of hardwoods, and veneers which they principally use in the manufacture of patent lumber doors and finish.



The capacity of their door factory is about 300,000 doors per annum, which is equal In about 10,000,000 feet of lumber, and of their box factory 15,000,000 feet.



Very recently they have expended upwards of $100,000 in the enlargement of their factories, in the construction of a new power house fitted with water-wheels of the latest and most powerful design, and in the installation of a complete and extensive system of dry kilns.



Situated as they are in the midst of a region most favorable for tire manufacture and exportation of wood goods, having tinder their control almost unlimited water-power from a river in which

thousands of horse-power are daily going to waste, and assisted in their shipping operations by the Grand Trunk, Canadian Pacific and Central Ontario Railways, and by the lake steamers which call regularly at the port of Trenton, this large concern has obtained, and will continue to hold a very prominent position among firms in the woodworking business, and at the present time they are open to compete in their lines with any manufacturer in the world.



Besides the recent fitting up of the <building>Canadian Pacific Depot at Montreal</building>, and the completion of other large contracts, this firm has but recently secured a contract for the supplying of 1200 patent lumber birch (mahogany finish) doors. with the casings and mouldings, to the new <building>King Edward Hotel, Toronto</building>, Ontario.



Messrs. <firm>Gilmour & Company, Limited</firm>, have expressed a strong desire that, should any of our readers wish prices of or information regarding any of their products, they should at once communicate with the firm through their head office, Trenton, Canada, and they state that they will he most happy to give close attention to all such inquiries.





Shellac knotting thinned down with one-third of its weight of methylated spirits forms an excellent medium for preventing or stopping suction in plaster work.



<firm>The Canadian Automatic Fireproof Door & Shutter Company</firm>, of Montreal, makes an announcement in this number regarding the device known as "Barber's Fire Doors arid Shutters. These doors and shutters are made of prepared wood or fireproof materials encased with metal. When open they are boxed up in the head of the frame in sections, there being two sets of the doors and one set for windows. When closed down they form a dead air chamber between the two sets of doors, or the one set and the windows as the ease may be. The sections are counterbalanced with weights so as to be easily closed or opened. They act by a rise in temperature to 120 degrees Fahrenheit, melting tire plug almost instantly. The device recently withstood a successful test in Montreal in the presence of leading under writers, architects, builders, and the officials of the fire department of that city.





<firm>Canada Foundry Company limited</firm>

Engineers, founders, and machinists

Structural iron and steel work

Toronto