<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" LEGAL " author="">LEGAL.

The City Solicitor of Toronto has given it as his opinion that

when once a building permit has been issued the civic authorities have not power to revoke it. This opinion is the outcome of a



petition by the residents of a certain district in the city of Toronto to have the same included in the brick limit, and pending the change to withhold authority from the holder of a building permit for a row of rough-cast houses.



It is satisfactory to learn, says the London Engineering Times, that the (British) Court of Appeal has confirmed the judgment already given that a building owner is responsible for the payment of provisional sums for work performed by special artists or tradesmen, or for other works or fittings to the building whenever the architect shall so direct. Building owners sometimes imagine that when a tender is accepted they have no liabilities except to the contractor, and in such cases it is difficult to explain to them that there are sub-contractors who have also claims, the payment of which does not necessarily increase the total amount they had undertaken to pay. In the case in question, Hobbs v. Turner, the contract form of the Institute of British Architects was employed Clause 28, relating to the payment of provisional sums, was therefore accepted by both parties. It was mentioned in the specification that railings of the value of £20, ezclusive of carriage, fixing and profit, were to be provided for, and they were supplied by the plaintiff. A certificate certifying that plaintiff was entitled to £27 10s was sent to the defendant, the building owner, by the architect. The defendant declined to pay, repudiating his liability, and alleging that lie had a claim against the builder for bad work. The Master of the Rolls interpreted clause 28 as meaning that the building owner and not the builder should be considered as the principal in regard to it. In such matters the builder was only the agent of the building owner. But his Lordship declined to decide whether tinder clause 28 the architect had authority to determine who was to pay, as well as to whom payment should be made. Apparently it was the intention of those who drew up the form of contract that the architect was to have the power of choice, for the sums are to be paid at such times and in such amounts as the architect shall direct, and sums so expended shall be payable by the contractor or by the employer. The only directing power is the architect and it is not suggested that it is optional on the part of the employer to pay or decline to

pay. It is to be regretted that the Court was not more decisive in dealing with this part of the question, although it may hereafter be accepted that the initial liability in respect of this class of work was established.





Don Valley Brickworks

Fine grade pressed brick

Toronto, Ontario



The Canadian Bridge Company, limited

Steel buildings, roof trusses

Walkerville, Ontario



The Jas. Morrison Brass Manufacturing company, limited

Showy bathrooms

Toronto, Ontario