<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER







































PORTION OF CHIMNEY HOOD FOR DRAWING ROOM IN <building>RESIDENCE OF MR. F. B. FETHERSTONHAUGH</building>, DESIGNED AND



EXECUTED BY <firm>THE ELLIOTT & SON Co.</firm>, TORONTO



<article title=" A STUDY OF THE BASIS OF PROFESSIONAL

ETIQUETTE " author="Langton, W. A.">A STUDY OF THE BASIS OF PROFESSIONAL

ETIQUETTE.

Not long ago a speaker, at one of the English architectural meetings, spoke in a congratulatory way of the time being past when a leader of the profession (the allusion was evidently to <person>Sir Gilbert Scott</person>) would go about with a portfolio of churches under his arm, to call on building committees. On the other hand, we hear that in the United States, nobody dare wait for a job to come to him ; that <person>Michaelangelo</person> himself, if he lived in Chicago or New York, would have to hustle for work. Which of these two tendencies is in the direction of progress ?

What is all this hustling about? What is there about hustling that should recommend it to clients? The hustler is not hustling for his client's interest but for his own. A scholarly designer like Sir Gilbert Scott must have been a very high-class hustler. His kind of 'work implied personal attention to it. Yet there is a story of his going to a church opening, and, as he was being driven up to the church, turning pale and whispering to his confidential clerk, who, was with him, "They have got the wrong church."

The typical hustler works for work not at it, and what the client wants is some one who will work at his work.

Of course the hustler works at his client's work in the sense of getting it through. He must have good staff: That is partly what he is hustling about. It almost seems sometimes as if there is a point of view from which it is the staff which may be said to have a hustler, who spends his time upon the street to find work enough to pay them. Staff work, in fact, is the result of this system.

There is a certain medium class of commercial work for which staff work does well enough, and a certain class of client to whom it is a satisfaction to feel that his work is being handled in what he would call a business like manner; i. e. put through without fuss, in the shortest possible time, and looking when done like other new buildings of its kind. As a matter of fact the work is done in a business like manner. Let us give the style of practice all the credit that is due to it,

in the best examples. The architect runs a plan factory., It has factory merits and factory defects. The merits are certainly a comfort to a client whose interest in his building is commercial.; and the defects do not matter much from his point of view. But how about delivering over the whole field of architecture to. this system ? It is bound to result in staff architecture, that is to say in factory architecture ; and factory architecture is not good enough for good work. Any body who knows what real planning is like will know that the case of Sir Gilbert Scott will be often repeated in a metaphorical sense. The right problem may be under consideration. but. the wrong plan will be produced. It is true that <person>H. H. Richardson </person>did not draw himself, but his mind was on design. all the time ; he was devoted entirely to his work. It is true on the other hand that Mr. <person>Ernest George </person>(as he stated when receiving his R.I.B.A. gold medal) does nothing else but draw. He represents, that is to say, the possibility of a first-class, man taking care of the design, while some one else gets the work and attends to the business connected with it. But Mr. George is as exceptional in his way as <person>Richardson</person> was Under ordinary circumstances, if work has to. be worked for, the big man of the concern will be devoted to that, as indeed he is now, and, the architectural level must fall. That is bad for architecture but what we are concerned with just now is that it is bad for the owner of architecture—the client. If this estimate of the consequences of hustling is sound, clients have no cause to smile upon the practice.

How about the architects themselves? The profession professedly abhors the practice; and, at the end of the tariffs of fees, there is a clause defining professional etiquette in a way that practically excludes work hunting. But there commonly is a jocular way of speaking about the .practice .that implies uncertainty of purpose. At the bottom of this is uncertainty about the moral basis, a feeling that perhaps the new is the true and that old fashioned scruples are perhaps old fashioned for cause, like horsecars and the old, old systems of fifteen years ago. Morals however do not change. A gentleman is the same now as he was in

