<doctype type="text">

THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" SILICATE BRICK " author="">SILICATE BRICK.



A company has been organized at Sydney, C. B., to manufacture silica brick. The following gentlemen among others are interested —<person>A. C. Bertram </person>of North Sydney and <person>H. F. McDougall</person>, of Grand Narrows. Silica brick is the invention of a Swede and has but recently been placed on the markets of the world. The brick is said to be of very fine quality and of great durability. The process for making these bricks, as now carried on by over fifty firms in Germany, is very simple. Sand and lime are the materials used. They are moulded into bricks under a pressure of 150 tons, and placed on steel cars and driven into large retorts containing ten thousand bricks, which are then closed and live steam is introduced giving a pressure of one hundred and twenty pounds to the square inch. After remaining in this receptacle for ten hours the bricks become solid as stone, and are then turned out to cool when they are fit for building purposes. A number of Montreal capitalists have secured the patent rights for this country, and factories will be erected at Montreal, Sydney, and perhaps other points



<article title=" THE QUESTION OF UNIFORM SPECIFICATIONS " author="">THE QUESTION OF UNIFORM SPECIFICATIONS.



No more important question has ever been brought before the <assoc>National Association of Master House Painters and Decorators</assoc>, says the Painters' Magazine, than that of devising a set of uniform specifications by means of which every different branch of painters' work may be accurately described, and which shall be satisfactory alike to painters and architects. For it is only by the preparation of specifications that will be mutually satisfactory that any real good can be accomplished It would be the height of folly to suppose that any architect would be willing to adopt a form of specification that depended in the slightest degree upon the honesty of the painter to whom the contract was awarded in order to obtain the quality of work intended. While undoubtedly it is true that many specifications are written that are so loosely worded that this very result obtains, it must be conceded that this is usually the case because the architect is ignorant of the correct way to specify the grade of work lie desires, and not because lie has any intention of writing a document. that can be readily misconstrued.

That is seen if the painters who criticise will but take the trouble to examine the descriptions of the work required of other mechanics in the same specifications that are so often faulty in their description of the painting work The sizes of moldings are accurately given, the quality of the lumber is indicated with exactness, the number of nails to be used to each joist or stud is particularly mentioned, the weight of the lead pipe for each particular fixture is fixed, and every lock, knob or hinge is called for by its catalogue number, so that there is no chance for the dishonest mechanic to escape from doing the work he has agreed to, provided the superintendent is faithful to his duty. But when it comes to painting, the architect is too often attempting to describe work without knowing what is the proper method for obtaining desired results. This is not strange, for in many cases two or more painters asked to suggest the proper form of specifications for a particular piece of work would

disagree radically as to the correct method to pursue. It will therefore be seen that the committee to whom this important work of formulating a set of uniform specifications has been intrusted have no easy task before them for they must approach the subject not from the point of view of the painter, but they must endeavor to put themselves in the place of the architect who is trying to obtain the best result for his client and who is desirous of framing a specification for painting that shall he strictly drawn, so that there can be no possible dispute as to its intent and meaning and that will afford no loophole for the dishonest painter to crawl out of, and tinder which such a man when looked after by a faithful, honest and competent superintendent, can be compelled to produce work of the exact quality intended by the specifications. There can be no hope that any set of uniform specifications that. shall be formulated along any other lines than these would be considered by the American Institute of Architects, and unless it is approved by that body, it would be useless to hope for its general adoption by the profession.





<article title=" COST OF STEEPLES " author="">COST OF STEEPLES.

A church economist of a practical and somewhat eccentric turn of mind has estimated that in the United States nearly forty-five million dollars has been invested in non—productive, nonessential and entirely ornamental church building, chiefly in the form of steeples. The total value of church property in the United States is set down at $316,187,000. The greater part of this enormous sum is represented in splendid and costly edifices devoted exclusively to religious purposes and open for only a few hours each week. For the remainder of the time these buildings stand idle and empty, monuments of religious faith and sentiment, cold, stately and magnificent— all this, but nothing more. From a practical and business point of view they represent capital that is tied up and nonproductive. This state of things is prejudicial to the cause of religious progress ; it is repugnant to common sense and enlightened reason ; it argues wastefulness and extravagance, and it ought not to be.





<article title=" THE ELASTIC LIMIT " author="">THE ELASTIC LIMIT.



The ''factor of safety " has been aptly termed the factor of ignorance." If we wish to purchase a rope, says the <firm>Mining Reporter</firm>, which is to lift a weight 2,000 pounds, a rope will be obtained that will lift 12 ,000 pounds (dead lift), and hence we have a '' factor of safety " of six. The fact of the matter is, however, that we do not really have a factor of even three in many cases. A dead load of 2,000 pounds may readily rise to a "live " load of five or even 6,000 pounds. A more scientific method is rapidly taking the place of the factor of safety method. The elastic limit is the limit to which materials of construction are loaded. It is well known that if a piece of iron or steel is loaded to such a degree that the piece will not resume its original dimensions, on the removal of the load, that the material is robbed of its most important quality, and that it is utterly unreliable. It has been loaded beyond its elastic limit. Therefore, engineers are paying more attention to the elastic limit than false factors of safety.

