<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CONCRETE BUILDINGS " author="">CONCRETE BUILDINGS.



<building>The Ingalls building</building>, which is to be put up in Pittsburg, is to be 15 stories high, with retaining walls less than a foot in thickness with imbedded steel rods. A mass of concrete columns will support the floors, which will be of solid slabs of concrete, six inches thick. A saving of one foot to the floor will thus be made, which will amount to 15 feet in this building. The difficulty of securing structural steel on time has long disturbed and delayed building here and elsewhere. This condition caused architects all over the country to cast about for a material that would make buildings absolutely fireproof and at the same time avoid that phase of construction which, in case of fire, caused a warping of the structural skeleton work That concrete has been used in many instances in low buildings with marked satisfaction has long been a matter of history, but whether concrete would stand the strain incident to tall buildings was a matter of speculation until a practical demonstration was made in many cities of Europe. It is asserted on the highest authority that by degrees steel work is being eliminated from European buildings. The architects say that the structure when completed will be the handsomest in the city, as the concrete walls will be faced externally with beautifully colored and enameled brick. The interior walls will, as soon as completed, be ready for the plaster. They claim that if the building is filled with inflammable matter and a fire ensues, burning will occasion but little loss to the structure proper. They predict that this style of construction must of necessity supersede all other kinds of fireproof construction.—Construction News.





<article title=" EXPERIMENTS WITH MORTAR " author="">EXPERIMENTS WITH MORTAR.



The State engineer of New York has issued a report in which he deals with the investigation as to the action of freezing water on cement mortar which he carried out in 1900 and 1901. As soon as the briquettes were made up one-half were put in the open air and allowed to freeze, and the other half were kept inside and under a damp cloth. Results were thus obtained giving the effect on mortar mixed with a salt solution and not frozen as well as that which was frozen. Care was taken that those briquettes which were placed outside were kept from the sun's rays. During the period of the exposure a record of the temperature was kept, and thus it became possible to note how many times the mortar became frozen and thawed. Tests were made with a mortar mixed with 20, 40 and 60 per cent. salt solutions, as well as with fresh water. The results already published seem to show that the final strength of a mortar not allowed to freeze is slightly less when mixed with a 20 per cent. brine than when fresh water is used, the difference in most cases becoming greater in proportion to the strength of the brine. With mortar allowed to freeze and thaw that mixed with the 20 per. cent. brine gave the best results for the one year test, the main exception being a 3:1 Rosendale mortar, which gave a uniformly stronger test with fresh water than with brine. Whether or not allowed to freeze, the specimens mixed with brine almost invariably gave value in the 7-day test greater than those mixed with fresh water Recently published experiments of American engineers on

the consolidation of mortar show When dry mortar was mixed in proportion of 1

 of cement to 1, 2, 3 and 4 of sand, with to 17.4 lbs of water per cubic foot of mortar, the average consolidation under ramming for nine experiments was 5.4 per cent. When plastic mortar was experimented on, using 16.7 to 19 lbs. of water per cubic foot, the average consolidation was 4 per cent.



<article title=" PAINTING A FLOOR " author="">PAINTING A FLOOR.



Very frequently a painter may be asked to paint a floor, and in many cases is instructed as to the colour, and other little matters. In the case of the floor being one that is to be done with oil paint, and to have much wear, the painter should select such colouring substances of certain earthy matters only, because the use of white lead for such a purpose is an error that should be avoided.

Many will advocate the use of lead in painting floors because of its supreme density and body, under the mistaken idea that density adds to its wearing quality. As a matter of fact says the Decorators' and Painters' Magazine, no oil paint will stand less wear than white lead, or colours composed largely of white lead. It simply covers the surface, and is one of the best paints employed to protect woodwork—where there is no great wear.

Ochres make the best wearing paints, and they may be applied in several ways. They may be mixed with the oil and applied with a brush in the usual manner or they may he applied when mixed with hot stale beer and glue water, and when dry two coats of oil may be laid on thinly with a good strong brush, and, if properly done, the work will be lasting and satisfactory.

Care must be taken that the floor is perfectly clean and dry before the colour is applied, and if the latter is mixed with oil, the floor should receive two coats both of which should be well brushed in.

With new floors, certain stains may be applied, and give satisfactory results without any sizing. When water stains are used they can be allowed to thoroughly sink in, and should then be varnished.



<article title=" BUILDING IN GREECE " author="">BUILDING IN GREECE.

A communication to Stone from Mr. <person>D. E. McGinley </person>says : Roofing tiles are manufactured in immense numbers in Greece, In and near the cities and large villages, there is scarcely any other kind of roof in existence ; but in the mountain villages some of the roofs are covered with flat stones, or slabs of stone.

Tiles are manufactured in or near every city or town of any size in the kingdom, suitable clay for the purpose being plentiful and widely distributed. The tiles are made by hand, the only machinery used being a simple and primitive " mixer," turned by a horse or mule, which mixes the clay in a pit in the ground.

Nineteen-twentieths of the tiles used are of the old shape, and there are two sizes. Each tile is four centimetres (1. 5 inches) wider at one end than at the other. The two sizes are of the same length—45 centimetres (17.7 inches). The small size is eight centimetres (3.1 inches) wide at one end and 12 centimetres (4.7 inches) at the other. The large size is 12 centimetres inches) wide at one end and 18 centimetres (4.05 inches) at the other. Sometimes the tiles are laid in mortar, but usually they are kept in place by their own weight.

