<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



An ordinance should be framed regulating the frontage line of buildings, especially in residential districts There is scarcely a residential street in the city which is not marred, and the value of properly adversely affected by the non-observance of a common frontage line.

An ordinance should also be framed to protect the owners of residential property from the incursion of shops and business places. The value of whole sections has been seriously reduced, and the character of the neighborhood changed or lowered by the facility with which a shop may be introduced into a first-class residential block, and without any corresponding advantage to the residents.

There are many other matters which should receive immediate and careful consideration, if our city is to be kept abreast of the times. To accomplish these objects, we would respectfully suggest that your Board accept the offer of a committee to assist in putting the by-laws in satisfactory shape."

The Toronto Board of Trade has appointed a committee of its members to look into the matter of the building by-laws with a view to assisting- in bringing about their much needed revision.

It is to be hoped that before the recollection of the recent disaster shall have faded from public memory, public sentiment will compel the Council to deal in a definite way with this important subject.

<article title=" A JAPANESE EXHIBITION " author="">A JAPANESE EXHIBITION 



In pursuance of the policy pursued during the last decade, of investigating and learning as much as possible of Western business methods, Japan is making arrangements to hold a World's Exhibition in Osaka, her principal city. The Canadian government is arranging for an exhibit of the native and manufactured products of this country. As the required space for an adequate exhibit is not available in the Japanese buildings, a Canadian building will probably be erected. If this is done, the building should be so designed as in itself to form an attractive and valuable exhibit of Canadian building materials for some of which, no doubt a market could he found in Japan. The country has a population of about 40,000,000 of wide-awake people who are fast adopting western customs and methods and who for some years at least will be buyers of western

goods.







According to the Irish Builder fire-proof partitions may be constructed of iron joists fixed vertically, filled in with silicate cotton or slag wood, or asbestos. A light partition can he made of angle iron light iron joists covered on each side with wire netting plastered It has beer, conclusively demonstrated by actual fire test that whereas the combination of either iron and concrete, or iron and terra-cotta, rapidly yielded to the influence of heat, silicate cotton and iron was, to all intents and purposes, fireproof, it having been found impossible to affect it in the slightest after being subjected to the extreme heat of a blast furnace for seven hours.





<firm>Cabot's</firm> creosote shingle stain, and sheathing and deafening quilt,

Toronto, and Montreal



<firm>Canadian Contract Record</firm>

Tenders Wanted

Toronto



<firm>The Metallic Roofing Company, limited

</firm>Ornamental and practical metallic ceilings, roofs, corrugated iron, fancy embellishments

Toronto, Montreal, Winnipeg

