<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Canada's Development " author="">Canada's Development.











































































<article title=" Is Your Wiring Safe?" author="">Is Your Wiring Safe?

continuance of the present era of high prices for at least a year to come.





CANADA has entered on a period of development which seems likely to rival that of the United

States. Almost every day brings news of some colossal enterprise, and we are becoming so accustomed to such announcements that as a rule we receive them with but very moderate surprise. The declaration however by the authorities of the Grand Trunk Railway Company of their purpose to begin immediately the construction of a line by way of the Peace River Valley to the Pacific Coast, has naturally awakened the deepest interest from one end of the country to the other. The announcement is a declaration of confidence in the future of our great northwest territory that must greatly redound to the benefit of this country. The expenditure of something like $ 100,000,000 in the construction of the new transcontinental line will help to extend and maintain for some time to come the prosperous conditions now prevailing, while the inflow of population following the opening up of a vast and fertile territory, will permanently broaden the market for manufactured products. The future greatness of Canada seems now to be assured and considering the rapid movement of events in these days, another decade will probably witness its realization.



THERE have been a great many fires lately in Canadian cities whose origin has never been satisfactorily determined and which have consequently been blamed on that force, to the layman so mysterious and uncontrollable, which is called electricity. The popular verdict may be right, or it may be wrong, but the fact remains that a large proportion of the electrical installations in this country, more especially the older ones, are in a state so dangerous that it is simply amazing. As instances, may be cited a warehouse which, devoid of attendants 90 per cent. of the week, and filled with cotton and woollen millstock was wired without an entrance switch and equipped with the ordinary link fuses, absolutely open. The chances of a melting fuse igniting the bales not over eight feet away and directly below them were so great as to amount almost to a certainty ; in fact the woodwork bears evidence of one fire which has already occurred and which was due, so we are informed, to electrical causes. Another case is a church in which the wiring, ramifying all over and through the building-, mostly wood, and minus any attempt at bushing either with porcelain or even rubber at the many points where it passes through walls and floors, is supported by wooden cleats in its many wanderings past gas, water and furnace pipes of all descriptions. Investigation would probably show many such installations as these; is it any wonder that fires occur in them? Rather is it not a source of surprise that so few fires occur, especially when we consider the many chances that exist for line crosses, transformer breakdowns and lightning discharges bringing into the building potentials which are not only much greater than can be controlled by the insulation of the circuits, but which in addition are dangerous to life. A stitch in time saves nine ; if you are a consumer why not spend the

<article title=" Government Architecture " author="">Government Architecture

comparatively small amount necessary to put your wiring in good shape, at any rate have it periodically inspected ; if you are a producer look carefully to your Own lines, especially those in the station itself, in addition urging upon your customers the necessity of keeping careful track of the electrical material, both new and old, both machinery and wiring, which they may from time to time have upon their premises. If these precautions are taken, the public will gradually become less skeptical of electricity as a fire hazard. There is no reasonable man who does not acknowledge that electrical illumination and electrical power, compared for instance with oil and gas, are not only the most artistic and convenient, but far and away the safest it therefore behooves us all to see that as far as in us lies, due precautions are taken in the installation of this method of illumination.



THERE is a marked contrast between the architecture of government buildings in the United

States and in Canada. The designs for public buildings prepared in the office of Mr. J. Knox Taylor, Supervising Architect, at Washington, rank among the very best examples of modern work done in the States. Evidently Mr. Taylor is himself a master of his profession, and has under his direction a staff competent to give effect to his ideas. We regret to say that in Canada the opposite conditions seem to prevail. Many of our government buildings erected in recent years are atrocities in design—the work in some instances of engineers—or stupidly commonplace and uninteresting. The latest example is the new chemistry building for the School of Practical Science, Toronto, the principal elevation of which was published in the illustration pages of our November number—rather an example of what to avoid than of what to follow. The design for this building is entirely unworthy of the splendid site which it will occupy. Besides showing an entire disregard of harmony of style, the design is in other respects lamentably weak, and perfectly lacking in interest. To particularize but briefly, we need only direct attention to the diminutive pediment in the center of the facade dominated on either side by larger ones, and to the character of the window openings in the upper stories. Realizing the importance of the building and the site, the Ontario Association of Architects urged the government to institute a limited competition for designs among leading architects in private practice. This suggestion having been declined, the privilege was then requested of examining the designs to be prepared in the Department of Public Works, and of making any suggestions for their improvement that might seem desirable. While this request was not refused, no definite information was vouchsafed as to when the plans would be ready, nor was a proper opportunity given for their examination a protest of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club was likewise disregarded. It was apparent that no outside suggestions or interference was desired. The result is before us, and is such as to confirm the rumor that this department of the Government service is run on political lines, and affords a shelter for incompetents and "has-beens." It is time for a change which will secure beauty as well as utility in our public buildings.

