<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="correspondence" author="W.L.V.">

From L. V. W.—Can you inform me as to the proper figure to apply for obtaining the cost per cubic foot of baloon frame buildings, rough-cast and finished in a plain substantial manner, suited to the wants of working mechanics. Also please state the usual price per cubic foot for mills built of brick, with good stone foundations, shingle roof, with engine-house attached.

Answer :—It has always been a difficult matter to get the exact estimate per cubic foot of any building, owing to the varying conditions that prevail, and it is always better in every case, that an estimator should make a separate estimate for each building he intends to contract for. However, we give you such figures as are available, without, of course, guaranteeing their absolute correctness. For rough-cast houses such as you ask about, the cost per cubic foot will be from 3 to 5 cents per foot, depending somewhat on the finish of the work. For mills, factories, work-shops, built of brick on solid foundations, exclusive of machinery, the cost will be from 12 to 14 cents per cubic foot.





From L. V. W. :—I want a design for a back porch, with a root or canopy over the door, which is supported with brackets only. The steps must lead down by the side of the building, not straight down from the door, so there will be a platform which must have a railing on side and front, and down the steps. The door frame has a transom light in it, so the roof must be kept up pretty high in order not to shut out the light.

Answer We do not know exactly what you require, but think probably the design shown at Fig. 5,





































FIG. 5.—FRONT AND SIDE ELEVATION OF PORCH.







will suit your purpose, and with some little modifications that will suggest themselves, you can adapt it to your wants. Front and side elevations are shown.





To make an alloy which expands in cooling, melt together 91b, of lead, 2lb. of antimony, and 1lb. of bismuth. This alloy may be used in fastening foundation bolts for machinery into foundation Stones. Collars or heads, are left on the bolts, and after the hole is drilled in the stone a couple of short, small holes are drilled at an angle to the big hole. When the metal is poured it will flow around the bolts and also into these small holes, and it is nearly impossible for the bolt to pull out. When drilling holes into stone the water used should be carefully dried out by the use of red hot iron rods before the melted metal is poured in, in order to prevent accident by the blowing out of the metal and burning the hands and face of the workmen.

<article title=" CEMENT BUILDINGS " author="">CEMENT BUILDINGS.



Among the many new uses to which portland cement is being applied is the construction of the outer walls of buildings. The accompanying illustration shows the residence of Mr. <person>J. F. Maunder</person>, of Ottawa, constructed in the monolithic style with Canadian portland cement. In Kenilworth, a fashionable suburb of' Chicago, more than half the houses are built of portland cement, and have the appearance of rough stone.

Some of this work is colored in its composition. The concrete is applied to a metal lath, and does not crack or discolor. It is claimed that houses built in this way can be put up more rapidly and substantially than any other kind. One of the finest examples of this class of houses is the residence of <person>W. W. Blair</person>, the Chicago architect, at Kenilworth. The residence cost over $12,000, and was erected in four months' time complete.

This style of house is said to be cool in summer and warm in winter.

Portland cement is as nearly impervious to heat as anything ever discovered. The cost of fuel to heat a









































<building>RESIDENCE OF J. F. MAUNDER, OTTAWA</building>—BUILT OF CANADIAN PORTLAND CEMENT.





large residence so constructed is said to be considerably less than in the case of wood, brick or stone structures.



<article title=" GLASS BATHTUBS " author="">GLASS BATHTUBS.

Bathtubs of glass are being made in Germany and are said to have many advantages over metal and enamel, the principal one being that they are much cheaper. They are also strong. Those being made now are 5 feet 6 inches long, about 2 feet wide and about 1 ½½ inches thick. They are made in a solid piece, and one can be turned out complete in about five minutes. The method of manufacturing glass bathtubs, as described by a contemporary, is very simple. The molten glass is taken from the furnace and placed in a mould, which can readily be swung into any desired position. Compressed air is then admitted through a flexible tube which connects with the bottom of the mould. The air pressure is regulated by valves. As soon as the article is finished it is switched into an annealing chamber, where it is again heated and then allowed to cool. This toughens it, and after the process it is ready for use.

