<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CARE OF STOCK " author="Gates, H. T.">CARE OF STOCK.



By H. T. GATES.

By stock, I mean finished product, ready for the market ; material that is to be kept on hand for immediate sale. I take it for granted that most wood-working shops carry more or less stock In order that it may be delivered to the purchaser in first-class condition, some thought must be given to its storage and preservation. It must. be kept clean, accessible and



























conveniently arranged. Economy of space must also be taken into account.

Let us first consider what stock is usually kept on hand. Besides rough and dressed lumber there are moldings, balusters, spindles, corner and base blocks, doors, sash, blinds, mantels, as well as parts of manufactured work before it is made up, such as blind slats, door panels, turned beadings, press moldings, carvings, brackets and scroll work ; also hardware, including nails, screens, sash dowels sandpaper, glue, sash pulleys, etc.

The hardware stock room should be convenient of access for the workmen, and near the office also. It should be in charge of a trusted employee, whose duty it is to report what stock needs replenishing, and to accompany any one who requires supplies, keep the stock in order and the room properly cleaned. He may have other duties that will not be seriously interfered with by this responsibility. It is usual to have this stock kept locked up. Nobody thinks of having

































money lying around loose, without a safeguard upon it, and, though we may not have thought of it just this way, it is a fact, nevertheless, that such stock represents just so much money, and it is like putting temptation in the employees' way to leave it promiscuously around the shop. Instances have been know!] of lunch pails or boxes having gone home with something besides "grub" in them ; and he who puts temptation of this kind in another's way is not altogether free from

blame. Therefore, I favor keeping hardware carefully stored in a room arranged for the purpose, with shelves for the boxed goods, bins for nails and other loose articles. In some factories it is the custom to sell nails, building-paper, weights, sash cord, etc.; in such instances they may be kept in the same room, all being in charge of the shipping department.

The storage of moldings is of prime importance, and care should be exercised to keep the various patterns separate, the moldings straight and free from dust, dirt and breakage Sometimes they are kept in tight boxes with ends closed, In this way the stock is sure to remain fresh and bright. Contractors delight in getting fresh stock, just as well as house-wives like fresh provisions. The compartments of the molding rack should be lined with some thin, cheap material which will serve the purposes referred to (see Fig. I), and the ends of the racks facing front should be numbered plainly to correspond with the molding patterns, so that they can be found instantly when wanted. It is a good plan to have a board in the office, with a piece of each pattern of molding hung on it, for refer-







































ence, and each pattern numbered to agree with the rack and molding book. For the various panel moldings, etc., similar racks hung from the ceiling, and high enough to be out of the way of the bench men, are convenient. Blind slats, being short lengths, must be kept in enclosed bins, with access at one end.

A rack on the wall, with shelves and partitions, making 12 or 15 compartments, is serviceable for storing balusters, keeping the various kinds and sizes separate. Drawers near the bottom, with partitions, will take care of small rosettes, knobs, etc.—see Fig. 2.

The storeroom for sash, doors and blinds should he kept as dust-tight as possible Sash, doors and blinds in large quantities are usually piled flat on the floor. For small lots, racks with uprights and slats across will keep the different sizes separate. The tops of all the door piles should be covered. '[here are several styles of door racks in use, the width between uprights being such as to admit the widest door kept, and the height of each compartment regulated by the number of doors to be stored—see Fig. 3. The manager can arrange the sizes to suit the case and convenience.

Where the stock room is narrow, the racks should be accessible from the side instead of the end—see Fig. 4. Another method, where the ceiling is low, is

