<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NOTES OF THE TORONTO EXHIBITION " author="">NOTES OF THE TORONTO EXHIBITION.



The Exhibition which has just closed must be classed among the best, if not the best, held during the twenty-two years since this annual Fair was inaugurated. A noticeable improvement has been effected by the removal of some of the older buildings and the erection of several new ones, and the consequent re-arrangement of the grounds and exhibits.



The improvement would have been much greater had the new main building been completed As it was the large unfinished structure served only to remind the visitors of the unwisdom of placing the control of such an enterprise in the hands of the Municipal Authorities, whose dilly-dallying methods made impossible the completion of this building for use this year.



Having in mind the damage sustained last year by rain owing to the leaky roof of the old main Building, exhibitors of the finer classes of goods made but a very small display this year, and the attractiveness 'of the Exhibition as a whole was from this cause somewhat impaired.



Our space will not permit more than brief mention of some of the principal exhibits in the line of materials and apparatus for buildings.



The Canada Foundry Co. made an interesting display of wrought iron fencing, grille work, spiral staircases, columns, beams, etc.



The Pease Furnace Co. had as usual an interesting display of beating apparatus, a prominent feature being their new Economy hot water boiler.



The Globe Paint Co., Limited, of Toronto, exhibited a fine grade of mixed paints and varnishes fillers, oils, etc., arranged in immense pyramids. One of these pyramids was composed of an extra fine grade of ground pure while lead, oak varnishes and hard oil.

The Metallic Roofing Co., Toronto, showed some beautiful designs in metal ceilings and shingles. Their display included finials, pillars, columns, center pieces, etc., also a large lion's head, one of many embossed by the company for a large bank building to be constructed in Montreal. The decoration of the company's exhibit with flags of all nations was very effective.



The Adams Automatic Sash Lock, exhibited on a model window in the Main Building is a very ingenious, simple and durable contrivance. There appears to be nothing about it to break, even by careless handling. These fasteners can be put on any window, are finished to suit trimmings, and windows cannot be closed without locking. Mr. Adams also exhibited a mortise lock which can be inserted in the door without cutting away the wood-work. It is made from sheet steel and brass, being a combined lock and latch. Both the sash lock and mortise lock are sold through the hardware trade as cheaply as the commoner locks.



The exhibit of the Otis Elevator Co., (Ltd.) was a prominent feature of the main building. The spur-geared elevator is a special feature of this company, as well as their machines under the Magnet Control System. The Automatic Electric House Elevator, combined with a dumb waiter and worked electrically by "push button" received much attention and favourable comment.



The Dairy Building and the Art Gallery at the Toronto Exhibition attracted considerable attention, being constructed of cement blocks. The Cement Block Machine Co., 4 & 5 lanes Building, Toronto, of which Mr. P. W. Stanhope is President are the manufacturers of this new building material and take contracts for buildings, window sills, and other features of buildings for which stone has hitherto usually been employed. Their factory at the Queen's wharf is turning out this new article in large quantities.





William Sumbling 

Laundry machinery

Toronto



Aikenhead Hardware Limited

Builders' hardware and contractors' supplies

Toronto



Cabot's creosote shingle stains, and sheathing and deafening quilt

Toronto and Montreal



Metallic Roofing Company, limited

Metallic ceilings and walls

Toronto, Montreal and Winnipeg





