<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



placed occasionally SHEWS signs of bulging, but more frequently becomes cracked. Vie, have, however, recently been examining some brick piers erected about fifty years ago, and upon which cast iron girders were placed to support a bridge at a later date, and we find that the iron has been the greater sufferer, the bricks being as sound as the day they were put up. The buckling of the iron near the points of contact was very noticeable.



<article title=" A WARNING TO STRIKERS " author="">A WARNING TO STRIKERS.



The Police Magistrate of Toronto has given a warning to persons engaging in a strike who attempt to intimidate non-union workers. Several of the striking employees of the <firm>Toronto Carpet Company </firm>were summoned before him charged with attempting to prevent non-Union female operatives from working. These attempts consisted of hissing at them and following them while going to and from the factory to their homes. The magistrate found the defendants guilty and imposed light fines at the same time warning strikers that such conduct would in future he punished most severely.





<article title=" A PHOTOGRAPH BY LIGHTING " author="">A PHOTOGRAPH BY LIGHTING



<person>John Klinck</person> a builder and contractor, of Toronto, shows upon his right wrist a black and blue mark, which he believes to be a photographic impression by lightning of a part of a dwelling on which be was working during a recent thunderstorm. A flash of lightning struck the house, tearing splinters from both sides and completely enveloping Mr. Klinck in its white light. His wrist afterwards felt sore, but he has since assured his friends that an examination of it revealed an impression of the very building in which he stood.



<article title=" HOW TO DETERMINE THE VALUE OF CEMENT " author="">HOW TO DETERMINE THE VALUE OF CEMENT.



In valuing cement <person>Richard K. Meads</person>, the writer of a paper on ''The Chemical Analysis of Portland Cements," read before the American Section of the <assoc>International Association for Testing Materials</assoc>, suggests that the chemical analysis conform to the following limits: Percentage of silica, 20 to 23; Alumina, 6 to 11 Percentage of lime less than 2.8 times the percentage of silica plus 1.1 times the percentage of alumina. Percentage of lime greater than 2.7 times (the percentage of silica—3) plus (the percentage of alumina—1) ) minus 1.7 times the percentage of sulphur tri— oxide. Percentage of magnesia less than 3½ or even

3.	Percentage of sulphur tri-oxide less than 2 or even ½ It should be borne in mind however, says this

author, that a change in our knowledge of how to make cement may narrow at any time these limits, more especially with regard to the minimum of lime and also of the silica, which is made unnecessarily high by contamination with the fuel ash.



South Africa it is said, is poorly supplied with lime, building stone, and suitable clay for hard brick. Large quantities of Portland cement arc imported, and used in making ordinary mortar for building and to make an imitation of cut stone.

The carpenters and joiners of Montreal are organizing with the purpose of securing an advance in wages from a minimum of i7 cents to 20 cents per hour. The number of carpenters in the city is estimated to be about 2,000. No action is likely to be taken this season, but next spring the employers should be prepared to



pay increases wages or contend with a strike.

<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">USEFUL HINTS.



Waterproof cement for fixing enamelled letters on glass or other surfaces may be made by dissolving 5 ounces of gelatine or strong glue in a little water, and then add 3 ounces of bichromate of potash and ½ ounce of alum. This cement, when dry, resists water at all temperatures, and should be kept securely corked. It may be used for a variety of purposes.

CONTRASTS OF Colours--As a guide to the decorator who may be uncertain as 10 his ability 10 properly contrast colors, the following is offered as a guide in his decorative work :--Black and warm brown violet and pale green violet and light rose

deep blue and golden brown chocolate and bright blue deep



red and gray maroon and warm green deep blue and pink



chocolate and pea green.



The superficial area of floor space is found by taking the measurements of each room separately from wall to wall, Squaring and adding together. The walls are not taken account

of.	Measurement of a building per square for rough pricing is, however, obtained by taking the dimensions from out to out of the walls at the ground level so as to include any projection of the plinth or other set-off. The cubical contents of a building are usually found by taking the dimensions from out to out of walls and from half the depth of footings to halt-way up the roof.

<article title=" HANGING LINCRUSTA DECORATIONS " author="">HANGING LINCRUSTA DECORATIONS.. —The material should he  trimmed with a knife and metal—edged straight—edge, and hung edge to edge. Guiding lines for trimming will be found on most of the \ For raw material ordinary paste is sufficient, and for decorated material the addition of a little Venice turpentine will be found of great service. One length or panel at a time should be pasted and hung hanging lightly and working on the ground of the design only without brush or roller. An excellent plan is to paste a strip of muslin about two inches wide where the joint occurs, in order to prevent any after-opening of the joint.

A good incrustation cement is made with one hundard parts of quicklime, five of white or colored clay, and two of yellow ochre it forms a cement which is tenacious and remains unchangeable when exposed to the weather. The process of its manufacture is thus The lime must he first slaked with a small quantity of water, more of which must afterwards be added till of the consistence of cream. White clay is at the same time mixed to a similar condition, and after remaining some time apart, the two solutions are carefully mixed together. During the continuance of this mixture in a tub for twenty-four hours, it should be frequently stirred, and a portion of yellow ochre added to give it an agreeable color. Walls covered with this cement have remained exposed to the weather for years without injury.

To make paint hold on brick walls that show efflorcsccnce, it is necessary to first remove this white powder, usually termed saltpeter, by washing with a mixture of muriatic acid and water, equal parts, and at the same time scraping off all thc loose paint. When this has been done, sponge well with clear water and let the brick dry thoroughly before painting The painting should be done after a spell of dry weather. It is a difficult matter to cure such walls entirely, but when the salts have been neutralized by the means referred to and a few coats of good oil paint applied, allowing each coat to dry hard before applying another, further exudation of soluble salts will scarcely make themselves apparent.

<article title=" A METHOD FOR PREVENTION OF DRAUGHTS " author="Harman, Edward, A.">A METHOD FOR PREVENTION OF DRAUGHTS.—Mr. <person>Edward A. Harrnan</person>, M. Inst. C. E., Huddersfield Eng., writing with reference to the vexed question of draught prevention says :" in workshops, mess-rooms, bath-rooms, mills, and large factories, the doors into the separate rooms frequently admit a furious draught.



Various draught preventers patent and otherwise, have been tried, but perhaps one of the simplest extant is that of a roller, about 2 in. or 2½ iii. diameter, of the width of the door, attached to the inside of it by means of a pair of lugs having vertical slots in them, omstead of a circular hole, the small axle of thc rollers thereby being allowed to slide freely up and down in the slot, and thus allow for any irregularities in the floor. The contrivance is a very simple one, and is capable of being adapted to die doors of outer kitchens, lobbies, sheds, etc., with a considerable reduction in the draught space available. It is really like a towel roller placed on the floor. Care should be taken in fixing it that the lugs permit of the rollers being practically close to the door when fixed, and that they rest upon the floor. I have tried the above arrangement for some years with considerable success and comfort. In some cases the roller may be threaded in several pieces about 3 in. in length on an axle. Manifestly the small reds work more freely than a long one. Though only a trifling detail, yet details are of importance."

