<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">USEFUL HINTS.



<article title=" MIXING GROUND COLOURS FOR GRAINING " author="">MIXING GROUND COLOURS FOR GRAINING.—Maple ground, 50 parts white clad, part golden ochre. Ash, 50 parts white lead, part yellow ochre, 1 part raw umber. Light oak, 25 parts white lead, i part golden ochre. Dark oak, 50 parts white lead, 4 parts yellow ochre, t part raw sienna.



When a durable job is required in gilding upon outside work, a good body or carriage varnish may bc used with advantage, especially when a good quality gold size is not obtainable at the moment. They will be found far more durable than the cheaper grades of gold size, as they are prepared from the finest oils and gums.



When a colour is placed on a gold ground it should be outlined with a darker shade of its own colour. When a gold ornament falls on a coloured ground it should be outlined with black. When an ornament falls on a ground which is in direct harmony with it, it must be outlined with lighter tint of its own colour.



In the treatment of a house there must be first of all a plait, from which the decorating and furnishing may be worked out. Not that there must be one idea running through the whole house —there must be rather a succession of ideas. Each room must have its distinctive character and everything used in its decoration and furnishment must be in harmony with the prevailing thought.



A STRONG CEMENT very useful for the repairs of small articles, may be made by a solution of mastic gum, say ½oz. dissolved in spit its oh wine, to which should be added a similar quantity of using glass also dissolved in spirit. To this may be added a small quantity of ground gum ammoniacum. The whole should be warmed and well mixed, and should be kept in a small bottle securely corked. The cement should, when cold, he quite stiff and set. To use, place the bottle in hot water.



The cracking of varnished surfaces may be caused by a non-elastic ground, be it colour or varnish by a ground of too great elasticity by applying too many coats of colour or varnish in too short a time perishing of the elastic qualities of the varnish by the influence of atmosphere and sun heat, and the in fittence of ammonia and other alkalines undesirable drying materials in the varnish or faulty manufacture thereof and by the breaking of the groundwork under the varnish.



An investigation was recently made in Germany to determine the class of fire-bricks best suited for such purposes as lining the fire-holes and interiors of lime and cement kilns, and it was found that the best results were given by bricks containing 42-45 per cent. of alumina, provided the alumina is present in the form of normal silicate, and is not simply the result of additions of bauxite or other ingredients made for the purpose of imparting a fictitious percentage of alumina.



1-lot pipes should not be placed nearer than 7 in. to any combustible materials. For notice that heat in steam increases with the pressure. Thus, in steam below pressure, or, say, under 15 lbs. to the square inch, is under 512 deg. when 50 lbs. per square inch is reached the heat is 450 deg., or more than the melting point of tin (442 deg.) If high-pressure steam heating pipes are not carefully fixed, it is quite possible to get them sufficiently hot to destroy timber, if not to set fire to it.



Hollow blocks of cement instead of bricks are said to be coming into general use for building purposes in Denmark, lie blocks being made 13x13 or 9x13, according to the character of the wall. A mixture of sand and slow setting cement is rammed into dry molds in the usual way. After about six weeks hardening the blocks are strong enough for most building purposes. It is claimed that houses built with these blocks are fit for occupation immediately after completion, and that the inside of the wall requires neither cleaning nor preparation, but is ready for papering or painting at once



WATER PROOF CEMENT It is claimed that the following recipe for water proof cement will stand both heat and water. 'fake freshly calcined oyster shell lime, sift it well and grind fine. Make into a paste with white of egg. Apply to the fractures and press broken pieces firmly together. The following will stand water but will not static heat i. Also boil four parts, by weight of gum shellac and one part, by weight, of borax in water until shellac is dissolved. keep on boiling until mixture is of pastelike consistency. When required, heat and apply to fracture with a clean brush. 2. Mix hydraulic lime and water glass.

CEMENT FOR JOINING LEATHER AND IRON.—Take the best glue, soak it in cold water till soft, then dissolve it in vinegar with a moderate heat, then add one-third of the bulk of white pine turpentine thoroughly mix, and by means of the vinegar make it of the proper consistency to be spread with a brush. Cement for rubber and metal—put powdered shellac into a widemouthed bottle and pour on it about ten times its weight of the strongest ammonia, and let the shellac digest for a month a slimy mass is obtained, which is the cement required.



<article title=" TEST FOR LIMES " author="">TEST FOR LIMES--Wet the lime ; if it shakes in a few minutes with decrepitation and much heat, cracking and ebullition of vapour, it is a poor, feebly hydraulic, line if it shows no signs of slaking for an hour or more then cracks all over with development of heat, hut no decrepitation it is hydraulic and very suit— able for mortar if it is very difficult to slake, arid develops hardly any heat, with little or no cracking or powdering it is eminently hydraulic. These varieties harden as follows the first is firm in fifteen to twenty (lays, the second in six or eight days, and the last is firm in twenty hours and hard in two to four days.



<article title=" A NEW PROCESS " author="">A NEW PROCESS for applying a coating of lead enamel to iron surfaces by mechanical means invented by <person>M. A. Dormoy</person>, was recently described in La Nature. The attaches to be coated, after being heated to redness, are placed in a doubly hermetically-sealed chamber with glazed sides; each half of the chamber can be worked alternately, and the surplus enamel powder—dusted over the metal by means of a sieve-—s removed from the chamber by the draft from a bight chimney. The necessary movements of the iron can be effected from the outside of the chamber and the vibration of the sieves for the purpose of distributing the lead powder is provided for by an electrical beater.



<article title=" UTILISING OLD PAINT " author="">UTILISING OLD PAINT.-—Every painter has at various times kegs of paint on his hands which have become hard and are practically of no further use to the uninitiated. A simple and easy way to utilise this paint says the Decorators and Painters' Magazine, is to take it out of the package audi break it up by means of a putty knife and place it in a good iron keg with a small quantity of raw linseed oil and warm gently over the fire, which will slowly turn it soft and pliable. More oil should then be added alter which it should be taken from the fire and a small quantity of turpentine well mixed into it and allowed to stand This rapidly converts it to its original consistency. The paint thus redeemed may not perhaps be in such a fine state of division as at first, but may be used as priming on most work.



<article title=" CARBONATE OF SODA IN MORTAR " author="">CARBONATE OF SODA IN MORTAR.——The use of carbonate of soda to facilitate the laying of masonry in cold weather is now becoming fairly general on the continent, and is also said to be making some headway in the American building world. Experiments were made with this system as long ago as in 1890 and mortar treated with soda was employed in laying stone with the temperature as low as fourteen degrees Fahr., and the masonry was found, when inspected some time later, to be in all respects in a first class condition The method employed is very simple and consists practically in using luke-warm water, in which carbonate of soda has been dissolved in the making of the mortar. The proportions employed in the solution are two pounds anhydrous carbonate of soda to two and a half gallons of water, but with intense cold the amount of water is generally reduced to one half.



<article title=" SIZE FOR ROUGH PLASTERED WALLS TO BE PAPERED " author="">SIZE FOR ROUGH PLASTERED WALLS TO BE PAPERED--A.



writer in the Painters' Magazine states that liquid glue is the best size for rough walls. when they are hard. Apply the glue size and let it dry hard ; then knock off the sandy grains with sandpaper and fill rough places with plaster of Paris putty. Sandy

walls should be levelled wit It a thin coat of kalsomine and, this being dry, a thin coat of glue size should be given. Let the glue size become hard, then put on the paper with light paste, and be careful to brush or pound down the paper carefully, as rollers will not work on rough wails. To make a first class job, lining paper should be applied to rough walls. Liquid glue is made by soaking good, white glue in water over night, then melting it in the usual way and have it of good consistency Put it, on cool mug, into a wooden vessel and stir into the mass nitric acid at the 'ate of one half ounce to each pound of glue used. Keep thie vessel well closed, and when using for wall size, thin with cold water to desired consistency

