<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



can be said in reply is that if lie has the slightest desire to get to the top of the ladder, he will find the time or make it, and he will repair or repleaish his education up to the point which is necessary to understand the said formulas and technical terms. This can be no difficult task, for in the market there are hundreds of plain, simple, reliable books on each trade, easily gotten hold of and as easily understood, teaching the computation of strains and how to meet t hem, the guiding rules, etc. , in such simple form that the most ordinary education can fully grasp them. Then again he will contribute greatly to his own interests by subscribing to a couple of trade journals devoted to his own line and to at least one architectural paper. These will keep him in touch with new methods and practices being perfected or brought out and with newlyintroduced materials, tools and other mechanical devices. In addition he should be the possessor of a library of trade catalogues, which he should study carefully and repeatedly. Technical journals supplemented by trade catalogues are without doubt the very best educative mediums that a contractor or mechanic can possess. The more knowledge a contractor can acquire the more confidence he naturally will receive from his employees, and this knowledge he should try as far as possible to transmit to them ; he should endeavour to make them thinkers and students as well as workers.

A thorough acquaintance with business methods is imperative Book-keeping, banking, exchange, correspondence, etc., should be to the contractor familiarities. This knowledge can be easily acquired if both eyes 1)e kept open and a little assistance be sought from some qualified friend.



<article title=" THE STONE RESOURCES OF Newfoundland " author="">THE STONE RESOURCES OF Newfoundland





Newfoundland has heretofore attracted attention in the way of its stone resources mainly by its deposits of slate. The quality of this material is declared to be equal to the Welsh product, and a determined effort is being made to exploit the various deposits found in the province. Until very recently little had been done in the way of quarrying stone. Most of the stone produced was used for macadam and paving blocks, and there was some little activity in the gathering of the round beach stones, which are used for rough cobblestone pavements, The recent reports of Prof. James P. Howley, F.G.S., the Director of the Geological Survey, show. that the people of the provinces are beginning to take a greater interest in the stone resources, and that some of the native stone is being employed for building operations. The new Court House at St. Johns is built entirely of sandstone from Kelly's Island, Conception  faced with syenite from Mr. Ellis's quarry near Petite's South Coast. These form an excellent contrast, and their durable character is unquestioned. A new wing has recently been added to the Lunatic Asylum, constructed of Signal Hill sandstone. There is a great quantity of similar stone in the hills and ridges in the vicinity of St. Johns, and this has been used in a number of churches and public buildings. It has been

	works	retaining walls

	used extensively also in such	as	its,

foundations and the like. The industry, however, is of a desultory nature, and is only active when some large structure is in the course of erection. A few

farmers and others devote a portion of their leisure time each fall and spring to quarrying in the vicinity of their homes, and usually find a ready sale for the small amounts they take out.. The Signal Hill stone is of excellent quality for rough work, and a considerable industry could doubtless he built up if quarries were opened and conducted in an enterprising and up-to-date way.

Prof. Howley says that stone fit for building, structural or ornamental purposes is abundant in many parts of the island. Sandstones of many colors and various degrees of texture are very common in the Lower Carboniferous series of Codroy and Bay St. George districts. Limestones also abound in the same region, some of which would make handsome marbles, while others are adapted for burning into lime. Serpentine of many varieties and great beauty are met among the magnesian group or metamorphic series, wherever the latter attain any considerable development. A very beautiful green variety of an attractive appearance admirably suited for ornamental purposes comes from Tilt Cove in the vicinity of the copper mines. Many varieties of soapstone exist in connection with the serpentine deposits, and beautiful ornamental stones may be encountered in various pacts of the country, such as red, yellow and variegated jaspers amethystine and opalescent quartzite handsome porphyries syenites, traps and amygdaloids and a variety of other rocks too numerous to specify. Many of these have been cut and polished and set in jewelry.

With regard to slate Prof. Howley says " The operations at the Wilton Grove slate quarry in Smith's Sound were actively prosecuted during the year, resulting in a large increase in the manufacture and exportation of roofing slate. The output was about 2,000 tons, equal to 6,000 squares, valued at $22,500. The slate is made in two sizes, 20X10 and 24x 12. It all went to the English markets, the former to Newcastle, the latter to London, where a ready sale at remunerative prices was paid for it. This quarry is now a well established industry. I paid it a visit last autumn, and was surprised at the work being accomplished. A fine pier was in course of construction along the water front being filled in with the waste from the slate. Vessels of almost any size could lay alongside within a stone's throw of the quarry, and in perfect safety. A large space immediately in the rear is used for storage purposes, where a splendid display of slate lay piled in tiers awaiting shipment. About 50 men were busily engaged with Ingersoll steam drills quarrying huge slabs from the cliff. These were  swung by derricks on to trolleys in waiting and quickly moved to the sheds, where a number of Welsh slaters were busy cleaving and dressing the material into the required dimensions for roofing purposes.

So far no attempt has been made to manufacture any of the other articles for which this slate is equally well adapted, but 1 understand the plant requisite for such purposes is soon to be installed.

The slate is of various shades of color, dark purple prevailing, but there is also a band of pale sea green of beautiful texture. The quarry is of immense proportions, and there is sufficient material in sight to last for generations.

"Several new deposits have been located within the past season similar in geological age to that of lie

