<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



5 to 10 tons per square foot pressure on brick masonry. This would give a larger factor of safety even in the case of walls built of hollow blocks. Of course in the wall built of hollow blocks piers of solid brick are usually built to carry concentrated loads from beams and trusses. It would take a solid wall of common brick about 8o feet high to give a pressure of five tons per sq. ft. from its own weight alone, and of course the walls of hollow blocks would have to be much higher than this before giving a weight of five tons per sq. It., which our tests show would be only about one-tenth of the strength of the hollow block.

The writer has made a few other tests of hollow blocks which gave still stronger results than in these cases. It would therefore appear in general that hollow blocks should furnish a wall amply strong for the circumstances under which they are commonly used.





<article title=" CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION IN BUILDING " author="">CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION IN BUILDING.

<firm>The Railroad Gazette </firm>prints the following particulars regarding thc method and cost. of concrete construction as employed in car shops at Elizabethport, N. J.

The concrete used in this work was in some cases made with an aggregate of engine cinders, in general with the porportion of 1 part of cement, 3 of Edison sand and 6 of cinders. Gravel aggregate was also used, composed of gravel as it came from the bank, mixed with sand and unscreened. About per cent. was in cobble-stone two inches in diameter and over, the balance all sizes of gravel and sand to the smallest. When this was employed it was mixed with cement only. the amount of' cement used being determined by experiment. In all cases the concrete was mixed very wet, so that no ramming was required. After being deposited it was puddled with a light wooden rammer to secure an even distribution. No attention was paid to the weather concrete being mixed and deposited in any weather in which men could work.

When the temperature dropped below 25 degrees all water used was brought nearly to the boiling point and salted, using one pound of salt for i8 gallons of water. When the work stopped at night it was covered with canvas between the forms and sprinkled with salt. The forms for the work below ground were of rough hemlock; above ground, of yellow pine painted with soft soap, which gave a smooth surface. No provision was made for expansion and contraction from temperature changes with cinder concrete. This is good practice, but in gravel concrete a joint should be made about once in 150 feet. Some of the concrete was mixed by hand, some of it in mixing machines. Wherever the walls were less than 18 inches thick it was found that hand mixing was more economical, the labor cost for mixing and depositing the concrete being frequently as low as 50 cents per cubic yard. Where the machines were used the cost for mixing was reduced, but the cost for handling and depositing was so much increased as to over-balance it. In general, it may be said for building work that no machine mixer is economical that cannot be transported as easily as a wheel barrow.



Facing putty may be prepared by mixing together equal parts of whiting and white lead and a small quantity of litharge, mixed together with boiled linseed oil. It is especially good for stopping small flaws in hardwoods

<article title=" BLISTERING OF PAINT " author="">BLISTERING OF PAINT.



A correspondent of the London Decorators' and Painter's Magazine gives the following causes and remedies

1.	Painting upon damp wood.

2.	Using old paint which is fatty, which a lot of master painters do, telling the men to add some terebine to make same dry.

3.	Having too much oil in the paint, and applying same too thickly.

4.	Using too much driers, which causes the paint to dry on the top, forming a skin which, if followed up by other coats, dries in layers instead of forming one hard surface.

5.	Boiled oil, I find, blisters sooner than raw, so I use it sparingly.

6.	The painters do not use enough elbow grease in applying their paint, for I find in four cases in every six they apply too much paint on, instead of less and brushing it well out, which, if attended to, would make a better class of work

7.	The quality of materials.

8.	I have also noticed several cases where fatty paint has been used. It blisters sooner on knotting than the other portions.



<article title=" BUILDING WRECKING " author="">BUILDING WRECKING.

'[he building wrecking business is a comparatively new one in New York, and is the direct outgrowth of the extensive architectural improvements which have transformed the city of New York in the last two decades. When a piece of property is purchased now a-days for the purpose of erecting on it a new business building or apartment house the owner is usually anxious to have the plot cleared for the builder, and in most instances even the foundations are taken out, so that new and more massive masonry may be constructed. It was the custom before the days of the wrecking concerns to give the builder the contract to take down the old structure on the site on which the new one was to be erected, and while some of the material was saved the greater part of it was carted away as fuel, junk or rubbish. The wrecking concerns to whom the demolition of buildings is now entrusted know the value of old building material, and usually find a market for the heaps of debris which look valueless to the layman.

One must be an all-round mechanic, a builder, and a judge of values," said a man who makes his living by tearing down buildings, "to be a successful wrecker. It's nothing to pull down a house and save the big pieces such as stone steps, sills and lintels, carved mantelpieces and inside fittings. That was enough in the days when there was no competition, but now-adays we must save every foot of pipe, the ordinary woodwork, and even the nails out of the floors to get even on close bargains."

Much of the material which comes from the wrecked buildings is sold on the spot and carted away by the purchasers, but large quantities of all kinds of building material are stored in yards where they are easy of access when the customer who wants ready-made doorsteps or well seasoned bricks may come to buy. Sheds are provided for the storage of doors, counters, wainscoting, window frames, flooring and trim, and racks and bins contain iron and lead pipe, gas and water fixtures, and nearly every item in the line of builders' hard ware.

