<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDERn,n solid on the jambs; a joiner would much prefer these to be planted, but I think it is worth the extra expense to have them solid.

With regard to casements revolving at their vertical centre, <person>Captain Chaddock </person>has very kindly brought his model here. There ought to be the making of a really weather-tight window in this invention, though it is really intended for a bulkhead door in a ship. The window need not revolve on its exact centre at all; it can have the greater part to go out, or to come in, and also can be swung back into the room, the reverse side in, so as to be cleaned with safety.

With regard to iron casements, I only want to ask how long they will keep weather-tight. The manufacturers invite you to play a fire-hose on one of the windows and guarantee there shall not be a drop of moisture inside as a consequence. But this is with a newly-fitted window. I want to know how weather-tight they are after they have been slammed many hundreds of times and after they have been subjected to the extremes of temperature for say twenty years.

I have touched on most of the varieties of windows usually specified, and I am not going to speak of' any other kinds.

The general arguments against nearly every section and plan I have advocated are complicatedness and expensiveness. With regard to the former, the golden rule that the simplest is the best seems not to apply here at all. Simple splays and simple joints will not do the work required when under the severest conditions.

With regard to expensiveness J have purposely had no regard for expense. We want to know what is the best; we already know what is the cheapest. Still it does seem absurd that we should have to be always hacking out little air-hollows here, there and everywhere, and inserting little medal tongues and channels, and always we are fearful that the joiner will not make a perfect fit, or if the fit is perfect at first we know that the wood will shrink if it has not been well seasoned, or worse still, we know that if it has been well seasoned it will swell in wet weather.

Yet another point. I have so far spoken of "weathcr" either as wet or as draught. There is a third feature of weather—temperature. A window ought to keep out the cold and keep in the heat. Make your window never so water-tight, never so air tight one thickness of glass will not keep in the heat or keep out the cold; not even plate glass ¼ in. thick.

While preparing this paper I have come more and more to the conclusion I arrived at years ago, that this country of ours, with its '' climate of samples, " requires the almost universal adoption of double windows:

double casements or sashes, with single or double frames. In Canada, I believe, they go further; they screw up their double windows inside and out during the winter, and provide for the ventilation (or perhaps they don't) by other means.

With double windows simple details will be quite good enough; thc space between the sheets of glass is a splendid air-cushion, stopping wind coming through, and as for the heat and cold I suppose there is not a better non-conductor of heat than a mere layer of air. I am told that two sheets of glass with the air between them are as efficient as 9 in. brick wall, and that a single pane of glass has rarely 25 per cent. of that efficiency As regards light two clean panes of glass stop less light than one dirty pane; though that is not meant for an argument. I ask you, finally, are not double windows the best of all; and if not, why not?

<article title=" DAMPNESS IN WALLS " author="">DAMPNESS IN WALLS.

A correspondent of Indian Engineering, in writing on this subject says Wet subsoil and rain water are the two causes that account for dampness in walls. These two causes have been found to operate both conjointly and separately. They affect surface as well as the heart of walls Dampness due to wet subsoil first affects the heart of walk, and working upwards afterwards manifests itself on the surface, but that due to rain water may he found either confined to thc surface or in the core of the wall, or both.

Saltpetre on walls is the result of the action of damp on the salts that enter into the composition of the bricks and mortars forming the walls and that of dry air. During wet weather the salts in the bricks and mortar become dissolved and appear on walls in fine white crystalline powder during dry months. The action of saltpetre is not only to produce unsightly patches on the surface of walls but it also disintegrates bricks and mortars, detaching them in fragments to their ultimate danger and damages properties and furniture in contract with them.

Having said what I know about the causes and effects of damp and saltpetre, I next proceed to impress upon the reader the importance of examining thc walls with a view to trace out the source of the evil before suggesting remedies for in. It is very important to find out whether dampness is due to wet subsoil or beating of rain water or rain water from the roof finding its way into the body of the wall through leaks between parapet and roof, before hitting upon the proper remedy. For this purpose the wall should be stripped of the plaster where it is affected. If the look of the bricks is not indicative of damp, a nail should be inserted into the affected portion and watched for a week. If it shows saltpetre it is to be concluded that the heart of the wall has been penetrated by damp, and the bricks being free from sulphates and chlorides do not show signs of decay and that the plaster has been only attacked as the mortar (sand and lime) contains salts. In case damp is found to progress upwards from the plinth to the ceiling it is certain that it is caused by wet subsoil, and in exposed situations it is favoured by ram water beating against it and sometimes it enters the wall in the shape of rain water from the roof.

The principles that underlie the several inventions are (i) to render the walls impervious to rain water or damp; (2) to provide an outlet for damp in the wall and secure a thorough ventilation over the outlet; (3) to use materials that are free from salts. I should add that in case dampness is found due to wet subsoil, it can be best removed by providing an efficient drain for subsoil water if it is found economical and possible.

For new buildings under construction it is found very economical and effective to use damp-proof course over the sectional area of the wall on the plinth where dampness is expected from wet subsoil. In new buildings caution is also exercised in the selection of bricks and mortar. But in old buildings, exposed to damp from underground, it is not advisable to cover the wall with imperious composition. There are many petrifying compositions meant to render the walls impervious to damp, but they are of no use where dampness is due to wet subsoil. I am convinced that the second principle is applicable in such cases, i.e., to provide an outlet for damp and to secure a thorough ventilation over it. In new buildings under construction a course of perforated bricks over the plinth has been found to answer the purpose very satisfactorily. The application of this principle in case of old walls has been recently attempted by a gentleman, but I am not in a position to vouchsafe its thoroughness or its success.

The wall is stripped of its plaster into two lines, say 9 inches above the plinth and again 4 or 5 feet above the plinth. The area between these two exposed lines is first exposed to the action of the sun and afterwards plastered with Portland cement. The exposed portions are meant to act as outlets for damp and provided with ventilators. I doubt if this would stand any fair test.

Where dampness is due to rain beating against the

