<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to the same parts. Draw the dotted line G K, see Figs. 1 and 3, which represents the line of upper edge of bottom end of rafters, and upon it, at the proper angles shown in Fig. 1 draw the line of main rafter,

From " Contractor": how is slating measured? ANS.—Slating is measured by the square. Allowances are made as follows Eaves for double crowns, half the length of the slate + inch ; above nail-holes

























valley ratter and wing rafter. As the valley rafter runs diagonally across the edge of the plate, the sides are not alike, and, therefore, both require to be drawn; all as shown in Fig. 5. From G K draw down the plumb cut, and measure back for the wall-plate This, it will be seen, is not the same as both sides of the valley rafter, as will be found on inspection of Fig 3. Size down the main rafter (see Fig. 4) as required, and through the intersection of the underside, with wall-plate and end cut, draw dotted lines D F and S T, by which corresponding points are to be located on the other rafters. The dotted lines shown in connection with the valley rafter in Fig. 5 shows the barking, and the harking of the underside lies in the intersection of the dotted lines K 0 and G 0. From these diagrams and explanations " Builder" should find the solution of his roof problem.





From " B. F. L." I am putting up a long brick warehouse for storage purposes, and will require to run a long girder or bearing-beam down the centre of building to carry one end of the joists, the end of joists resting on the brick wall. The girder will be in three lengths, and the ends will rest on the two end walls of building and on posts, and what I desire to know is of a good method to scarf the ends resting on the posts, the posts of corner to have faces on each side framed into the girders.

ANS.—if your timber is long enough to lap over and beyond the posts, a good method of scarfing is shown at Fig. 7. This is simple and not very expensive. A

























better method indeed one of the very best methods of scarfing, is shown at Fig. 8. In this case the post is framed into a hardwood cap or bolster, the latter being equal in width to the girder and should be from five to six feet long and be fitted into girder as shown and bolted with ¾-inch bolts. This scarf may be depended upon to carry all the weight the girder can sustain.

that is, for counters slate, 111 inches would be the width by which the dimension is squared (half 20

	in.	- 10 in. + 1 in.	i inches). Hips and valleys, 6

inches on each side, cutting around skylights, scuttles and chimneys or other like projections, 6 inches down each side. Raking cuttings, 6 inches in addition to any other allowances, In cutting around circular curves, or other similar work, double the measurement, as waste and labor will be excessive.





<article title=" THE USE OF PLASTER OF PARIS " author="">THE USE OF PLASTER OF PARIS.



Plasterers generally—model and mould makers

—have no exact knowledge of the nature and composition ot the material they use. Even among overseers and foremen — first-class men, in many instances, as operative plasterers—most hazy notions are prevalent as to the nature, properties and qualities of plaster of Paris, says the British Clayworker Take five or six samples of plaster to the average foreman, leading man, or mould maker for his opinion, with reasons for same, on the respective qualities of each sample submitted He will note the colour, the degree of fineness, together with the conditions and effects observed in the mixing and setting, and, finally, the degree of hardness—by scratching, and for brittleness-by snapping pieces off with thumb arid finger from small test slabs or tiles run for the purpose. In some cases an attempt is made to get, roughly, at the expansion or contraction; in any case the operator will deduce his opinion of the respective qualities of each sample from observations turning on the methods given above. It is obvious that the observations from their very nature can be founded on no established physical or chemical fact. Indeed, under certain conditions the information afforded may be absolutely misleading. For instance, five or six samples may be taken from one sack of precisely the same quality all through; small differences in the relative qualities of water used in the mixing of each sample can give sufficient variation in hardness, brittleness, and expansion, as to indicate some three or four distinct qualities in the samples submitted, whereas no real differences should exist.

It will be necessary before going further to explain the composition of plaster of Paris, with attending chemical and physical facts, for the due understanding of the subject matter under discussion. Raw gypsum, or fully hydrated sulphate of lime, has the following

