<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDERS



ends, a guard rail should be lashed to the standards about feet 6 inches above the scaffold boards. This would obviate the first danger. With regard to the second the danger from falling material is much to be deplored, as though it can occur in many ways, it is, as a rule, the result of great carelessness. A board on edge running along the outside of the scaffold, but within the uprights and nailed to them, and again at the ends, would, to a great extent, prevent this class of accidents. Unfortunately this board cannot be fixed on the inward side of the scaffold, as it would interfere with the free use of the workmen's tools. Figs. and 3 show the guard rail and board on edge.

14.	A mason's scaffold should be supported in such a manner that no opportunity could occur for it to fall away from the building. Fig. 3 shows the shoring, which is the usual method of preventing this where room permits ; but this cannot be applied in a street, and in that case the scaffold should be tied to the inside of the buildings by poles through the openings.

15.	There are other conditions of risk involved in insufficient width of runs, and in the use of centreing improperly supported. A run is commonly seen only one board wide (9 inches). It is needless to say that this width is dangerous ; 18 inches is the least that should he allowed A run for continued use would be better made of two 3-inch by 1-inch planks if two planks are used. A slip of wood can be nailed across the under-sides to keep them, together. Fig. 8 is a plan of a working platform surrounding a courtyard or well, and gives three examples of runs which are commonly used, but which are not satisfactory.

16.	Improperly supported centreing is seen only in cheap work. Figs. 9 and 10 give an example of what is meant. It will be noticed that the supports to the centreing of fig. 9 are kept in their position entirely by the lateral pressure exerted by the stay A. It follows that if this pressure is eased sufficiently, say by shrinkage, it is more than probable that the centreing and a large portion of the unfinished arch would fall. Fig. 10 shows the centreing properly supported. All supports to centering should rise from a solid foundation.

WA. Painters' boats occasionally fall owing to the use of defective cordage and supports. Care is the only remedy that can be suggested.

16B. Gantries, especially those erected over the public way having to carry great weights, should be effectively strutted and braced, and timber of sufficient strength used.

<article title=" THE LIFTING AND CARRYING OF MATERIAL " author="">THE LIFTING AND CARRYING OF MATERIAL.—17. Very



little danger arises during the lifting and carrying of material so far as the power in use is concerned. The accidents generally occur owing to the defective manner by which the material is secured to the crane, pulley wheels or whatever the arrangement for lifting may be.

IRONWORK,--18. Ironwork is principally used in the forms of girders or columns. They are sometimes slung by a chain around the middle and as evenly balanced as may be. There is considerable danger of this chain slipping, however well balanced (more especially if the load when swinging is tilted, say by receiving: a jar through touching some part of the erection) and thus allowing the material, to fall. To prevent this a second chain may be run from each end of the column or girder to a point some distance up

the supporting chain, but the best remedy is a "softener," i.e. an old bag or sack put round the ironwork first, and the chain turned twice around it over the "softener" and knocked as close as possible, then no slipping will take place.

The same applies to timber.

TIMBER. 19. Timber in lengths can be carried in the same manner as the iron girders, but owing to the greater friction set up between wood and iron it is not so likely to slip as the former. The same precautions however are necessary.

BRICKS, SLATES, ETC.—20. Bricks, slates, &c., in large quantities are slung in crates, in smaller quantities in baskets, and in small work are carried in hods by laborers.

21.	The crates (fig. 11) will carry as many as 350 bricks. It will be noticed that they are not fitted with sides. This is to facilitate loading. The chief danger arises from their use when they are improperly packed. When suspended the pull on the handles causes the ends to take an inward slope. If the crate is tightly packed this pull creates a pressure on the material, and tends to keep it in position, but if loosely packed the absence of sides would be a source of danger, as the material could easily fall out.

22.	If a similar crate was used to carry a roll of lead, it would be necessary to place a stay, (B, fig. f2) across the top to counteract and relieve the strain at the bottom.

23.	When baskets are used the danger lies in the handles. If they are hooked to chains, which is the usual method (Fig. 13), the weight may and does cause them to give way. One remedy is for the chain or rope to be carried around the basket, as shown in Fig. 14. The pieces of wood marked R, if fixed as shown, would give the basket a level bottom, and would also tend to prevent the rope slipping. A better course would be so to construct the basket that the material of which the handles are made should be carried down the sides and along the bottom of the baskets and well secured thereto. In any case care should be taken to see that the baskets are strong enough in the first instance, kept in proper repair and not overloaded, and that spring hooks be used on the slings.

STONE---24. There are several methods of lifting stone. It can be lifted in the same manner as ironwork, or may be suspended by means of a "<person>lewis</person>," or again by means of nippers.

25.	The first method is perhaps the safest, but is generally used for undressed work only, as the chain is apt to break up any finished edges, etc.

26.	The second method—by a lewis. A bole is cut into the stone wider at the bottom than at the top, three pieces of iron, as shown on fig. 15, are fitted into it, the outside or splayed pieces first, and the rectangular centre piece last. A bolt running through the top of each fixes its position, and at the same time secures a ring into which the hook, by which it is to be lifted, is placed. This arrangement will lift a very great weight They are made in all sizes to suit; the softer the stone the deeper they ought to be in proportion to the weight. The risk of its giving way if the stone is not free from vents, or when the lewis does not fit the hole, or again, if the weight is not evenly dis

