<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

was set on the footing under the wall and screwed up to take the load off the needle beams, which were removed. The jacks were mounted in short vertical timbers, had top and bottom transverse bearing timbers and were placed as close together as possible in the rows Under the vault there were four rows, all of special 20-ton jacks. A bench mark was established on an interior wall, distant from the outside wall, and level marks on the underpinned wall were checked with it daily by a leveling instrument. No material settlement occurred until after the steel framework of the new building was nearly completed and its walls were partly finished, when it commenced to settle and went down regularly and steadily about i 5-8 inches in two months and then nearly ceased to settle, only going down '8 inch in five weeks.

The underpinning settled with the new building and the jacks on top it were turned up about 1/8 inch every week to correspond, so that the upper stories of the old building were kept practically stationary while its footings settled. This was so successfully accomplished that no indication of a crack has been noticed on the walls of the building nor in its long stone lintels, nor in the corners ; no trouble has occurred with the machinery and no cracks have appeared in the plaster. The wall has been supported seven months on 75 20-ton special jack screws and 285 5-ton cast iron jack screws, and now that the settlement has practically ceased they will be screwed up about inch high and removed as the new brickwork is built up between new the footing arid the old wall.

At the front end of the wall the load is so great that it is dangerous to take out enough jacks to build the new brickwork and a few small cast iron columns will he made and replace a larger number of jacks; the space gained in this way will enable the permanent brickwork to he built enclosing the columns.

In one place the wall was weakened by a large and deep vertical pipe chase cut in it on the inside. The sides of this recess were cut away at an angle of 45 degrees fcr a short distance at the bottom, and the indined faces served as skewbacks for the ends of a small two-ring brick invert arch, which was built across the bottom of the recess and bonded with a brick core which filled the lower part of the chase. Under the horizontal lower side of this invert two lines of jacks were set and this section of the wall was jacked up in this way uniformly with the remainder.

At one point a pier in the wall has such a small sectional area that additional support was needed for it while the jacks were removed for building in the brickwork, and a short inclined 1 2 X 12-inch shore was set on a x5-foot outside timber platform. The top of the shore was gained its full thickness into the wall and a jack screw was set under the lower end. The pressure in lifting the wall was so great that the bricks bearing on the top of the shore were crushed by it.

The underpinning was in charge of Mr. <person>A. E. Riendau</person>, superintendent for the <firm>George A. Fuller Company</firm>, who are the contractors for the <building>Maiden Lane Building</building>.

<article title=" THE BEST FLOORING FOR PORCHES " author="">THE BEST FLOORING FOR PORCHES.

A writer in the American Lumberman discusses the question of porch flooring and the best material to he used therefor. He states as a fact that it is fast being recognized by builders that one certain kind of flooring is superior in all necessary qualifications regardless of price. For strength, durability and all manner of effectiveness fir flooring is, in his experience the best material available at the present time.

lie finds that a great many of the old porches that were put tip a number of years ago were laid with flooring thicker than inch stock. This is not necessary, for rarely, if ever, does a porch floor wear down even to the matching. Inch stock is just as serviceable. A great many architects will specify white pine, and were it an easy matter to get the clear white pine necessary for a porch floor at a price that would allow its general use for that purpose there would be no need to look further. However, from a wearing standpoint, white pine is softer and not so durable as fir. Cypress is much in use in the south, but the distance from the market and the consequent high freight rates make it an impracticable proposition in the north. Yellow pine is also used to a considerable extent and its large use by railways is evidence that it is serviceable. Distance from the market is an objection that has also to be overcome with yellow pine.

Be-ides price and durability there is another consideration, and that is the quality of holding paint. Here again, fir is shown to he as good as, if not superior to the other woods mentioned. It is always better to apply the paint to almost any wood that is to be exposed to the weather, while it is being put on, so that all parts that are likely to become wet will he protected. In laying any matched flooring on porches it is well to apply the paint as each piece is put down so the tongue arid groove will have protection as well as the top surface.

Something has been said of the distance from markets as it affects the price of the material. On a basis of equal freight per mile, both yellow pine and cypress would have an advantage over fir in the Mississippi valley, bttt freight rates east arid west on the transcontinental lines are lower proportionately than on the lines running north arid south, and fir has the advantage, not in actual freight figures but in delivered quotations, and even lower rates from the west coast are looked for before long.

All the requirements necessary for a good porch flooring are found in fir. It is sufficiently hard to make its wearing qualities as good as those of most woods that can he used. It is harder than niost soft woods and wears better than some of the hard woods It is thoroughly dry when it reaches the consumer, and does not shrink, swell or warp. It absorbs paint and holds it, and the best clear, straight grained stock can he had in plentiful quantities at prices that make it the cheapest as well as lire best for porches in all points west of Lake Michigan and north of a line drawn through Chicago.



The names applied to the various sizes of roofing slates are very curious being all founded upon feminine titles. Thus, slates 16 inches long by 8 wide are called ''ladies'' " countesses" are 18 inches by to '' princesses 22 inches by 12

Queens 26 inches by 14. These names were given to stales by <person>General Wartbourn</person>, the proprietor of one of the largest North Wales slate quarries, about a century ago.

Messrs. <firm>F. C. Hirsch & Co.</firm>, 228 Sr. James Street, Montreal, representing a nucleus of capitalists, are proposing 0 supply an improvement in sanitary arrangements in office buildings, residences, public buildings, etc. <person>Mr. Wilkes</person>, the bead of the firm, should have no difficulties or obstacles put in his way in obiaining all he privileges he requires from municipal authorities, if, as he states, the scheme will benefit tIre community at large.

