<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION 



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions to issue following their appearance.]







From " Contractor."—There seems to be some difference of opinion regarding the number of bricks required to build a wall Some builders when figuring for brick-wall claim that for a wall four inches thick, 7 ½ bricks should be allowed for each superficial foot of wall, and for a 9 inch wall, 15 bricks to the foot, and for a 1 inch wall 22 ½ bricks to the foot, and for an 18 inch wall 30 bricks to the foot. This rule is given in Kidder's book, which has been adopted as a text book by the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>. Other authorities give a less number per foot, while others again, such as Trantwine and one or two other authorities even give more than these. As a matter of fact, many builders in Ontario allow much less than any of these when estimating on brick-work. Kidder says

a 9 inch wall, 14 bricks, and for a 14 inch wall, 21 bricks, and for an 18 inch wall, 28 bricks should be accounted for in every superficial foot of surface wall. But when these figures are employed, all openings should be deducted, as ample material will be provided to cover waste in breakages, cutting and fitting.





From " Factory Owner." I am informed there is a



















FIG. 2., FINISHING AROUND WAINSCOTTING





machine in the market for making and jointing sashes and sash-bars for circular, elliptical and diagonal work? If such a machine is in existence, please inform me through your valuable journal, or otherwise, where it may be seen or obtained.

ANS.—Such a machine was exhibited at the Pan American Exposition last year by <firm>L. G. Herald & Co.</firm>, of Barrie, Mass., along with some of the work it would do. We publish one of the sashes on exhibition, which was taken from a photo distributed by the manufac









FIG. 1., MADE BY SASH JOINTING MACHINE.





regarding the openings '' Custom varies in different localities, hut, unless the openings are unusually large no deduction is generally made for common brickwork." Where I live the practice is to allow half the opening, and to figure on 614 bricks per foot on a 414 inch wall 13 bricks on a 9 inch wall and 21 bricks on a 14 inch wall. Kindly inform me what is the proper number of bricks to figure on when making an estimate for bricks made in Ontario.

ANS.—The answer to this and many other questions are given in the "Canadian Contractor's Handbook and Estimator," but, answering our correspondent we may say, that the sizes of bricks vary. In the east they are much less than in Ontario, and in the Western States, in some places, they are nearly an inch larger, half an inch thicker and half an inch wider than in central Ontario .This accounts largely for the different figures given by authorities, About the proper figures to be used in Ontario are For a half-brick wall, 7 bricks to the foot of surface ; for a full brick wall, or

FIG. 3., <building>CHURCH ROOF</building>, FIRST DESIGN







turers, which shows to some extent what can be done with the machine.



From "Puzzled."—I am in want of a white cement to " point tip" the joints of white enamelled bricks. The cement must resist the action of uric acid and water, as it is wanted in a urinal, and it must also resist the action of frost?

ANS.—Fill up the joint with the same kind of cement that was used for bedding the bricks, let dry hard, and

