<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.





[Communications sent to this department must bc addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance,]







<article title=" OUR INFORMATION BUREAU " author="">OUR INFORMATION BUREAU.



It is gratifying to notice the steadily increasing interest which is being manifested by our readers in the

Intercommunication Department.'' Requests for information on constructional problems such as constantly confront the builder are coming to us with more frequency and from an ever widening circle of engineers. Thus the Department is fulfilling to a much greater extent than when first established its purpose as a medium for the exchange of experiences and ideas. Still its usefulness and value might be further enhanced to an almost unlimited degree if every reader who requires or has information to Impart would become a regular contributor. Will those who read this paragraph make a point of writing the editor of our Intercommunication Department for a solution of the very first difficulty which meets them and which they do not know quite how to tackle? He will be delighted 10 try to help them out. Bear in mind also that you ought fairly to help out the other fellow by sending in an answer to his questions in cases where you happen to possess the information he is looking for.



From ''Carpenter".—I have been engaged to erect a ''grand stand" on our Fair grounds, the stand to have eight seats and would like to get a little information, with a design, as to the best method of building same, so as to make it strong and secure. It is to be 80 feet in length.

Ans:—The design shown herewith, (Fig. 1.) will serve your purpose. It is strong, well designed, and if

From ''Winnipeg".—Having a brick building to put up, with walls only nine inches thick which are to be rendered and strapped inside, the windows to have shutters on outside sashes to be double hung ; I am somewhat in a quandry as to the best method of making the window frames for same, as the walls are so thin. Could you publish an illustration showing horizontal section of a frame that will suit this case I am sure it will be of interest to others as well as myself.

Ans:—We show in Fig. 2, a section of a window frame that is made use of in just such positions as our correspondent describes. This shows stone or cement















































FIG. 2.---—SHOWING SECTION OF WINDOW FRAME.





sill on outside, and window stool or sill on inside. It is drawn to scale and the dimensions of each member may he taken from the diagram.



From <person>W. P.</person>—What is the best material to use in laying a damp course ? Also, what width of concrete footings should be laid in loam ground to carry a three storey brick-building, the two lower stories to have walls 14 inches thick, and the third storey walls 9 inches thick? Answers to these questions will be appreciated.

Ans:—The sketch shown at Fig. 3, covers the ques













FIG. 1. <building>DESIGN FOR GRAND STAND</building>.



made of Norway pine, will last for many years. The posts, stringers and back braces, may be set ill concrete as shown, or, where this is considered too expensive the posts might be set in barrells filled with gravel, and gravel may be used for the feet of the brices. If it is to sit on the ground, the posts and braces may be framed in a bearing sill which is shown by the dotted lines on the ground line. The cross braces may be made of 2" X 8' stuff, the balance being all timber except the seats and risers which are made of plank. Bearing strings to be about S ft. apart. This structure should be well spiked together.

FIG. 3.—SECTION OF WALL





tions asked, the depth and width of concrete being shown The damp course is placed just above the ground grade which is shown by the dotted line. This course should be composed of two courses of slate laid in Portland cement, the joints of the top course overlapping the lower course. Sometimes a layer of asphalt is used for a damp course, but it is not as good

