<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ed: St. Ann's, Boisdale and Coxheath. The crystalline diorites of Louisburg were used by the French in building their fortifications.

LIMESTONES.--This material has not been used to any extent in Nova Scotia Car building purposes, although it is frequently found to stand exposure well. and to he readily quarried. Among localities yielding it may be mentioned the Shubenacadie River, Kennetcook, Lower Horton, Thompson Station; Glengarry and Springville, Pictou County. Stones from a quarry here retain, after an exposure of sixty years, every trace of the chisel or pick. The marble, will be noticed further on.

A flaggy, arcnaceous schist, known as iron stone, was extensively used some years ago for warehouses and walls in Halifax. Many of the metamorphic sandstones of the Atlantic coast would furnish a most pleasing and durable building material.

At present the supply of wood for building purposes is so plentiful that brick or stone houses are the exception. Even public buildings, churches, halls, etc., are almost always of wood ; hut as this material becomes more expensive, the labor of the quarryman will succeed that of the lumberman and our towns become something better than wooded shells blackened by smoke.

FLAGS AND SLATES.—A small amount of flagstone has been quarried on the Northwest Arm of Halifax Harbor, and at Beaver Bank. Slates were quarried to a small extent at Rawdon and various places in Hants County, and the quality and quantity are equal to any demand Dalhousie Mountain and West River, Pictou, are said to have good slate beds, and it is also reported from the South Mountain, in Digby and Yarmouth Counties.

At the Provincial Exhibition of 1879, slates were shown from Sackville, River John and Upper Stewiacke which, although in the rough, were of good material.

The demand for roofing slates will become general in the province in a few years, as their superiority over the shingles in ordinary use becomes apparent.

In Nova Scotia the limestones are confined practically to the Lower Carboniferous,, and are generally associated with thc gypsums. There are also beds of this material, sometimes metamorphosed into marble, in the Laurentian, etc., of Cape Breton, and in the Cambrian and Silurian measures, but they do not usually form deposits of economic value in the latter measures. The carboniferous limestones are strongly developed in Cumberland, Colchester Hants, Kings Pictou and Antigonish Counties, and at many points in Cape Breton. They occur in beds varying in thickness from a few inches to 50 feet, and in some localities their aggregate dimensions will exceed 400 feet. Their quality varies from calcareous sandstones and clays to the crystalline pure mineral.

At Windsor, Brookfield and many other localities beds are found composed entirely of fossils characterizing the Marine Limestone formation, and give the following component parts on analysis by Dr. How

	Carbonate of lime	97.64

	Carbonate of magnesia	1.10

	Oxide of iron	07

	Phosphoric acid	trace

	Insoluble residue	68



A limestone similar to the above was extensively

quarried at Brookfield as a flux for the Londonderry iron ores.

The limestones of Pictou County are also well adapted for fluxes. The following analyses of a limestone from Lime Brook, Springville, were made for the Halifax Company at the Durham College of Physical Science

	I.	II.

	Lime carbonate	93.90	96.26

	Magnesia carbonate	2.45	2.33

	Iron peroxide	.59	.57

	Manganese peroxide	56	.55

Alumina                                

	.10

	Sulphur		 03	.02

	Phosphoric acid		.03	.03

	Silica		2.10	1.99

	Moisture		.17



These results are confirmed by an extensive series of analyses made some years a go by the writer,embracing all the more important exposures of that mineral in the vicinity of the Pictou coal and iron deposits, but the space at my disposal would forbid its insertion The position of the East river limestones forms an important item in their adaptability for fluxing purposes.

They occur as a band everywhere between the coal and iron, so that their transport becomes a matter of comparatively low cost, and large quantities are available by simple quarry work. A quarry at Black Rock, above Bridgeville on the East Branch, has furnished flux for many years to the Ferrona furnace.



<article title=" THE ELECTRIC ELEVATOR " author="Douglas">THE ELECTRIC ELEVATOR.

Mr. Douglas, manager for Canada of the Otis Elevator Co., recently addressed the members of the Toronto Chapter of Architects on the development of the electric elevator. The first electric elevator was made in 1881 and strange to say the original principle of construction is still employed. Between 1881 and 1888 when the electric elevator became a commercial success, it suffered many vicissitudes. Its popularity is however now assured, and the modern electric elevator can be depended on to operate satisfactorily day in and day out, at any desired speed from 150 to 500 feet per minute. Many improvements have been made in the device, such as placing the operating mechanism at the top instead of the bottom of the shaft, thus securing economy of space. Elevators are now frequently installed in the more costly residences, and are fitted with automatic appliances which render accidents almost impossible. For example the door will not open except when the elevator is within two inches below or above the floor. These elevators are fitted with a push button, corresponding in number to each of the several floors, and the elevator responds in the order in which the signals are given.



The Ministerial Association of Toronto have given their partial approval to Alderman Graham's scheme for improved dwellings for the poor, but wisely suggest that such dwellings should be located in the suburbs rather than in the heart of the city.



The death is announced of Mr. Peter James Murray, a Prominent. and highly respected contractor of Montreal.



The Canadian Fire Underwriters' Association have decided to impose a special rate of insurance upon buildings in which are housed automobiles operated by gasoline



We record with much regret the death of Mr. Win. A. White, architect, of Lindsay, Ont. While superintending the building of the new hospital in that town he contracted a severe cold which developed into pneumonia and resulted in his death. Deceased had resided in Lindsay for 35 years, and during this period erected many important buildings. He was held in universal esteem.

