<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" LIFTING AND UNDERPINNING A NINE-STORY WALL " author="">LIFTING AND UNDERPINNING A NINE-STORY WALL.

A remarkable heavy and delicate piece of underpinning under rather unusual conditions has been successfully accomplished on Lower Broadway, New York, where one end of a tall office building adjacent to a taller new office building has been raised nearly 2 inches and underpinned without perceptibly impairing the integrity of the brickwork or stone masonry, plaster or even disturbing the alignment of the elevators and other machinery in service there. The methods employed are thus described by <firm>the Engineering Record</firm>

<building>The Guernsey Building</building> at <building>No. 160  Broadway </building>is seven stories high above the street and has a basement and sub-basement below, making nine full stories in all. It is next to the new Maiden Lane Building and its adjacent wall of first-class brickwork is 32 inches thick at

about feet farther than the original footings of the Guernsey Building and imposing a total load of about 7,000 pounds per square foot on the soil. It was calculated that this load would produce a settlement of about 2'2 inches, and the levels were fixed to allow for that amount of change after the foundations were laid. This movement in the fine sand would necessarily affect the adjacent wall of the Guernsey Building which was in contact with it, and transmitted a still heavier unit load to its footings. Provisions were therefore made in advance not only to underpin the Guernsey Building with new footings carried down even with the adjacent ones when the latter were built, but to hold the building up and keep it from injury while its footings settled with those of the new building and, when that movement ceased, to seat them solidly on the new footings.

































































DESIGNS FOR <building>BUILDINGS FOR PURCHASE EXHIBITION</building>, ST. Louis, LOUISANA.



the base, where it is offset on the inside only to a thickness of 5 feet and rests on a footing of excellent concrete feet wide and 3 feet thick. The wall is selfsupporting and carries the ends of the floor beams without columns, and has a total weight of 25 tons per lineal foot. It is about 100 feet long and is offset for a small light court and at one place is integral with a two-story brick vault, 6 feet wide and 12 feet long, which increases the weight at that point to 35 tons per lineal foot. The adjacent wall of the Maiden Lane Building is much higher, is built in contact with it and is carried by the wall columns built into it and seated on cross beams on the ends of grillage cantilever girders' which also carry interior columns at the opposite ends' and are bedded in a solid mass of concrete.

The footings of both buildings are on fine dry sand, those of the <building>Maiden Lane Building </building>being carried down

Timber cribs were built on both sides of the old wall and several feet from it, so as to leave plenty of working space next the wall. They were seated on the cellar bottom inside the building and in pits dug down to sub-grade on the outside, and were connected by timber stringers parallel to the wall. On these stringers about 4 feet apart on centres were set pairs of 15-inch steel I-beam needles of 19 feet clear span with jack screws under the ends, the two beams in a pair being placed in the same vertical plane so as to have a combined depth of 30 inches. An excavation was made under the old wall and its new footing was carried down five feet deeper than before and built up to within about 3 or 4 feet of the underside of the wall and in contact with the face of the wall of the new building, which was carried up to its full height.

After the cement had set a double row of jackscrews

