<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" Building Permits " author="">Building Permits

they have the demerit of calling the course of reading a qualification, which it is not. They advertise in such a way that draughtsmen and builders' foremen think that this is the short road to become an architect. The result is an increase of the unskilled who do not know that they are unskilled, and a neglect of less attractive hut more substantial means of training. Time will no doubt disprove the undue pretensions of these Schools, but at the cost of much loss and disappointment to students ; and if any professional body speaks in praise of the system there should at the same time be strict recognition of its limitations. There can of course be no question of a Correspondence School as a substitute for the Scientific Schools of <building>McGill</building> and <building>Toronto University</building>, but students should be warned against thinking it a sufficient substitute for the course of study and examinations of the Associations of Architects.



Just how numerous and glaring arc the defects of the so-called Toronto Building By-law, is known only to

those who like architects and builders have intimate relations with the Building Department. Let us take as example the unnecessary and vexatious regulations governing the issue of a building permit. The Building Inspector's Department will refuse to grant an architect a permit until a receipt is produced from the waterworks department showing that payment has been made for the water which will be required by the contractor in erecting the building. This means that the architect must either take his plans to the water department and wait while the officials figure up from them the probable quantity of water required by the builder, or leave them behind and go or send for them the next day. There is no good reason why architects should be put to all this trouble and delay. If the plans when submitted by the architect are found to conform to the by-law as interpreted by the Building Inspector, the permit should issue forthwith. Arrangements for the supply of water should lie with the water department and the contractor. Advance payment for the water could easily be insured by the city refusing to turn on the water except on production by the contractor of a certificate of payment from the water department.



<person>Mr. Pentecost</person>s paper, read before the Architectural League, points clearly to a conclusion, which he

forbore to press, that, when the site of a building is sufficiently important to require the intervention of a landscape architect, he is the paramount designer. <person>Repton</person>, as quoted in the paper, is less modest. "Repton's position," Mr. Pentecost says "is, that while the landscape architect should have no official voice in the actual designing of the house, the style and general arrangement, location and disposition of the house and grounds should be officially determined by the necessities of the landscape architect's general plan ; for as Repton says further, 'to my profession belong-s chiefly the external part of architecture, or a knowledge of the effect of buildings on the surrounding landscape.' " All this is quite true. The site prescribes the character of the building ; the building aims to be as it were a part of the site and it the architect is obliged to call in a landscape architect to enable him to understand the possibilities

<article title=" Architects and Landscape Architects " author="">Architects and Landscape Architects.

<article title=" The Education of Architects " author="">The Education of Architects.

of the site, it goes without saying that he must base his design upon the understanding thus received. This is all <person>Mr. Pentecost </person>spoke for—co-operation. But there is a dark hint lying in his statement that ''the true solution of the problem rests with the progress and recognition of landscape architecture as a profession." Vie goes on to show that there has been hindrances to the development of this profession— to its development that is to say, from landscape gardening, as it used to be called, to landscape architecture. When fully developed and recognized are we to expect that the landscape architect will rise from being employed by the architect to employing the architect? Will the co-operation, that Mr. Pentecost rests upon, change from an architect inviting the co-operation of a landscape gardener to the landscape architect inviting the co-operation of a house planner ? It is thc logical sequence. The major quantity fixes the condition for the minor. As the house (that is the architect) fixes the conditions for the supplementary arts of painting and sculpture, so the site (that is the landscape architect) should fix the conditions for the house. But logical consistency is an imperfect guide to life. The house is after all the principal thing. It is more impossible for the landscape architect to grasp the requirements of that problem than it is for the architect to seize upon the points of a site—and take advice from a landscape specialist.





THERE is something most praiseworthy in the continual discussion by architects of means for the better education of students, but there is surely something that can be done by architects to educate themselves and each other. The absence of this element from the discussions of architects gives a strange air of unreality to their talk about education. It is of course useless to the cobwebs and a surprising amount of good feeling talk of set studies, or problems, or prizes for busy architects, but Mr. <person>Bispharn Page </person>spoke a bottom truth when he pointed out that an architect learns the best things be knows after he has begun practising ; and the question is whether architects would not materially hasten each others' development by a systematic exchange of ideas. Meeting to study problems in the abstract is too laborious and it is school boy' work any way ; but the study of current problems, which constitutes this post graduate course, which Mr. Page speaks of, which architects are taking all their lives, could be made more profitable and much quicker in operation by meeting other architects systematically for mutual criticism and discussion. The old fashioned jealousy of architects for one another has almost disappeared, under the influence of greater culture ; it indeed, in the matter of design, it has not altogether disappeared. There is no reason why it should exist. There is so much individuality in art that however much a man may give of his ideas he will never find that they are taken up by others in the same way he has taken them up. If every one pours freely into the the fund of common experience there will be a gain all round, without increase of conflict, for, though every man takes from it the same material, it will be found worked up into different products He who contributes most to discussions of this kind will gain the most;

