<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



nutrient gelatine produced growths of <person>Merulius Lachrymans</person>.

It is necessary that in order to obtain good, sound timber, care should be taken that the conditions of growth, age, time of felling, character of timber, seasoning, shipping (as yellow fir timber is usually imported) and stacking are of the best. If the tree has grown in poor soils and the aspects have been had, the constitution will be affected. If felled too young, the wood is soft and tender, if too old, it is liable to decay. The best age for the felling of fir trees is from 70 to 100 years. If felled when the tree is full of new life, and the vegetative substances are in lull action, it would afterwards quickly decay. The best time is, therefore, when the sap is at rest, Viz., as a rule in the late autumn or winter. The ' heart— wood" should always he used in preference to the newer or outer layers, as it is more durable. No sap wood should be used in the carpentry of timber floors. It should, therefore, never be used for building operations until it has been carefully stacked in a sheltered position with a free circulation of air around it, and signs of disease have been eradicated. If the timber has been obtained quite sound and well seasoned, it is then necessary to construct the floor in such a manner that it will always be kept perfectly dry, cool, well ventilated and free from contact with decaying vegetable gases. In order to do this successfully, thc proposed adjoining street should be formed level across its width and effectually drained. If possible the site of the building should also be higher in level than the surrounding lands, and have a system of subsoil drainage below the level of intended foundations in the case of chalky, gravelly or sandy soils (care being taken to prevent the sand moving laterally). All vegetable mould should then be removed from the site, together with any old tree stumps or roots. The earth should be excavated to the depth of intended foundations and a layer of concrete of moderate thickness (not less than 5 in.) laid over the whole site. Broken brick and smithy ashes may be used as an aggregate for welldrained foundations, together with a Portland cement matrix ; but it is better to use dense broken stone and clean gravel with plenty of Portland cement under the timber floors in the case of solid clay foundations as the water from the surface soils will be retained by the clay, and any increase in temperature will tend to force the damp vapour through the pores of the concrete.

When the earth is in contact with the surfaces of the walls immediately surrounding the floor they should be stuccoed with Portland cement or asphalte to the bottom of footings, or the brickwork should be built up from the surface of concrete to thc damp course with Staffordshire blue brick in Portland cement mortar. Dry areas and hollow walls are also good when the thickness of the walls is not limited. The damp course should be placed two courses of brickwork above the adjoining finished street level, and may be of natural asphalte, Portland cement, slates in cement, stoneware, or other impervious material.

The timber joists should then be laid above the damp course on a wrought iron bearing bar, about 2 in. wide by in. deep, built into the wall (and not wood slips) in a cavity properly flushed round with asphalt or Portland cement so as to have ¾ in. at least of free

space on the other three sides between the timber and wall. The ends of joists should never be bedded in mortar, since quicklime has an injurious effect on timber if not dry. The air inlets should be on the same level as damp courses, and properly distributed so as not to miss the corners the holes from these through the wall being floated round with Portland cement. The same precautions should be taken with sleeper walls as with external walls, and they should in addition he honeycombed to allow for a cross current of air, and earthenware pipes should be fixed under the other floors to another external wall if there is only one external wall to the room. This will not, however, always ensure a current of cool air, and it is better to carry air flue alongside the ordinary smoke flues through the chimney shaft in addition. The thickness of joists should be a minimum, so that the underside area of floor boards could have a maximum amount of ventilation, as the floor boards generally rot worse where they are nailed and in contact with joists. The top of the floor boards, if washed, should be allowed to properly dry before placing linoleum on it. Carpet would allow for more ventilation, and in districts where dry rot is prevalent carpet is always preferable to linoleum. n 



<article title=" NOTES ON PORTLAND CEMENT" author="">NOTES



There were 8,482,020 barrels of Portland cement manufactured



in the United States in the year 1900 an increase of 2,829,754 barrels, or 50. 1 per cent over the product of 1899.

Did yez show Casey the contractor the Wash-nt-n moonyment ?" asked <person>Mr. Rafferty</person>.

Oi did,' answered <person>Mr. Dolan</person>, ''an' he wer deeply imprissed." What did he say?"

''I-Ic said it wor' the tallest one-story buildin' he iver saw

Paint made with red lead does not form a good protective covering for iron and steel for more than about six months under

extreme conditions. Red lead is a better protection		On the top

of a beam than on the	bottom because in driving on thc bottom



its weight separates it from its base A mixture of red lead zinc oxide and artificial barium sulphate is a much better paint than any of these materials used singly, and some experts advise the addition of carbon 01 lampblack Such a mixture might readily possess qualities which are advantageous in a paint.

Drawing attention in a recent paper before the <assoc>London Society of Architects </assoc>to a few results obtained by colouring samples of cement with a small percentage of lampblack red oxide and ultramarine, <person>Mr. Humphreys</person> remarked that it might

at some me be found advantageous to incorporate colouring matter with cement. Should it, however, be decided to apply paint to cement work he believed that one of the best prelim- nary preparatlons was a solution of part of good sulphuric acid in 100 parts of water freely applied to the surface of the work after work same had thoroughly set.

<article title=" The English bricklayers " author="">

The English bricklayers who are restricted by the rules of their Union from doing more than a certain amount of work per day, have recently been shocked by the achievements of American workmen in connection with he construction of the <firm>Westinghouse Electric Company</firm>'s large works at Manchester These buildings which the English workmen estimated would require five years to construct have been put up in less than a year. The average bricks laid per man is said to have been 1,800 per day, as compared with 450 per nine hours which is the trade union average.

<article title="ALUMINUM NAILS " author="">

ALUMINUM NAILS.—After many unsuccessful experiments and trials an alloy of aluminum has been made with which nails, staples and lacks can bc made to compete with copper. Among other advantages claimed for the new materials is that it is not affected by the weather , and will not deteriorate, as in laying roofs lining tanks etc. As the alloy is non-corrosive and non— poisonous the new nails ought to find favor among makers of

refrigerators and other articles used For food storage When he difference in point of number and weight is taken into consideration it is seen that aluminum nails are about four cents a

pound cheaper than copper nails It is not intended 10 put them in competition with ordinary steel nails Hardware

