<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XV.—NO. 180	DECEMBER, 1902.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

I louse in Rosedale, Toronto.--Beaumont Jarvis, Architect.

The William Davies Building, Toronto.—Burke & Howard, Architects.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Buildings under construction for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, at St. Louis, Mo.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN Architects' EDITION.

Photogravure Plate—Chapel in Ancient Cemetery of Arles called Arlescamps (Elissii Campe) by which it was known 18 centuries ago. Dante mentions it in the "Interno," and Ariosto alludes to it in the Orlando Furoso.

Photogravure Plate—La Rue de la Grosse Dorioge, Rouen, built 1527.

Summer Residence at Beaconsfield Que.—Andrew T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A., Architect.

Bank of Nova Scotia, Toronto.—Darling & Pearson, Architects.





CONTENTS

Editorial	. 177178 Mortar	185

Office Management	.	.	. 179 Notes	186

Originality of Design in Architecture at the Expense of	Legal 				. 187

	Beauty (Slater)—How Sky Scrapers can be made	Useful Hints	.

	more Aesthetic	.	180	By the Way 			.

Intercommunication	.	.	. .	181	C. A. & B. Students' Competition	. 	189

Annual Consumption of Portland Cement in the U. S	182	Building Stone of Nova Scotia					190

Cost per Barrel of Cement	182	The Electric Elevator 		 			191

Care of Stock	183	Plasterers' Grievances 					ix

Qualifications for Builders' Foremen . 	184	Architecture of Toronto	 	 	 	x-xi

Relations of Employers and Employees in the Building		Ontario Association of Architects 		 		xii

   Trades 	185	Experiments with Fireproofed Wood				xiii





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE,	"

	S. H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

XV.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.



J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





To our readers every one we wish a Joyous Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year.



Attention is directed to our

<article title=" Students' Competition " author="">Students' Competition.	Students' Competition for a Suburban or Town House, to cost

$2,500. Particulars of this competition were printed in our November issue and again appear in the present number. It is hoped that architects throughout the Dominion will call the attention of their students to this competition and urge them to enter. An opportunity is afforded every student to test his powers and to learn where he stands in the ranks of the coming generation of Canadian architects.



The supply of competent men

in this line is at present much

below the demand. A few years ago hundreds of draughtsmen were looking for positions. To-day all whose services are worth having are steadily employed at good salaries. '[here are a few floating about looking for employment, but they are the kind that no architect of standing would wish to have in his office. They either lack a proper understanding of the work that a draughtsrnan is expected to perform, or are so careless in their methods that they cannot be relied upon. A man belonging to this class on being sent to take measurements of some old buildings to which additions were to be made, was found to be out more than two feet in his figures

<article title="Architects' Assistan" author="">Architects' Assistants.

<article title=" Close Planning " author="">Close Planning.

showing the width of the building, which had a frontage of only 70 feet. Inaccuracies scarcely less glaring marked his other measurements so that it became necessary to do the work over again. Such "ass stants" are simply a stumbling block and a source of annoyance to architects.



In these times of high prices for labor and material, the architect who desires to save his

clients' money will give the most careful attention to the preparation of his plans with the view of securing the necessary accommodation within the least possible area. This is especially necessary in house planning, owing to the more costly interior finishings, In this class of work every additional two feet of area will add about six per cent. to the total cost of the structure. The necessity for the closest planning is therefore apparent. As regards the cost of building, there is nothing to indicate cheaper prices. On the contrary, there seems a probability that they may go still higher. Brickmakers have been unable to obtain fuel. and the kilns in the vicinity of Toronto are said to contain millions of unburned stock, which will not be available this year. This will probably mean an advance in prices next spring. The demand for iron and steel has been so great that the output of the mills for a year to come is said to be already contracted for. These facts would seem to prove the

