<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BUILDING REGULATIONS " author="">BUILDING REGULATIONS.



The loss of the lives of several firemen at a recent fire in a warehouse in Toronto has served the useful purpose of focusing public attention upon the necessity for proper inspection of buildings, and the adoption of building regulations suited to modern requirements. Nothing short of a disaster of this kind would apparently cause the city council to move in the matter. The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>and the <assoc>Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club </assoc>have jointly addressed a communication to the council as follows

That the architects of the city, understanding that it is proposed to reorganize the City Commissioner's Department, believe that it would be to the city's interest that a committee of architects should bc consulted in reference to the appointment of a City Architect and the revision of the Building By-laws

While the architects are of the opinion that it is exceedingly important that the very best man obtainable should be appointed as head of the building department, they think that for the designing and erection of the more important city structures better and more artistic results may be obtained by employing architects of known ability.

The architect or engineer in charge of the Building Department should be thoroughly competent to judge of the stability of the most complex structures, with ability to calculate strains and stresses, and with a thorough knowledge of all kinds of building materials and processes.

The chief concern of the architects, however, is the thorough revision of the Building By-laws.

The Building By-laws Committee of the Toronto

Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects spent

a large amount of time some seven years ago preparing

a set of by-laws which were then presented to the

Property Committee, and which, alter one or two

meetings for their consideration, were quickly shelved. About eighteen months since, the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club also entered into correspondence with the Property Committee regarding the revision of the Building By-laws, after having obtained information regarding Building by-laws from some six or eight American cities, and with no more tangible results.

it has been for many years a fact patent to all interested in building operations, that the Building By- laws are entirely behind the times and out of date, while some of the most usual and modern methods of construction are not even hinted at.

Among thc latter may be mentioned steel cage construction, fireproofing in various forms, and cement mortar in substitution of lime mortar, giving stronger walls with less thickness.

Many abuses have crept in through the by-law permitting flimsy additions to buildings by means of so-called mansard roofs, which are practically wooden buildings, having a slope of but a few inches from the perpendicular, while they are just as inflammable as any other wooden building.

Some of our largest buildings in the first-class fire limit are thus topped-out, and the license to use such a hazardous method of building is a menace not only to adjoining property, but the city at large.





<firm>Canada Foundry Company, limited</firm>

Ornamental iron department, wrought iron fences, architectural iron work of every description

Toronto, Ontario

