<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" APPORTIONING THE COST OF PERMANENT PAVEMENTS " author="Crane">APPORTIONING THE COST OF PERMANENT PAVEMENTS.



Alderman <person>Crane</person>, of the Toronto City Council, has given notice of his intention to move that the city engineer be instructed to report to the Council the class of pavements which he considers (taking into consideration the locality where the same is laid) to be permanent pavements, and that the Council determine the class of pavements which shall be deemed permanent, and that thereafter the local improvement or other by-laws affecting the same he amended so as to provide

their goods. These companies effect a large saving yearly in horses and vehicles by reason of the improved pavements which have been put down in recent years, the cost of which has been charged, to a large extent, against the property owners on the various streets. We refer now more particularly to the residential streets where, it is safe to say, the pavement is least used by the owners of the property fronting on the street. This being the case, it is manifestly unfair that that the property owners should be called on to bear so large a proportion of the cost of improved pavements.

























































<building>SANITORIUM FOR CONSUMPTIVES AT GRAVENHURST, ONT.</building>



that where a permanent pavement is once laid as a local improvement, the same shall be kept in perpetual repair out of the general funds of the city. This action on the part of Alderman Crane is in the right direction. The local improvement system, as t at present exists, is, in some respects, very unfair to property owners. The persons who are most benefitted by permanent pavements are owners of departmental and other stores who use a large number of vehicles for the delivery of

While it is no doubt true that the value of property is, to some extent, enhanced by the putting down of good pavements, it is also true that increased assessment invariably follows, so that the net advantage is small. A larger proportion of the cost of such pavements should in future be borne by the taxpayers as a whole, while if means can be found of placing a considerably increased assessment for this purpose on the shoulders of the owners of delivery wagons, it ought to be done.





<firm>The James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, limited</firm>

The "Elgin" low-tank closet combination, bathroom accessories

Toronto, Ontario

