<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to stand the doors up in stacks, with dividing posts to carry the weight and separate the various sizes. This also applies where several sizes are kept in a limited space—see Fig. 5.

Spindles, balls, post tops, etc., are kept in bins or covered crates or barrels easy of access. Corner and base blocks are piled against the wall, as tightly together as possible, sometimes in covered boxes.

The object of the warehouse is to keep any product









































of the wood-worker dry, clean and intact from the time of its completion to its delivery to the consumer. It should be convenient to the finishing room, shipping department and elevator. It should be tightly built to keep out weather and dust, and should be kept clean by occasional sweeping

The fault with most 01 us is, we do not live up to our ideals and understanding in these matters, letting things go by default. As a consequence we have occasional bargain days, to get rid of depreciated stock.

































This could be obviated in a large degree by taking proper care of stock on hand. All this tells in the annual round-up for or against "good house-keeping."

—The Wood-Worker.



Limestone from the quarry in Malden Township, near Amherstburg, has come into active demand of late, and from an output of 40,000 tons in 1900 and 22,000 tons last year, it is expected to produce 30,000 tons this year. Not only regular course building stone, but crushed stone is regularly in request, and 50 cars of stone dust have been given to the town. Steam hoists, modern drills, and other new machinery have been installed.

<article title=" QUALIFICATIONS FOR BUILDERS' FOREMEN " author="">QUALIFICATIONS FOR BUILDERS' FOREMEN A paper on this subject was read by Mr. F. N.

Cowlin, contractor, at a recent meeting of the Bristol Association of Clerks of Works and Builders' Foremen. The author suggested as the qualifications for a successful foreman—Knowledge, energy, confidence and tact, organization and honesty. Mr. Cowlin then proceeded to deal with the subject under these five headings

I.	KNOWLEDGE.—He pointed out that the majority of general foremen appeared to be joiners, and suggested that this was brought about by the fact that in their trade they had to think and act for themselves by applying lines to their work, whereas the mason and bricklayer were more mechanical by reason of the foreman generally thinking and applying the lines and cutting the moulds for them ; hence the former acquired more knowledge of drawing, etc. In these days of technical education and the many local opportunities, a man had only himself to blame who was lacking in this respect. Every foreman should have a sound knowledge of materials and approximate cost of labour, methods of taking and checking quantities, freehand and geometrical drawing, reading and writing specifications and business letter writing, and he should be conversant with modern business methods and an observant and critical knowledge of men, and, above all, should be a pastmaster in the particular craft to which he belonged. Mr. Cowlin pointed out how these things may be acquired by those disposed to possess them.

2.	ENERGY. —A foreman should be energetic, example being better than precept. A slow or dilatory foreman soon make the men as bad as himself, the complaint being contagious, whereas a smart foreman was respected by those under him.

3.	CONFIDENCE AND TACT.—A man possessing the former qualities must need have confidence in himself, a confidence born of knowledge. He could then hold his own with either his employer, the architect, or clerk of works, and this invariably ended in the tore-man being generally respected by all whom he had business relations with. He, Mr. Cowlin, emphasized the difference between tact and cheek ; the former was the art of making himself agreeable to all sorts and conditions of men in all sorts of circumstances, and in this spirit to fearlessly do his duty.

4.	METHOD AND ORGANIZATION. —The methodical foreman could manage 150 men as easy as an indifferent one could 25 ; the works and men should be so arranged that the best possible results could be obtained, and suggestions were given how this could be done. Compare your own system with others be always eager to learn any and everything worth knowing. The lecturer pointed out how in these days of close competition, when works were carried on, on a very small margin of profit, that any laxity on the part of the foreman may turn out a loss on the contract, and a bad job for all concerned ; every foreman should keep a diary, and it should be to the works what the logbook is to the ship. Approach the architect and clerk of works with a list of requirements, etc. get verbal orders for extras confirmed in writing, and always keep a correct account of all variations, that these may be adjusted at the completion of contract.

5.	HONESTY.—This, the lecturer said, he had placed

