<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTE. — Glass not less than in. thick in sections not ½ 36 in. super., and wired glass not exceeding 1 IN. mesh in sections not exceeding 144in. super., in either case set in metal, shall for the purpose of this rule be deemed incombustible.

Outlets on to roofs rendered necessary to satisfy the requirement of tile Factories and Workshops Acts permitted. provided that all doors and frames be of iron or cased in iron plate at least 1/8 in. thick, and that they be self-closing.

PROTECTION OF STRUCTURAL METALWORK. 14. All columns or stanchions to he covered with brickwork or porous terra-cotta (at least 2 in. thick), or with cement, concrete or plaster at least 1½in. thick, keyed into metal supports and protected by a metal guard up to a height of not less than 4ft, from the floor where cement, concrete or plaster only used.

15. Girders, joists, lintels and all structural metalwork (other than columns and stanchions, but including framework of roofs), where not covered with brickwork, to be completely encased in porous terra-cotta at least 2 in. thick, securely anchored, or cement, concrete or plaster at least 1 in. thick keyed into metal supports.

16 Space must be left at the ends of girders and joists to permit of expansion.

LININGS AND CEILINGS. ---17 No lining of wood or textile fabric to any part of the walls, partitions, ceilings or roof.

FLOOR OPENINGS.—18. No openings through any floors allowed except as follows

(a) Holes to admit driving shafts, pipes and iron or earthenware tubes for electric conductors. Shafts to lit closely in metal collars, and all pipes and tubes to be cemented round the full thickness of the floor.

(b)	Staircases and hoists of which the enclosures are constructed entirely of brick or cement concrete as above described at least 9-in. thick, with a regulation fireproof door to every opening.



N.B.—Stairs and landings within said enclosures to be constructcd of incombustible material.

N,B.~—Where the building is within the city of London or in the area controlled by the London County Council, hardwood doors to openings may be allowed instead of fireproof doors.

N.B.3—Where the staircases and hoists extend to the top floors they must have a glass roof protected externally with strong wirework, and the enclosing walls must be carried through and 18 in. in. above the roof of tile building.

In factories and workshops in the arcs controlled by the London County Council a glass roof protected as above is only to be provided in cases where the enclosing walls and staircases are carried through and 18 in. in. above the root of the building, and also above the roof of the adjoining premises Otherwise the roof must comply with the requirements of the London County Council.

(c) Belting and rope races enclosed as for staircases and hoists.

Shafting Through Walls.---19 Shafting where passing through walls to fit closely into wall, or have wall-boxes closed with iron plates not less than ¼ in. thick, leaving no open space.

PIPED AND ELECTRIC CONDUCTORS.—~2O. All pipes in the building, except water pipes not exceeding 1½ in. in diameter, to be of hard metal. No wooden easing to be used for enclosing electric conductors.

COMMUNICATING COMPARTMENTS.----21. Two or more compartments, each constructed in accordance with these rules, may communicate, whether by double fireproof doors or otherwise provided that their aggregate cubical contents do not exceed 60,000 cub. ft.

22. Two or more such compartments whose aggregate cubical contents exceed 60,000 cub. ft. can only be allowed to communicate across a fire-proof compartment built up from the basement with walls of solid brickwork, and constructed in all other respects in accordance with these rules so far as the same are applicable and having all openings protected by fire-proof doors at least 6 ft. apart.

23. Except as above, no communication allowed between a compartment constructed in accordance with these rules and any other building Or compartment.





William H. Sumbling 

Laundry machine

Toronto



Aikenhead hardware, limited

Toronto, Ontario



Cabot's creosote shingle stains and sheathing and deafening quilt

Toronto and Montreal



Metallic Roofing Company, limited

Hayes' Patent Steel Lathing

Toronto, Montreal, Winnipeg

