<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



LEGAL.



Messrs. Wigg & Wright, builders, of Ipswich, England, recently won an action at law in the English Courts against the Friendly Society Of Operative Stonemasons. The Society by threats compelled Wigg & Wright to dismiss an apprentice with



whom they had entered into a contract, on the ground that he was beyond the minor age limit of 16 years. The Court of Appeal and the Court of King's Beach concurred in the conclusion

that the union had acted illegally in conspiring to deprive the plaintiff of the advantages of his contract.



<article title=" SHALLOW vs. LESSARD " author="">SHALLOW vs. LESSARD, et. al.—The appeal in this case was to he Court of King's Bench, at Montreal, from a judgment of the Superior Court, Montreal, which maintained an action brought by Messrs. Lessard and Harris, contractors, for plumbing work, to the extent of $26053. The respondents made a contract with the appellant for t he execution of certain plumbing work in appellant's residence at Dorion for the sum of $200. The respondents brought action on this contract and alleged that the work mentioned in the contract was completed to the satisfaction of appellant's architect, and that delivery was duly made to the proprietor, appellant that the latter was further indebted in t he

sum of $228.03, for other work, making a total of $428.03, from which there had to be deducted $150 due by respondents for advertising, leaving a balance of $278.03, which sum was claimed by the action. The defence was to the effect that before the work had been completed 01' accepted it was wholly destroyed by fire without any fault on the part of the appellant. The court below found that the work in question was undertaken partly as day work, and partly at prices stated by the respondents, who furnished the materials and workmanship that in each case the work was incorporated with appellant's building and became his



property as it was executed, and appellant had delivery before the tire. It was held, therefore, that the loss caused by the fire must fall upon the appellant, and judgment was given in favor of the respondents, as above mentioned. In appeal, the court came to the conclusion that the appellant's pretensions were well founded. The workman, in this instance, furnished the materials, and it was certain that the work had not been accepted before the tire. The loss of the thing, therefore, fell upon the work mart, under article 1684 of the Civil Code, unless it were established that the loss was caused by the fault of the owner or that he was in default of receiving the thing, which has not been shown in the present case. The judgement of the court below was therefore reversed.



<article title=" WEBB V. OTTAWA CAR Co." author="">WEBB V. OTTAWA CAR Co.— Judgment by Chief Justice Falconbridge in the Divisional Court at Toronto, on appeal by defendants from judgement of Lount J., for $574.78 in favor of plaintiff and dismissing the action as against the third party. The plaintiff contracted with defendants to execute tot' them for above

amount t he brick setting to two boilers upon their property in the City of Ottawa, according to plaits and specifications, and completed the work. The defendants allege that they never contracted with plaintiff, hut that they did make a contract with W. J. Campbell (added as a third party to the action) to build for them two boilers of 6o horse power, and that plaintiff' con— tracted with Campbell that the latter did riot fulfil his contract and make the boilers reasonably fit for the defendants' requirements, and that they suffered damage, but finally, with the knowledge of plaintiff, settled with Campbell. They asked relief over against Campbell if found liable to plaintiff. The trial judge held upon the evidence that Campbell had agreed with defendants to substitute for two unsatisfactory boilers that he first put in of Kingsley pattern , two tubular boilers, on condition that defendants were to do the brick work, giving them the brick already there; that defendants invited tenders for the brickwork which was done by plaintiff for them, and though not upon the tender, yet with the approbation of the defendants manager. field, that trial judge was right in holding that the defendants had always been and remained still liable to the plaintiff for his account, hut wrong in discharging Campbell from defendants claim to relief over against him, and that the judgement should be varied by ordering Campbell to pay to the plaintiff the sum found due by defendants to plaintiff together with costs incurred by defendants in bringing him in a party', arid of the trial of their claim against him as a third party. Defendants are not entitled to recover from him costs to be taxed by the plaintiff against them, because they have failed in their contention that they were not liable to the plaintiff, upon which contention these costs were principally incurred. Defendants should pay to plaintiff his costs

of the present appeal, which is dismissed so far as lie is concerned. They are entitled to recover against Campbell their costs of the appeal, having succeed against him upon it.





<article title=" USEFUL HINTS " author="">USEFUL HINTS



Connect a one-inch gas pipe from the inside of a chimney to the floor of the damp room, and all mildew will take flight through the pipe or hole, without coming back.



A paint may be perfectly pure and yet be made of such low-class materials that it ranks in value considerably below one that is largely adulterated but made of good materials.



F.	I. Ross, Ross Bay, Victoria, B. C., says he has found the following an effective sizing to prevent the lime in freshly plastered walls from staining wall paper Three boiling water, one part common molasses; one ounce alum. Apply hot.



For painting iron t hat is at times somewhat heated, raw linseed oil and pure basic white lead s the most lasting. The white lead in the hardened paint when heated seems to turn to litharge, but otherwise white lead on iron will very soon rust iron when exposed to damp or water.



Transparent varnish for wallpaper may easily be repaired by placing 4 lbs. of Canada balsam and 1 gal. of American turpentine in a suitable vessel. Place in a hot water bath amid stir at intervals until completely dissolved; strain through fine muslin and place aside for fourteen days to brighten, when it is then ready for use.



The following simple formula for a protective limewash which will not chip under the influence of the weather is given in the "Annales du Syndical des Entrepreneurs des Travaux Publics":



Slake 4½ gals. of quicklime in a suitable vessel with a sufficient quantity of hot water to make milk of lime. This is diluted, and 2 lbs. Of sulphate of zinc added, and finally 1 lb. Of ordinary salt. It is the latter which prevents the wash from cracking while drying.



French chalk is valuable in cleaning wallpaper, and will remove grease spots from the most delicately tinted paper will not damage. The chalk may be powdered and dissolved in cold water and applied to the spots with care. When dry it should be brushed off with a soft cloth, and iii many cases the soiled spots will disappear. It should remain about twelve hours A second application may be necessary, and drying can he hastened by covering with brown-paper arid applying a hot flatiron. Pieces of bread, soft but not moist, will often remove dirt from the paper, 'The paper should be rubbed in a downward direction only, and care is necessary to prevent a streaked appearance.



A correspondent of the London Builders' Record asks: "How cant one determine the various areas for the different thickness of rough plate glass to tie safe for walking over when used for lights to a basement and only supported at the four sides of each sheet? Wood a sheet 3 ft. square arid in thick be safe for ordinary foot traffic in a dwelling-house?" ?" Prof. Henry Adams, in reply says I was enable to find any tables of tire transverse strength of glass amid therefore did what "D.F.S.'' ought have clone, namely tried the experiment for himself: the result of which, when analysed and reduced to its simplest form for practical use, was to show that for dwelling-house floors the thickness in inches should be not less than one-third of the 111 feet, and for warehouses not less than half the span. The span is the shortest distance between the supports, and no allowance is made for the support in the other direction, as plates are often butted without a support at the joint.



<article title=" PAINT FOR OUTSIDE WALLS OF A STONE HOUSE " author="">PAINT FOR OUTSIDE WALLS OF A STONE HOUSE.--In telling a correspondent what kind of paint to use arid how to mix it for the outside of the walls of a stone house, a writer in the Painters' Magazine says: We should advise a strictly pure oil paint, omitting turpentine, benzine, etc., entirely, amid using only as much japan as is absolutely necessary For first coat we would suggest that pure white lead, tinted to suit with oil color, be thinned with pure raw linseed oil and a trifle of japan, and that this priming should not contain over to pounds of white head and color to each gallon of oil and japan, while in succeeding coat or coats not over five gallons of oil amid japan be used for moo



pounds of pure white lead. Of course, if the color is to he deeper than a light tint, then more oil will be required If lime tint is to be very light or delicate, or if the paint is to be clear white, about 15 pet cent. of' zinc white may lie added to the paint for the finishing coat, which will give a cleaner tone and prevent possible chalking.

