<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

the centre of the cavity and so loses the effect of its twisted form.

A very simple method of forming a hollow wall is that shown in Fig. 2, though such flimsy construction is not to be recommended for first-class work. It consists of two thicknesses of 4½in. brickwork with a cavity of 2in. in width, so that the total thickness is 11in. Such a wall is of less strength than one of solid 9in. work would be and the security it gives against damp is only obtained at the cost of its stability.

A much sounder building is obtained by the use of a 9in. interior casing with a 4 ½ in. outer one, the timbers necessary for roofs and floors resting on the thicker and more stable portion of the wall When, however, flint or stone is used the thicker skin will in all probability form the exterior portion.

Fig. 2 shows the method of construction which should be adopted for carrying the lower floor joists

















































FIG. 3

cheaper but much less efficacious method of dealing with these Openings is to form a little cement gutter on the door or window head to fall rapidly each way Care should be taken to secure that these gutters deliver clear of the frame.

I have occasionally found that rain will penetrate at the sides of a solid window frame even when apparently properly " stopped," and to prevent this I now tack a slight slip of wood about ½in. by ½in. section in a vertical position down the side of the frame and in the centre of the cavity. The haunch at the bottom of the frame must he partially cut away and the slip should go down a trifle below the lower side of the sill ; any rain then driving round the frame will be checked at the stop formed by the wood slip and will run down and will drop clear from its lower extremity. This trouble caused by wet travelling round the window frame does not appear to take place where boxed frames are em-





HOLLOW WALLS: DETAILS OF CONSTRUCTION



where two 4¼in. thicknesses are employed. The damp-course should be divided as shown in order that any mortar droppings may fall into the cavity below the damp-courses, as it will be at once realized that, were the damp-course placed upon the solid work lower a bridge for the water would be formed, even if no droppings were present.

The external half of the wall should have air-brakes at top and bottom in order that ventilation may take place in the cavities. The draught in walls so constructed is often such that no candle can burn.

<article title=" DOOR AND WINDOW OPENINGS " author="">DOOR AND WINDOW OPENINGS.



That no wet may penetrate at the heads of doors and windows strips of lead should be inserted right through the outer wall above the lintel or arch ; this lead should be turned one inch upwards inside the cavity and one inch downwards outside the building, as shown in Fig.

4. The length of the lead strip should be about 2in. greater than that of the opening it covers, so that any drips at the ends may fall clear of the frame. A

ployed but only when they are solid and have therefore no projections on their backs.

<article title=" LEAN-TO ROOFS " author="">LEAN-TO ROOFS.



The same method of laying lead over applies where a lean-to roof comes on to a hollow wall, and a good method of construction for such a lean-to is given in Fig. 3, where it will be seen the plate to which the rafters are secured is carried by corbels from the outer skin of the hollow wall, a strip of 51b. lead being laid through this wall and being turned up 1in. inside the cavity and dressed down at least 3in. over the slates outside (the width of lead strip in the case of a 4½in. wall being thus 8,½in.) ; to cover all a projecting weathered and throated string-course of splay bricks laid in cement ensures a water-tight joint.

Wherever a lower range of buildings abuts against the hollow wall of the main block somewhat similar precautions must be taken to prevent the exterior skin of the main wall forming a damp inner wall to the lower building

