<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Women Practising Architecture " author="Charles, Ethel M.">Women Practising Architecture

The first paper ever presented by a woman before a society of British architects was read by Miss <person>Ethel M.

Charles</person> at a recent meeting of the Architectural Association in London. The paper was entitled "A Plea for Women Practising Architecture." The author has taken the student's course and passed the examinations of the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects</assoc>. She cleverly marshalled arguments in support of her contention that women possess equally with men the essential qualifications necessary to success in the practice of architecture. She instanced the fact that women are employed in the heavy work of chain-making and in the harvest fields as a proof of their ability to withstand physical strain. While not admitting their inability to climb ladders, she suggested as a means of overcoming the possible objection to them being seen climbing ladders, that women architects should, like Christopher Wren, be hoisted up in a basket. The achievements of women in the universities even in such subjects as mathematics and logic, were cited as evidence of their mental ability to deal with matters of a scientific and practical nature. On the artistic side it was claimed that their natural qualifications are superior to those of men. It was contended that a practical training in the workshop has ceased to be a necessary part of the training of an architect, intellectual activity rather than manual skill being the sine qua non of success. The lack of creative power in women was admitted, but the increasing self-reliance of the sex gave foundation for the hope that this power long dormant, might be roused into activity, In the discussion which followed the reading of the paper, most of the speakers doubted the ability of women to successfully perform all the duties of an architect, especially to deal with contractors. At the same time there was manifested a disposition to give them the opportunity to try. The adaptability of women for office work, for the planning of domestic buildings and for work of a decorative character was fully recognized.

<article title="Beautifying Cities" author="Ames, A. E.">

THE movement for the beautifying of cities is rapidly extending. It is gratifying to note the remarks of Mr. <person>A. E.	Ames</person>, President of the <assoc>Toronto Board of Trade</assoc>, on the necessity of a definite plan for the improvement of Toronto. Mr. Ames suggests the expenditure of a reasonable sum by the City Council to secure the services of a competent person to prepare a comprehensive plan for the beautifying of the city, this to be followed by the procuring of legislation authorising the appointment of a commission to administer funds for carrying out the plan adopted. <person>Mr. Ames</person> is quite right in his opinion that such a plan would secure better results than the present method of sectional improvement. The <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>has been asked to support a movement to have plans prepared by an expert for the beautifying of Toronto Island. A great improvement has been effected on the Island in recent years by the efforts of the City Commissioner and Park Commissioner, but these improvements would he greatly enhanced by the preparation of a definite and comprehensive scheme to the completion of which all future efforts should tend. Every scheme for the beautifying of cities should include the architecture of at least the principal thoroughfares, and especially buildings of a public character. An important step in

The Beautifying of

Cities.

<article title=" Toronto Building By-law " author="">Toronto Building By-law.

this direction has just been taken in New York by the introduction of a bill, drafted by the New York Chapter of the <assoc>American Institute of Architects</assoc>, in the New York Legislature, providing that the Mayor of New York shall, before the 1st of June next, select from a list of 100 names, presented by the <assoc>Fine Arts Federation</assoc>, 50 architects who shall he declared to be "eligible architects for municipal work" and who shall carry out all architectural work undertaken by the city in the future. Provision is made for increasing the list to 100 names, after which vacancies will be filled only as they occur. The selection of architects for this list is not restricted to members of the profession resident in New York, but may include architects of standing in any part of the country.



In June of last year some amendents were made to the Toronto Building Bylaws. The following section numbered 13a. was added to By-Law No. 2468



13a. As soon as all buildings in process of construction are up one storey high, and joists on, the said joists shall be covered or floored temporarily, or otherwise with inch boards, as each storey is built ; in cases where joists are over sixteen inches up to four feet centres, one and a half inch plank shall be used ; and where joists or beams are over four feet up to six feet centres, then two inch plank shall be used, or else two one-inch boards laid one on top of the other. In case of steel structures where the girders are twelve feet centres, two-inch plank shall be used with sufficient support in the centre."



The City Commissioner has recently notified the city contractors that compliance with this section of the By-Laws will be enforced, and that those who fail to comply with the provision will be summoned to the Courts. It will be noticed that the By-Law does not stipulate by whom the temporary floors are to be constructed. By request of the Builders' Exchange, the <assoc>Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects</assoc> have appointed a committee to discuss with the builders in what way compliance with the By- Law should be made. It is clear that a temporary floor must be provided by someone The question is whether the carpenter or bricklayer will put down the floor. The absence of a definite understanding on this point would the builders claim, result in each of these contractors feeling under obligation to furnish the floor and charge the cost in his tender. The suggestion has been made that architects should in every case specify double floors. This is said to be the practice in the United States. We imagine, however, that architects would hesitate to saddle their clients with this extra expense, which, in the case of large buildings, would amount to a large item. Judging by the record of accidents in recent years, this amendment to the By-Laws does not seem to be necessary, and the results in the direction of increased safety to workmen are not likely to be commensurate with the trouble and expense involved. At the urgent request of the <assoc>Trades and Labor Council</assoc>, a city scaffold inspector was recently appointed, and it may be that this and other amendments are necessary to provide this official with employment. The amendment in question serves to illustrate the unwisdom of fragmentary changes of this character in the By- Laws. What is required is a careful revision of the regulations as a whole.

