<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







J.	A. F. writes: Can you tell me of a material that WOULD be suitable for building soldiers' barracks? It would have to have the following properties: be non-inflammable, vermin proof, a non-conductor of heat, easily worked and allow parts to be taken down and rebuilt?

Ans:	We would suppose that cement blocks such as have been used in the new Dairy Building on the Toronto Exhibition grounds would meet the requirements of a building such as you mention. Another material would be expanded metal and plaster. The cement blocks for the Exhibition Building here were supplied by the National Portland Cement Co., James Building, Tot-onto. You could no doubt obtain full particulars by writing the above mentioned company, and for expanded metal construction write the Expanded Metal Company, 94 King St. West, Toronto.



From Contractor: I have a contract to build a residence which is to be roofed with slates, and the specification states that the ''slates must be properly laid and bedded in mortar in the usual manner." The owner of the building had the plans made for this house several years ago, by an architect who lives in New England and who was engaged to prepare plans and specifications only, and we have no communication with him, and as I do not know exactly what is meant by the phrase quoted, I apply to THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for information?

Ans:	As we understand the term it is intended that a layer of mortar must be placed under the slates as they are fastened in place. The way the work is done is as follows:—-The roof is first boarded over with sound boards laid close together. On these boards are nailed strips or battens from ½ to 2 inches wide and from 34 to 1 inch in thickness. These are nailed the proper distance apart to admit of the slates being nailed on them. The spaces between these slates are then filled in with mortar which is trowelled smooth and flush with the face of the slates. One or two spaces are filled in and smoothed off at a time, and while the mortar is still soft, the slates are nailed in place and are thus, to some extent, bedded on the mortar. This makes an exceedingly good and safe roof, and has the advantage of being warm in winter and cool in summer.



From A Country Builder I am in want of a plan for a hall stair that is to make a half-turn at the foot, commencing in the corner, and having two or three treads with a sweep and then a landing from which the stairs proper start and run straight to next floor. I would also like to see a design for the newel-post, balusters. rail, outside string- and panelling in spandril, if not asking too much. The house for which this stair is intended, is being built in rich Colonial style, so that the finish and trimmings on the stairs should be in a similar style.

Ans:	We submit a plan and elevation of a stair at Fig. i. which we think will suit the requirements of

our correspondent. There are two risers to landing, which is much better than having three or four, as such a number would cause the newel-post to be too high to be pleasing. The two risers have curved or "sweeped" faces which give. the stairs a graceful and inviting appearance. The rail turns out and joins the newel by a graceful ramp, the newel being set angle-wise in the



































































FIG. 1.—PLAN AND ELEVATION OF STAIRWAY AND RAILING.





first tread. The elevation is somewhat elaborate—but if too much so, it will admit of being trimmed down some, without destroying its symmetry. For instance, the angle and head mouldings on the rail and string may be dispensed with, as also may the carvings on the newel, but, if it can be afforded, the design had better be adhered to in its entirety. This work, is, of course, expected to be executed in oak, or other suitable hardwood.



From Young Draftsman: I have hunted through every book in my limited library for something on the proper proportion and size of doors and windows in a room of a given size. Is there anything published on the subject?

ANS. : We are not aware of any special work devoted entirely to this subject. If you have a Gwilt a Chambers, a Nicholson, or a Palladio, you would find some pertinent remarks on the subject; as a matter of fact, however, there can be no definite rules laid down for obtaining the exact proportions of doors or windows for any given room, as conditions alone govern these, and on the skill and knowledge of the designer or architect beauty of proportion more depends than on any rules that can be laid down.

