<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NORTHWEST LETTER " author="">NORTHWEST LETTER.



WINNIPEG, April 5th, 1902.



The cold and the snow of winter have passed away and we are face to face with another building season. The indications are favorable for a prosperous year.

However, the old wage trouble is up again in connection with the carpenters and joiners This year the men have started early so that one of the objections to their action last year has passed away. Now their demands are known before thc rush comes on. It is a vexed question, hard to solve in a manner satisfactory to all parties concerned. It admits of many arguments pro and con—points that have been debated and redebated so many times that they are almost worn threadbare by this time. The minimum wage of 32 cents per hour is in evidence but in our mind this is not considered by the men the most important point the recognition by the contractors of their opinion seems still to be the strong undercurrent which may carry both sides on to the rocks of disagreement and trouble. While we are willing to acknowledge that the unions are altogether within their rights in banding themselves together for their own



protection and the advancement of their trade, we doubt the advisability of trying to force on the contractors the question of the union's recognition. We believe in a good wage for good men, and if in some way the poorer class of men now in the trade could be weeded out and classified as carpenters helpers and paid a fair wage for the work performed till they could work as good carpenters able to earn for those who employ them a fair equivalent for the wage paid it would in some measure we feel right the matter. It must appear to all that in the long run it pays to employ good workmen and it also pays to pay a good wage to good men-men who will do a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. We look and wish for a closer bond of fellowship and a truer commingling of interests between capital and labor, for their interests are one and tile same if looked upon in the right spirit is a spirit of fairness, a spirit of honesty in word and action, a spirit of friendliness and a desire that tile interests, monetary and otherwise, should be respected. This may be a high ideal but one which if attained to would end most, if not all the labor disputes of the present day.

The buildings at present proposed are mostly of the better class. This is good evidence of the general prosperity of the community and from an architectural standpoint is most desirable, as architects in this country are so bound down to the

lowest cost that there is very little opportunity to work in good detail and ornament.

There is room in this city for a good modern house at a medium rent. As a rule rents are high, and what the average man requires is a comfortable house not too far from the centre of the city' and at a rent which could be paid out of a moderate salary. To the capitalist who will put tip such houses and solve the high rent problem there is certainty of a good return on the investment. The house must be warmly built, but while this is called a cold country we maintain that the amount of fuel if judiciously used should not exceed the amount used in Ontario, because as a rule we build much warmer.

A measure of great importance to the architectural profession in this city and province has for a time at least been shelved by the Legislature The civil engineers and architects of the city and province proposed to form an <assoc>Engineering and Architectural

Institute </assoc>and for this purpose had applied to the local Legislature for a charter of incorporation. The bill met with much opposition from various quarters. The Dominion land surveyors gave

strong opposition. They' being a close society objected to the civil engineers having certain powers as to survey's and plans which they said were exclusively their own, or in other words they had obtained a good thing from the Legislature many years ago and were determined to hold it if possible. Vested rights w a the cry, and in some measure this cry prevailed.

The section referring to the architects met with perhaps greater opposition, and from quarters least expected. The architects have proposed to regulate the entrance into the Province o foreign plans and to confine the preparation of plans and designs to all practicing as architects in the city' or province at the present time, or who might register as architects within six months after tile passing of the Bill. A provision was also made for an entrance examination for all wishing to enter and

 practice after the six months.

The intention of the Bill was to try and raise the standard of the profession, and throw around it such safeguards as would be beneficial to the general public, as well as the architects To do this requires a certain amount of protection which can only be obtained through legislation. It was thought the Bill would lay the foundation on which architecture might be gradually raised to a position of prominence in our Province, but the benefits would accrue not so much at the present time as in the years to come. Such were the ideas of those who backed up the measure re.

The labor part)' blindly opposed it on the so called ground of monopoly--a strange and inconsistent stand for the party to take, as their very' existence is based on a general monopoly with a tyrannical clause incorporated therein. It seems strange that they cannot see that to raise the standard of architecture, would mean at the same time advancing their own trade interests. In no way would it interfere with them.

Another party strong in opposition (and least expected) was the local <assoc>Builders' Exchange</assoc>. Their opposition seems to have been taken from a selfish stand-point. It would appear that they wish to draw plans or have them drawn, then put in tenders for work and execute it without inspection, and so monopolize the whole, a good thing for them perhaps, but not to the best interest of the owner or the general public. They' stated that the Building By-law (so-called) sale-guarded the public interests without the assistance of qualified inspect ion, &c., bit like most By—laws of this nature drawn op by those not fitted for the work, one can make anything out of it, arid its provisions may' he carried out or not as influence may direct.

The above was part of the opposition which the Bill received, and while it passed through the commit tee stage with some amendments, it was thrown out in the House. We trust in the near future it may appear again, and may then receive fair treatment at the hands of the members. In the meantime it has started the ball rolling, and aroused we trust among the architects of the Province, a general desire to see the profession placed on a good basis arid receive at the same time a fair amount of legislative protection.



<building>ST. PAUL'S PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, BRANDON, ONT</building>.

This church, illustrations and plans of which are given on preceding page, was designed and erected last year tinder the direction of Mr. <person>W. H. Shillinglaw</person>, architect, of Brandon, Man. Tire basement is constructed of local field stone and the super-structure of white brick with Bedford limestone trimmings. The auditoriurn, including gallery, has a seating capacity of 1,000. and tire Sunday school in the basement of 500 The building is heated by steam on the direct indirect system The total cost was $40,000.





NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.



Subscribers who may change their addresses this spring are requested to advise us of the fact, and send us promptly their new addresses, thus insuring correct delivery of their papers.



At the last weekly' meeting of <assoc>the Toronto Chapter of Architects</assoc>, <person>Mr. E. Burke </person>was re-elected president, and <person>Mr. Moore</person>, secretary.



Equal parts of pure red lead and powdered glass with equal

parts of albuminized and boiled linseed oil as a medium, is considered to be one of the best anti-corrosive paints.

