

<doctype type="text">A DOMINION EXHIBITION.



At the Toronto Industrial Exhibition last week the Hon. Mr. Tarte spoke of the desirability of holding a Dominion Exhibition, and of holding it at Toronto, as a good central place, already possessed of an experienced organization capable of carrying such an exhibition out. Mr. Tarte's promise to personally endeavor to help forward such an exhibition may be taken to mean that he does not ignore the question of cost. A Dominion show will require Dominion money, and its advocacy by Mr. Tarte may be considered as bringing the matter within the sphere of practical politics.

The idea ought to be taken up with energy. On the question of general expediency there is no doubt that it s a great idea, having incalculable possibilities in the way of developing trade within our own borders. We do not know each other well enough. There has been a rush of development in this country of late years that requires just such an opportunity as an all-Canadian exhibition to enable the different provinces and sections of the country to become acquainted with the nature and extent of each other's productions. We are apt, both in buying and selling, to think first of other countries, because we have not yet learned to expect our own country to supply us with either the products or the market we want By dint of successes in the World Fairs of other countries, we have learned that the fruit and dairy products of Ontario rank first class in this planet. Our fisheries have long been a main support of the Roman Catholic church, in Europe as well as in this country ; and we have recently came to regard ourselves as one of the granaries of the world. Our northwest is indeed rapidly enabling us not only to sell wheat to the world, but gold, to buy it with

Yet these are but specialties; points in which we range ourselves with other countries. There are, besides these commodities, plenty more, which ought to be as well known inside the country. It is only a few things after all that a nation can expect to supply to other countries ; but it ought to expect to supply itself with all but a few things. We give each other the least possible encouragement. We say Canadian manufactures cannot afford to be first class because they have not the market to justify it. The market is here gaping for first class articles; but importing them from the United States.

It is just such a state of affairs that a national exhibition of national productions will tend to rectify. For such a chance producers will produce their best, and we shall be able to see if we have not in our own country not only the necessaries of life—food, clothing and fuel ; but also its luxuries—books, plumbing supplies and objects of beauty.

Of course such an exhibition will do us no harm with the outer world. Canada is a great country for summer visitors from other countries, and Toronto is apt to be a place of call for most of them. To say nothing of the summer conventions, which find it a convenient and pleasant meeting ground, Toronto is in the way of Americans fleeing for July and August to our north-west fishing rivers and to Muskoka ; and it is near Niagara, which European visitors must see before they can face their friends at home. With a Dominion Exhibition going on, these visitors would

stop off" and ''take in" the show ; and more would come because there was a show to see. All of which

would be good for trade, both present and prospective; and would no doubt, sooner or later, pay the cost of the exhibition. But the idea which appeals most to the imagination and suggests the greatest possibilities is the national stock-taking and interprovincial acquaintance-making that would take place ; giving openings for trade, or producing at one stroke a market, for which both producer and purchaser have long been ready if they had only known of one another ; a grand national courting bee to promote marriage between industry and trade in our family connexion.

To take one example which is of interest to readers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER There is abundance of building stone in Ontario ; limestones, sandstones, granites, gneisses, serpentines and marble. Specimens have been collected by the Bureau of Mines and made a striking exhibit at the Pan-American Exposition. Yet for these stones we go to Indiana, Ohio, Scotland and Italy ; and for all that can be seen at present will continue to go there indefinitely. Here is one sort of product that our deserted waterways might very well carry, and there is nothing so likely to cause them to do so as a National Exhibition, well carried out.

This brings us to the aspect of the question which is more within the province of this journal than the question of the general advantage of holding such an exhibition. If done it must be done well ; and in that need lies the chance of Toronto redeeming its lost opportunities in the way of both grounds and buildings for its Industrial Exhibition. It is at these grounds that the Dominion Exhibition will naturally be held. But while the Toronto Industrial Exhibition Association is no doubt the best available means of putting it on foot, the grounds of the exhibition are not only inadequate—a defect easily corrected by the juxtaposition of the extensive vacant military ground by the Stanley Barracks and the filling in which it is proposed to do on the lake shore—but, to have any adequacy at all as a mere portion of the show, the grounds will require an upsetting and reconstruction from which they will never recover ; and that is what they want. It is such a chance to get things pulled down and things built that is not likely to occur again for many years ; for the Park Commissioner, though stout, is temperate, and apparently healthy. Would he were a worse man, and had a better imagination ! The grounds of the Industrial Exhibition, regarded as fair grounds, are just about as near nothing as they can be. An annual visitor has still, every year, to think before he can find his way to the grand stand. As for finding his way from it—there is but one way for everybody, and that in the wrong direction. Happy is the suburban Parkdaler who alone, when the fireworks are done, gets home to bed, undegraded (and unbruised) by crushing in a street car. There ought to be an eastern exit connected with either trains or trains; and the necessary accomplishment of such additional exit for a big Exhibition might be made one of Toronto's permanent gains proceeding from the Dominion show But these, through important considerations, are quite secondary to the absolute want of effect in the present fair grounds. The plan is mere confusion. There is no leading idea, no visible arrangement, no attraction for the eye. These wandering roads with incoherent

