<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Asylum, Toronto. The latter building was erected under his superintendence in 1856.

For a number of years Mr. Howard occupied the position of City Surveyor. He was also a member of the Committee of Management of the first Artists' Society formed in Toronto, in 1834.

The following description of his tomb is reproduced from the London Builder of October 16th, 1880 The cairn is constructed with granite boulders. Mrs. Howard was a Scotch lady, which accounts for the cairn. Mr. Howard himself "is a Masonic Knight Templar. —therefore the double pedestal, terminating with the Maltese cross." The consecrated ground on which it stands is inclosed with some of the old iron railing which surrounded St. Paul's Cathedral,London, England, for 160 years The cost of erecting the tomb, including vault and iron railing, amounted to $3,120. The granite boulders are all bedded in Portland cement against a brick shaft in the centre, which support the marble pedestal. This weighs over 10 tons, and came from the Rutland Quarries, Vermont, U. S. Engraved on a brass plate, and fixed round one of the gateposts of the old iron railing, is the following inscription :—-" Sacred to the memory of John George Howard and Jemima Frances, his wife. John George, born 27th July, 1803 ; Jemima Frances, born 18th August, 1802, died 1st September, 1877. Aged

75 years." On a brass plate fixed round the other iron gate post

of the railing was recovered from the wreck, and sent to Montreal by the salvage men in the spring of 1875, in a very mutilated state, but was brought from Montreal by Mr. Howard, 17th of August, in that year, and arrived in Toronto on the 21st of the same month It was repaired by Messrs. William Hamilton & Son, at the St. Lawrence Foundry, Toronto, and finally fixed on the stone curb where it now stands, on the 18th of November, 1875.

St. Paul's Cathedral for 160 years I did inclose. Oh stranger, look with reverence.

Man man unstable man

It was thou who caused the severance.

J. G. H.

Nov. 18th. 1875."



The vicissitudes of the railing are curious. Alter its removal from St. Paul's it was purchased by Mr. Robert Mountcastle, Waverlyplace, St. John's-wood, London, of Mr. J. B. Hogarth, iron rnerchant, London, and shipped by him in good condition, on board the steamship Delta, for Toronto, On the 14th of October, 1874. The Delta went on shore about five miles below Cape Chat Light, on the 8th of November. A portion





The Canada Paint company, limited,

The "elephant" brand of white paint

Toronto and Montreal



The Milton Pressed Brick Company, limited

Pressed brick and architectural terra cotta

Toronto, and Milton



A.	W. Adams

Automatic self-locking sash lock

Toronto