<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



span. The tiebeam has now to carry a floor as well as a ceiling, and both may be reckoned at cwt. per square foot, to include all loads likely to come upon the floor in an ordinary dwelling-house. The proportion of the depth of the beam to its unsupported length will now be so high that it may be loaded to quarter of its breaking weight without unsightly deflection. The factor of safety is therefore four. In the largest span, between the queens, the beam may be considered as fixed at both ends, so that it will carry fifty per cent, more than if supported at both ends, and the co-efficient of strength will be seven and a half.

TABLE V.—TIEBEAMS FOR QUEEN TRUSSES TO CARRY

CEILINGS and FLOORS.























The full scantlings given above are only required in the central spans between the queens. The spans between the queens and the walls, being each only half the central span, with one end supported and the other fixed, require beams only three-tenths as strong. Hence for instance, at 30ft. span, the scantling 10in. by 16in. might be made up of one loin, by 6in. beam running the whole length, and two 10. by 5in. pieces, bolted to it on each side, and extending only from queen to queen.

Plates, 4in. by 3in. should be bolted to the beams, and notched to receive the joints.

Heavy floor beams are conveniently substituted by rolled-iron sections, which can be bolted to the tiebeams of a roof. The use of iron in this and other ways will be subsequently considered.



TABLE

<article title=" SHOWING NUMBER OF BRICKS REQUIRED IN ONE SQUARE FOOT OF SURFACE WALL, THE THICKNESS OF WALL BEING GIVEN, AND THE SIZES OF BRICKS USED BEING " author="">SHOWING NUMBER OF BRICKS REQUIRED IN ONE SQUARE FOOT OF SURFACE WALL, THE THICKNESS OF WALL BEING GIVEN, AND THE SIZES OF BRICKS USED BEING



9x X 2¼ INCHES, AS IS SOMETIMES THE CASE



IN CANADA. This NUMBER OF BRICKS TO THE SURFACE BRICKS COVERS WASTE AND DEFECTS.























Bricks, even burned in the same kiln, rarely even up in size. Often there is as much as a quarter of an inch difference in the length, and half that difference in width or thickness.

The above table provides, to some extent, for such differences in size.







<article title=" CONNECTING DOMESTIC WATER HEATERS " author="Calkins, W. B.">CONNECTING DOMESTIC WATER HEATERS

At the meeting of the Ohio Gaslight Association, a paper on domestic water heaters was persecuted by W. B. Calkins, in which he laid great stress on the mode of connecting these heaters, as follows

I. If possible always connect the heater to the boiler so that the base of the heater will be on a level, if not a little below the bottom of the boiler. This

allows for the free circulation of all the water in the boiler.

2. Connect the hot-water outlet from the heater to the top of the boiler. This connection answers all purposes much better than the side connection.

3. Flush cocks should be placed on the bottom connection of all heaters by which the heater, boiler and pipes can be flushed as often as needed.

4. All water heaters should be connected by a fine pipe to the chimney.

5. Cocks should be placed on the coldwater connections between the boilers and the heaters. By this arrangement any back movement of hot water can be stopped after the fire is turned out under the heater; this prevents the heater from becoming a cooler. Other directions for the economic use of the water heaters should be prepared for the use of the people buying them, but as these will be more or less of a local nature, we will not discuss them.



<assoc>THE WINNIPEG BUILDERS' EXCHANGE</assoc>.

The Winnipeg Builders' Exchange, portraits of some of the principal officers of which appeared in our August issue, was organized in June, 1899 and has met with a fair measure of success. Through its instrumentality a uniform contract has come into use. Steps are now being taken to bring about the amalgamation of the contractors in the various building trades, thus forming one strong organization which would be in a position to exert its influence for the protection of the interests of all concerned.



<assoc>ADVANTAGES OF NARROW LUMBER</assoc>.

As a result of a number of tests a leading lumber manufacturing company claim to have demonstrated that the wider the board the greater the shrinkage and the wider the opening, and as a consequence the narrower the board the less the shrinkage and the smaller the opening. The narrower the board the more the tongue or lap divides the shrinkage. The narrower the board and the more the spring the quicker it is possible to make a matching, and the narrower hoards are laid faster. In the narrow boards the grade defects are smaller. The narrower the boards the less the waste incutting and trimming. In covering a certain amount of space it requires a little more of the narrower stock, but the

differences are easily made up in saving of waste in cutting and trimming.



The company have made a number of experiments to determine the cost of putting on the narrower widths as compared with the wider. Two carpenters were employed to cover the same amount of space with the different widths of dressed and matched stock, on studding 16 inches apart. The result enabled the company to accurately figure the comparative cost. The first test was on blind nailing flooring and showed that the total cost per 1000 feet for laying the 4-inch was 31 cents more than the 6-inch. As 8-inch stock would have to he double nailed they estimated that it would cost $1.29 less to lay 4-inch than 8-inch. In a test of single nailing 4-inch, double nailing 6-inch and 8-inch flooring, drop siding the shiplap, the cost per 1000 feet was 58 cents less on the narrower width than on the 6-inch and 96 cents less than on the cost of double nail-8-inch stock with tenpenny nails. In a test for single nailing and double nailing alternate pieces of 4-inch, and double nailing 6-inch and 8-inch drop siding and sheathing the cost per 1000 feet was only 17 cents more on 4-inch than on 6-inch, and 20 cents less than in double nailing 8-inch stock.

