<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



buildings on them make no recognition of the fact that, a Fair is after all a great out of doors assembly; that people are out of doors most of the time and want to find their pleasure in being there. By making proper effort a Dominion Exhibition might be made an occasion to change all this. Its principal court would suffice for the main portion of the permanent Toronto Fair; and matters should be so arranged that the buildings round this should be made permanent and the court designed to be sufficient both in size and beauty to make the Toronto Exhibition what it should be.

Mr. Tarte's proposal that the Dominion Exhibition should be held next year leaves too short a time to do the thing properly; on the other hand it is hard to do anything that will take two years to do, on a ground where an Exhibition is held every year. But there are partitions, drawings contracts, ironwork, etc., that would be all the better for having a year, or all that is left of it after getting under way; and the filling in of the lake front might also go on at once. It would be cruel to shorten the Street Commissioner's enjoyment of such a happy dumping ground for ashes to one brief year. Besides there is going to be a shortage of ashes this year. With one year to advance preparations as far as possible, and a season of great activity, the thing might be done for the June after next. It would take this time also, one would think, to make sure of good exhibits.

If it is to be accomplished so soon as this there is no time to be lost, and even if it is given another year there is no occasion to delay taking the preliminary steps.



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.

Referring to a crusade which has been started in Dundee against the defacing of buildings by smokers striking matches against the walls, the London Builders' Record points to the necessity of using for walls which are liable to defacement from any cause, materials which are proof against disfigurement. Glazed or glass tiles or bricks will meet this requirement iii many positions.

	x	x	x

In remodelling the Union Loan Building, Toronto, Messrs. Burke & Horwood, the architects, have adopted the American plan of designating the ground floor as the First Floor, the floor above as the Second Floor, etc., and have so numbered the rooms as that the room number shall indicate the particular floor on which it may be found. For example, on the first or ground floor the rooms number from 10 to 19, on the 2nd floor from 20 to 29, on the 3rd floor from 30 to 39, etc. The numbers of the several floors are shown in hold figures on the sides of the elevator.

	x	x	x

The residents of' a London street in which a large building was in process of construction appealed for and were granted an injunction restraining the contractor from operating a derrick before 7 a.m., on the ground that it spoiled their slumbers. The contractor did not let the matter rest there, however, but carried the case to the Court of Appeal, which discharged the injunction. The court held that there was no vested right which secured people living in a residential street from being disturbed before 8 a.m. It was to the interest of everyone to have the work executed as quickly as possible. The contractor also

submitted the plea that he was under penalty to complete the building by a given date.

	x	x	x

The members of the Institute of British Clayworkers hold a yearly excursion and visit in a body places of special interest where combined with pleasure information of value to the trade may be obtained. The practice is a commendable one. This year a visit was made to the clayworking districts of France. In this connection the British Clayworker remarks "The trade in brickmaking is a long way behind England as a whole. There are comparatively few facing bricks made in France, and those chiefly in the Burgundy district, which we did not visit. The common brick trade is, generally speaking, of a very inferior stamp, but those made at Vauguard were of a very fair quality, and the fire bricks made at Boulogne were excellent. The glazed bricks made at Ivry cannot compare with those made in England by the best firms, but they were excellent bricks, and the question arises whether the perfection and costliness of the English article is justifiable or necessary for ordinary purposes. We should be inclined to think that a product equal to that of Ivory would find an immense market at its relative price in this country. The French tile is undoubtedly a very superior product and worthy of extensive imitation. It is universal on the Continent. It is cheaper and lighter than the plain tile and more ornamental. It is cheaper and cooler than the slate. Some very good work is done in terra cotta, but it has not the pretensions of English architectural terra cotta. The use of it is undoubtedly limited by questions of cost, and it is only on very superior buildings that the architectural stoneware produced at Ivy could be introduced."



<article title=" STAINED GLASS " author="">STAINED GLASS.

At a meeting of the Sheffield Society of Architects and Surveyors Mr. A. Jeffery delivered a lecture on ''Stained Glass," in which he said that the first stained glass executed in England was in the time of King John. Previous to this all glass came from Italy, which even at this late boasted of eminent artists. The old masters taught us many lessons, and much could be learnt from them. We should try and embrace all the good qualities of the old men, ignore their short— comings, and try to improve on what had been done before us. After the sixteenth century stained glass died out, and did not again revive until the nineteenth century. Mr. Jeffery went on to explain that a window should be part of a building, and should not be treated as a picture or wall decoration. If a man attempted a picture he spoiled his material as glass and made a very bad picture. The lecturer described the different methods of manufacture. He said that English glass was superior to foreign, both in material and workmanship. The most important point in a window, in his opinion, was permanency, and only the most permanent of colours should be used, at whatever cost. Speaking of domestic glass he did not think the modern style was a passing fancy, but that it had come to stay, but like all other transitions in art at the outset it seemed to have been let louse, and we appeared to be seeking after something we could not quite grasp. But the style would ultimately settle down and find its own level. He was eagerly looking forward to the time when there would not be so much commercialism in connection with artistic crafts, and hoped architects in the near future would come more into contact with the craftsmen, and by their joint ideas succeed in raising the standard of work.

