<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" LINEAR PERSPECTIVE " author="">LINEAR PERSPECTIVE.



At a recent meeting of the Association Section of the Edinburgh Architectural Association Mr. Robert F'. Sherar, gave an interesting lecture on linear perspective illustrated by photography. After briefly tracing the history of the science from the conventional representations of the ancient Egyptians to the finished realism of the Middle Ages, he said that the researches in the science as such had been practically exhausted by Dr. Brook Taylor and successive writers in the eighteenth century; however, it was always possible to improve on the methods of stating facts and of teaching. The lecturer condemned the confusion of ideas expressed by the somewhat ambiguous term "picture-plane," and then discussed a few questions arising perennially from this confusion. Among these questions was that

this he laid down the rule that the perspective appearance depended on the position of the spectator, and on this only; and that the perspective image depended on the surface on which it was delineated, whether it was a picture-plane vertical or otherwise, or a picture curved as a panorama, &c.

In dealing with the distance a spectator should be from the object in order to produce an agreeable result, he showed three very interesting photographs of the east end of Prince Street with the Calton Hill in the distance, and said he had often heard it remarked that photography did not give correct perspective of distant hills, &c., as it always rendered them too small. The first photograph above referred to showed the Calton Hill about a quarter of the height of the buildings, the second showed it the same height, and the third showed































































OFFICERS' SQUARE, FREDERICTON, N. B., SHOWING SOME OF THE MAGNIFICENT ELMS WHICH ADORN THE STREETS



of vertical parallel lines converging towards a vanishing point as they receded from a spectator. Having proceeded so far in a critical manner, he then described the different uses and applications of the science as an aid to the architect or painter, and with the aid of photographs taken for the purpose he very lucidly described the elementary conditions on which the science depended and was distinguished between the perspective appearance of objects as seen and the perspective image as drawn on paper. He showed two photographs of the same building taken from the same spot which were quite different in the perspective lines, and explained that they were both equally correct records of the perspective appearance as we saw it, but records only. To prove this he then showed a photograph of the first of these two pictures taken with the camera placed in front of it, so that its image fell on the left-hand side of the photographic plate instead of the right-hand side, and the result was the same as the second picture. From

it twice the height. This, he said, all depended on the distance the spectator or photographer was from the object to be represented, The choice of the distance was one of the most important preliminaries of picturemaking, whether by photography or other means. He agreed with all the later writers on perspective that no rule could be laid down except in a general way in order to guide the artist, the conditions varying so much in each individual case. He laid great stress, however, on the fact that these conditions should be thoroughly understood, and said they were the very things that were not clearly defined in modern books on perspective.



It is announced that Mr. Louis Hebert, the Canadian sculptor, will soon return to Montreal to reside permanently.

Mr. S. G. Curry, architect, who at the last municipal elections was elected a member of the Toronto City Council, is doing excellent service. As an illustration may be cited his business-like resolution for an appropriation of $50,000 by the Council for the purchase of fuel to be sod at cost to the citizens.

