<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XV. -—No. 178.	OCTOBER, 1902.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Pair of Semi-detached Houses, Toronto.—Chadwick & Beckett, Architects.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

An Architect s Tomb.

Old Government House, Fredericton, N. B.

Officers' Square, Fredericton, N. B.

Plans for a Moderate Cost House.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Photogravure Plate—Cathedral, Fredericton, N. B.—Messrs. Butterfield, London, and Wiles, Exeter, Architects.

Photogravure Plate—Fountain in Public Gardens, Halifax, Nova Scotia.

Designs for Metal Signs—by G. S. Lemasnie.

St. Hilda's College, Toronto.—Eden Smith, Architect.







CONTENTS

Editorial	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	. 117-118 By' the Way	123

A Time Saving Device for Contractors and Architects 	119	The Cathedral at Fredericton, N.B				123

Will the Coal Famine Affect heating Methods? . 	[20	An Architect's Tomb				124-125

Architectural Education at University Colleges, Liverpool	121	Correspondence 				£27

Linear Perspective	£22	Building Progress in the Northwest	. 			£28

Competition for McKinley Memorial . . . 	123	The Production of Building Materials	for 1901			ix

Greek Columns	123







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE,

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.







<article title=" Toronto Building By-laws " author="">Toronto Building By-laws.

IT is gratifying to learn that at last, presumably as a result of the loss of several firemen's lives by falling walls



at the recent fire in a warehouse on Front street, action has been taken towards putting the building by-laws of Toronto in a more satisfactory condition. The Council have appointed Mr. A. F. Wickson, an exPresident of the Ontario Association of Architects, the City Commissioner and the Chief of the Fire Department, to revise the by-laws and recommend necessary amendments thereto. These gentlemen should and no doubt do know what changes are required to bring the by-laws up-to-date. They- are now so far behind the times, that their proper amendment will involve considerable research and labor on the part of the Commission. We trust however that the subject will receive at their hands the attention which its importance demands, and above all that the Council will lese no time in adopting their recommendations and having the same printed in convenient form for the use of architects, builders and the citizens generally.





THE fact is coming to be generally recognized that Labor Unions should be held responsible for losses sustained by employers by reason of interference by the Unions with their workmen, or the boycotting of their

<article title=" Fixing the Responsibility of Labor Unions " author="">Fixing the Responsibility of Labor Unions,

goods. A case in point is that of the Metallic Roofing Company, of Toronto. Because of a difficulty which recently arose between this Company and their employees, the Tinsmiths' Union have organized a boycott of their goods. The company have brought an action for damages in the courts against members of the Union individually, as well as against the Union collectively, with the object of finding out to what extent they can legally be held responsible. The result of this action will he watched with much interest by employers. If it should be decided that there is no legal redress to be obtained against the Unions or their member, then application will no doubt he made to Parliament to enact legislation under which labor organizations could be held responsible and liable for any damage or loss which their actions might entail. Meanwhile an organization of employers in all lines for defensive purposes has been formed.







A MOST remarkable case involving the legality of a building site, has just been adjudicated on at Gore Bay, Ont.

Action was brought by the ratepayers of school section 2 of the Township of Allan to secure a declaration of the courts establishing the legal school site of the section upon a certain lot, known as " the old site."

<article title=" Establishing a Building Site in Law " author="">Establishing a Building Site in Law.

