<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" WEATHER-TIGHT WINDOWS " author="Ward, B. M.">WEATHER-TIGHT WINDOWS.*

By <person>B. M. WARD</person>.



Which are the best methods of preventing windows leaking (water and air) under strong and prolonged pressure of wind and rain ?

That is the subject of my paper, which is not meant to instruct you, but to draw out the ideas and opinions of those present. I want to know what is to be done to keep a window weather-tight under the most extraordinary conditions.

In the first place let us consider the junction of the  frame and the brick or stonework at the jambs, head

I have not seen the idea exploited, but it seems to me that a metal tongue for stone, or a cement roll for brick, terra cotta or concrete, would be a good thing (d, d, d in sheets A, B and c). In my opinion the weather side or metal bar or cement roll would be better exposed to the weather and air (A and B; d), and I think the same would apply to the sill weather-bar (B and c) ; even if the bar or roll were omitted, the mere grooves would be helpful as "air hollows." This arrangement of the bar or roll would be of very little value if the frame were in front of a reveal. I have also shown a further groove in the solid frames (f f f,















































































SASH WINDOWS-—SHEET A.



and sills. Bed the frame in hairmortar, you say. Is this sufficient, especially if the bedding is not very well built ? It is very difficult to bed a frame really well. Moreover, under the varying temperatures, this bedding draws away either from the frame or from the brickwork (or stonework) ; little cracks occur ; then in a big storm the wind, if prolonged, will force water through, and the trouble has begun.

Put a weather-bar between the sills (see e e e, sheets A, B, c) ? Good hut what about the jambs, to say nothing of the head ? Here crops up the question as to whether the window frame should be fixed in front of, or behind a reveal, In this there is plenty of food for discussion. I leave the meal to you.

* A paper read before the Liverpool Architectural Society on March 3rd,

1902

A, B and c), and this serves a double (or triple) purpose. It forms an emergency air-cushion, preventing the further ingress of forced air ; it exposes more of the frame itself to the air and so lessens the chance of rotting ; and thirdly, by its use less of the girth of the frame comes in contact with the bedding, itself an inducement to rotting ; moreover in this connection the smaller the amount of contact between frame and beding the better the chance of the bedding being made even and homogeneous.

I have also shown (g g g, A, B and c) " the breakwater feature " of Mr. <person>Campbell Douglas</person>, advocated in an article of his on ''Specification." I have slightly modified it. <person>Mr. Douglas</person> maintains that the fury of the storm will expend itself on this fillet, and only a

