<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



have all surplus cement removed, then paint the joints three or four coats with some one of the well-known enamel paints to the tint required. This will make a good job, if properly done.





From " Young Un."—How should " staved" wainscot be finished around a window when the sill or stool of the latter drops below top of wainscoting? In the case alluded to, the sills are 6 inches below the noseing and curve on top of wainscoting.

ANS—We show at Fig. 2, the proper method of finishing the work at the window. The cap of wainscot returns down the architrave or casing to the window-stool, the latter projecting over the window-stool sufficiently to receive it clear of the curve of the winding of the stool.



From " Builder."—I have taken a contract to build a church, which is to be 30 feet wide, and as there are no architect's plans to follow, only a few pencil sketches made by one of the trustees, I must trust to my own skill in the construction of the roof. The ceiling will

























FIG. 4., <building>CHURCH ROOF SECOND DESIGN</building>.





be carried about 6 feet above the plates, and as it will have a scissors truss, the timbers forming the truss will form a part of the ceiling, a collar beam forming the flat ceiling. The whole building is to be built of scantling, lathed and plastered inside and rough-casted on the outside. Could you offer a design or two for a suitable roof for such a building

ANS.—At Figs. 3 and 4, we show two designs for roof trusses that are in common use in the west, both of which are quite good in their way, as both are built up with very light timbers. The design shown at Fig. 3' is perhaps the stiffer of the two, being made of heavier timber than Fig. 4, but the latter is easier framed, and contains less material, but this will necessarily require more of them in the length of the building. if properly put together, either of them is strong enough to carry all the load that will remain on them and resist the thrust at the walls. It would be a good plan, however, to nail on the roofing boards diagonally, as this would help to strengthen the whole truss work  materially



<firm>The Dominion Radiator Co. of Toronto</firm>, is sending out an exceedingly handsome calendar

<article title="Hollow Walls With Iron Ties" author="Mitchell, G. S.">

<assoc>The Hamilton Master Plumbers Association </assoc>held their first annual banquet at <building>the Waldorf hotel</building>, Hamilton, on the evening of January 27th, the president, <person>Mr. A. Rogers</person>, presiding. A handsome ring, suitably engraved, was presented by Mr. <person>W. J. Welsh</person>, the retiring president, to Mr. <person>W. D. Smith</person>, in appreciation of his valuable services to thc Association. The occasion was a most enjoyable one, and was participated in by a number of Toronto plumbers and representatives of supply firms

HOLLOW WALLS WITH IRON TIES.*



Hollow or " cavity" walls should be employed for external work in all situations where damp is likely to be caused by driving rain, the aspect most particularly to be protected in this way being the south-west. Much may be done in mitigation of dampness caused by driving rain by training creepers and ivy on the walls, or by planting quick-growing shrubs and trees to afford shelter. In this connection perhaps the most useful tree to plant is the Austrian pine, as its rapid growth and compact habit soon cause it form a good barrier to the wind. is also a good guard and may be planted when rather of large size, but it is apt to be injured by frost and is not in any case very long-lived.

Cavity walls are particularly needed in the south of England, where the use of porous clamp-burnt bricks is so general. The writer has seen water from driving rain streaming down the inside of 0 4½in. wall built of these bricks when the wind-pressure prevented it running down the outside.

Hollow wills may be of brick or stone with a cavity of from 2in. to 2 ½in. in width, and though the special wall-ties of stoneware or purpose-made bricks are good and clean in work, it is more usual to employ cast-iron or wrought-iron ties, of various patterns, spaced at about 36in. horizontally and 12 in. vertically—wrought-iron ties are preferable to cast-iron as they are less liable to fracture should a slight settlement occur in the wall.

Speaking generally, the principle of construction of hollow walls is that the water penetrating the outer casing of the wall shall either run down the inner face of the exterior skin or drop off the ties to the bottom of the cavity. To effect this, care must be taken that neither by the construction nor by the form of the tie shall a bridge be made from the external to the internal half of the wall. Both halves of the wall should be founded equally, and for the purpose it is desirable that their footings should be common to both.

To carry success it is necessary

i. That the ties should either have a V drip in the centre or be double twisted, as shown in Fig. I, which latter is the author's favourite form of wrought-iron wall-tie. About 230 of these ties weigh cwt. and cost sixteen shillings.

2. That the outer skin should never be allowed to get even fractionally higher than the interior skin, or the ties will have an inclination inwards and disaster is bound to result.

3. That no mortar should lodge on the ties during construction ; should mortar so falling remain upon the ties it will nullify the drip of the tie and will draw damp across to the inner casing by capillary attraction.

To obviate the chance of this, laths or hay-bands should be employed and drawn up as the work proceeds, and if it should happen that mortar has accidentally lodged on any uncovered tie, a long lath should be inserted to poke it oft' before the building gets too far advanced. Otherwise it may probably become necessary to cut the wall (from the inside of the building, for the sake of appearance) at that place ; whenever a roundish dark spot appears on the plaster of such a wall it is conclusive evidence either that a tie at that spot is [lot clean or that it has not been built fairly in

* By <person>G. S. Mitchell</person>, F.S.I. in the Builders' Journal.

