<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BRITISH STANDARD FIRE RESISTING RULES " author="">BRITISH STANDARD FIRE RESISTING RULES.



The British Fire Offices Committee, which represents the whole of the Tariff Fire Insurance Offices, have issued the following rules for standard fire-resisting buildings:— HEIGHT AND CUBICAL CONTENTS.—I. Height not to exceed



8o ft. measured from the lowest point of the land level or ground line of the site on which the building stands to the level of the highest part of the roof'.



2.	Cubical contents of any one compartment not to exceed 6o,-

000 cub. ft.



NB—In computing the cubical contents of a compartment, the floor area, excluding doorway and window recesses, and the actual height from floor to ceiling are to be measured Due deduction may be made for a sloping roof.



WALLS AND PARTITIONS.—3. Brick, terra-cotta and (Or) cement-concrete composed of broken brick, burnt ballast, furnace slag, clinker or other similar hard and burnt material.

4.	No external area or party-wall to be less than 13-in. thick in any part, or if of concrete 20-in.



N.H.—Stone used externally only as ashlaring or fencing, with a backing of brickwork not less than 13-In. thick, and for dressings, sills, strings courses and cornices allowed.



5.	All internal partitions to be of incombustible material, excepting only office enclosures of hard non-resinous wood with or without glazing.



6.	If there is any building adjoining, the dividing or party-wall to extend at least 3 ft. above the roof of the fire-resisting building.

FLUES.--7. All flue, to be built of brickwork no part of which towards the interior of the building is to be less than 9--in. thick and all furnace flues to be lined with fire-brick throughout for a  distance of at least 20 ft. from the furnace. No timber of woodwork or rest in or be plugged into the brickwork of any flue.

OPENINGS IN WALLS.—8. The total superficial area of openings in each external or area wall of any storey above the ground

storey not to exceed one-halt of the area of the wall (measured as to height from floor to ceiling of the storey in which the openings occur). All loop-hole or teagle doors and frames and window-frames and sashes to be of iron or other hard metal. All windows above the ground storey to be glazed with glass not less than ¼-in. thick in sections not larger than 2 ft. super., or wired glass not exceeding ¼ mesh in sections not larger than 4-ft. super.

9.	Every window or other opening above the ground storey opposing (whether directly or diagonally) and within 20-ft. of any window, skylight or glazed or other opening in any other building (whether such latter window, skylight or opening be protected or not), or overlooking (whether directly or diagonally) and within 20-ft, of the roof of any building, to be protected by "fireproof shutters or "fireproof" doors.

FLOORS.—10.. Brick arches, terra-cotta, fire-clay or concrete as above described, the floor being in no part less than 6-in. in thickness, and carried on metal joists, girders and columns, or brick walls or piers.

N.H—Floors of wood not less than 9-in. thick sealed with plaster on metal lathing and with the floor boards laid on the bearers without intervening space allowed.



II.	Wooden flooring laid on concrete allowed provided there is no space between the wood and the concrete. Wooden fillets not exceeding 2 in. deep permitted if bedded flush in the concrete

12.	Scuppers to carry off water, the opening of each of which shall not be less in area than 21 in. super., to be provided in the external walls to each floor above the ground storey at intervals of not more than 12 ft.



N.	B—In buildings within the city of London within the area controlled by the London County Council scuppers are not essential



ROOFS, —-13. Roofs to be entirely of the incombustible materials as described for floors in Rule 10, except that 4 in. be substituted for 6 in. in thickness







The Canadian General Electric Company, limited

Motors Which Run Canadian Business

Toronto, Ontario



