<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION 



[Communications sent to this department MUST be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will. nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance]





From "Builder :" 1 have a difficult roof to put on a house which has five gables, and no two gables are of the same pitch. There are valleys, hips and common rafters. What I want is some rule by which I can lay out my rafters, so that the differences in pitch at the junction of the roofs will not make any " bad breaks" in the roof. Any information on the subject will be appreciated ?

ANS.—In replying to this request, owing to not having before us a definite plan of the roof, we can only give a general rule for meeting the problems that will arise in the construction and joining of roofs having different pitches. The following diagrams and explanations cover the whole ground, and will, no doubt, suffice for the purposes of our inquirer. At Fig. I we show a plan having different pitches. Draw A B

































and B C, to represent the ridges of the roofs of the main building and wing. Draw E D and E F, representing the outside edge of the wall plate. Suppose E D to he 8 feet from B A, thus representing the half width of main building, and let E F be 7 feet from B C, or in other words, the half width of wing. Draw H C and H D, say 15 inches from E D and E F respectively, to represent the projection of the cornice. Draw H L, II B and H M, respectively the sides of main rafter, valley rafter and wing rafter. From these lines square off the rise, which we will suppose to he one-third pitch, on the main building, equal to 6 ft. 2 inches, as shown by L 0, B P and M R. Joining the extremities of these lines with H we get the lengths and plumb cuts of the several rafters.

was hinged to the valley rafter and the whole flattened out.

Draw H 0 and H R, representing the lengths of main, valley and wing rafters, and P R and P 0 the seat of main and wing rafters, then the angles 0 P H and R P H give the horizontal cut for jack rafters on main and wing sides of valley respectively.



































Fig. 3 shows the plan of a portion of the roof at foot of rafters on a larger scale. The letters in this figure correspond with those used in Fig. I On each side of the line B H draw a line parallel with it, and supposing the valley rafter to be 3 inches thick, make the distance between the lines inches. Join E H.



























It will be seen that the valley rafter does not fall directly over the corner of the plate. The joint in the soffit or planeer lies directly under the line E H therefore in backing the underside of this rafter or triangular piece comes off of the wide side and a trapezoidal piece off the main side.

Referring to the construction of the roof, it is sup-

















Fig. 2 shows the development of the surface. it shows the roof as it would appear if the jack rafter

posed the valley rafter is three inches thick, or it may be made of two pieces 2 inches thick and spiked together, which would make a better job, and could be backed better.

Figs. 4, 5 and 6 show the side elevation of rafters, and corresponding letters in the several figures refer

