<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" COMPETITION FOR McKINLEY MEMORIAL " author="">COMPETITION FOR McKINLEY MEMORIAL.



Charles J. Cohen, Secretary of Committee, 320 South Broad Street, Philadelphia, invites competitive designs until March 2nd, 1903, for a memorial to the late President McKinley. The memorial is to cost $30,000 and is to include a portrait statue with suitable accessory architectural features. Five premiums of $500 each are offered. The author of the successful design will be given the execution of the work if in the Judgment of the Committee he be competent. The designs are to he shown by models to a scale of one and one-half inches to the foot. The jury of award is composed of Wilson Eyre, jun., Theophilus P. Chandler, Edward H. Coates, Charles E. Dana, J. Q. A. Ward, Paul Bartlett and Frank Miles Day.



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



The rumor that an American Building Trust is to be formed with a capital of $66,000, 000, to undertake the reconstruction of old London, has inspired the following from Punch:— Say, are you sure that your Combine

(Or is it Combine?) will be grounded

In all the classes of design

With which we love to be surrounded?

Can you, for instance, emulate

Our Ludgate Bridges gorgeous gilding,

Erect the Fleet Street Griffin's maze,

Or beat the Admiralty building?



Can you prepare us plans to rank

With British Art's supreme creations?

Could you have built the Birkbeck Bank,

Or Paddington and King's Cross Stations?

Will you, when decorating walls

(like some with whom were well acquainted), Declare the frescoes in St. Paul's

Are not so bad as they are painted?



If so, we greet you—oh, but stay,

It's only right for us to mention

That others in the building way

Are giving us their best attention,

And so we fear you cannot come,

Unless the Trust that you announce 'II

Put by a fairly handsome sum

To pension off the County Council.





The City Hall tower which is the most prominent architectural feature of Toronto, has narrowly escaped destruction by lightning. An electric discharge struck the apex, destroying the terra cotta finial and tearing off a considerable quantity of the tiling. Mr. E. J. Lennox, the architect of the building is reported as having said that he does not approve of placing a lightning rod on the tower. The most direct way to ground would be down the face of the tower which would be a disfigurement. It carried to ground over the roof of the building the rod might prove a menace to the whole structure. An attempt to protect the building would probably require the placing of conductors at numerous points. There is an old adage, to the effect, that "lightning never strikes twice in the same place". If true, the City Hall may be now considered safe for the future. The subject of the protection of buildings from lightning is one on which there appears to be great lack of exact information. It would be interesting to know with certainty whether a tall building, or projecting features such as towers and spires, are more liable to lightning attack than dwellings and other buildings of ordinary height. The fact that the recently destroyed Campanile at Venice was on numerous occasions damaged by lightning is evidence in favor of the theory that height adds to the danger. It will be remembered that soon after its

erection the top of the Washington Monument was damaged by lightning, whereupon it was surrounded by a number of lightning conductors and has since escaped attack. Whether or not its immunity is due to the protecting device is of course an open question. On the other hand the results of ordinary observation would seem to prove that height has nothing to do with the matter as apparently low structures are as frequently struck as high ones. It is no doubt true that a building may be protected by means of lightning conductors, if they are sufficient in number and properly constructed to carry off the discharge, but if not, they are but an additional source of danger.



<article title=" THE CATHEDRAL AT FREDERICTON N.B." author="">THE CATHEDRAL AT FREDERICTON N.B.



This building, an illustration of which is given in the present number, is a conspicuous feature of the capital of New Brunswick. It occupies a trangular site of considerable size in the centre of the city, and is surrounded by some of the magnificent elms which adorn the streets.

The structure is entirely of stone with the exception of the spire, which is of wood covered with metal. The architects were Messrs. Butterfield, of London and Wiles, of Exeter. The dimensions are length, 159 feet, breath across transepts, 70 feet, height of roof 62 feet, height of spire, 178 feet. in the tower are hung a chime of eight bells, weighing 2800 pounds, cast by Warner, of London.

The windows are of stained glass, chiefly by Wailes, of Newcastle-on-Tyne. Those in the north and south aisles, recently placed, are by Clayton & Ball The pews are of butternut arid the pulpit of oak. The many handsome gifts to the Cathedral include an elaborately carved stone font, a brass lectern, carpet of needlework, altar cloth, alms dishes, communion plate, and a Bible presented by King Edward on the occasion of his visit when Prince of Wales.

The Cathedral was begun in 1845 and completed in 1853, the founder being Bishop Medley, first Bishop of New Brunswick whose marble cenotaph occupies a place in the transept.



<article title=" GREEK COLUMNS " author="">GREEK COLUMNS.

So far from employing pedestals to columns, which some have considered as forming as essential a part of an order as the entablature, the Greeks placed their columns immediately on the floor or uppermost step, the whole temple being generally raised on a low platform, to which the ascent was usually by three deep steps or grading serving as a base to the edifice; the depth of the steps was not accommodated to the human stature, but regulated so as to accord with the dimensions of the column. It is therefore conjectured that either a sloping platform of wood or lesser steps of the same material were employed as the real ascent to the temple. The Greeks invariably placed their columns singly, never in pairs, as has frequently been done by modern architects, and which, if not utterly indefensible, ought never to be resorted to unless required by positive necessity; for instance, where wider inter columns than the scale of the order will properly admit are required; in which case, by affording additional support to the entablature, coupled columns not only excuse the width of the intervals, but take away the air of poverty that would result from single columns placed at the same distance from each other. Coupled columns are most of all offensive when forming a prostyle colonnade, especially if it he one with a pediment, since that disposition approximates so closely to that ot the front of an ancient temple as to render any incongruity the more striking.

