<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



Arrangements are in progress for the Annual Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, the dates for which are the 13TH and 14TH of January. As usual the sessions will he held in the Association Rooms at 94 King Street West, Toronto.

Among the papers to be presented will be one by Prof. Shortt, of Toronto University, the subject of which has not been announced, also one by Mr. E. C. Shankland, C. E., of Chicago, Ill. on "Modern Constructive Methods."

The Council are in correspondence with other gentlemen outside of the Association, and expect to be in a position shortly to announce other interesting papers by well known authors.

An interesting and instructive address is looked for from the retiring President, Mr. W. A. Langton, who has been connected with and deeply interested in the Association from its inception.



NOTES.



The Hughes Owens Co., Limited, of Montreal, whose card appears in another column have just installed a plant for the manufacture of blue and black print papers and also electric copying machines by which blue or black prints may be taken

in from two to three minutes any time of the day. Those desiring up-to-date goods would find it to their advantage to send for samples



In a case heard recently in the Court of Session, Edinburgh, a draughtsman was giving evidence, when the opposing counsel asked: "Do you draw everything larger than it realty ought to be? The reply came promptly: "Everything but my salary."



The Amherstburg Stone Quarry, situated at Amherstburg Ont., are making extensive and valuable improvements to their great plant. Over 200 men are now employed in getting out block and building stone of all sizes and dimensions. The quality and strength is above the standard required by thc Government for public works in Canada. They are doing an immense trade in crushed stone and limestone. All this is due, so the Amherstburg people say, to the energetic manager, Mr. T.W. Bellhouse. A representative of this journal was shown over this plant—the enormous amount of great dimension blocks in sight was a wonder. Some of this has gone to the Sault St. Marie canal works. Railway tracks now run right into the quarry which has been constituted a regular railway station. Mr. Bellhouse is to be congratulated upon the success of the company.







BUILDERS' HARDWARE AND

CONTRACTORS' SUPPLIES.

AIKENHEAD HARDWARE LIMITED

	PHONE MAIN 3800.	6 Adelaide St. E. Toronto





The Canada Paint Company, limited

"elephant" brand of white paint

Montreal and Toronto



William J. Hynes, 

Contractor and plasterer

Toronto



The Hughes Owens Company, limited

Mount royal and iris brand blue print paper

Montreal



The Amherstburg Stone Quarry

Building stone

Amherstburg, Ontario



The Queen City plate Glass and Mirror Company, limited

Plate and window glass, mirrors

Toronto, Ontario



The York Manufacturing Company, limited

Laundry machinery

Toronto



The Thomas Forrester Company, limited

FAB-RI-KO-NA woven wall coverings

Montreal, Canada



