<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



We mark the weather when its hot,



We talk of cold and rain,

Perhaps all this attention's what

Has made the weather-vane.—Philadelphia Press.



Messrs. Thos. Mowbray & Son, 284 King street east, Toronto, have designed and executed an oak tablet erected in memory of the late Rev. Dr. Scadding, first rector of Holy Trinity Church. It is in fourteenth century decorative Gothic style.



The demolition of the old Parliament Buildings on Front street west, Toronto, removes one of the oldest historical buildings of that city. The structure constituted the third Parliament house for Toronto and was occupied in 1832, being until 1841 the home of the Legislature of Upper Canada. In 1839 it was the court house, in 1846 King's College and Medical School, from 1853 to 1855 it was Toronto University in 1848-9 an asylum for the insane, from 1849 to 1851 the Parliament House for the Province of Canada, from 1861 to 1867 military barracks, and from 1867 to 1892 it was occupied by the Legislature of the Province of Ontario.



Regarding the heating methods in vogue in Great Britain, the Contract Journal remarks :—-Nowhere, perhaps is the unscientific and wasteful method of heating buildings by means of open grates so general as in this country, and as for ventilating, our only consolation is the knowledge that unscientific methods are more universal. As regards the heating problem, improvement on the now prevailing method is the inevitable outcome of dearer fuel, and it will find a ready solution when economy in fuel consumption becomes an absolute necessity. Until then the conservative and sentimental spirit with which we, individually and as a nation, seem to be unduly imbued, will, no doubt, maintain in vogue a system which involves imparting a maximum amount of heat to exterior walls and chimneys to no useful purpose, and a minimum of beat in the direction required.



The Wadleigh High School, N. Y. City, about completed, has some 800 "Frink" cluster reflectors which are the standard type of the N. V. Board of Education. The additional fixtures in this building consisting of ceiling coronas with bent glass doors, and arch reflectors were all furnished by this firm. Their catalogue fully illustrates and describes their fixtures and is intended

to reach every architect who has occasion to specify lighting fixtures for stores churches or public buildings.





Don Valley Brick Works

Fine grade pressed brick

Toronto, Ontario



The Canadian Bridge Company, limited

Steel buildings, roof trusses

Walkerville, Ontario



The James Morrison Brass manufacturing Company, limited

Gas and electric chandeliers

Toronto, Ontario

