<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" RED LEAD AND LINSEED OIL " author="Vaillant, A.">RED LEAD AND LINSEED OIL.



By <person>A. VAILLANT</person>



A special event has led me to consider the reasons which in former days lead to the use of red lead, and lately of colcothar (improperly called minium of iron) for protecting iron from rusting. This protection of the metal from the effects of damp and acids has always been a subject of great interest for builders, but for all that I have found no trace of works showing any sign of that interest, and builders appear to me to have been content with the old traditions of the utility of red lead.

Our colleagues in the N. of France think that it is unnecessary to paint iron which is shut up in masonry and sheltered from the weather, but others think that it cannot be regarded as being protected from damp, even Linder those circumstances, and that it should therefore be always painted with red lead.

There is no process which gives complete security from the weather to ironwork exposed in the open air. If they are oil painted, the painting has to be renewed and renewed until all details are smothered. Enamel scales off. Browning only acts as a very temporary preservative. Horn used hot with oil is still the best, but I have been unable to obtain any information about this singular process.

It is said that red lead and linseed oil form, in marked contrast to colcothar, asphalt, or coal tar, a composition which adheres very tightly to iron and has no action on it. The red lead coat does not crack in drying or after drying. It does not blister or flake off. When the painting has to he renewed it is not neces— sary to remove the old colour, and the other applications have to be scraped off, so that the new coat of asphalt, &c., can be put on a clean metallic surface.

The qualities essential for a protective coating for iron are impermeability, adherence, and elasticity. It must respond without rupture to the expansion and contraction of the surface which it covers, The red lead coating being a had conductor of heat lessens these variations, so less call is made than would otherwise be the case on its elasticity.

Red lead is applied to ships' bottoms in the following manner: The iron is first made clean with hydrochloric acid and the vigorous use of rotary wire brushes. It is then rinsed with water and rubbed dry. It is then painted with the red lead and oil, which is first made into a thick viscid paste, which will keep several days without hardening. Just before use this paste is thinned with oil till it can be conveniently applied with the brush. Twenty-two gallons of colour contain one hundred weight of linseed oil and 400 lbs. of red load , and will cover 120 square yards for the first coat and 144 for the second.

The proper preparation of the surface to be protected is of the first. importance, while the other essential is that he composition should be good. Now builders pay attention to neither of these points. They clean the iron perfunctorily, or, which is just as useful, they don't clean it at all, and the)' paint it with inferior qualities of red lead, often adulterated with ochre or even with brickdust Such alteration will remain undissolv— ed if the suspected pigment is boiled in a solution of sugar acidulated with nitric acid, which dissolves minimum rapidly.

Iron forged at an engineer's and brought to build ing is left about in all sorts of weathers, and as above

stated is imperfectly cleaned or not cleaned at all, and then painted with inferior red lead. Besides, careless work leaves joints insufficiently protected by the paint, and as 5001) as rust gets hold in a joint, the work is as good as ruined; as much ironwork on out-door carpentry testifies.

Although it must have been evident from the beginning of the use of iron its tendency to rust was its great drawback no success seems to have been achieved in its protection until the revival of oil painting by <person>Van Eyck</person>, and the discovery that linseed oil had the power of drying in the air and covering surfaces with an impermeable coating At a time when every painter prepared his own colours and made all manner of experiments, it was quite natural that the increased drying power conferred on linseed oil should have been found out. No doubt the early attempts to prevent iron from rusting were confined to greasing it, and once the effect of lead on linseed oil had been observed it was not a great step to paint iron with red lead and oil. But 50 far as I know no systematic attempts have ever been made to establish clearly the conditions of painting iron with red lead and oil to compare its results with those of the antirust methods. <person>Cloez</person> did something towards it when he showed that the drying of oil was due to absorption of oxygen, and the influence of light, heat, and extent of surface on that absorption. There is very little oxidization of an oil by the air in the dark, and less with coloured light than with daylight, and less at low than at high temperatures. The special capacity of linseed oil in painting has thus been defined, but it is very doubtful whether that can be said of the bodies which are mixed with it, and which seem merely to give opacity and consistency.

It is unfortunate that the great difference in price among oils and the great difficulties in the way of recognizing then) when mixed together are the cause of much adulteration. Chemists have long been trying to find out means of satisfactorily analyzing mixtures of oils, and it cannot yet be said that they have been entirely successful. The difficulty lies in the close similarity between the composition of different oils, and in the fact that tests which give a sharp reaction with a pure oil do not do so in mixtures containing it.

Hence the exaggerated demand for special siccatives. Some there are of these which can be of service when used with prudence and with reference to some particular object to be attained, but unless used in very small quantities they lessen the adhesion of the paint, and create a tendency in it to scale off, by making it less elastic and hence less conformable to the effects of changes of temperature upon the metal.

Insufficient cleaning of the surfaces to be painted, and the use of other applications than red lead and linseed oil, are probably between them responsible for most of the failures experienced in iron-painting. However that may be, there can be no doubt that red lead and linseed form a very suitable composition for protecting iron. Recent researches tend to show that an actual compound of linseed oil and a minium, a sort ot lead-soap, resembling India rubber, is formed. These researches also controvert a curious objection which has been made to painting iron with red lead. It has been said that the painted iron suffers by reason of a

