<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



their greater age, less satisfactory than those on type A The tests on piers at paving bricks, Nos. 38 to 43, gave the

highest resistance of all brick piers the low result obtained with No. 43 is evidently due to the poor workmanship of this specimen. The behavior of the paving bricks was interesting, inasmuch as very fine cracks became visible even under low pressure, which is probably due to the rigidity of the material and to an incomplete uniformity of distribution of pressure The figures in the table correspond to somewhat wider cracks, which would indicate the beginning of failure. The behavior of the piers of hollow bricks, Nos. 44 to 49, made a favorable impression they showed great uniformity. The proportion of the mortar used proved here, as in the case of the quarry-stone masonry, to have an influence on the results, and, the same as in the case cited, the piers composed of the three blocks, Nos. 48 and 49, gave correspondingly less favorable results. But it must be remarked that the hollow spaces of the individual bricks were completely filled with mortar, so that the whole body formed one solid mass.

The tests of pier-bricks and common bricks closed the series of tests of brick masonry, their strength being lower than the above-mentioned varieties. Each series of the former showed corresponding uniformity, though the difference in mortar proportion in tests Nes. to did not become apparent. Failure in both eases occurred quite rapidly. As in the stone masonry, the brick masonry showed cracks fully independent of the joints. Figure 10, and here also wedge-shaped bodies remained standing after the collapse.



Attempts to measure the compressibility of the bodies gave no useful results it was, however, established in some cases that in a guaged distance of 700 millimeters the compression reached a maximum of one millimeter. In other cases no measureable compression was found with the instrument used, which read to o. r of a millimeter. Frequently the collapse was so rapid that no measurement was possible. In order to make theoretic use of the amount of compression better instruments for measuring the same would have been necessary which could well be had for laboratory tests, but not under the given circumstances.

To the conclusions and remarks already made above the following may be added With few exceptions the tests have proved the great strength of masonry, compared to which the usual allowable working stresses appear to be very small. The influence of age did not prove, alter the expiration of a given time, as important as it is generally held to be on the other hand the proportion of the mixture of the mortar used showed its influence on a whole series of tests. The tests of piers composed of artificial blocks type B, give, as a rule, worse results than the similar results of piers of type A, made in one piece. This was due to the fact that the smaller artificial units were weakened by the manipulations of their laying after a hardening of four weeks. With materials of equally good quality the value and strength of our structures is in first time dependent on their workmanship during construction.

The usual tests of stone and mortar separately cannot be regarded as satisfactory and sufficient to base on them a reliable conclusion as to the strength of the mass composed of them. It is best in all cases of considerable structures to undertake the tests on masonry blocks of as great dimensions as possible.

Table II give the average compressive strength at the instant of failure of the various kinds of masonry tested. They have been deduced from the above results for Portland cement mortar three to four months old. It should be remarked that the compressive resistance atone is not decisive for the excellence and suitability of the different types of construction.

<article title=" Average Compressive Stress in Pounds per Square " author="">

Table ll.—Average Compressive Stress in Pounds per Square



Resistance.

8,110

3,550



2,560

1,780

925



711



3,840

3,550

2,845

2,130



1,640

No. i—The test of sandstone ashlar masonry was omitted as

	Kind of masonry.

	n.	Ashlar masonry of granite    

		 Quarrystone masonry	of	hard1

	3.	 sandstone in layers		J

4.

	Gravel concrete.

	J

7.	Concrete steel in one block,Type A....

8.	Masonry of paving bricks          

9.	Same of hollow bricks              

10.	Same of pier bricks                 

11.	Same of common bricks            

Mortar or

concrete.

1:2



1:2



1:3½



1:2:3



1:3:5



1:4:6

1:3



1:2



1:2

1 :2

1:2

being incomplete but. according to the above it may be taken the same as for No. 1.

No. 7.—The Monier piers of type B give, as follows from the previous table, much less favorable results.

Nos. 8 to 11 inclusive.—For the brick masonry only mortar of the proportion of  1:2 was considered after it was found that the

poorer mixture of 1:3½ did not show its influence in the series of tests.



Interesting as the above tests proved to be, it became evident that the narrow limits within which they were undertaken are not sufficient to establish clearly the behavior of masonry under stress. Researches more extensive in time and in scope are required for this purpose and only a scientific institute established for such purposes can afford an opportunity to accomplish them. No doubt the great saving which would be effected by a thorough knowledge of the materials of our structures would well repay the necessary y expenses. The above tests are only a step forward ; they are mainly intended to induce further research in this direction.



<article title="legal" author="">LEGAL



The necessity that contractors and their foremen should exercise the greatest possible care to prevent accidents and liability to themselves by reason of injury to workmen in their employ, is exemplified by a decision recently given by Mr. <person>Justice Archibald </person>in the <building>Superior Court at Montreal</building>, in the case of <person>R. A. Bureaugeau </person>v. <person>J. B. Martineau</person>. The plaintiff claimed $4,320 damages for the death of her husband, <person>David Gauthier</person>, a builders laborer in the employ of the defendant. Gauthier was killed while assisting in the operation of a derrick by an electric shock caused by the cable of the derrick coming in contact with an electric light wire just beyond the sidewalk from which building materials were being loaded on the derrick and carried back some 20 feet for use in the building of a church. The evidence showed that some days previous to the accident the foreman received a shock, and ordered a plank to be put on the sidewalk to indicate the point beyond which the tray of the derrick should not be allowed to go, hit the plank was not so arranged as to prevent the tray from going beyond it. The Judge laid special emphasis on this fact, and held that it constituted gross carelessness on the part of the foreman For the defence it was contended that Gauthier had received no orders to assist with the derrick on the morning of the accident, hut did so of his own accord while waiting for instructions. The Judge ruled out this plea on the ground that the man had been assisting with the derrick on the previous day and had received no instructions that he was not to resume former duties Judgment was given in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $2,500, half for the benefit Of the wife and half for a minor child.

<article title=" PIMPERTON V. McKENZIE " author="">

<person>PIMPERTON</person> V. <person>McKENZIE</person>—Judgment (R.) on motion by plaintiff to set aside judgment of Falconbridge, C. J., and for a new trial in action by administration of estate and mother of <person>Maurice Pimperton</person>, deceased, for damages The defendant is lessee of a wharf adjoining the basin of the Rideau Canal, in the Town of Smith's Falls, and uses a derrick erected for the purpose of unloading boats filled wit ii coal to be used by defendant in his business as a coal merchant. On May 15, 1901, deceased came upon the wharf to help unload sand from a barge, whose captain had paid $5 for the use of the wharf, when, owing, as alleged, to the negligent staying and management of the derrick by the defendant, who assumed it as a volunteer, the derrick overbalanced and fell upon the plaintiff's son and instantly killed him. The derrick was sustained by guy ropes, and defendant, it is alleged, did not fasten one securely which was untied to enable the boom to he turned to the south. The Chief Justice withdrew the case from the jury at the close of the evidence on behalf of plaintiff, on the ground that where one person charges negligent cc against another the basis of the action must lie in some duty which was due by the defendant to the plaintiff; that in this case defendant had nothing to do with the unloading of the vessel, the sand was not for him, and be had not assumed any duty, but was acting as a mere volunteer. Held, that the evidence failed to show that the defendant was ill charge of and directing the work while the derrick was being placed in position, and that the derrick and boom wet e improperly constructed and not well fitted for their intended work. Held, also, that the evidence did. not show that defendant had undertaken the duty of making fast what is called the fourth guy rope, and had failed to perform his duty, and that this was the cause of the accident. Motion dismissed with costs.

