<doctype type="text">the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATIONS" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATIONS	



 Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents but will nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance,]







From Contracting Mason :—Having some underpinning to do in ordinary brick wall which stands on the side of a hill, I should like to know which is consider-

















ed the best method of doing the work ? Will it be better to use hard burned bricks—which I would prefer

—or quarried stones for the work ?

Answer Walls may be very effectively underpinned with bricks set in Portland cement mortar. A good method of doing the work would he as follows:

Cut out a space say 3 feet wide at the base, gradually reducing the width to the height at which it is proposed the new work shall reach. Now excavate the foundations and commence the brickwork, inserting a damp course of some kind above the level of the ground. In a case of this kind, slate bedded in cement would form a pretty effective damp course, but better perhaps would he vitrified stoneware in blocks. Proceed to build up a piece of wall 3 feet long, leaving toothings at the ends, and cutting away the adjoining brickwork as the work proceeds. If considered necessary, hoop-iron bond may be inserted, the ends being bent over. The two top corners of bricks should he "headers" and made to taper about half an inch. These will form a pair of counter wedges, and a space should be left at the top of the new brickwork so that these taper









































bricks may he driven in between the new and the old work with but a small amount of cement between them. For a t4 inch wall a brick and a half will require tapering, and for an 18 inch wall two bricks will be wanted, and these must be driven in tight from both sides. These when driven in tightly, will be found much more effective than wedging with slate or tile. All joints must be broken, which will allow a

quarter of a brick lap, which will do very well Leave a space of about 3 feet, then put in a similar piece of wall, and then proceed in the same manner all round the building, arranging the spaces built so that the weight of the building shall be fairly distributed on the old and new work, and taking care to keep the courses of the new work level in order that the joints in the brickwork may work in all right without breaks. By this time the first portions of the work done will he thoroughly set, and the intermediate spaces may he built in like manner. If hoop-iron bond is used, it must run over so as to connect the work together throughout the whole wall, thus making a continuous tie. If any part of the building requires raising the work may be effected by cutting boles in the brickwork and inserting needles supported by shores well fastened. The old foundations may he used for placing the screw-jacks on which are to raise the wall. The brickwork must, of course, be removed at intervals, in order to admit of timbers to he inserted in the wall, which must rest on the heads of the screw-jacks. When the jacks are screwed up sufficiently taught to sustain the building, or that portion requiring to be raised, the needles and shores may be taken































our, and the screws worked until the sunk portion is raised to the required level. The timbers between the jacks may now be cut out, and the underpinning built. in as described, and when this work has set properly the jacks and remaining timber may be removed and the whole work finished up.



From Young Builder : -—Isn't there some way by

which a ''raking" moulding—- moulding that joins a

horizontal moulding having the same face—can be cut

in a box similar to a mitre box ?

Ans :—It is One of the impossibles to so cut a moulding having the same face so that a part. of it will ''rake" and the other part run horizontal and have the junction of the mouldings mitre so that there will be no overwood, unless the horizontal moulding is made to project over so that. the cut at the junction of mouldings will form a right angle to the edge of moulding There is a way however, by which a moulding can be cut in a box so that it will work a pretty fair joint. Reffering to the illustration Fig. t. Take a common mitre-box and make the angle A 13 C equal the pitch angle of the roof ; draw B I) at right angles to A B, making B I) equal to the width of the box C J ; make D E parallel to A B make the angle G E F equal to C B A square across the box from E to H, and from 13 to K ; join E K and B H then the cuts A 13 H and F E K will be the cuts

