<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" LIBRARY DESIGN " author="Langton, W.  A.">LIBRARY DESIGN.



In former days a library was essentially a place where books were kept ; now it is essentially a place for giving out books. The value of the volume was the original motive for building ; the value of its contents is the motive now So that a library has become a place where books are stored, safely of course, but for the main purpose of distribution on as large a scale as possible ; arid the leading idea is how to get the books into the hands of the reading public. Librarians are not even content with this, but want to enlarge the limits of the reading public and create a reading public of a better kind, by taking the younger generation in hand and inducing them to read good books.

This being the case the commercial analogy has impressed itself upon library methods. Librarians trying to reach the public take a hint where they can from the shopkeeper. Books on China were rushed to the front in <building>Toronto Public Library </building>long before the allied forces reached Peking. A special Prohibition catalogue is out now to educate the voter for the coming struggle. Slips with a list of the better books of a kind are prepared in some libraries as book marks to entice the reader, especially the young reader, from his affection for the worse

Along with these small arts of reaching the public the great schemes have been considered, and are to some extent adopted. The late <person>Dr. Poole </person>of Chicago had the <building>Newberry Reference Library </building>built somewhat on the system of a departmental store ; each department of literature in a room by itself ; so that instead of conveying books from a far distant depository to the reader in a general reading room the student can go to the department in which his researches are being made and take down for himself the books he wants. This is certainly a great idea and should be, in the case it suits, a complete success. But there must be many cases for which the system creates difficulty for the reader. A reference library is the very place where one wants to be in contact with two or three departments at once. An historical work on the first floor is likely to require for its elucidation a map from the map room in the attic and an article from the periodical room on the ground floor. It seems in fact as if this system could be applied more practically to the lending department, so as to avoid procuring books from the stack rooms by a machinery of pneumatic tubes, automatic lifts and electric railways, upon which a planner pounces at once as an indication of something wrong in the plan. A borrower want but one book or, if he wants more than one, he wants them to take away with him ; and there is no reason why he should not go from the department of fiction to that of science or elsewhere and pick up his books as he would his purchases in a departmental store. The department rooms in different stories could back upon departments of the many-storied stack room so as to bring the attendants into close contact with both the hooks arid public or even, if it is desired, continue into the middle class of libraries the system of open access to the shelves which is now so much in vogue in libraries of the smallest class. But open access is still on its trial. The public seems to be '' indifferent honest ;

and there are other difficulties, which increase with the size of the library ; so that there is no question at present of open access except in small libraries,

The large public library would require a series of articles to itself. Both the public department and the working department are multifarious and tend to increase. On the one hand the library may combine, with its book departments, galleries for the display of pictures, prints, photographs, rare books and other educative objects, besides rooms for special studies, which require not only books of reference, but such additional circumstances as a table for drawing instruments, space to spread out specimens from a hortus siccus, or quiet to use a microscope On the other hand, behind the scenes, the ordinary works of receiving, preparing, cataloguing and checking the books may be supplemented by printing and binding shops, arrangements for dealing with branch libraries, etc. These are the variations that occur in any problem and for them the architect must be briefed. It would take too much space to study now these minor circumstances, but the essential conditions of the problem may be summarized as they appear in the plan for the <building>New York Public Library </building>; a plan so well considered and carried out that it may be taken to represent the best that is known on the subject at present.







































The stack room runs across the back end of the building, sideways on ; so that it may be duplicated without carrying the ultimate limits of the stack room further away from the delivery desk than is the case in Boston now. In this position also the stack room is in contact with the main building all along its length, and comes into close communication with numerous minor reading rooms. The main reading room, for 800 readers, is on top of the stacks. This is the proper place for it, not as in Boston in front of the building, with the halls between it and the stack room. Placed over the stacks, very simple arrangements suffice for communication and the delivery of books

and there are additional advantages in the way of quiet, of light and air, and of construction. There being nothing above there is no need for columns, which are not impressive when dotted over an area of this kind. The 78 feet span may be roofed over clear and make a noble feature. Finally there is the principal advantage, that the reading room can grow as the stack room grows for, when the stack room is repeated, the reading room can be repeated too.

The other great points in this plan are that the book borrowers the people who merely come and go are kept away in a place by themselves ; a large room, convenient for the borrowers and in close connection with the stacks, but in the basement with a side entrance peculiar to itself. The rest of the floating population are confined to the ground floor ; the periodical and newspaper readers are on one side and the children on the other, as near as possible to the entrance. Thus quiet is secured for the rest of the library.

There is an undetermined middle ground between the large library and that which may be classed as

