<doctype type="contents;ad">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XV.—No. 179.	NOVEMBER, 1902.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Two Houses in Toronto.—Eden Smith, Architect.

St. John's Church, Toronto.—Eden Smith, Architect.

Branch of Dominion Bank, Toronto.-- Eden Smith Architect.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN Architects' EDITION.

Photogravure Plate—Merchants' Bank, Winnipeg, Man.—A. T. Taylor, F. R. I. B. A., Architect.

Photogravure Plate—London & Globe Insurance Company's Building, Montreal. —Hutchison & Wood, Architects.

New Chemistry and Mining Building, School of Practical Science. Toronto.

Shop Front, Main Street, Winnipeg, Man.- -Sketched by Percy Over.









CONTENTS

Editorial	.	.	.	.					161	The Stone Resources of Newfoundland				170

C. A. and B. Students' Competition			. ~	162	Demolition Methods	.                            171

Count Tolstoy on Art					163	Adhesiveness of Mortar 							.

Architectural Matters in Toronto		. / 			164	Standard Portland Cement Tests							 172-173

Intercommunication				165.166	By the Way				174

The Development of Rolled Beams				. I67	Patent Store Fronts				174

Now and Then . 				8	The Merchants' Bank of Canada, Winnipeg				175

Sanitary House Decoration	British Standard Fire-Resisting Rules					x-xi

Requirements of a Successful Contractor	.	.	169 Contract Conditions	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	xii









SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE

S.	II. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.





<article title=" Glass as Fire-Resistant " author="">Glass as Fire-Resistant.





























<article title=" Insanitary Buildings " author="">Insanitary Buildings.

A malleable glass is being manufactured at Matthews, Indiana, which is said to be capable of

withstanding the greatest possible extremes of heat and cold, including sudden changes from the one to the other. In appearance this glass is said to be much like the ordinary product. It can be made of the thickness of a sheet of paper or as much heavier as desired. The material should prove valuable as ordinary window glass, but especially as a fire-resistant.



IT is to be hoped that some 'definite result may follow the agitation now going on in Toronto to compel the removal of insanitary buildings. York street in that city will serve to illustrate conditions that ought not to be allowed to exist. For years this street, located in the very heart of the business district has been the abode of vice of every kind sheltered in tumble-down buildings, the owners of which reap large returns on their investments and profit largely by the improvements carried out by neighboring property owners. No doubt the local Board of Health has authority to order the removal of buildings which have become dangerous or insanitary. If so, we may hope that the Medical health officer, who is known to be an energetic official, will now give his attention to the evil.

<article title=" A Business Opportunity " author="">A Business Opportunity.

THERE would seem to be an opening in Canada for first-class furniture designer. As a result of the

rapid increase of wealth in the last few years, there has come a demand for more costly residences and furnishings, and for specially designed furniture. Large orders for special furnishings have recently been given by Canadian architects to United States firms. Most of the furniture now manufactured in Canada is machine made from stock designs purchased in the United States. As a rule these designs have little or no, merit and are duplicated thousands of times so that they are everywhere in evidence. Persons who have the taste for something better and the means wherewith to buy, should in future have their requirements met by Canadian designers and manufacturers.



IF the profession of architecture is to be held in public respect and if associations of architects

are to accomplish any useful purpose some of the members must be more particular than at present in their methods. Esprit de corps is not promoted by the knowledge that fellow architects have approached your clients and asked to be allowed to submit sketches free of cost, even after your plans have been approved and tenders thereon received. Conduct of this kind is unfortunately in evidence and

Esprit de Corps.

