<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" EXCESSIVE LOADS ON SCAFFOLDING " author="">EXCESSIVE LOADS ON SCAFFOLDING.



Although the British Home Office issued in February last a lengthy memorandum on the causes of common accidents that occur in buildings in course of construction, as well as hints for their prevention, loss of life from mishaps of the kind are unhappily not yet unknown. Numerous suggestions are given as to position 01 supports, etc _ but the quality of the timber is left to the builder's own judgment.

It is assumed that the plant in use has been, both in point of quantity and quality (and the first is of equal importance with the second), fully sufficient. It is regrettable says the London Builders' Reporter, that often in actual practice there is a neglect of adequate provision. The truth of this was again exemplified at an inquest which was held a few days since at Cambridge. The accident occurred in the course of the construction

of a new <building>medical school at Downing College</building>.		The

workmen had raised a large piece of stone (about 18

cwt.) to the top of the scaffold, some	feet high, and

were rolling it along the planks when the stone crashed through and took six workmen with it. They were all more or less injured, and one of them expired the next day in hospital. The jury returned a verdict of "Accidental death ," with this rider —' 'That the material used for the purpose of the scaffold was not of sufficient strength, and that sufficient care was not taken by the scaffold-builder, t he foreman and the foreman mason.

The foolhardiness with which timber is laden in the construction of buildings does not do much credit to the knowledge of those who have charge of the execution of works.



<article title=" VENTILATING DWELLINGS " author="">VENTILATING DWELLINGS.

In summing up the various points on this subject in a paper recently presented before the British Institution of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, Mr. <person>E. W. Mayner </person>suggests that for natural ventilation to obtain the best results, we require the following arrangements

I.	Inlet and outlet ventilators of sufficient area constructed to meet general requirements.

2.	Illumination by electricity, as this is the best light to use if we study our health.

3.	As the nation generally likes to see a cheerful fire, we must call in hot water or other ventilating appliance to assist us in our work of supplementary warming and ventilation.

4.	Every room should have its own ventilating shaft carried up almost as high as the chimney-top and have a regulating extract ventilator fixed therein, near the ceiling.

5.	The fresh air must be obtained from the purest source available, and where the ducts are long, provision must be made for the efficient cleansing thereof.

6.	That architects be asked to assist us in our attempt to lengthen and stimulate life, as the members of this profession have it in their power to construct the necessary air shafts and inlet ducts in all new buildings.

7.	That bedrooms, wherein we spend one-third of our existence, need more ventilation than any other room

8.	That it is absolutely necessary to assist ventilation of all dwellings by opening windows and doors, and airing cupboards, and other receptacles for clothing as often as convenient, through currents of fresh air, from bottom to top of all the building being necessary.

<article title=" A BRICK LAYING MACHINE " author="">A BRICK LAYING MACHINE.

Bricklayers, who have always regarded themselves as the one class of skilled workmen who need never fear the introduction of labor-saving machinery to replace them, will be interested in the announcement made by the State Department at Washington, that a bricklaying machine has at last been invented. United States Commercial Agent <firm>F. S. Johnson</firm>, of Stanbridge Canada, reports a recent invention which consists of bricklaying by machinery, instead of by hand. He says ''The machine, worked by two men and a lad, will lay 400 to 600 bricks per hour. Door and window spaces cause only a slight delay. The machine is suited for all plain work, such as walls, sheds mills factories, rows of cottages, piers of bridges, etc. Considerable pressure is put on the bricks, and it is claimed that the work is more Firmly done than by hand. The invention will do the work of six or seven skilled bricklayers, and it is believed that a machine adapted to build a factory covering 6o by 40 feet could he pot on the market for $500. The apparatus can be readily worked after a fortnight's in  struction."



<article title=" ERRORS IN TENDERS " author="">ERRORS IN TENDERS.

Too many builders take a wrong view of the importance of a tender. They do not realise says the London Builders' Reporter that when one is accepted by the building owner or his representative, the architect, a contract is entered into which is as binding as any formal document drawn up by lawyers for the purpose. That is the view taken in the English Courts but a judgment just given in the Scottish Courts is in the same direction. A builder in Hamilton, N.B., tendered to erect a lodging-house for a limited company for the sum of £1,333, and the offer was accepted. When the work was practically complete he discovered that in transcribing the document one item was made £152 less than it should have been. In the agreements something was said about measurement, and the builder imagined he would be paid at schedule rates. But the company took the view that if the amount had been increased by £152 plaintiff's tender would not have been accepted. They refused to pay more than the total a-mount mentioned in the tender, In the Sheriffs' Court judgment was given for the plaintiff, who was held to be entitled to receive payment for the deficiency as extra work at specified rates. In the higher court before Lord Justice-Clerk, <firm>Lords Young and Trayner</firm>, the decision of the Sheriffs' substitute was reversed, and it was held that the contract was for a lump sum, and plaintiff was not entitled to claim detailed prices. The case should therefore serve as a warning, for tenders are sometimes drawn out without realising the responsibilities which are involved in them.



<article title=" COLOURS FOR RESISTING THE ACTION OF LIME " author="">COLOURS FOR RESISTING THE ACTION OF LIME. —The following is a list of colours that may be used upon new plaster work, for mixing with distempers, gesso and stucco work, without being attacked by the lime. For white Zinc white, lithapone Charlton white. For Blue Ultramarine, lime blue, smalt, cobalt and permanent blue. For red Vermilion, red oxide, Venetian red, Indian red and madder lakes. For yellow Lemon yellow, cadmium yellow, Naples yellow, yellow ochre, brown ochre, Indian yellow and raw sienna. For green Emerald green, cobalt green, verdigris and oxide of chromium For brown Burnt umber, Vandyke brown, Cologne earth, asphaltum and purple brown. For orange Orange chrome, burnt sienna, cadmium orange and Mars orange. For black Ivory black, blue-black and lamp-black.

