<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The defendants were two of the school trustees sued personally and the Public School Board of the section, who maintained the legal site to be on a different lot known as the " old site." The trouble began as far back as December, 1899, when the ratepayers decided a new school should be built. The school board met and selected, subject to the approval of the ratepayers the " new site." Then the ratepayers met again, and it is said approved of the new site, although the minutes of the meeting- did not show that anything was done. The court on the strength of parole evidence affirmed that the ratepayers had approved of the " new site." This gave rise to dissention, and the dissentients appealed under the statute to the school inspector who called another meeting- of the ratepayers, at which the ''old site" was chosen, and an arbitrator selected to act with the inspector. These published an award in favor of the "old site." While these proceedings were going- on the Board of Trustees purchased the " new site," erected thereon a school building, and moved into it the school furniture. A motion to restrain them was refused. The courts also declared the inspector's action illegal. At the election of trustees in December, 1900, however, the advocates of the ''old site" found themselves in the majority on the Board, and at once removed the school furniture back to the old building, whereupon three ratepayers applied for a mandamus to compel its return to the new building. Both parties then agreed to abide by the decision of the local judge, who declared the " new site" to be the legal site. The trustees acquiesced for the time in the view taken by the local judge, and returned the furniture to the new building, where the school was carried on until the summer of 1901. In April, 1901, however, at a duly convened meeting of trustees, a resolution was passed that the '' old site" be selected as the school site for the section, and that a meeting of ratepayers be held on the 20th April to consider such selection. This meeting was held and the " old site" was adopted by a majority of seven. The court held as to this meeting that although the school site had been fixed by the action of the trustees and ratepayers in March, 1900, and a building erected on the site so fixed, it was competent for the ratepayers a year later to revert to the former site. In accordance with this view the action was dismissed and the costs declared against the plaintiffs Nothing is said as to who must pay for the new school building, but presumably the School Board is the responsible party. In that case the new building will probably be allowed to remain idle, while the children are housed in the old one which several years ago was declared by the Board to be out of date. Such are some of the results of human perversity and legal wisdom



THE great struggle which is now going on between the owners and miners of the anthracite coal mines of Pennsylvania has resulted in placing

the people of Canada and the United States in a very serious position. The inconvenience and discomfort which will be felt by all classes during the coming winter, should turn the attention of inventors and manufacturers to the necessity for heating apparatus in which fuel, other than coal, can economically be used. Unfortunately, central Canada which contains the bulk

<article title=" Some Possible Results of the Coal Famine " author="">Some Possible Results of the Coal Famine.

of our population, has, so far as known, no coal deposits. Our coal mines are situated at the extreme ends of the Dominion—in Nova Scotia and British Columbia. The freights from these mines to central Ontario are prohibitive, so that we are obliged to depend for our supply on the United States. Wood has become too valuable a commodity in this country to be employed for fuel, except in country districts. Manufacturers of heating furnaces in Nova Scotia are adapting their apparatus to the use of soft coal, which fuel will no doubt come into general use to a much larger extent than formerly in the Maritime Provinces. In Ontario something else must be employed. The question suggests itself—why not petroleum or gas ? Petroleum has long been used successfully on railway locomotives in Russia, and more recently, it is said, on railways in California, as well as oil steamships, while in cities gas is already employed for cooking purposes. The designing of heating apparatus in which these kinds of fuel could be employed would seem not to be impossible, and we hope that the present situation will direct the energies of inventors to the problem. There is of course the further question of cost of fuel. Considering how large a percentage of coal is wasted, it would appear that either petroleum or gas might be supplied for the purpose at a reasonable cost. Heating by means of electricity would be an ideal method, pro. vided the cost could be kept within reasonable limits. Thus far, however, it has not been possible for the electrical companies to supply at a reasonable price the necessary current and apparatus. Most of the central stations are operated by steam power, so that the cost is to a large extent based on the price of coal. In the United States central steam heating stations have been established in many towns. By this system steam is carried in underground conduits from central stations. This plan would seem to be better adapted for use in the business districts of cities than in residential districts. Steam, while undoubtedly the best heating agent for large buildings, is not as well adapted to house heating as hot water. A central heating plant was established at London, Ont., some twenty years ago, but proved unsuccessful and was abandoned We observe that a Company in Montreal has announced its intention to establish a central heating station. Two or three years ago a number of companies were formed in different parts of Ontario to manufacture peat fuel, but the product has never been placed on the market, and some of the companies have abandoned the business. The difficulty in manufacturing this product is said to be found in connection with the drying of the material, after it has processed through the compressors. Natural drying is said to be necessary, in order to retain the most valuable constituents of the fuel, and this requires so much storage capacity and so long a period of time as to render the process unprofitable. We observe the announcement that a new process of drying is to be adopted by a Canadian company recently organized. '[his question is one of vital interest and importance in a climate like that of Canada and the United States, and we have confidence that in the near future methods of heating will he found which, if not cheaper, will be more cleanly and convenient than those which we have been accustomed to employ in the past, and it is hoped they will also render us less dependent upon one source of supply.

