<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



	<article title=" 	ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION AT University COLLEGE, LIVERPOOL " author="">ARCHITECTURAL EDUCATION AT	 University COLLEGE, LIVERPOOL.



There are two courses open to students:—(a) The three years' course leading to the degree of B.A., with Honours in Architecture. (b) The two years' course, at the end of which the college certificate is granted to successful students. These courses are arranged for students to take before entering an architect's office. They are not intended to supersede pupilage, but to be preparatory to it. The two years' course has been in existence for eight years; the degree scheme was only started last season. (University College, Liverpool, is the only college in England in which students can study for such a degree, although such courses exist in all the principal universities in America).

The leading architects of Liverpool have signified their hearty approval of the schemes, and have agreed to shorten the term of pupilage and reduce the ordinary

Greek, Latin, French, German, Italian; (2) one of the following—ancient history, modern history, English literature; (3) one of the following—physics, pure mathematics, applied mathematics. Candidates are required to present certificates of having attended: (a) the approved classes for the subjects presented in the Intermediate examination; (b) courses of instruction in architecture and allied subjects averaging not less than five hours a week in the first year and fifteen hours a week in the second and third years. Such courses shall include all the subjects presented for examination. An attendance of not less than fifty hours in the department of engineering is required from all candidates.

The subjects of examination are:—(a) History of ancient and mediaeval architecture; (b) history of modern architecture; (c) construction and planning of buildings, including sanitation; graphic statics; (d) architectural drawing. And any two of the following:—

(e)	Freehand drawing; (C) modelling; (g) decorative

























































OLD GOVERNMENT HOUSE, FREDERICTON, N. B.



premium for students who have been awarded the college certificate or have taken their degree. The two courses are framed to prevent the waste of time which invariably results when a student enters an office without any previous knowledge of drawing, building construction, and the elements of architectural design. Students entering in October will have the exceptional advantage of being able to follow from commencement to finish, the erection of the new laboratories for physics and topical medicine which are being built on college ground from designs by Messrs. Willink & Thicknesse and Professor Simpson. Candidates for the B.A. degree are required to pass:—(a) The preliminary examination of the university in five subjects: (i) English language and English history; (2) mathematics;

(3)	Latin; (4) elementary mechanics; (5) one of the following--Greek, German, French. (b) The intermediate examination for the ordinary B. A. degree in the following subjects: (i) one of the following—

design; (h) applied mechanics; (i) art and theory of painting; (j) art and theory of sculpture. Students are strongly advised not to commence -the three years' course until they have passed the Preliminary examination. Although it is possible for a student to be privately coached for the subjects of this examination during his first year, passing his Intermediate at the end of the second, such a course is not advisable, nor is it recommended.

The two years course includes freehand and architectural drawing, construction and building materials, the history of ancient, mediaeval and Renaissance architecture, perspective and sociography, graphic statics, engineering, &c.

Students who receive a first class certificate at the end of the course are specially exempted from the Intermediate examination of the Royal Institute of British Architects. This is the first college or institution in England to whom this privilege has been accorded.

