<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



this, of course, should have, to do it justice, separate treatment at hands more competent than mine nor have I ventured into the wider domain of the consideration of general university education, and its power to develop and broaden on harmonious lines the intellectual gifts and sympathies and to quicken thc mental life and strengthen its fibre. All that is beyond the scope of such a paper as mine to—day, which has already detained you'



perhaps, too long-.

Let me conclude, having thus in a sentence suggested these wider bearings of my subject with a quotation from one of Oxfords greatest sons which sums this up in words tar more eloquent than mine university training is the great but ordinary means to a great but ordinary end it aims at raising the intellectual tone of society at cultivating the public mind, at



purifying the national taste at supplying true principles to popular enthusiasm and fixed aims to popular aspiration, at giving enlargement and sobriety to the ideas of the age, at facilitating the exercise of political power and refining the intercourse of private life.  Is there any one of these great ends that should not be also the gaol of our profession, the aspiration of us all as architects 



<person>Mr. Gouinlock </person>I am sure we have all listened with a great deal of pleasure to the instructive paper given us by <person>Professor Capper </person>of McGill University. I heartily approve of the wisdom of the Association in inviting Professor Capper to give us a paper, which I am sure will stimulate the student and the profession at large. I have much pleasure in moving a vote of thanks to Professor Capper for his very able paper.

The motion was seconded by <person>Mr. Denison </person>and carried.

<person>Principal Hutton</person>, of the University of Toronto, who was in the audience, after expressing the pleasure of the outsiders who had come to listen to Professor Capper's address said Professor Capper said that he would not refer to the advantages that Toronto University offers for the study of architecture because we all knew them so well, but I should like to tell Professor Capper that one of the advantages for the study of architecture is unique. As <building>Mr. Blake </building>said many years ago '' the government put up the <building>University Building </building>to show the public how to build, and in case the public would not then know to build, they later put up the School of Practical Science to show the public how not to build. (Laughter.) Speaking as an outsider again, I cannot help feeling that the practical side of architecture occasionally needs some little consideration. I have heard my friends tell of an architect who requiring to put a register into a bed room could not find any place where it could be put but under the bed. (Laughter.) I have also heard it said that the Society of Architects would not be perfect until they had thrown their doors open to women I am really a little surprised not to see any here to-day, (cries of '' 0 no," laughter.) I know there are a large number of ladies who are very anxious to show how they can build, and I am sure that women would see that plenty of pantries were put in a house, and that a window would not be put in where it would be impossible to get at it.

Professor Capper Had the architect who built a house with a bed room in it in which you could not place a bed, an academic training?

Principal Hutton I believe this particular architect had not an academic training. Those who suffered from his ministrations would probably be strong supporters of Professor Capper's views ; but I am inclined to think that the part of Professor Capper's paper which would interest them most would be the account of <person>Sansovino</person>'s misadventure They would look back with regret to a time when, if an architect proved incapable, the municipal authorities were able and willing—to clap him into jail. (Laughter.)

Mr. \Vright Mr. chairman and gentlemen, I for open would like to add the expression of my appreciation of the paper which we have just heard from Professor Capper. He has covered the ground very completely, classifying the work of the student under satisfactory heads. The paper deals principally with the questions of design and scientific construction as they should be taught in our universities, while leaving the practical application to be studied by work in an office. If Professor Capper will glance

through the course as laid out by this Association, he will see that we have taken very much the same view of the subject as he has. Our Association during the past year has done a good work in organizing this course, and it will do a much better work if it succeeds in carrying it out. The difficulty which we have had in forwarding the purpose of this Association throughout the province is that in the matter of the study of professional work the young men have been beginning in the wrong way. The mistake I think is in the admission of students to professional work ; they have in the past been admitted too early in life and at too low a stage in their education. It has been the effort of the Association to raise that standard and it is to be hoped that their efforts will meet with success. The difficulty as far as the younger member is concerned is not so apparent to him at the time of registration, but it becomes more apparent when he conies to practice, and in the matter of guidance in this respect we have in the past not done our duty —-if we have failed to require from our applicants a rigid fulfillment of the conditions necessary to qualify as students of the Association.

<person>Mr. Hynes </person>(visiting member of 18 Club). It seems a unanimous opinion that a university education is desirable for an architectural student, and the question is, how are we to get the students to take advantage of this course. I think perhaps in <person>Mr. Wickson</person>'s report there is something that is antagonizing the idea of the University course. That is the apprenticeship system. It is very hard to lie a man to two things. I think that persons who have a little money they wish to dispose of might establish two or three scholarships for the students to strive for in the University, which I think might induce students to take this course.

<person>Mr. Symons </person>I should like to say a few words with reference to our educational committee. I think <person>Professor Capper </person>said that after all it was the design that gained distinction for an architect, and we give comparatively little credit to the man who has constructed the building in comparison to that given the man who has designed it. I think that we all agree that the men who have reached the highest stage in architecture have reached their height by their distinction in design. My own feeling has been for years that efficiency in design can only be obtained by academic training, by being thoroughly trained for that work, learning the A, B, C of the Orders and so on till we learn to design truly and well Some people have asked me, what would you recommend to a young man as a course of training in architecture Now-a-days we certainly make the answer that we can recommend a university training. And thought it is sometimes hard for some of us to say whether it is the best, yet the longer I live I am the more ready to say it is the best, and I do riot think we are dealing fairly with those who come asking admission to our offices in taking them in. We must be very careful that we are not sacrificing their interests simply' to gratify our own pockets, to get them to do our work. Those of us who have gone through what we have, and in whose younger days there was not the chance of these days, must confess that our lacking is wholly I might say on account of our not having had the chances of academic training. (Applause).

<person>Mr. Burke </person>Mr. President, I have great pleasure in adding my word of testimony as to our appreciation of the paper we have had from Professor Capper. <person>Mr. Symons </person>has touched on the difficult point with reference to architectural education, in Ontario at any- rate—the tendency of students to enter an office without or before taking a proper architectural course in the School of Science. That tendency or custom can only be remedied by the architects refusing to take students who have not taken this course. The portion of our work to which <person>Mr. Hynes </person>referred in <person>Mr. Wickson</person>'s report, is simply a method of getting over the difficulty with men who are now students; we feel that they should have some advantages and it is for their benefit that arrangements have been made whereby they may have about seven hours per week at the School for lectures

