<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



when exposed to dampness, or even the night air, are the paint's worst foe.

To properly clean iron or steel infested by a rust coat takes more time and a great deal more labor than it does to paint it. Thus any one can readily see what a saving there would be if the painter was allowed to get one coat on the work before the dampness in the atmosphere got in its work. And also before it is handled by greasy-fingered machinists.

When one coat is applied, any grease or foreign material that may happen to stick to the surface can be easily cleaned off, and better work done after coating and a more durable job done in the protection that paint gives to this product.

Paint is used for two purposes: To protect the surface against the wear and tear of the elements, and to beautify the appearance of the surface by coloring. But when we take into consideration the serious matter

expecting it to stand. In time it will surely come through, leaving spots and blemishes unsightly to the eye, and destroying everything placed over it.



The further seriousness of this problem is very prominent when we think of how our large structural work is erected. The lack of proper care and the small amount of protective paint used on the iron columns, stringers, framing and whatever goes on, on the inside of our sky scrapers, with possibly two coats, and often only one coat of mineral paint slushed on without any care as to the surface being perfectly clear of rust. This structural iron is all sealed up, as it were, by stone and brick masonry, on the outside, and sheeting and plaster on the inside ; but the enclosure is not air tight by any means; and no doubt in the world, if there is any rust painted over, it will gradually eat its way through the paint, and covered up out of sight, nothing





























































DESIGNS FOR <building>BUILDINGS FOR PURCHASE EXHIBITION, ST. LOUIS, LOUISIANA</building>



of carelessness and neglect in properly cleaning the work before painting, and the time that the raw iron is allowed to be exposed without attention, we see that protection has another property added to it, and it means something more than merely brushing on a coat of paint.

If there is any science in painting, it is in doing the work so as to give the most durable results. Durability will not be forthcoming when rust and grease are painted over. One is an enemy that will eat into and destroy the very vitals of the strength of the iron, and also find its way out through the paint, sooner or later.



The other, however, may be worked up into the paint coating, will nevertheless weaken the paint, making it anything but a protective coating.

From a practical standpoint, it would be just as consistent to try to cover a coat of tar with whitewash,

is to prevent it from gradually but slowly feeding upon the iron and steel itself.

Who can question the weakening of this process as it progresses from year to year. It may be slow, but it surely and truly goes on.

When we measure the height of these masses of stone and iron, we wonder if the architect has weighed well the matter of the protection of the material that the building depends upon for support. The stone has to be of a certain hardness; the mortar mixed according to a formula that insures durability; the masonry of the best workmanship; the wood used in the building of the finest that nature's growth can furnish, and possibly the iron and steel of a high grade, but what about the natural decay of the different materials put into the building. The foundations are secure because they are generally made of masonry. The outside walls can be replaced if any defects show from time to time.

