<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



this top horizontal main to the radiators placed on the lower floors. The returns from these radiators may be carried below the floor joists and rise to connect with the boiler, if that is of any' advantage. Care should be taken to secure a proper pitch to the pipes and to cover those which are exposed, so as to prevent undue loss of heat or freezing. Arrangements should be made at the lowest point of the system to draw off all the water in case repairs are needed or the building is to remain unoccupied. A small pipe can be carried from the highest point in the horizontal heating main on the upper door to an expansion tank, in order to

























allow the air in the system to escape as it is filled with water. In any system of heating it is well to secure a boiler and radiators of ample capacity for the work, using piping of generous size." With regard to the foregoing, perhaps some of our experts in heating matters, may answer the questions asked, at greater length than the quotation. and we should be pleased to give space for the purpose. '[his is a live question, as there are hundreds of house owners in the Dominion, who would gladly avail themselves of any reliable scheme that would enable them to introduce ''hot water" systems in their homes when neither collar or basement is possible; and a fortune awaits the man who will devote his time and who succeeds—in devising an economical and efficient method of heating from he ''level."



From a "Young Builder" As you kindly answered my query last month I am emboldened to approach you again, and ask of you to publish

a design for a front door entrance in Colonial style, suited to the verandah column and tower cornice you published last month, and which, I can assure you, were much appreciated. I would like the doorway to have side and ransom lights, fluted pilasters with carved balusters Any details will he appreciated.

ANS. :---—We show a door and doorway in colonial style, at Fig. 3, which seems to accord with the wants of ''Young Builder." If too elaborate, portions of I he ornamentation

may be left out, and plainer mouldings substituted though any serious change in the elaboration would spoil the general effect, and, it were better, if possible to execute the work just as shown. The design and details are drawn to scale and the sections are selfexplanatory and easily followed.



From ''Boss Carpenter' :—I am anxious to know how to make, or rather "lay-out" work for window and door frames, having semi-circular heads, that are to be placed in circular towers or other circular walls.

In fact, what I wish to know is how to obtain the lines for getting the veneer soffit for double curvature?

ANS. :—A method, showing one way of getting out this work, may be found in back numbers of this journal, but we present herewith another example which we think our correspondent will find simple. We suppose the jambs to be parallel with each other as shown at H 6 and E F, Fig. 4, then the method of getting the soffit is quite simple as the dotted lines show how the points are obtained for measurements, the figures being the points from which the distances are taken, and when applied on the line of soffit The

semi-circle A shows the arch of window or door, while the curve B shows the face of tower or circular wall. The curved soffit D shows the exact length and shape of the head of the frame when bent over so that its square ends stand on H G amid E F.



From '' Contractor. "—Kindly inform me of some good and reliable way of computing roof areas of regular and different pitches, and oblige?

ANS. :—When thc roof is all made to the same pitch the area is just the same, whether it is all in one plain gabled roof or is cut up into any number of gables, or with hips and valleys, the only difference being that the more breaks there are the more labor required, and a greater waste of material. This principle may he illustrated as in Fig.

 5, in which the

gable A C D projects on one side of a plain gable

root. iii placing this side gable we cut from the main roof two triangles, A B E and E 13 D, and replace them by the two triangles A B C and B C 1). It is easy to prove these triangles are exactly equal. Let us take for comparison the two triangles A B C and A B E ; they have the side A B, or the valley rafter, in common, and, since the side gable is of the same height as the end one, A C is a common rafter and of the same length as H I and E B, also A E must equal C H but since the side gable is plumb, the ridge B C is just as long as G II or A E, hence all the sides of one



























triangle are exactly equal to the sides of the ether, and since the angles are also equal, the angle A C B in the one and A F B in the other being right angles, the triangles are equal as must be admitted. This is only one illustration, but it covers the whole ground of equal pitched roofs which may always be estimated as if they were plain gabled roofs, onJy allowing extra for hips and valleys on account of waste, or for overlapping projections. Knowing foregoing, we may apply another simple rule to the calculation of roof areas of equal pitch First find the area of a floor, or

