<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



14 per cent. of its weight, and Bath stones as much as

17 per cent. This does not allow for the water in the plaster and other work, and can be taken as a fairly moderate estimate; and this moisture must be removed before the house is habitable. This is effected by firing the house, which should on no account be occupied till this is done, as the operation causes the air to become saturated with the moisture drawn from the wall; rendering it most unhealthy A through draught of air greatly assists the drying of the interior of the building.

When walls have thus been freed from the initial damp it is their proper function to prevent water again entering from the outside, but as the external surface of the wall is always exposed to the elements and as all building materials are more or less porous, the rain driven against the wall will penetrate into it. The water thus communicated to the wall is partly evaporated out again by the action of the sun and air and partly drawn through it by a capillary attraction, and if the material is very porous or the wall very thin this may saturate it. This is the chief cause of damp. It is not necessary, however, that it rain to convey damp to a wall. In the atmosphere itself there is always a certain amount of moisture, which varies with every degree of temperature; the amount increases as the temperature of the air rises. When the proportion of water in the air is greater than it can dissolve or hold, the atmosphere is said to be damp, but when the air can dissolve all the water it is called dry, notwithstanding that it still contains water.

During the heat of a warm day the atmosphere may be clear and apparently dry, although it really contains as much water as it is capable of dissolving at that temperature. Whenever the air is cooled, as for instance at night, it becomes unable to hold as much water as it did in the heat of the day, so that some of the water is discharged and becomes dew, mist, and even rain, according to the degrees and rapidity of the cooling process; and as all bricks, stone and similar materials are capable of absorbing this moisture from the air it is easily seen that it is possible for a wall built of very absorbent materials to be always damp, even in an atmosphere which seems to be dry.

One of the chief evils of this saturation of the wall is to cause decay in the material used.

Some of the water which has been deposited in the stone (or brick) is again drawn from it when the temperature rises. This causes a constant flow of moisture in and out of the stone, which gradually loosens the particles and allows the stone to crumble away. The action of frost, which tends to disintegrate the stone by the expansion in the freezing of the water enclosed in its pores, also causes the separation of the particles, and even in the absence of chemical action decay may result from that alone.

In addition, the water acts as a carrier of chemical agents, such as carbon-dioxide, carbonic, hydrochloric and sulphurous acids, all common in the atmosphere of towns; and these hasten the decay of the stone. Sandstone and bricks, being acid material, are not easily attacked by these gases; limestones on the other hand are easily corroded. Other things being equal, the more porous a stone the more easily it will be corroded. This combination of mechanical an(l chemical action often causes the decay to begin on the surface; this is not however always the case. It often happens

that decay begins within the surface of the stone. At a distance varying, according to its porosity, 1-32

in. to ½ in, from the surface of the stone there is a critical place beyond which the water does not usually pass, and where it always remains longest. It is here, not actually on the surface but behind it, that the decay generally begins. As it progresses it throws off a scale, which is often found to be in good condition on its outer surface, although the inner surface is rotten. A kind of sore of disintegrated particles is laid bare, which is more absorbent than the healthy stone, and assists and promotes the progress of decay, which, if not arrested, will proceed with greater rapidity than ever.

Although there are sonic exceptions, it may be laid down as a rule that the universal cause of decay in stone is damp or the evil influences associated with or conducted by damp.

I have here taken stone as an example. Bricks are also likely to decay in exactly the same manner, and an inferior brick will decay quickly under these circumstances.

The saturation of the wall with rain or moisture from the atmosphere is the chief cause of damp, but if the materials used are of good quality and are capable of throwing off the damp quickly, little or no harm will be done. If good materials are not he had, that which is at our disposal must be protected as much as possible; and it is some of the remedies for such cases that I have here noted.

Before passing on to them I might mention the damp which is occasioned by inferior workmanship. Carelessly fitted windows and window sills are a ready source ; roughly-finished pointing may also let the water into the wall ; but the chief evil is that of badly constructed plumber work, or the omission of a damp-course in a chimney head or in a parapet wall.

When sea water is used in the mixing of concrete for walls, it may cause an efluorescence, which is sometimes comparatively harmless, hut which has a tendency to cause damp places in the structure that may lead to the destruction of plaster and paint, or perhaps to the detachment of fragments½ of the wall.

Time is the only real test of the various methods adopted, and as few records are kept of these it will be seen that when one is called upon to find a remedy it will be necessary to select one which is most likely to suit the particular needs of the case, and which is likely to have the most permanent effect.

If the material is known to be inferior before the wall is built of it, several methods which I will describe can be used with effect ; but if the defect is only noticed after the building is completed the remedies which can he applied are mostly of a temporary nature and require frequent renewing. It is therefore best, if there is any doubt as to the material, that some method should be employed to ensure that the interior of the building is kept dry.

If possible the damp should be arrested on the surface of the wall, or it should be obstructed as near the surface as possible, so as to ensure that the greater portion of the wall is kept free from the damp.

One of the most effective methods employed for brickwork is that of building hollow walls As you all know, the common way of building these is with the 4½ in. wall divided from the main wall by an air

	-	space

