<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



as slate, neither is Portland cement alone, which is sometimes used.



From Joe B.—Will you kindly publish a design or two for shingle belting courses and oblige ?

ANS:—''joe B.", does not say what style of shingle





















FIG. 4.—FIVE Examples OF SHINGLE PETTING COURSES.



belt coursing, he requires We publish five styles however, at Fig. 4, all of which are simple and are in frequent use.



From <person>W. J. S.</person>--Wishes to know if there is not a table or tables for ascertaining the length and levels of common hip, jack and octagon hip rafters, from which the lengths of each can be taken without further trouble.

Ans: The following table, which gives the lengths of rafters, also shows the figures to be employed in the steel square to find cuts for all the pitches given, is considered by expert workmen, to he one of' the best tables of the kind, and covers, we think, all our correspondent asks for:

color, the hardness and clean outlines of the bricks. If you could send us specimens we would be in a better position to advise you.





<person>S. S. C. </person>writes : Will you please give me such information as you think necessary to answer the following : There are two stores 70 feet long, 22 feet wide with a brick wall between running up through the other story which is 12 feet high, and out through the roof a distance of four feet to serve as a fire wall. Above this wall 13", or a brick and a half thick I want to throw the two stores into one by taking out this wall the height of the first store. What is the best way to support wall above and carry ends of joists which rest off wall ? If steel beams are best how large would they require to be to carry that amount of wall alone and rest ends of beams on wall at ends with two iron columns in centre.



Ans.: In reply to your questions, we may say that there are no great difficulties in the way of taking out wall between stores. Cut holes through wall on second floor about 8 or ten feet apart, insert timbers 10" x to", 6 or 8 feet long. Shore them well up from the foundations or ground below, and wedge up to brickwork snug and tight. Support joists from floor below by stringers and studding. When all is driven in tight, remove a part of the brickwork and introduce girders from wall to first post. Then build in girder up to brickwork, making all as solid as possible. Proceed in the same manner with the next portion between the two posts and when finished complete the last portion Girder will show in the stores, and joists must















































Deduct half thickness of ridge from length of hip, valley and Common rafters. Deduct half thickness of hip or valley from length of jack rafters. Deduct half thickness of valley rafters and ridge from length of cripples.



<person>H. G.</person>, Hanover, Out. : Could you give me any idea as to the value of a recipe for making fire brick that will stand the attack of alkalines and great heat as well as any other, if it can be made from a waste product in Ontario.

Ans. If bricks that will resist alkalines and stand great heat can he made at a reasonable price, there will probably he no difficulty in creating a fair demand for them. Something will depend, however, on the

rest on

 girders. Use steel girders or beams 12 inches deep with double flanges. You will require two running the whole length, placed side by side. Cast iron post should not be less than 6 inches in diameter, and should be provided with suitable caps, and rest on a solid stone base. Leave shoring in place for a few days after the work is bricked up, then remove and fill in holes in wall where to x to inch timbers went through.

