<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



The owners of flats in Chicago were recently proceeded against by the medical health officer at the instance of their tenants for refusing to supply heat until the first of May as per the terms of their leases. The courts gave the landlords the option of either heating their buildings or spending a term in gaol. The present coal famine, while bringing home to the owners of flats a sense of their burden of responsibility has tended to popularize life in a flat because of the lessened responsibility which attaches to this mode of living.

	x	x x

Frank W. Hoyt, editor of '' Stone " in a letter recently addressed to the publishers of this journal says :

"There is one point on which I wish to commend your Journal, which is one of the most interesting that comes into my office— you give a good deal of attention to stone. It is my experience that architects as a rule know comparatively little about the nature of the different kinds of stone. The various publications that represent their profession give most of their attention to the consideration of structural material to iron and steel. Unless there is some change in the future, I fear that we will rear a generation of architects incapable of undertaking any great masonry structures such as have dignified architecture in the past."

	x	x x

When a man has built for himself a house to dwell in he ought to keep in mind not only his own ideas and requirements, but also the value which the building would he likely to have in the eyes of a probable purchaser. In this world of ups and downs the man who builds a house next year may find it necessary to sell it the year following or at some time in the future. This possibility should be kept in view from the outset. I could point you to a house built recently to meet the special requirements of the owner, but which is 110W on the market. It occupies a choice situation, but the value of the site as well as of the building has to a large extent been destroyed in the planning. Although expensively finished, the house does not contain more than two or three rooms of comfortable size, but is cut up into little boxes and narrow passages. If the owner should ultimately succeed in finding a buyer he will be obliged to sell at a heavy sacrifice.

x x x

I am informed on apparently reliable authority that there exists in Toronto a plumbers' combine. Halt a dozen of the leading firms are understood to be working together to secure the most important contracts at very profitable figures. I am told that when an important contract is to be let the members of these firms meet together and decide that it shall go to one or

other of their number with the understanding that the firm getting the job will stand aside in favor of another member of the combination when other large contracts are given. I have been given to understand that the combine have in some instances forced up prices of heating contracts from 50 to 100 per cent. Every effort is made to prevent arms outside the ring from getting contracts, by throwing discredit on the quality of their work. Are the architects aware of the existence of this combine and of the fact that because it exists their clients are obliged to pay fancy prices for their work ?



<article title=" C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION " author="">C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

The publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite architectural students in Canada to submit designs in competition for a suburban or town house to cost not more than $2,500.

The building is to be designed for an inside lot having a frontage of 50 feet, situated on the west side of a street running north and south. The adjoining lots on either side have houses on them 30 feet back from the Street line and 10 feet from lot line on either side.

Competitors are required to submit two elevations or a perspective, together with plans of basement, ground, first and attic stories, drawn to '8 scale in a manner to permit of reproduction within the limits of a double page of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, viz., FOX  inches in size, also details to a larger scale of important or special features of the design. Drawings must be made with PEN and PERFECTLY BLACK INK on WHITE DRAWING PAPER, OR CARDBOARD. No BRUSH WORN WILT. BE ALLOWED.



Competitors should state the materials proposed to be employed in construction

Drawings for this competition should be signed with a motto only and be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing the same motto and enclosing the full name and address of the designer and the name and address of his principals. They should be sent FLAT by post or express, charge prepaid addressed "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Toronto, Canada Student's Competition," and must reach this office not later than noon on Saturday, January 10th 1903.

The members of the joint Educational Committee of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club have kindly consented to judge the designs submitted in this competition, and their decision will be final.

The prizes offered are First prize, cash $15.00 second prize, cash $10.00 third prize one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER ARCHITECTS' EDITION.



'[he publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER reserve the right to publish any of the designs submitted and to withhold the prizes if in the judgment of the jury the designs should not be found worthy of the awards.



Intending competitors are requested to read carefully



the conditions of competition, and to strictly comply with the same in every particular.





The Department of Public Works at Ottawa is said to have under consideration the installation of a system of pneumatic tubes for thc speedy conveyance of communications between the various government buildings.

