<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE PARK AVENUE HOTEL FIRE " author="Baillarge, C.">THE <building>PARK AVENUE HOTEL </building>FIRE.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Sir,—It pertains to you, through the columns of your now widely circulated journal—to you, say, the exponent of architectural requirement in Canada or elsewhere to abet me in endeavoring to obtain such compulsory legislation as will put an end to these ever-recurring fatalities.



I petitioned the U.S. government arid that of Canada in January, 1901, to do the needful, when they both replied that it pertains to the several states of the union, and to the several provinces to legislate on such matters while the requirement being the same it would be so much more simple and expedient for the central government to enact a law for the purpose.

mainly devised for the protection of steel from heat. This effort was not sustained to any considerable extent by the promoters of various types of construction nor by the makers of concrete. I therefore dropped the subject for the time.

On my recent visit to London, in consultation with the architects and engineers who constitute the <assoc>British Fire Prevention Association</assoc> I was confirmed in my distrust of some of the materials which have been commended for the protection of iron and steel used in construction. The attention of that Association is mainly given to what is called "fireproof construction," riot only in city buildings but in factories and workshops as well.



Our attention has been mainly given to the slow burning construction of brick and timber, and we have not yet been called upon to deal in any large way with steel construction. In anticipation of such demand upon us it is necessary for us to know the present state of the art.



In Great Britain it is said to have been proved that many the concretes, some of which are there called " breeze," of which coal ashes are the principal component material, are very destructive to iron and steel. These ashes come from coals containing a good deal of material which may cause corrosion, and the long-continued contact even of dry ashes with iron and steel beams, wire or thin plates, imbedded in them, is said to oxidise them. This may come however from the avidity with which ashes absorb humidity from the atmosphere and may be attributed to that rather than to any other fault in the ashes.



Any concrete or any material containing plaster of Paris (sulphate of lime) is known to be somewhat dangerous if not

































<building>CANADIAN BUILDING FOR THE WOLVERHAMPTON EXHIBITION, WOLVERHAMPTON ENGLAND</building>



The architect has solved his share of the problem, It pertains now to the government to enact under penalty that what is suggested be carried out.



The system was exhibited in Paris in 1900 and reproduced by the Scientific journals of that city which admitted it to he as set forth in the heading to thc exhibit, thc only sure, simultaneous and instantaneous mode of escape from the upper floors, dormitories, etc., of convents, colleges, hospitals, lunatic and other asylums, hotels, theatres, etc., for old or infirm men and women children, the sick, the demented. By means of a walled-in stairway to reach and enter which one must go out on to a balcony communicating therewith At foot of stairway a fire-proof corridor reaching through the building to an exit at street level. The stairway situated at rear of building so as not to en roach on more valuable space on the street front, and the corridor raised over head or to the ceiling of the ground floor or story, that is the principal floor or "Rez de-chaussee" so called by the French ; in a way that it may be passed under so as to interfere in no manner with the interior economy of the building, or circulation of the public on said floor.

<person>CHAS. BAILLARGE</person>,



Quebec, March 3rd, 1902.	Architect and Engineer.





<article title=" FIRE-PROOFING MATERIALS AND METHODS " author="Atkinson, Edward">FIRE-PROOFING MATERIALS AND METHODS.

Mr. <person>Edward Atkinson</person>, the well-known insurance expert of Boston, has addressed to the <firm>Manufacturers' Mutual Life Insurance Co.</firm>, tire following



A few months since, before my recent visit to England, I made an effort to secure materials and contributions for a thorough test of so-called fire-proofing materials, floors and the like,

destructive, and there may be other causes of corrosion as vet unknown to us. We know of some cases in which corrosion has set in very rapidly on gas pipes arid on cribs of rails intended for foundations, owing to corrosive qualities in the concrete in which they were imbedded, We are aware that many investigations and reports have been made by the representatives of special methods, but we are not informed of arty general report or conduct of tests corresponding to those now being made by the architects and engineers who have organized the <assoc>Fire Prevention Association of Great Britain</assoc>. We therefore address the following questions to you



1st. What attention have you yet given to causes of corrosion other than ordinary humidity which may get through minute cracks in any kind of veneer or covering for steel members In other words, what causes of corrosion have been developed in your practice other than those arising from dampness ?

2nd. What precautions have been taken to meet this hazard?

3rd. What general or special information has been printed upon this subject ? Who are the authorities and what printed material cart be found arid where ?

4th What studies are you yourselves making in this matter?

5th. What knowledge have you of active corrosion from dry materials coming in contact with the iron or steel frames, posts, or other members of any building, or iron used in foundations ?

6th. To what extent do you depend, if at all, upon angle irons, wire or sheet metal imbedded in concretes for floors or arches, for the stability of the floor after the cement or concrete has become permanently set?

I have asked these questions with the intention of making arrangements for an exhaustive study of this subject arid for such tests as may be possible of each and all the various coverings now upon the market for protecting iron and steel the concretes, the fireproof floors, arid all other matters in which corrosion from any cause may be a source of danger."

