<doctype type="contents;ad">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XV. --No. 177.	SEPTEMBER, 1902.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Houses On Spadina Avenue, Toronto. —Henry Simpson, Architect.

Design for Proposed Residence, Scarth Road, Toronto.—J. P. Ilynes, Architect.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

St. Joseph's Church, Brighton, England.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Photogravure Plate—Residence for Judge Street, Walmer Road, Toronto.—Eden Smith, Architect.

Photogravure Plate—Library in Residence of Mr. B. E. Bull, St. George Street, Toronto.—.Eden Smith, Architect.

Photogravure Plate—-Stable for J. E. Seagram, Waterloo.—Eden Smith, Architect.

Design for a Public Library. XV. A. Langton, Architect.

houses, corner Isabella and Huntley Streets, Toronto.-- Chadwick & Beckett, Architects.









CONTENTS

Editorial . .			.	.	.	129

Our British Office	. 	. 	 . 		 .

A Dominion	Exhibition .		.		. .	131

By the Way .		.	 .	 .	 .	132

Stained Glass	. .	. .	. .	. 132

Intercommunication .	. .	. .	.	.	133

Air Tight Case Making	.	.	.	 .	 	134-135-136

Two Kinds of Timber Roofs	 .	 .		.		137-138

Table Showing Number of Bricks Required in one

	Square Foot of Surface Wall	139

Connecting Domestic Water Heater .	.	.	.	139

Winnipeg Builders' Exchange					139

Advantages of Narrow Lumber					139

A Flat Iron Church					140

Building Stones in tile Northwest 					141

Legal 					143

Structural Work in America												144

Notes of the Toronto	Exhibition											ix

The Making of Veneer												X

Personal												X

Hollow Walls of Artificial Stone	-	.	.	.	.	xi

The Gargoyles	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	xii









SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR.	XV. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto. EDMUND BURKE,

S.	H. TOWNSEND, FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal.

" W. H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto. A. F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.









<article title=" Brick Fences " author="">Brick Fences.

BRICK fences which are so common a feature in England, have not been employed to any large extent in

Canada, although the use of brick in conjunction with wrought iron for this purpose is noted in some recent work by Canadian architects. One difficulty which is said to attend the use of brick for this purpose in Canada, is that one side of the fence may be more subject to dampness than the other, leading to unequal expansion and contraction of the material, and ultimately to the toppling over of the structure. The use of cement instead of lime mortar in work of this character might prove a remedy.



THE news comes from Berlin that the German customs authorities will in future require certificates of origin in

the case of American grain. This is regarded as a retaliatory slap at Canada for having granted preferential duty on British goods coming into this country. The Dominion should now demand a certificate of origin in the case of all imports from Great Britain, This would have the effect of shutting out large quantities of German goods which now find their way into Canada as British imports and get the benefit of the preference which was intended to apply only to British manufac

<article title=" The PreferentialTariff " author="">The PreferentialTariff.

Province of Quebec Association of Architects

tures. Tile statement is made on what appears to be good authority, that many German manufactured goods are shipped into England, where the assembling of the parts is done, after which the goods are exported to Canada and receive the benefit of the preference. At present there is nothing to prevent such a practice either by Germany or other countries. Means should be adopted to prevent the preference being accorded to any but bona fide British goods.



THE Council some months ago passed a resolution recommending that the Association establish a Scholarship

for Students in tile Architectural Department of McGill University. It is proposed that this scholarship should consist of a sum sufficient to pay the fees of the successful student during his four year's course. The action of the Council requires ratification by the Association. Two meetings of the Association were called for this purpose, but much to the regret of those who had interested themselves in the matter, the necessary number of members to form a quorum could not be got together. The matter will therefore come up for consideration at the annual meeting in January, when it is hoped the proposal will be approved. Meanwhile, by reason of the apathy of the members, the proposals, if adopted,

