<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



is, in every instance, stuck from the joint on the back side, preparing a groove for the air fillets on the top and bottom rails of the frame. These fillets are next glued in. The doors have a hollow worked in the back at the top and bottom with the single round plane, working from the joint, the hollow also crossing the







































COUNTER CASES: JOINTS BETWEEN BACK AND END OF TOP AND BACK CORNER UPRIGHT WITH SECTION OF FLAP.



stiles. The hanging stiles of the doors have the single or double hollow worked with the single or double round from the back of the stile. The closing joint should be that known as the hooked joint. To prepare this, first shoot the stiles to a bevel set at about 85 deg. ; rebate with a side fluster to remove the bulk of waste wood, and then with the hooked-joint plane finish working the joint. The plane should be previously set by trial on two spare pieces of stuff. The tongues on the hanging stiles of the frame require to he finished. This is done with the single or double hollow, working from the back side as before. From these remarks it will be understood that all planes for air-tight work, whether single or double, must be "matched."

The butts are now let in and the doors hung to their respective frame stiles. The butts are let in to depth by a specially prepared template. A single- tooth gauge is employed from the back side of the doors and frame to mark for the edge of the butt flange.

Having hung the doors, note that all joints fit correctly, and then prepare to glue the frame. To do this. unscrew the butts and put the frame together as before and key up. put in the doors, the butts being placed in their places, though not screwed, slack the keys and glue up the frame, using the keys only to pull up the shoulders. Wedge the frame up very carefully, as much depends upon how the wedging is carried out. It is very easy to wedge too hard and bind the doors, or too lightly and make the carefully prepared joints ineffectual for excluding the air.

To control the wedging to a nicety, place the fingers under the rails of the doors, top or bottom, at the shutting joint, and the thumbs on the rail of the frame outside; by this means one can, by gently pulling the door, determine whether the wedges are binding the joints too hard or causing the frame to pinch the doors corner wise 



The frame should be wedged to the doors until these are just too tight to work easily, the tightness being

afterwards remedied by glass papering and rubbing the joints with French chalk. It will now be seen that the doors must be glued up first, all joints being stuck from the back side, which is the flush side, and being fitted up before the frame is glued. The front of the case may now be considered complete, as it only requires cleaning off.

Now to consider the carcase. The top, bottom, and sides of the case are housed together, the sides having tongues worked on them to be received by the front, and the top and bottom resting on fillets. Having glued and screwed the carcase to the front, attention is next given to the back, which must be made air—tight



carefully. Canvas is stretched across the case, struts having been previously put inside to prevent the canvas bending inwards. After thoroughly fixing the canvas. the match—lining is nailed on to form the back ; then the whole of the inside of the case is lined with strong lining paper, turned at the angles to cover the joints. The bottom is usually covered with cloth, the backs and sides lined with mirrors, and the top papered.

With just a word about glazing I will leave wall cases. The plates glazing the doors are bedded on very thin putty, arid the glass is packed on strips until the door is kept by the glass in the exact place where it was fitted. The glazing fillets are then fixed in and the minor details—such as cleaning off, fixing fastenings, cornice, plinth, &c.—having been attended to, the case is complete.

The other cases—table cases, centre cases, &c. —are constructed in a very similar manner so far as making the frame to fit the sashes or doors is concerned. The doors of centre cases, which have to be as nearly secret as possible, have no butts, but lift out as shutters, the form of joint usually being on the velvet-pad system. They are sometimes fastened in by four locks, two on each side, and sometimes by two dowels in the bottom and two locks at the top.

I will now pass on to counter cases, which may he considered to be the most intricate to make.







































COUNTER CASES:	JOINTS BETWEEN TOP FRONT CORNER OF RIM AND CORNER POST.



The first part to be made is the top rim, which is glued up. The next to be fitted and glued up are the base rim and bottom panelling. The uprights are then fitted into the top rim and base and the case is ready to glue up. It is now to be glazed. To do so turn the case upside down, the top rim being on the bench and

