<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



Mr. Oliver McClary, one of the founders of the McClary Manufacturing Company, died at his home in London, Ont. on the 5th inst. at the advanced age of 86 years.



Mr. W, R. Stewart, formerly with Messrs. Peck, Benny & Co. and Abbott & Co., of Montreal, has been appointed Canadian sales agents for Jenkins Brothers, valve manufacturers, of New York. Mr. Stewart will have his headquarters in Montreal.



The Canadian Heating and Ventilating Company is being organized to manufacture heating and ventilating apparatus, and if granted certain concessions propose to build a factory at Owen Sound. Among the promoters of the enterprise are Messrs. A. F. Palmer, heating and ventilating engineer, Cincinnati, J. A. Ellis, architect. A. Harshaw, of Toronto, John II. McLauchlan and Christie Bros., Owen Sound.



A Manual of Drawing, by Mr. C. E. Coolidge, Assistant Professor of Machine Design, Sibley College.—The book, which is published by John Wiley & Sons, New York, is 8 x 10 in e, contains 92 pages and 10 full page plates. Price in paper cover

$r.oo. The object of the book, as stated by the author, is "to put into permanent form a single and standard drafting room system which will tend to alleviate unnecessary burdens thrust upon the students.'

The travellers and officials from the several branches of the Canada Paint Company, who have been in session for some time, have finished their deliberations and have left for their respective territories. This was the tenth annual convention of the Canada Paint Company's staff held at the headquarters of the company in Montreal, and much good is accomplished by these meetings. The year about closing has been a banner one, showing an extraordinary increase of this company's business, and the plant for 1903 will be very much enlarged to meet the heavy trade which is already in sight The Canada Paint Company have acquired another graphite property near Petitcodiac, New Brunswick The area is about 5 square miles and the graphite is of the finest description for painting purposes. This company announce that they will be happy to mail free their booklet describing the many uses for graphite paint if our subscribers will mention this 





The Milton Pressed Brick Company, limited

Pressed brick and architectural terra cotta

Milton, Ontario



J. W.  Coulson and Company, 

Patent store fronts

Columbus, Ohio



Albert Manufacturing Company

Patent rock wall plaster and calcined plaster

Hillsborough, New Brunswick

