<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

NOTES.



A writer who has demonstrated the tact says that 3 pecks of lime and 4 bushels of sand are required to each perch of 22 cubic feet of masonry when built in a wall.



The belfry of the fine old cathedral at Chartres has been found to be in a defective condition. By the winds of centuries and the vibration of the bells the masonry has become dangerously insecure. Repairs are to be promptly made.



In connection with a recent discussion before the Boston Society of Civil Engineers on Foundations Mr. E. W. Howe mentioned a novel method of driving inclined piles in foundations for the Atlantic Avenue bridge by the aid of a steel case 13 inches square and 39 feet long placed at the desired inclination. With ibis apparatus 95 piles were driven in 10 hours. Mr. R. A. Hale mentioned a chimney 225 feet in height imposing a load of 2,250 tons on an area of 1,225 square feet, the foundation being sharp river sand 39 feet below the surface of the ground, into which piles had been driven to a depth of feet ; allowing for wind the extreme pressure is 2.4 tons per square foot and no settlement has occurred.

The United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, one of the largest, strongest and most favorably known surety companies on this continent with a cash capital and surplus of over three million dollars have established their Canadian head office in Toronto at 6 Colborne St. The joint managers are Mr. Arthur E. Kirkpatrick, one of Toronto's most enterprising young business men, and Mr. J. A. Kennard, late of Baltimore, a lawyer of experience and ability. The bonds of this Company arc accepted by the Canadian Governments, municipalities and by railroads and corporations in all cases where a bond guaranteeing the specific performance of a contract is required. They are prepared to furnish bonds at once up to any amount.

It has always been a wonder to us wily architects should be so fond of the blocked column, for to our mind it is an ugly feature. It has neither the solidity of the pier nor the grace of the column, and always produces a lumpy effect. T he lines of the column are quite spoiled by the clumsy-looking blocks, strung like so many chunks on a rod. We can call to mind a score of buildings which are marred by this feature. Without doubt it has been used by architects of great eminence. but that does not change its inherent defects. And not only is it ugly, but the additional cost of the stone is considerable. We should like to see it altogether abandoned, and, in place, either a solid-looking pier or a column with us graceful lines uninterrupted from base to cap. But we fear the blocked column is being increasingly used rather than

set aside, probably more for ill-considered fashion than deliberate choice. Ill-considered fashion is not a thing to foster.—Building News.

Shingle tint Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ont.



The Canadian Bridge Co. Limited Walkerville Ont.



Terra Cotta Fireproof Building Material The Montreal Terra Cotta Lumber Company Limited 