<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

This fact in connection with the other facts— that air cannot possibly get more than one-half inch from the confining metal when passing through one of these radiators, and can get from three to six times that distance from the metal in thc pipes conducting the air to them—suggests the vast importance of the flattened conduit through the radiator.

Fourth, by facilitating convection; by which method, in order to heat a room, all the air in it must be repeatedly brought into contact with the outside surface of the metal in the radiator.

This is accomplished by the flat form of the sections, and where there is more than one section in a radiator, placing them side by side with nothing to obstruct the flow of air between them from below upwards, as heat is imparted to it from the hot air within the sections. The results obtained in the following experiments by the use of these radiators will be a surprise to those who have not studied the subject and they were a cause for astonishment to myself, their originator.

In February, 1902, I fitted up a house that was in process of erection with a discarded wood furnace and rough hand-made radiators. The house was isolated and consisted of a cellar, ground floor, first floor and attic, and contained on the ground floor and first floor, 18,000 cubic feet of space; the cellar had a foot of ice on its floor which was chopped away from the immediate neighborhood of the furnace. The house is now brickclad, but at that time was neither lathed, plastered nor bricked, and had many openings, large and small, through the outside walls from the cellar to the attic as well as through the root. Ten radiators were placed in position, nine on the ground and first

The house was an old-fashioned frame of two stories, the part served with radiators containing 17,000 cubic feet divided into ten rooms and two halls. There being no basement nor cellar, the furnace was set upon tile ground floor and burned anthracite coal. It had never been repaired nor had its location been changed, although it had been in use for thirteen seasons. The ten radiators installed were supplied from three main pipes, two











































FIG. 5.



of these pipes conveyed the air through the attic before it reached any of the seven radiators they served the ground and first floors; it was an overhead system, which it is hoped the accompanying plans will make clear.

The tinsmiths finished their work and a fire was lighted at 2 p.m. on the 19th of February. The next morning at8 o'clock the temperature outdoors was 6 degrees Fahrenheit, and in the house it varied from 44 degrees to 6o degrees. The house was never as cold again, and after the first few days the system was better balanced and the variation within the house seldom exceeded to degrees, and only once did it reach 16 degrees, when the temperature outdoors was about degrees, with a gale blowing from the northwest, the temperature within varied from degrees to 70 degrees.

In passing from the furnace to two of the radiators) the hot air travels a distance of 62 and 71 feet, passing through the attic to



FIG. 4.



floor and one in the attic. A number accepted my invitation to visit the house on the afternoons of the 12th and 13th of the month. On the 12th, the outside temperature was 22 degrees Fahrenheit. On the 13th it was 12 degrees Fahrenheit, with moderate wind from the northwest. On each day all the radiators became warm within forty-five minutes after the fire was lighted. Two weeks later many of the openings had been covered with building paper preparatory to bricking the walk, the attic and cellar had been roughly shut off from the two floors, the house had been lathed with wet and frozen lath but not plastered, the temperature was 18 degrees Fahrenheit, with moderate west wind. The ground floor was brought to 63 degrees Fahrenheit within two hours after the fire was lighted. These results are phenomenal when we remember the wet lath and the enormous difficulty of heating a building when the plaster is wet, as pointed out by Mr. John Gormly at meeting last winter, in a paper entitled, "A time limit and dry walls necessary in testing a heating plant." The radiator in the attic was 20 feet horizontally and 20 feet perpendicularly distant from the furnace; it was the last of five on its main—two others having been supplied from the same pipe on each of the lower floors. The air entered this radiator at a temperature of 213 degrees Fahrenheit, and left it at 122 degrees Fahrenheit. Some of the heating experts present at this test believed, or at least said, while admitting the results,' that the system would not stand a practical test of the many turns in the piping needed to place radiators at the points needed or preferred by house owners, nor would it succeed with the slower fire, as from anthracite coal.

To meet these objections, and having in the mean time had the radiators made in a presentable form, I fitted up my own house with them in 1903.

FIG. 6.



do so. In making the circuit from the furnace to these two radiators and back to the furnace, the air travels 107 feet and makes 13 turns, exclusive of the radiators, which if counted would make the air travel 116 feet with 21 turns, showing conclusively that turns in the piping have little or no effect upon the flow of air when it is confined and used in this way, and demonstrating how easily any probable conditions in any medium-sized building can I)e met with this system.

The foregoing results are much better than could be obtained with this furnace under the old system, for before the installation

