<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BRITISH AND AMERICAN STANDARDS OF WORKMANSHIP " author="">

BRITISH AND AMERICAN STANDARDS OF WORKMANSHIP.

The commission of trades unions representing leading British industries, which recently accompanied Mr. Alfred Moseley, C. M. G., on a tour of investigation through the United States and Canada, have presented their reports.

The representative of the Operative Bricklayers' Society, Mr. H. R. Taylor, while admitting that bricklayers on this side the Atlantic lay more bricks per day than does the British workman, states that the work is by no means substantially done, and indeed would not pass muster with any British architect or engineer worthy of the name. He goes on to say: " Nearly all the faced work consists of stretching courses only (merely a veneer), although on the rough and interior walls of any thickness there is usually one course of headers or bonders to every five or six courses of stretchers, instead of English bond consisting of alternate courses of headers and stretchers, or the Flemish bond, consisting of headers and stretchers laid alternately in each course, either of these systems (the English for preference) securing the proper bonding of the brickwork both longitudinally and latitudinally. Flushing up or grouting," he says, "is very seldom practised."

Mr. M. Deller, of the National Association of Operative Plasterers, reports that the work in this line, which he saw in the United States is tar and away behind that executed in England.

Mr. Harry Ham, one of the delegates, refers to the injurious effects on the workmen of the highly specialized processes prevailing in the United States. On this head he says " The awful monotony of constantly performing some part in, say, the making of a door for a cabinet, not only destroys the skill of the workman, but leads to lack of interest in his work and a general mental and physical deterioration."



The Menzie Wall Paper Company, Limited, of Toronto, capital $250,000, has been incorporated by R. E. Menzie, J. F.

Brown and others.

NOTES.

Work has been commenced on the new plant of the Superior Portland Cement Company at Orangeville, Ont.

The Standard Ideal Sanitary Co., Limited, of Port Hope, Ont., are now putting out a superior class of lavatories, closets, bath tubs, basins, &c. This company is under the able and expert management of Mr. H. Thos. Bush. The high class goods produced are already attracting attention. When our representative called he was shown a model plant.





Shingletint The Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ont.



The Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville Ont.





Cold water paint for outside and inside use Lythite W.A. Fleming and Company Montreal

