<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. e do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]





A Toronto subscriber asks: (1) What should he the thickness of a wall 45 feet high with ordinary load faced with broken ashlar and brick backing? (2) The thickness of brick backing? (3) What is the name of the stone used in St. Andrew's church, King street west, Toronto?

ANS.—The only way to be sure that you have sufficient strength of wall is to first ascertain definitely what load is to be imposed. The manner in which the load is imposed must also be considered. If the load is distributed over several floors, the walls need not be so strong as if the load were altogether imposed on the top of the wall. The question as to whether the load is a vertical one or a horizontal one must also be considered. Without this necessary data we are unable to fully answer your question. (2) The thickness of brick backing will depend largely upon the character of the mortar used. If cement mortar is employed the backing may be thinner than where a poorer quality of mortar is used. (3) The stone used in the construction of St. Andrew's church, King street west, Toronto, is from the Credit Valley quarries.



A correspondent in Eastern Ontario writes I am thinking of building a house and have become interested in concrete cement blocks for that purpose. I understand buildings of this material have been erected in Toronto. Will you be good enough to answer the following questions according to your knowledge and experience. (1.) Are concrete blocks (hollow) frost proof? (2.) Can finishing coat of plaster be put on directly to blocks without lathing? (3.) Are the blocks cheaper than wood or brick? (4.) Is there any tendency in Toronto for concrete blocks to come into general use owing to greater cheapness? (5.) Are the blocks durable, what proportion of cement to sand is necessary, and are blocks proof against water?

ANSWER.—(1.) Hollow concrete blocks are more frost-proof than solid blocks, and more frost-resisting than brick walls. (2.) Probably in the case of threefourths of the concrete buildings erected, the plaster is put directly on the blocks without lathing, and this is one of the reasons for cheapness in this form of construction. (i.) It is not possible to state whether concrete blocks would be cheaper than wood or brick. This would depend upon the locality and other circumstances. (4.) We believe that there is a tendency in Toronto in the direction of using concrete in the construction of buildings, and there is little doubt that eventually this material will be largely employed. Its greater use will depend upon prices of cement being lowered. This we believe to be a future possibility to be brought about by improved manufacturing methods. (5.) The durability of concrete is dependent on the use of cement of high quality, and care and skill in the mixing. If the concrete is properly made there is no doubt about its durability. As a proof of this is may be mentioned that blocks of concrete which formed part of buildings blown up by Cromwell, and which have ever since lain in the open air, to-day show no signs of disintegration.

From young Canadian :—I am a bricklayer, and I find much difference among workmen, regarding the proper way of finishing and bonding a flat arch over door and window openings, and placing in skew-backs. I have seen these put in both with and without closers. Please advise as to which is the proper way?

ANS.—In our opinion closers should be used for the purpose of obtaining bond only, for they are undoubtedly a source of weakness in brickwork, even when cut the proper size, that is 41/2in. by 21/4 in. and as often as not any scrap of brick that is 21/4in. wide is dignified by the name of closer and used as such by the workman. Such practice is bad, especially when carried out in the abutments of arches. In Fig.1., of the accompanying illustrations, a closer is shown in the first course of the skewback. This may be allowed, and when the

	FIG. i.	FIG. 2.





reveal is 9 in. or more he closer is rightly used, as the first skewback brick will be a long header; but when the skewback starts in a stretching course, as in Fig.2., the closer should not be taken up in the remainder of the skewback, a bat being used instead of two small pieces. Respecting the question (If bond in camber arches, the writer does not remember ever seeing the closer used in arches 1 ft. in depth, and reasons for its omission are obvious. The courses consist of a 9in. brick and a 41/2in. bat, one half brick bond being obtained. To increase the number of pieces in the courses by introducing the closer would weaken the arch, besides adding to the cost of the cut ting and settings. Arches having a face depth above 1 ft. are sometimes worked with the closer, and the advantage of its use in these cases is that it enables the top stretchers in the first few courses to hold out. Bricklayers do not seem to care much how they put in skewbacks, but cut bricks to suit regardless of rules or custom.



From N. T. :—I am building a large farm house in New Ontario, and have got two pairs of sliding doors or rolling doors to put in and fit up, and, as I have never done this kind of work before, I would like to get a little information regarding the preparation of the space where the doors are to roll, if you will kindly give me the same through your valuable column ?

ANS. :—The first thing necessary is to see that your floor is level. If it is, then the whole business is quite easy, but if it is not, then the timbers for the track must be placed parallel with the floor, so also must the top jambs or heads of the opening. This is important, for should the floor be out of level and the track made level, one of two things will occur, either the track must be made level with the highest point of the floor, in which case one door will have too much space under it, or the other door will strike the floor and throw the hinges off the track when pushed back. This we think will appear plain to our correspondent. The illustration given at Fig. 3 shows how the "pocket's for the doors is to be prepared. It will be noticed that the

