<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT FIND BUILDER



profitable trade was built up. While it is claimed that the British manufacturers have neglected to put on the market new and attractive patterns, the Germans have greatly improved their manufacturing facilities, and are not only supplying to a considerable extent the home market, but are exporting largely to other countries. Their exports have, it is said, increased by 83 per cent. during the last five years.



<article title=" Dismissal of an Architect " author="">

Under the provisions of the

Dismissal of an Architect.	Tarnsey	leading

in private practice have for several years received commissions from the United States government to design and superintend the erection of important public buildings. Such commissions must be won in a limited competition. In this manner Mr. Henry Ives Cobb was appointed architect of the new government building in Chicago. He was recently dismissed from the position with the concurrence of the supervising- architect of the treasury. The reason given for his removal is that he proved himself seriously lacking in business qualifications. The contracts in connection with the Chicago building are said to be in a muddle. This incident proves conclusively that the architect of to-day who aspires to supervise the construction of important buildings must himself possess a thorough knowledge of business methods, or must have business men as associates. It is to be hoped that the dissatisfaction and trouble experienced by the United States government in this case, may not result in the repeal of the excellent law under which a stimulus is given to architecture profitable alike to architects and the nation.



<article title=" The Housing Problem " author="">

For many years in London, New

The Housing Problem.	York and other large cities the question of the best means of

providing- accommodation suited to the requirements and within the means of laborers, artizans and persons with small incomes has received much attention. The time has now arrived when this problem also demands consideration in the larger Canadian cities. In Toronto, where at present all classes of houses for rental are at a premium, families who are only able to pay a rental of from $10 to $18 per month, find it impossible to secure accommodation within this price limit, it is claimed that land values within the city coupled with the advanced cost of building and building restrictions will not permit of a fair return to owners of moderate cost houses, consequently few are being built. So long as present conditions obtain there would seem to be but two feasible methods of meeting the demand for accommodation of this class. One is to erect flats in central locations within the city, which is the plan adopted in New York. The other is to build suitable detached or semi-detached houses beyond the city limits and provide means of rapid transit to and fro. From the standpoint of comfort, health and morals, the last mentioned plan seems to possess great advantages.



It can scarcely be hoped that the problem will be met either in one way or the other on strictly business lines. It must be undertaken in a large way and to some extent in a philanthropic spirit. In other words,

those who put their money into the enterprise must be satisfied with a moderate return on their investment and find the balance of their reward in the assurance that they have helped to smooth the pathway and elevate the standard of living of their less favored fellow citizens. It is to be hoped that men of wealth may be found actuated by these motives, to give money, time and thought to the solution of this important problem of the present and future.

<article title=" The Cement Industry " author="">

The failure of the Consolidated

The Cement Industry.	Lake Superior Company's enterprises at Sault Ste. Marie last

month resulted from the want of exercise of sound judgment by the promoters and managers. This failure is not only a serious blow to the shareholders, many of whom are Canadians, to the thousands of employes, and the business interests of the Sault, but also to the advancement of the whole province. It should teach the necessity for caution to the promoters of other industrial enterprises, including- cement manufacturing concerns, of which we are in danger of having- a surplus. The days of large profits in cement manufacturing seem to have gone by, and investors will do well to acquaint themselves with the conditions and discount the statements of glib-tongued promoters and stock peddlers, before parting- with their money.



It is rumored that some recent enterprises in this line have been to a large extent stock jobbing schemes. The promoters are said to have received for their services large blocks of stock which they converted into cash as speedily as possible, leaving to the legitimate shareholders the responsibility of making the enterprises pay, which, in the case of over capitalized concerns is proving a by no means easy task.



Some of the better class of technical journals in the United States are pointing to the experience of Germany as a warning against the investment of money in new cement manufacturing companies. Under the stimulus of a demand for cement for large public works manufacturers in that country rapidly increased until there were 261 of them, with a capacity of 29,000,000 barrels. Then the home demand dropped and the mills found themselves with a surplus stock of about 12,000,000 barrels.



The annual report of the Ontario Bureau of Mines lately to hand estimates the quantity of cement representing- a year's consumption in the whole of Canada, at 1,100,000 barrels, and the possible consumption of 1903-4, taking into account the development of the country and the multiplying uses to which the material may be put, at 1,200,000 or 1,300,000 barrels. The yearly output of the factories as at present equipped, if all were working full time, is placed at 1,150,000 or 1,200,000 barrels, and when the improvements now in progress are made, it will rise to 1,700,000 barrels. The latter quantity is in excess of the present annual consumption, so that it appears to be within the capacity of the cement factories now in existence to supply the requirements of the home market. On the basis of these figures the report states that there are grounds for misgivings as to the future of the industry if all the cement works now being projected are built.

