<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and even at that rate the insurance secured would in all probability be but a fraction of the value.

The insurance companies recognize the difficulty of providing an absolute cut-off between floors in a mercantile building, but such is possible, either by having a fire-proof elevator and stairway annex cut off from each floor by fire-proof revolving doors, or if the elevators and stairways must be in the building, then in a shaft walled in by metallic lath and plaster, and (or) wired glass. Well holes or light wells can also be closed by wired glass either perpendicularly around the shaft, or horizontally at the floor line, or better still, construct the building so as not to require such at all. If elevators and stairways are introduced, the companies must charge for them, the charges being so fixed that even if the owner cannot entirely remove the hazard, that the companies will make some allowance for a partial protection.

In this connection let me give you an illustration. If a property owner were to erect six stores alongside of one another, each, one story high, with a brick wall in rear and in front and at each end, but with only lath and plaster partitions between each store, everyone passing would say ; that is a shell ; that is no better than a frame building ; that is a fire trap. But if we can imagine the supposed property owner turning the supposed block of stores upon end so that the first store to the left is the first storey of the new building which is six stories high, and if the supposed property owner immediately starts to make openings between each of the lath and plaster partitions, inserting stairways from floor to floor, and also introducing an elevator from cellar to garret, the passer-by looks and says, that is a splendid building.

We require that skylights be of wired glass in metal frame, and where so built there is no charge. A skylight of thin glass in wooden frame is a conflagration breeder. It not only assists a fire inside but invites the outsider to come in.

Heating by hot air furnaces and by stoves has cost the companies a tidy sum and such is charged for.

Chimneys should not be placed on brackets. Such is a dangerous expedient ; if it must be resorted to, a charge must be imposed.

The mansard roof is an undesirable style which is rapidly disappearing. Where such is constructed it necessarily means that a large amount of wooden material is placed in the most dangerous position in the building—hardest to reach should a fire occur, and the point to which all flames naturally go whenever a fire breaks out. Such a roof either entails the destruction of the building or a very serious loss, owing to the amount of water required to extinguish a fire in it.

Many buildings are constructed with blind attics. Such should be avoided wherever possible; particularly should great care be taken that there is no opening from an elevator shaft into a blind attic. Such condition is frequently found and is exceedingly careless and dangerous.

A good many buildings are still roofed with shingles. It is hoped that the architects of Toronto will use their influence to discontinue the use of this most dangerous roof covering. Numerous conflagrations can he traced to the fact that the buildings had shingle roofs. Such not only burn rapidly themselves, but set fire to others, and after a fire has been burning a short time, the shingles will rise from the roof and fly like birds to a considerable distance.

If internal protection against fire is provided, there is an allowance made, particularly for casks and pails, which any workman or even child, knows how to use, but the companies place their chief reliance on the speedy arrival of the fire brigade, and also that the construction of the building is such that the fire will not have been able to gain undue headway before the brigade arrives. If the building is constructed with open elevators, open stairways, or open well holes, a lire will spread with great rapidity from cellar to roof, and by the time the brigade will have reached the scene, the flames will probably be breaking out of every window and cannot be stopped by any brigade short of almost

a total loss. If the elevator had been trapped, the stairway or well hole closed, the fire would probably be still burning upon the floor in which it originated, and the firemen would have a fair chance to extinguish it.

It may be of interest to the architects to know that the Mercantile Schedule which we are to discuss this evening, is based On a schedule compiled a few years ago by a large committee composed of the leading underwriters in the Eastern States, who after more than two years of conference and committee work, published the Universal Mercantile Schedule. I have a copy of this schedule here and can procure others it your members desire to have them for reference.

This work is the basis of the schedule we have adopted in Canada. It will I think repay any time an architect may devote to its study, and I take the liberty of commending it to you to-night.

I may also point Out that the schedule referred to has not as yet been put in force in Toronto, and may not be for a few months or even a year. Anyone however, who is about to build would be wise to comply with the requirements of the standard.

The schedule recognizes that a building may be well constructed and still be used in a careless and dangerous manner, and so there are charges for "Faults of Management," such as unprotected stove pipes through floors or partitions—unprotected floors under stoves—bottom of elevator shaft used as a waste dump—swinging gas brackets—badly placed heating furnaces, and dangerous fire places.

The last charge for crowding and overloading the building will, I am sure, appeal to all here as a direct incentive to tear down and build greater.

I am afraid you are all weary of this subject, which I regret I am not able to make as interesting as a critical dissertation on the colonial style or some other one equally fashionable, but I am nearly through now and merely wish to direct your attention to some features of our charges for exposures.

A study of conflagrations in cities shows that they are generally caused by unprotected openings in adjacent walls, a fire being enabled by such to spread quickly to several adjacent buildings and soon provide the brigade with a job quite too large for their fire-fighting equipment. Care should therefore be taken by the architect to guard against this danger, and when there must be numerous window openings in a wall facing another similar wall a few feet distant, that such are protected by outside shutters of wood covered on both sides with metal, or have a metallic frame and wired glass in each exposed window, or provide a water curtain. Also if possible, avoid having the windows in one wall directly opposite the windows of the other. This can often be easily arranged.

Do not cut off a one storey section by a solid wall on the ground floor and leave several windows in the higher building looking down upon the roof of the lower one. Avoid heavy wooden cornices, and if there must be an overhanging eave, see that it is covered with metal. In Montreal a very popular form of roof is centre drained, such not requiring any projecting eave. Also avoid breaking division walk between buildings. It is astonishing to what an extent this practice has grown, until we sometimes find that in as many as ten adjoining buildings there is not one party wall absolutely intact.

If party or division walls must be cut, then be careful to leave no wood about the opening, which should be arched and provided with a sill of stone or concrete, while the door to close the opening should be really and truly standard—such, properly hung on an incline are less in the way, and less unsightly than the old hinged door.

The insurance companies in adopting this standard, hope that it will induce more careful planning, more solid construction, fewer fires, and lower rates. The standard should be of service to the up-to-date architect and we hope it will be freely used by you all in persuading the property owner that good construction and good returns go hand in hand.

