<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT IXND BUILDER

BY THE WAY.



The theory that lightning never strikes twice in the same place has again been disproved. The new municipal buildings, Toronto, the tower of which was partially destroyed by lightning last year, was again struck last month. The damage was but slight, however, only one stone being displaced.

xxx

Notwithstanding loss of commissions as the result of building projects being blocked by recent strikes, some architects whose offices had for months been crowded with work, and who had consequently been compelled to work early and late were disposed to welcome the interruption as affording them opportunity for needed rest. However, a shorter period than three months would have sufficed for this purpose.

xxx

Before the Court of Revision in Toronto the other day an appeal was made by the owners of two of the

largest office buildings in the city for a reduction of assessment. One of the reasons urged in behalf of this appeal was that the revenue from these buildings netted the owners only two and one half per cent. on their investment. If this statement be accurate, it must tend to discourage investment in real estate of this character.

xxx

Bow church, to the Rectory of which Mr. Hutton, the late librarian of the National Liberal Club, is being instituted, possesses what Darwinists would call a

survival," says the Westminster Gazette. This is the curious balcony beneath the clock, which represents the medieval tower from which the Court witnessed the tournaments in Cheapside. It was originally a wooden structure, which on one occasion collapsed, so that Queen Philippa and all her ladies "fell with great shame" on the heads of the assembled knights. Jerry building was discouraged in those brave days, and the careless carpenters were ordered to be executed. The royal balcony was last used by Queen Anne in the first year of her reign at a " pageant " devised by the "City Poet," Elkanah Settle.

The Hodgson Book Company  Chicago





The Jas. Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company Limited Toronto

