<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

continuity of form that is as dignified as vaulting and, if anything, richer; quite apart from the barn-like effect of principals and purlins. It is unfortunate that

though we cannot pass it in England without stopping to admire.

The mildness of the climate is still further exemplified by the plan of our inn, every room is practically out of doors; for the doors of the archway are never closed except at night; and, while they are open, even the upstairs rooms may be said to be out of doors ; for the staircase opens off the archway, and there are no hall doors above. It is a case of dwelling in tents. In winter it

























age cannot be made a condition of contract ; unfinished oak, bleached like bones with age, goes admirably with stone and inspires respect from its venerableness. But I have seen a beautiful new roof of the kind by Mr. Bodley. It takes a thickish wall, if the curved member

must be like a series of warm air baths, with cold plunges between: that is, if the rooms are warm.

On Sunday we went to a little Doric church connected by a passage with the hall. The church was a solemn little composition, but not big enough or comfortable enough to be really dignified. The crossing, under a dome, was about 25 feet square ; handsomely paved in marble, and vacant; except for a little, lonely font in the centre. The crossing was probably a cube, and was domed with a semi-circle on top of semi-circular arches. The arms of the cross extended a little more than half their width and were barrel roofed. It was interesting to see how well this building was lighted by a small lantern in the dome and semilune windows at the ends of the arms. The glass was also coloured, though not















is to be flush with the wall, as it ought to be. The roof in the above section spanned about 25 feet and was a degree or so steeper in pitch than 45 degrees. There was a narrower aisle roof on each side (the window was at the end of one). This of course means

















a couple of horizontal valleys of the full length of the church ; but that is one of the privileges of this frost-less country. It simplifies the roofing question and, as a consequence, complicates the roofs. There is no use in our imitating this kind of thing in Canada

deeply. We dined at the Rectory, which had a good set of rooms looking southwards. The most interesting feature of the plan was a galleried hall which was roofed above the rest of the (two storied) house and lighted by circular windows in a clear story. There was a fine and well lighted wall space, above the gallery, for hanging large pictures. The land to the south of the house was the rectory glebe and let out for hay and pasture, excepting a lawn and gardens attached to the house. The gardens were enclosed by a stone wall, sinuous in plan for the sake of greater stability. It

