<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



leaded with a low parapet around it above this leaded floor ; a pipe conducting the water from this covering to the sewer or grating provided, a little box (leaded of course), and into which the water flows, is arranged between the joisting, and it is from this box the aforesaid pipe carries off the water. It need hardly be mentioned that a slight fall should he arranged to this box in order to keep the covering of the bay window dry pieces differing in thickness will be nailed on the top edges of the joist before the sheeting is nailed down. Thus much by way of introduction to the internal work. One more remark had better he made here. A beam, either wood or iron, reaches across the opening formed in the side-wall for the window recess or hay ; the height of this varies according to the finishing of the window as compared with the room in which the window is situated, as it is not unusual to have the ceiling of the bay window level with and forming part of the ceiling of the room, the plaster cornice being carried round the bay. In other cases, again, the squareness of the room is preserved so far as the ceiling and cornice are concerned, and the beam or bressumer, referred to is shown as a distinct beam, being panelled, etc., and the ceiling or somt of bay window being treated as a separate feature. Of course the finishing of the woodwork of the window is more particularly to be treated of here. Now it will readily seen from Fig.

that the window there shown, if required to have shutters, may be treated as formed of three separate and almost independent windows, and be finished to suit. Fig. 2 gives the plan of one of the central brick or stone mullions, and shows the plan of sash-frame and shutters, also joining of architraves, which, as is seen, is by a mitre. These should be fitted and fastened together, and then set, up in their places and firmly fixed. In such case the outer moulding and capping of the architrave occur on the two outer architraves only, and are carried round along the top architraves, being mitred in the angles occuring at the mullions similar to the architraves. These windows forming the bay would have backs, elbows, and soffits similar to an ordinary ''full trimmed " window. Fig. 3 gives the plan of the outer jambs or piers of bay window, which will, of course, be right and left hand, hut it is the right hand one which is shown. It is expected there will be no difficulty in understanding these sketches. It may be, however, that it is desirable to have lighter mullions, and no shutters, in which case a narrow jamb lining, say 21/2 in. wide, may be substituted for the shutters ; the jamb-lining will serve for provision for sun-blinds, and an architrave will form the completion of the finishing above or upon these jamb-linings, which architrave may have upon its outer edge a similar moulding to that which occurs or is wrought upon the base of the room, and of course in such case the moulding referred to will continue up the architraves of one side, and down the architraves o the other side, and along the base and round the various architraves to door-jambs or other windows in the room. This style of continuing this moulding is very fashionable with some architects nowadays. Fig. 4 gives a section of part of sash-frame, stile, jamb-lining, architrave, etc., such as has been mentioned above, and taken from an actual case in the writer's neighborhood. Fig. 5 gives the section of the moulding which was fixed so as to cover the jamb-linings of the centre mullions of the bay window.

From "Bricklayer": I have to set a boiler for a sawmill, the boiler being a 48-inch tubular one and is '4

ft. long and I wish to know the proper way to "lay in"

the fire-bricks. Is it best to put salt in the fire clay ? ANS.—Authorities say that for lining a boiler furnace use the best fire brick that can be procured, free from warp and with a sharp mould. Lay the brick as stretchers as close as possible, and breaking joints. Use pulverized fire brick which can be purchased from the fire-brick makers, or the old brick can be pulverized in a mortar or iron pot as fine as ordinary mortar sand. Sift to remove all lumps, mix to a mortar with 1/4 good fireclay and water. Use no salt or other flux, press and rub the bricks as close as possible the least thickness of mortar joint makes the most durable lining. If there are any old headers running into the outer wall, they should be used, if in good order, or others inserted at 2 to 3 feet above the grate. The closing in at one or two courses below the lugs should be done by uncovering the top of the wall each side of the lugs, so as to make a good bearing weight on the lining wall at the top. This is much better than to wedge in the upper course.



From ''Builder": In painting the woodwork of a house three coats, what proportions of paint, and oil should be used to make a good job of' work both inside and out?

ANS.—The first coat of' paint for inside work should consist of sufficient white lead, mixed thoroughly with equal parts of boiled linseed oil and spirits of turpentine ; second coat, one part linseed oil and three parts turpentine ; third coat, mostly turpentine, with sufficient linseed oil to hold the color. Inside paint should be well exposed to light. No dryer is required with the paints here recommended.



From "Contractor" I see a new substance called Lignolite advertised in English papers, which is said to be excellent for floors ; will you kindly state of what it is composed?

ANS.—Lignolite is an invention of a German chemist and is made by mixing sawdust with some chemical, the nature of which is not divulged, it can be used for floor surfaces and similar purposes. It can be spread in a moist condition, similarly to mortar, and is said to harden in 48 hours. It is claimed for this material that it is noiseless, impervious to water, incombustible and very light.



From ''Plumber": I would like to know if sanitary science demands a fresh air vent and trap in a main house sewer ; if so, what is the advantage? When the main house drain is properly vented through the roof can this trap and fresh air vent be dispensed with ?

ANS.—A trap on a house drain between thc house and the common sewer is an absolute necessity ; and the best kind of trap is none too good, if health depends upon it. A trap with an air vent can do no harm, and it has several important advantages. The first is, as the air vent is placed on the house side of the trap, it gives any gases from the sewer, that force the seal of the trap, a means of escape without entering the house—and second, by the admission of fresh air, at the grade level, into the house drain, and by the heating of that air in the house pipes, which are supposed to be properly vented through the roof, a

