<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

include the whole work or not. Then there is the wide variation in tenders to which previous reference has been made. Tenders for the carpentry work of a house of moderate price are found to be as much as one thousand dollars apart, and even in so small an item as the electric wiring, there is a difference of fifty dollars between one offer and another. There would seem to be something radically wrong either with the methods or morals of contractors when such wide differences as these occur, and in view of such apparently hap-hazard figuring it is surprising that the percentage of failures among contractors is not greater than it is.



The Confederation Life Building,

<article title="The Designing of Commercial Buildings" author="">The Designing of Commercial Buildings. Toronto, is serving as an example of the unsuitability of gothic design for commercial buildings. In order to secure an adequate revenue the owners were compelled two or three years ago to have remodelled the western front, to serve as banking premises. With the same end in view it is now proposed to redesign and reconstruct the upper part of the Yonge and Richmond street fronts as far back as the main tower and to add three stories to the height. When this is done the revenue from this part of the building will probably be more than double what could have been obtained before. The alterations will represent a large expenditure, the greater part of which might have been saved if the purpose of the building and its revenue producing value had received proper consideration by the designer and those responsible for the selection of this particular design from among a large number submitted by architects in competition. Architects, owners and judges in architectural competitions should alike be impressed by the lesson which the history of this building teaches—that a plan for a building is successful in so far as the requirements are properly considered and provided for. Following this in order of importance should come the effort to make the building pleasing in appearance, which with a skilled designer is always possible.



Assisted by a grant of $50,000

<article title="Dominion Exhibition" author="">Dominion Exhibition,	from the Federal Government, it has been decided to hold a

Dominion Exhibition in Toronto this year. for some time we have advocated this project, and are therefore gratified to learn that it has assumed definite form. The question arises however, whether four or five months is sufficient time for the preparations to be made on a sufficiently ample and complete scale. It is stated that the Industrial Exhibition Association have already been at work on the enterprise for several months. If this is the case, no doubt many of the arrangements are already well under way. Every patriotic Canadian should lend his assistance to make this Exhibition truly representative of the resources of the entire Dominion. The hearty co-operation of the local governments, commercial bodies and leading men of the various provinces forming the Confederation, is essential to success. The railway and steamboat companies can also greatly assist by granting such low transportation rates as will encourage visitors to attend from every part of the country. It is to be hoped that means will be found and steps taken to bring before the visitors to this Exhibition the improvements in design, materials and methods which have marked the progress of the building industry in this country, especially during the last decade.

		Consternation has been caused in

<article title="An Important Decison" author="">	An Important	the ranks of the labor unions in

Decision

England by the recent decision

of the Superior Courts, condemning the <assoc>Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants </assoc>to pay $115,000 to the <firm>Taff Vale Railway Co.</firm> as compensation for damage sustained by the company by reason of the intimidation of their employees by the Society during a strike. In this case, as in that of the journeymen plumbers in Toronto last year, the strikers did not hesitate when it suited their purpose to violate their agreement with their employers by quitting work without giving fourteen days notice as required by the terms of their engagement. The secretary of the Society has admitted that had the Society lived up to its agreement, the strike could not have succeeded, as the company would have been able to get the required help. When the company were granted an injunction preventing interference by the strikers with their workmen, the society capitulated. Then the company took the aggressive and sued the society for $ 150,000 damages, and as stated, were awarded $115,000. The situation in England now is that men still have the right to organize, but they may not strike until they have given the legal notice, and when they have quit their employment they must not interfere with the men who take their places. If they do they are liable in damages, and as the present decision shows, substantial ones at that. An effort is now being made to have the law changed in such a way as to relieve the Unions of the responsibility placed on them by the courts.

		The Chief Engineer of the New

<article title="Wired Glass" author="">	Wired Glass.	York Fire Department has recently expressed high appreciation of wired glass as an efficient protection from fire. The fire-resisting qualities of this material are now generally recognized. According to the American Architect, however, except when fire is present, it has undesirable, even dangerous qualities. This journal cites as proof the <building>South Terminal Station in Boston</building>. In the windows that face east, south, and west, and in the thousands of feet of pent-roof over the street sidewalks, there is said to be hardly a sheet of the glass that is not cracked and shivered into a dozen or a hundred different pieces of glass, just now held in place by the embedded wire and the unequal planes of fracture of the glass itself. But where cracks are, there moisture and acid-gases can penetrate, and when corrosion has done its work on the wire there is likely to be many a repetition, less innocent, too, of the incident which attended President Roosevelt's reception in Boston a few weeks ago, when a sizable piece of this shattered wire-glass fell onto the platform not far from the President. Meanwhile before the time comes when falls of heavy pieces may be looked for, much of this shattering of the glass is already accompanied by the flying of fine splinters of glass. As fracture occurs least often on the side, and most frequently where the windows face the rising sun, it is evident that the manufacturers must give further study to the qualities of radiant heat before wire-glass can be held to be a perfectly safe material to use.

