<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



column was then slung and bolted up permanently into its place. A wrought-iron plate, 1 inch thick and planed on its upper face, was laid between the stone and the base of the column. The stone base was next raised on wooden wedges so as to leave only inch to  inch clear below the column. After the stone had been levelled, a grouting basin in brick masonry in cement was built round it, at a little distance from it, the walls being 8 inches higher than the bottom of the stone. Neat cement grout was introduced under the centre of the stone by means of a 2-inch pipe. The grout was under a head of 4 feet or 5 feet. In this manner the space under the centre of the stone ought to be as well filled as any part. By having a head on the grout a flow was established from the centre to the outside of the stone, which carried with it the air and cement scum. The basin was filled up by this means, thus throwing 8 inches head on the grout, which allowed the water in excess to rise to the surface. The horizontal portion of the pipe was not withdrawn.

Thin steel wedges were used to force the wrought iron plate against the base-flange of the column, and the 3/8-inch space under the plate was grouted with neat cement under about 4 inches head. After setting for 7 days, the wedges under the stone, as well as the steel wedges, were withdrawn, and the shoring was removed. The drop on removing the shoring varied between nothing and 3/32 inch. The greatest collective drop on any column, adding all the movements together, was less than 14 inch, the mean drop of the thirteen columns being 5/32 inch and the least drop 3/32 inch.



NOTES.



In setting cut stone work in England lime mortar only is used. Cement is never used for that purpose, as it stains the stone.



Flatted work will sometimes require a coat of size before gilded work is put upon it, as at times there is a little suction. This would draw the size and cause imperfect gilding.

The City Engineer of Winnipeg has submitted an estimate to the city council for the construction of a railway connecting Winnipeg with the city quarries, at a cost of $138,425.

The report of the building inspector shows that in proportion to size, Westmount's activity in the building line has been more marked than that of Montreal.

The assets of the Holywood Paint Company, of Hamilton, have been purchased by the McLennan Paint Company, Limited, of Buffalo, who will continue the business.

Instead of the iron fireproof curtains generally used in French theatres, one made of sheet aluminum has been adopted for the opera house at Besancon. It is one-fifth the weight of an iron curtain of equal dimensions.

Dr. J. M. Woodbury, commissioner of Street cleaning in New York, proposes to manufacture paper bricks from the dry city rubbish, of which 90 per cent. is waste paper. These bricks are intended for fuel and Mr. Woodbury estimates that private consumers could purchase them for 4 cents a cubic yard.

A meeting of the Executive Committee of the National Master Painters' Association of the United States and Canada, was held in Toronto in the early part of last month, to consider arrangements and outline the programme for the annual convention, which will meet in Toronto next February. A very interesting meeting with a large attendance is looked for.

A machine for splitting laths for plaster work has been introduced in Great Britain. It is said to turn out in a day as many laths as would in the ordinary course be produced by 20 skilled men. The advantage of split as against sawn laths is said to be that they are tougher (following the grain) and have a rougher surface, so that plaster adheres more firmly.

The launching of new cement manufacturing companies in Canada goes merrily on. Hardly a month passes without witnessing the granting of charters to new companies in this line.

In every case, if we may believe the statements of the promoters, there is going to be millions in it for the stockholders, but our opinion is that if the manufacturing capacity continues to increase at anything like the ratio witnessed during the last two years, there will soon cease to be a fair profit in the business for anybody. Admitting that the demand for cement has increased at a truly wonderful rate, it is nevertheless being outstripped by the growth in manufacturing capacity.

The master and journeymen carpenters of Halifax agreed to submit their differences as to scale of wages, to a board of arbitrators composed of the County Judge, the President of Dalhousie College and a representative of the Trades and Labor Council. The arbitrators have concluded that 25 cents an hour be paid to first-class workmen only, the men to be entitled to the new scale of wages from the first of June. The decision as to who are first—class workmen is to rest with the foremen of the several firms who, it is agreed, shall not be members of any union. The day shall be nine hours, and all who cannot rate as first-class men are to receive the old rate of 12 cents per hour. The dicision has been accepted by all parties concerned.

Nothing probably has exasperated the average architect more often or more thoroughly than the average mill company's book of stock designs of doors, mouldings, balusters, railing, newels, etc. Just why it is necessary to turn out such abominations, when it would not cost them a cent more to produce something along correct lines, artistically speaking, is one of the unsolved problems of the day. Did they but realize that these things all have their legitimate effect upon the public taste, especially those who seldom rub up against architects, possibly they would revise their books and get out something equally pleasing to the critical taste of the architect and the untutored ideas of their customers, who must certainly be easily pleased, judging by the stuff they continue to buy and use.

In answer to a correspondent the Painters' Magazine says it depends to a great extent on the composition of the plaster as to whether a new or "hot" wall can safely be painted. We have seen walls that were painted in less than two weeks alter being finished, and yet with only two coats of lead, zinc and oil paint they did not spot or streak in the least. A wall that we do not know anything about is always safest to paint after a year or so, but as people will not wait, it is best to take the precaution of giving a coat of strong vinegar direct to the plaster. Let this stand two days, then prime with pure lead and raw linseed oil, adding a trifle of japan. Over this, when dry and hard, give a coat of glue size, which will save at least one, probably two coats of paint and will prevent spotting or discoloration.

The Iron Age is authority for the statement that, with the same number of hours pet' day and the same rate of wages, the erection of steel framework in New York costs from two and a half to three times as much as in other cities which are also supposed to be cities of high building costs. It is stated that a hand riveter who could easily average 250 to 300 rivets a day contents himself in that city with 8o. In other cities, on straight work, a good man finishes up So an hour. The pneumatic riveter, which has proved such an annihilator of time in other cities, finds something different in the air of New York, and strikes a slow gait. The same tool in the hands of a man elsewhere will drive 1,500 to 2,000 rivets in a day, and only 250 to 300 in New York. The claim is, in fact, made that structural erection in New York costs $15 to $i8 per ton, against $6.50 to $8 per ton in other large cities. This is a "condition and not a theory," and must be faced alike by employers and by the men themselves.

Tensile tests of wrought iron bars, showing the effect of overstraining followed by intervals of rest, were made at the Watertown Arsenal upon four kinds of wrought iron: Common Refined, Best Puddled, Burdens Best and Norway. One test on each kind was made in the ordinary manner. With the other specimens an overstraining load was applied, ranging from 25,000 to 45,000 pounds per square inch, followed by an interval of no load, after which the loading was resumed until rupture was reached. The gain in the elastic limit produced by the overstraining loads was well shown throughout the series, and ranged from 2,000 to 6,000 pounds per square inch. It was also apparently shown, although these effects are not so well marked, that the greater the magnitude of the overstraining load and the longer the interval of rest between the two loadings, the greater was the gain in the elastic limit. No effect of the overstraining load upon the contraction of area was apparent—Engineering Record.

