<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



in the several varieties, as plunge, spray, canopied and tubular, in fireclay and porcelain enamelled iron water-closets and supply cisterns, improved kitchen and scullery sinks, lavatories in vitro-porcelain and fireclay, &c.

"Velure," shown by Messrs. C. Chancellor & Co., Clerkenwell Road, is a new and perfected Japan paint, superseding varnish, with remarkable spreading, elastic and weather-resisting properties. It is sanitary and washable, and it is claimed that it will not crack, chip, peel, blister or fade. It is stocked in 120 colours and any shade can be matched. Samples of 'Stripso," another specialty of this firm, were also shown. This is a paint or varnish remover which has satisfactorily withstood the tests of time and experiment, and been proved to be an efficient labour-saver.

At the stand of Messrs. Norton & Gregory, (Westminster Palace Gardens) was shown a new black-line process for the reproduction of architectural and engineering drawings, &c. The results produced by this process can only be characterized as admirable, every line being perfect and the colour riot less so. Drawings can be reproduced on paper or linen as may be desired, and the reproductions can be coloured as readily 

drawings. In addition to the beautiful appearance of the prints, this process possesses a great advantage in the rapidity with which the work can be turned out as compared with other "black-line" processes. We may add that Messrs. Norton & Gregory undertake architect's perspectives, which they execute from plans and elevations.

Ripolin, Ltd., 110 Fenchurch Street, E. C., London, showed results of applications of paint to various materials. A conspicuous object at this stand was a panel delicately tinted in flat Ripolin, the effect of which was eminently artistic and pleasing. Ripolin, Ltd., are introducing a new filling, which they strongly recommend for use with Ripolin, whether glossy or flat, for which it prepares a beautifully smooth, hard surface to which the finishing coat can be applied to the great economy of the latter.

Sam Deards "Patent Glazing" for all classes of glass roofing was extensively shown at this Exhibition. We have pleasure in showing our readers an engraving of this glazing bar, for which the advantages claimed are Its simplicity, cheapness, and durability, and best of all from a colonial point of view the possibility that it can be easily fixed by builders, plumbers, or even unskilled labor. This steel glazing bar with lead cap is made in three sections, C. E. and F., and the steel bars can either be



































enamelled, galvanized or lead covered. The same can be sup plied all ready for fixing, cut to any desired lengths and easily packed for shipment. Agents are wanted in Canada for this glazing, and full drawings, prices and samples will be forwarded on application to Sam Deards, Limited, 34 Old Broad street, London, E. C., 10 Victoria Works, Harlow, Essex. There is also a special system for glazing on wood rafters and for fireproof roofs where no wood-work is required all glazing bars are made "self-locking."

The Rhodes Patent Sash-Hanging Co. had an extremely interesting exhibit of a valuable invention for raising the heaviest sashes instead of the ordinary and usually inefficient smoothgrooved pulleys, worked by sash-cords, chains or wires. This invention enables thc largest and heaviest of sashes to be opened and closed by a child. The fittings consist of a cogwheel or teeth-pulley and steel chains, which are fixed to the sash and frame in thc usual way. The chains are chemically treated to prevent rusting, and there are no intricate parts to get out of order.

The Warrington Bond Iron Syndicate, Ltd., of Manchester, exhibited their patent wall-tie. This is a particularly strong and effective tie, and the fact that upwards of five millions of them have been supplied, shows that it is rapidly coming into favour. There are three varieties, one for cavity work, one for solid work, and a special flat tie which may be used either for cavity or solid work.



Messrs. Candy & Co., Ltd., Newton Abbot, showed a large selection of glazed bricks of various descriptions. but of uniformly excellent quality and colour, granite vitrified paving bricks and channels, buff architectural terra-cotta, stoneware sewerage pipes, gullies, intercept ors, &c.





NOTES.



Reports from St. John, N. B., state that never since the time of the great fire in that city has the building trade been so brisk; the supply of competent artisans is far below the demand.



The recent building strike in New York tied up $200,000,000 of capital and occasioned a loss in profits alone of $8,000,000 to the contractors arid $13,000,000 in wages to the workmen.



On competition of their contract for the building of the King Edward Hotel, Toronto, Messrs. Illsley & Horn, gave an 111-formal dinner to the sub-contractors and foremen on the different departments of the works.



The police magistrate of Toronto recently imposed a sentence of ten days in jail upon two workmen convicted of having assaulted another workman with the purpose of compelling him to give up his employment. In imposing sentence the magistrate remarked "It's no use putting a fine on these men, their union will pay it, and it will not be a sufficient deterrent."



Thc fire loss of the United States and Canada for the first quarter of this year was materially below the average of thc same period in recent years. The records of the New York Journal of Commerce place the losses for the three months ended March 31, 1903, at $39,164,800, or $9,000,000 less than in the first quarter of 1902, and $6,500,000 below the corresponding period of 1901. The March fire losses were unusually light, amounting to but $9,907,000.



Thc British Vice-Consul at Lille reports that the violent campaign against thc use of white lead for painting has severely affected this industry, of which Lille is the principal French centre it is very doubtful, he adds, if white lead can be effectively replaced, various substitutes hitherto failing to give satisfaction. Largely increased importations of oxide of zinc, and introduction of a new product called "litophone,' suggest that other countries, including the United Kingdom and Germany, quite as interested in sanitary questions as France, profit by the anti-white lead campaign to thc detriment of the French producers.



There are three methods of curing chimneys which do not vent well, applied by Count Rumford and all smoke doctors since his time. Thc first is lengthening the chimney at the top, this increases the quantity of heated air in the chimney, and gives more power or head by increasing the difference between the weight of the air per foot, in and outside of it the second is contracting the chimney at the throat this increases the speed with which the heated air passes through it, and gives a heightened initial velocity to the smoke when beginning in its course up the chimney. The third is when there is a deficiency of air in the apartment to feed the flame and blow up the fire, putting ventilators into the sides of the apartments, or into the windows or doors.



A writer in the London Builders Record gives the following method of removing grease spots on Watman drawing paper

First remove as much of the grease as is possible by placing the drawing between sheets of clean blotting paper (preferably white e) and ironing the spots with a moderately—hot flat iron, constantly changing the position of the blotting paper so as to expose a fresh unsoiled place and continuing this until the ironing no longer causes any discoloration. Then, if it is required to still further discharge the grease, take fresh blotting paper beneath the drawing, and, away from light or fire, pour over the spots benzine, which, as it passes through the paper, will carry the grease with it. It may be necessary to repeat the latter operation several times before complete success is attained and be sure and get benzine (syn. benzol) as benzoline is often solp as benzine.

