<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT FIND BUILDER



Auxiliary private fire plant, force pump, etc. .05 Watchman, with portable clock              05

with electric detector	.10 EXPOSURES. To be charged by inspectors according to circumstances.

CONFLAGRATION HAZARD. Charge for such when



conditions require.

ADD FOR FAULTS OF MANAGEMENT, EASILY CORRECTED.



140 If stovepipes through floors or partition, not protected, .50; through window, roof or wall, with double metal chimney,

.50	; not protected, 1.00 ; entering bottom of flue vertically, .25 ; entering flue

	  in attic or unused room, etc	25

	1 40a Floor beneath stove not protected	05

	141 Bottom of elevator shaft used for

	  closets, etc., or waste	50

	142 Swinging gas brackets or bracket lamps

	  unprotected, for one .05. each additional

	  one	01

	143 Untidiness, rubbish, ashes, etc., espec-

	  ially in cellar or attic, .25 ; packing ma-

	  terial not in bins	15

	144 Cracked or bulged walls, thin and worn

floors, broken plastering, broken win-

	dows, etc	10 to .25

145	Empty boxes, rubbish, etc., in rear yard, alleys, window recesses, under sidewalk, gratings, etc                           10

146	Open lights in show windows or electric bulbs covered with tissue paper or paper

shades	25

	147 Sawdust on floors, sawdust spitoons, etc	.25

:48 Kerosene used to sprinkle floors	25

149 Ash and waste cans, not metal	10

150	Furnace top within 4 inches of wooden beams or ceilings, if brick ; or within 2 inches if portable, with metallic shield .10 to .25

151 Fire-places, hearths on wooden beams, or floors within 16 inches of fire-place ; or wooden fire-boards, or summer pieces, or unprotected wooden mantels, or open

	stovepipe holes	05 to .25

152	Steampipes in contact with wood, not

	  less than	01

	153 Elevator or other shafts communicating

	  with roof space	25

	154 Electric lighting or other system, with

	  installation not in compliance with under-

	  writers' rules ; or arc lights unprotected

	  by tight globes or metal screens	25

	54a Crowded merchandise without proper

	  aisles, opposite or too near windows,

	  overloading, not less than	25



Now if you will allow me I will take up each feature in detail.

First—the walls. It is necessary to have a solid wall, not only to sustain whatever weight the building may, during changes of occupancy, be called upon to bear, hut also to stand firm and keep out a fire which may burn the neighboring premises. We therefore ask that the side walls shall rise above the roof three feet, as a parapet over which the flames will have difficulty in leaping. We sometimes find that a wall is carried up three feet above the roof but the cornice is run continuously along the front from one building to another. The cornice should be cut as well as the roof.

We call for increasing thickness of walls as the building increases in height, and that the ledges formed by the increase in thickness shall bear the floor joists. This is very important as we are constantly finding that the practice of inserting joists in the walls by leaving out a couple of bricks, not only conveys fire through thc walls should the adjoining building burn, but also when a serious fire occurs in the supposed building under consideration, the tailing of the floors brings the walls down, causing a total loss to it and to its contents, arid also lets the fire through into the next building.

party walls require to be four inches thicker than in

dependent walls, the reason for which I am sure will be apparent to every architect. There are many party walls erected in which the joists have only four inches of brick between their ends, and in some cases the joists actually meet and overlap. Such walls are hardly worthy of the name.



The schedule imposes an extra charge on the building it a large amount of the front is of glass or wood, and the charges for exposure to a building so constructed, are also increased.



Our standard calls for a building of moderate height; it that height is increased, extra charges are imposed.



There is a small charge for wooden cornices on building, but such increase the charge for exposure from thc adjacent buildings and should be avoided as much possible.



The standard ceiling is plaster upon wooden lath, or a ceiling of metal. There is of course no objection if an old ceiling of plaster upon lath, is covered with metal.



Wood for sheathing of walls or ceilings is decidedly objected to, and still more so if the wood be varnished, the charges in that case being doubled. With wood at its present price there is no economy in using such inflammable material for partitions or ceilings, and the insurance companies hope that such will soon bc a thing of he past. If metallic lath is used throughout the building instead of the ordinary wooden laths, a reduction is allowed.



The standard calls for floors to be three inches in  thickness. If they are thicker than that, an increased deduction is allowed for each inch in excess. It is recognized that there are very few floors that exceed two inches in thickness, and so in applying the charges, there is a deduction allowed for every inch in excess of two inches.

Then again, if the floors are double and if they have metal between, or if the floors are made water-proof, and drained to carry off any water thrown upon them, or if the floors are made fire-proof, that is, of steel and concrete construction, with the steel properly protected by metal lath and plaster, or porous tile, deductions are allowed.

If the area exceeds the standard, there are extra charges hut even in this case if there are numerous brick walls sub-dividing the building, the area charge is reduced. It is very difficult to locate a fire which may originate in a building of large area, as the smoke at once fills the whole building and when the firemen arrive they waste a large amount of precious time in endeavoring to get at the exact spot where the stock or building is burning.

When the Murray store burned, the building was filled with smoke and the firemen could not see what they were doing; they found after they had been working for two hours. that they were throwing the water against a brick wall, the fire being on the other side of

it.	This does not happen in a small store, or one which is divided into sections.

Now let us suppose that a building has been constructed with solid walls, with double floors, that metallic lathing has been used throughout the building, and what has been gained if numerous openings from floor are introduced?

I would like to draw your attention to <building>Robert Simpson's building </building>on the corner of Queen and Yonge streets, one of the best examples of fire proof construction in the city. In it there is an immense light well from cellar to roof. There are also openings from floor to floor for stairways and elevators. A fire starting in that building would have every opportunity to spread from cellar to roof in an incredibly short time, and if such did happen it would be found that the fireproof building was nothing more than an immense stove in which the contents would be speedily and completely consumed, although the building itself might remain comparatively unhurt. Were it not for the introduction of automatic sprinklers such a risk would probably not be insured for less than per annum,

