<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT JXPID BUILDER



for this purpose, as they rapidly oxidize and are unsatisfactory on this account. It is obvious that a cap should be as heavy as possible, yet small, so as to avoid presenting too much surface for gales of wind to act on.

The flue may be built of uniform diameter its full length, or it may be slightly contracted at the top without reducing- the intensity of the draft. Sonic engineers prefer to have a flue larger at the top, but this does not improve the draft, yet it renders the construction more difficult, hence more expensive, without giving adequate returns.

This was proved in at least one case. It was an iron stack that was larger at the top as originally constructed, but during the course of other changes at that plant this was reversed and put on the same foundation, to be used under like conditions as formerly, but the draft was not affected by the change.

We are sometimes told that chimneys should never be built into buildings, and this is a good rule to go by. Still there are exceptions to it, for sometimes a chimney forms part of a building without objectionable results.

One objection presented to this plan is that when a chimney is built independently of other structures it is swayed by the wind. If a high chimney is to be built near a one-story boiler house it had better stand alone, but where the building is nearly as high as the chimney, which is frequently the case, it must he held by the building, hence this objection is dispensed with.

The expansion of a chimney is greater than the walls of the building when heavy fires are carried under the boilers, and while this is an objection, it is at least partially overcome by building the core independent of the outer walls, with a good air space between them. While this is expensive, it is necessary in order to provide for expansion of heat, whether the chimney stands alone or forms a part of some building.

This air space should be covered at the top to prevent ashes and cinders from collecting in it, but at the same time care must he taken to prevent binding the two together, as such a plan will destroy the outer wall near the top.

We find that some engineers believe that a lightning

rod on a tall chimney is of no benefit, probably because

a defective rod has not afforded full protection to some

other chimney, but how are we to tell how many times

a well laid rod prevents damage by lightning.

If it is carried well down into earth that is always moist it may carry off much of the dangerous fluid without making much fuss about it, hence it is some what like a good steam engineer, as neither gets full credit for the damage they prevent.

About a year ago an imposing chimney was built in a northern city, and when finished the scaffold used was taken down, but a few days ago workmen were said to he erecting another scaffold around that chimney, and investigation disclosed the fact that lightning had damaged the top of it, causing numerous cracks, but not displacing any of the bricks.

A short distance from it stands another chimney, above the top of which appears the ponts of two rods, and as this is a new one it is very plain to even the casual observer that the owners of it are profiting by the misfortunes of their neighbors to the extent of avoiding their mistakes.

When we consider the comparatively narrow or small

dimensions of a chimney foundation, then compare it with its height, it becomes plain at once that a slight imperfection in the foundation, causing it to settle unevenly, although to a small extent, must affect the shaft to a much greater degree. It is both unpleasant and unsafe to have a tall chimney leaning to one side, therefore measures must be taken to correct the evil, and this can be accomplished by sawing out some of the bricks on the high side and putting thinner ones in their places. This allows the high side to settle bringing the shaft into a vertical position, provided good judgment is used in reducing the size of the bricks, for if they are made too thin the effect might be disastrous, especially if the brick structure is surmounted by a heavy cap, which is needed to make the whole thing more solid and thus prevent excessive swaying.

Another plan for plumbing a leaning chimney is to weight the high side of the foundation, or to puddle it until it settles enough to afford a remedy, but this is more dangerous than removing some of the bricks, for the simple reason that there is no way of telling just when the puddling has reached its highest state of perfection, making it risky to prolong the process.

Steel chimneys or stacks are no longer a novelty, and are so designed arid constructed that no braces are necessary. The lower courses of such a chimney must, of necessity, be made of thick plates, in order to stand the heavy strain put upon them by bolting them down to a heavy masonry foundation, after which the pressure of wind against the upper parts causes a very great leverage to be brought to bear on the lower courses.

Such a chimney looks well and gives good results in practice, but is more expensive than one supported by guys, because the absence of support to the upper parts makes a much more elaborate foundation necessary, also increases the cost of the lower part of the chimney itself.

A steel chimney or stack is less liable to be destroyed by accident than one composed of brick, as the latter cannot be held as rigidly together as one made of plates riveted to each other.

The larger sizes of steel chimneys are lined with fire brick, in order to prevent rapid destruction of the lower plates, and to retain the heat as much as possible, for if the hot gases are quickly cooled it tends to reduce the intensity of the draft.

More attention has been given to the design and construction of chimneys during the past few years than ever before, resulting in fine specimens of both steel and brick structures, that are ornamental as well as useful.—The Tradesman.

<article title=" THE TESTING OF BUILDING STONES " author="Gautier">

THE TESTING OF BUILDING STONES.

M. Gautier recently made a report to the Commission of Testing Building materials, relating to the system for testing stone. There is a further discussion of the subject in the Building News in which the writer says

"The testing of all materials suitable for constructive purposes arid employed therein is one of the prominent signs that mark the gradual progress and advancement of architectural and engineering science and technology. Petrean monoliths of sizes and dimensions hitherto unsurpassed were used in bygone days in p0-sitions and situations which must have exposed them

