<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian_Architect and Builder

	VOL. XVI.—No. 189.	SEPTEMBER, 1903.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Golf Club House, near Montreal, Que. A. F. Dunlop, Architect.

Summer House at St. James, near Winnipeg.

I-louses, Nos. 348 and 350 Elgin Avenue, Toronto.——Chadwick & Beckett, Architect.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Entrance, No. 3 Berkeley Square, London, Eng.

Bishop's Chair, Trinity College, Toronto. Eden Smith, Architect.







ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Views of the Guild of Handicraft, London.







CONTENTS

Editorial	.	.	.	. .	137-138	The Scientific Basis and Commercial Feasibility of Heat

Notes of Travel—IV, (The Guild of Handicraft)	. 139-140	Radiators, using Air Instead of Water or Steam 145-146-147

Bridge for the Canadian Niagara Power Company	141	Northwest Letter	.	.	.	.	.	148

Intercommunication	.	.	.	. 142-143	A Departure in Hot Air Heating	.	.	.	.

A Safety Swinging Scaffold	.	.	.	. 144 Wiring Methods and Materials	.

A Building Trades Organizer	.	.	. .	. By the Way	.	.	.	.	152

Conditions in South Africa	.	.







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE,

	S. H. TOWNSEND,

FRDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.



<article title=" Grand Stands." author="">

		The return of the football season

	Grand Stands.	should act as a reminder to archi-

		tects and builders as well as

municipal authorities, that the lives of many hundreds of spectators will depend on the knowledge of those who design grand stands and the honesty of those who build them. Following the disaster on the football field at Glasgow last year, comes news of the recent collapse of one of these grand stands at Perth, Scotland, resulting in serious injury to thirty persons.

		Less than two years ago we took

	Plainness in  Design <article title=" Plainness in Design " author="">	occasion in these columns to de

.	plore the cheap and meaningless



ornament with which most of the furniture manufactured in the United States and Canada was being overloaded, and the consequent perversion of the public taste. It is gratifying to observe that in the short period that has since elapsed, there has taken place a radical change in furniture design, with the result that plainness is now the leading characteristic. The change is a most agreeable and wholesome one, and will be certain to have a beneficial effect on architectural design and furnishings. It would be interesting to learn what have been the principal causes which have brought about within so short a time so complete a revolution in popular taste.



The important bearing of com 

The Commercial Congress.	mercial interests on national

affairs and policy was well

<article title=" The Commercial Congress " author="">

illustrated by the keen interest manifested throughout the Empire in the deliberations of the Commercial Congress held last month in Montreal. There is evinced a strong desire on the part of the various colonies and some of the leading British statesmen that the various parts of the Empire should be more firmly welded together. It is realized that one of the best means to this end is by promoting closer trade relations. A step in this direction was taken by the Commercial Congress in adopting a resolution affirming the desirability of this object and recommending the Imperial government to appoint a special commission to make thorough enquiry into the matter and make such recommendations as in its judgment might seem wise and feasible. The subject is of the highest possible importance to each constituent part of the Empire as well as to the nation as a whole. The

