<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<building>COLOGNE CATHEDRAL</building>.



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.



In the opinion of the Irish Builder Chubb's new patent front-door latch, with very small key, is an extremely handy, up-to-date idea. The Club man who may have occasion to use the very small key has yet to be heard from.



Towns like individuals frequently refuse or neglect to profit by experience. A case in point is the town of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, which, although fire swept only seven years ago, has again been almost wiped out of existence by fire.



A prominent bank president of Hartford was having his house repainted recently. To him entered a caller, who said:—"Do you know that your house is being painted by non-union men?" "Yes," was the answer "I took particular pains to find them. Get out!" That is all the story, except that the house is painted.



Colonel Butler, a former Sessions Judge in Burma, and retired, happened to be an artist and has painted some very pretty scenery as well as birds and flowers in the Japanese style on the walls of the <building>Mauhin Court House in Lower Burma</building>. It forms says Indian Engineering, a pleasing contrast to the generality of such buildings, though we fear the minds of accused persons committed to the Sessions are too much occupied with other thoughts to appreciate pictures, however artistically they may be depicted.



A British contemporary tells a good story of an old lady passing by the scene of the demolition of the famous old <building>Newgate Prison in London</building> the other days when she espied the contractor's enormous steam crane. Appealing to a wily crossing sweeper, said she, "Can you tell me my good man what is that for?" "That 'laidy,' says the wily one, "that is the famous gallows you must have often heard of. Aye, 'laidy,' many's the sickening sight I've often witnessed on that 'ere 'gallis '—take away yer appetite for breakfast—'twould," and as he wiped his eye and pocketed the two-pence, reflected that it was well earned.



A curious action at law is said to be pending in connection with what is known as "<building>The Flat Iron Building on Broadway, New York</building>. The owner of a store opposite this building is said to have brought legal action to compel the owners to reimburse him for the breaking of his plate glass windows by currents of wind alleged to have been deflected from the slanting walls of the "flat iron." The plaintiff alleges that pedestrians have been thrown to the sidewalk by the wind while passing this building, and that in consequence they now avoid the locality. He proposes to secure

the testimony of such persons as well as of architects and other experts in support of his claim.



<article title="The Education of Apprentices" author="">THE EDUCATION OF APPRENTICES.



A series of lectures to masons' apprentices were given last winter by members of the Illinois chapter of architects, and were so successful that it has been decided to continue them during the present winter. The master masons and the masons' union have arranged an apprentice system under which each apprentice receives three months' schooling each year, during which time he is obliged to attend school and also receives his pay from his employer.

The Inland Architect states that the city of Chicago has also arranged school-rooms and teachers for their special use, and their studies not only comprise elementary branches, but follow such technical lines as will best serve them in their work. It is encouraging to note that of the apprentices who attended school last



<building>PEOPLE'S BANK OF NEW BRUNSWICK, FREDERICTON, N. B.</building>



winter not one seemed indifferent, and many attended the night as well as the day classes, and all were enthusiastic and diligent. This has all been accomplished by the unselfish work of a few men who wish to aid in the elevation of the workman and the improvement of his work, and shows what can be accomplished in every trade, and how gladly such aid is accepted by the young mechanic who wishes to succeed in mastering his trade.



The Engineering Record states that the lettering of titles and important legends on drawings is expedited in the drafting rooms of the Bureau of Filtration, Philadelphia, by the use at standard letter sheets about 11X14 inches in size upon which are printed five standard alphabets and sets of numerals in plain Gothic type. These sheets also contain words most frequently occuring in titles and other places printed in the size of letter most frequently used for them. In this way a great deal of time usually spent in spacing is saved, for the draughtsman can slip one of the standard letter sheets under his tracing and copy the words needed.

