<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT JIND BUILDER

BRIDGE FOR THE CANADIAN NIAGARA POWER COMPANY.

By ORRIN E. DUNLAP.

<article title=" BRIDGE FOR THE CANADIAN NIAGARA POWER COMPANY " author="Dunlap, O. E.">

A bridge that is being built by the Queenston Quarry Company for the Canadian Niagara Power Company has several interesting features. The site of the bridge is in Queen Victoria Niagara Falls Free Park, and it is to span the canal inlet leading to the forebay in front of the power station of the Canadian Niagara Power Company. When completed it will be one of the links in a beautiful driveway along the upper Niagara







































NEW BRIDGE FOR CANADIAN NIAGARA POWER COMPANY.





River on the Canadian side, a locality that is just at present undergoing numerous changes as a result of the extensive power development now taking place there. These changes call for many new features, and this bridge is one of them.

The bridge is to be a concrete-steel structure with stone facing, acid in general appearance will resemble somewhat the new bridge erected some months ago between the mainland and Goat Island on the New York side of the river. The length of the bridge to end of posts will be 298 feet. There will be five spans, each of 50 feet, and they will have rises of five feet. The piers will be eight feet wide on the face of the bridge and 66 feet 334 inches long to outside of cutwaters. The piers are set on bedrock, necessitating four or five feet of excavation. The stone used in the bridge is from Queenston, Ont. The piers below the springing line are pointed. The belts, washes and the coping are all of fine dressed work. Steel ribs spaced three-foot centers will be imbedded in the concrete of the arches. Portland cement is being used exclusively on the work.

The width of the bridge is to be feet over copings, except at the piers, where there is a projection of about a foot, making the width of the bridge at the widest part about 57 feet. Inside of the copings the width is 52 feet, and of this 26 feet is to be devoted to double tracks of the Niagara Falls Park & River Railway, an electric line that skirts the river on the Canadian side, 20 feet to the driveway, and six feet on one side to a granolithic walk. The roadway is likely to be of porous gravel or cinders finished with macadam. The grade of the roadway will be practically level, the gutters being graded from the center of each arch to the piers, catch-basins being placed over each pier. Drainage is provided to be carried off in cast iron pipes that will discharge at about the springing line of the arch. It

may be pointed out that the arches were made of such small rise in order to avoid raising the railway tracks, which will be on a fill approaching the bridge. The abutments of the structure are built of concrete in which large stones are imbedded. A conduit having four compartments has been built in the sidewalk for carrying electric wires for lighting the bridge, a pipe being inserted in each of the main posts. The specifications call for a loading of 5,ooo lbs. per lineal foot on one track of the railway, and 100 lbs. per square foot on the driveway.

The arches and backing of the spandrel walls and the piers above springing line, are to be built of Portland cement concrete, the proportions of which are to be one part cement, two parts sand and four parts broken stone. In the piers below the springing line the proportions of the concrete are to be one part cement, three parts sand and six parts broken stone. In the construction of the bridge the contractor is required to trowel two inches of mortar onto the lagging in order to give a smooth surface on the concrete of the soffit of the arch. In building, the contractor is required to start the concrete simultaneously from the ends of the arch and lay it in longitudinal sections. While being built, timber forms hold the sections in place. The tops of the arches and backs of the spandrel walls are to be given two coats of pure Portland cement grout applied with brushes and then covered with two thicknesses of felt. This is in order that the arches may be made waterproof so that the dampness will not come through and stain the masonry.

Before the construction of the bridge a coffer-dam was built between the site and the waters of the river. The water that will pass beneath the bridge will flow to the turbines in the wheel-pit of the Canadian Niagara Power Company. High water will be 1.37 ft. above the springing line of the arch, which will be a depth of 17 9-10 ft. of water in the inlet canal. Low water will be 3.93 ft. below the springing line of the arch, or a depth of 12 6-io ft. of water in the canal, while the mean stage of water will be 1.83 ft. below the springing line, or a depth of 14 7-10 ft. in the canal.

This beautiful bridge was designed by William A.







































NEW BRIDGE FOR CANADIAN NIAGARA POWER COMPANY.





Brackenridge, one of the consulting engineers of the Canadian Niagara Power Company, and the structure is being built under the direction of Cecil B. Smith, resident engineer of the Canadian Niagara Power Company. It is without doubt to be one of the most beautiful bridges on the Canadian side at Niagara, and will be a material factor in adding to the new beauty of Victoria Park. Its magnificent lines and fine appearance will go well toward showing that even though industry has invaded the Canadian pleasure ground at Niagara, it is the intention of the park commissioners, and also of the Canadian Niagara Power Company, so far as it is concerned, to do nothing that will mar the natural beauty of the surroundings of the falls.

