<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="International Fire Prevention Congress" author="">INTERNATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CONGRESS.

This Congress, convened by the British Fire Prevention Committee, is to be held in London, July 7 to 18th next.

The Congress will sit in General Congress and also in Sectional

Congress. There will be six sections as follows :—i. Building

Construction and Equipment II. Electrical Safeguards and Protection from Lightning; III. Legislation and Administration

IV.	Fire Survey and Fire Brigade Patrols; V. Insurance and Fire

Losses ; VI. Standards and Tests for Materials.

The primary objects of the Congress, among others are as follows

I. To discuss the practice of building construction and the application of building materials from a fire preventative point of view; to compare the practice in different countries, and to inquire into tile latest materials and systems of construction available, as also the latest inventions for the general equipment of buildings.

II. To discuss the equipment of buildings particularly in relation to the application of electric power and electric light, and to receive the views of electrical engineers and fire brigade officers as to the origin and prevention of electrical fires, including fires caused by lightning.

III.	To discuss the legislative enactments in force in Cities and districts, particularly in respect to the limitations of area or cubical contents for warehouse buildings and workshops, and the means of separating and uniting such buildings, also the means of escape in case of fire further, to consider particularly the regulations governing the construction and control of theatres and places of public resort, and the provision of staircases and means of escape for- the audience and employees ; as also tile regulations governing the construction of dwelling—houses and houses let in tenements, and the amount of fire-resistance to be provided and the means of escape ill case of fire.



IV.	To discuss the best means of watching or inspecting buildings and plant exposed to fire risks without due inconvenience to owners and occupiers, the practice of tire brigades in this direction, and the experience of the various fire patrol systems.



V.	To discuss the practice of insurance against fire ; to as certain the systems adopted in various countries ; the risks insured against; the regulations and requirements of the national, municipal, public arid private insurance corporations, and to inquire into the systems of mutual insurance, the precautions taken against incendiarism, the statistical record of fire losses, and the preparation of uniform fire maps and plans.



VI. To discuss the best means of recording rite causes and effect of fires, and tabulating the results, so that a basis for comparison may he obtained and standards compiled for various degrees of fire resistance required in different buildings and suited for various materials ; to discuss the best methods of testing materials anti recording the facts of such tests for the information of those engaged in the construction, use and protection of buildings from fire.



The <firm>Parkirt & Somerville, Elevator Co.</firm>, whose announcement appears on front cover of this number have recently commenced the manufacture at Hamilton, Ont., of elevators for all purposes, and have successfully carried out a number of contracts in this line.

Mr. <person>Edmund M. Wheelwright</person>, the well—known architect of Boston, recently delivered an interesting lecture illustrated by lantern slides in the Art Gallery, Montreal, on Bridges.' The lecturer traced the history of bridge construction from the time of the Romans, and pleaded that greater attention should be paid here as in Europe to artistic effect in bridges.

The richly decorated west front of the <building>Cathedral at Exeter, England</building>, is to be remodeled in the interests of safety, the seven centuries old wall having shown signs of collapse. As much of the statuary as possible will be retained in the remodeled wall, and the remainder will be carefully copied and restored. The famous cathedral was begun in 1280 and completed in 1371, the west front being finished last.

<firm>William. H. Sumbling Laundry Machinery </firm>Toronto



Bells, <firm>Meneely and Co., West Troy, NY</firm>



Sheet Metal Building Materials <firm>Metallic Roofing Co. Limited Toronto </firm>Montreal Winnipeg 



Cabot's creosote shingle stains, Sheathing and deafening quilt, <firm>Samuel Cabot, Boston, Mass.</firm>, Toronto Montreal Vancouver Winnipeg St. John Halifax