<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" A FIFTEEN-STOREY CONCRETE BUILDING " author="">

A FIFTEEN-STOREY CONCRETE BUILDING.

A building fifteen storeys high, about 210 feet, in which concrete and steel will form the walls, is about to be erected in Cincinnati. The building inspector, who has to authorize the work, appears to have felt his responsibility in approving of the experiment, and an enquiry was held by him on the subject. It was explained that the concrete construction proposed was stronger and more rigid than steel, and will stand the vibrations and strains due to wind pressure better and in a more perfect way. The strength of the structure does not depend on rivetted joints, but on the monolithic character of the concrete, being all one solid mass of stone held together by twisted steel rods and imparting to it an elasticity equivalent to that of a steel building. The architects of the building are Messrs. A. 0. Elzner & George M. Anderson, and the structure will be erected by the Cincinnati Fireproof Company. The building

inspector of' Philadelphia states that he has had a similar structure under his consideration, and that he had resolved to interpose no obstacle for its erection.



Composition capitals are now being used very largely in Canada. Thc Detroit Decorative Supply Company are large manufacturers of relief ornaments, staff work, architectural carving and modelling. Their exterior an d interior composition ornaments are highly spoken of by architects and builders all over the Continent. The large works of this company turn out this class of goods in a particularly neat manner. They will be pleased to send their new illustrated catalogue to all mentioning this journal and addressing 812 14th avenue, Detroit, Mich.



A new building by-law adopted by the suburban municipality of St. Louis, near Montreal, provides that all new buildings on St. Lawrence street must be of pressed brick or stone and three storeys high at least they arc also to be built on the line of the street. It is expected that a regularity in design and construction will thus bc brought about in the great number of business and residential buildings which are to be erected when the land for widening the street has been expropriated. In the new residential streets to be opened up the houses are to be built ten feet back from the line of the street.

New Process of Artificia; Marble E. Caron Sole proprietor and  manufacturer Quebec



The United Staes Fidelity and Guaranty Baltimore Md., Toronto



Ornamental Prismatic Glass The Hobbs manufacturing Co. Limited London