<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

LOWERING A TALL FLAGSTAFF.

<article title=" LOWERING A TALL FLAGSTAFF " author="">

Lowering a 200-foot flagstaff at the grounds occupied by the Chicago Exposition of 1893, was very simply and ingeniously accomplished by Mr. E. F. Terry without the use of any large derricks, gin poles or complicated apparatus. The pole had a total height of 175 feet above the surface and extended 20 feet below the ground in a mass of concrete and riprap. It was made of two timbers, the lower one about thirty and the upper one about twenty-two inches in diameter. The upper one was seated on a step clamped to one side of the lower piece a few feet from its top and was secured by two heavy iron bands around both pieces. A narrow trench was excavated in the surface of the ground on a line in which the pole was to be felled. It was commenced close to the flag pole and carried down nearly to its lower end and as fast as it was opened the pole inclined towards it so as always to be supported for a minimum of 20 feet on the sloping face of the trench. The concrete, riprap and earth was carefully picked out from under the bearing on the side of the pole, thus lowering it very gradually and increasing the length of contact and diminishing the angle of the slope as the top of the pole gradually revolved downward and the bottom tended to rise in the opposite direction, but was held by the weight of earth and riprap above it.

The pressure at the foot of the pole gradually increased with the surface of contact and the movement was slow and regular with 110 signs of tearing out the foundations. When the pole had revolved a considerable distance and the trench had been opened a long ways from its base, its angle with the horizontal became so small that the splice between the upper and lower timbers could be supported on a trestle bent from the surface of the ground. This was done and the upper end of the pole was removed for fear that the increasing flexure might break the splice between the timbers. Afterwards the remainder of the pole was lowered flat On the ground and the work completed without difficulty or accident. Tile work was done by ten men in four days.—Engineering Record.



LEGAL



A novel action was entered in the Canadian Courts last month by the Canadian Locomotive Company, of Kingston. The corn-pan)' apply for an injunction to restrain two of the leading news papers of Toronto from publishing any notice, advertisement, or threat in these words, " Machinists keep away from Kingston strike still on, '' or in any similar words, or words to the tike effect. The plaintiffs also ask to have the defendants restrained from publishing in any such language as the foregoing any reference to the business operations of the company in connection with their employes or ex-employes or persons who may become employes. " The company have for a year or more been contending with a strike of their workmen, and are seeking to de prive the strikers of a method which has been freely used to keep away outsiders.

According to recent decisions in the British Courts, a contractor is not entitled to the ownership of old materials on the site of proposed new structures, unless there exists some agreement conferring ownership. The contractor's safest plan is to introduce a clause stating whether the materials arc to remain the property of the employer or to be taken by the builder at a price to be determined. The clearing away of old materials when stated in specifications cannot be supposed to mean that in all cases they become the property of the contractor. In order that there ma)' be no doubt on the subject, the contracts of the British War Department usually stipulate that old materials are to be stacked and become the property of the Secretary of War, and that example, if followed, will often prevent disputes.

<article title=" Keenan v. Ronelle " author="">Keenan v. Ronelle.—Judgement of the Court of Appeal, King's Bench, Montreal, Sept. 25th, 1902. A. R. was employed by contractors who were constructing a sewer. Part of his work was to lean out holes where the dynamite had exploded in the blast. While doing this upon one occasion an explosion took place which killed him. The parents sued the contractors for damages, alleging that the accident was caused by negligence for which hey were responsible. The latter claimed that the deceased had himself been imprudent in using a crowbar contrary to orders. The trial court held, however, that as a foreman had been in charge of the work it was his duty not only to forbid the use of a crowbar, but also to have stopped the deceased from so using t. and that the contractors were liable for their foreman's failure o do so. The trial court also held that the operation of cleaning out the old holes was a dangerous one, and that new holes should have been bored. Judgment was, therefore, given against the contractors for $1,999. The contractors appealed from this judgment and the Court of Appeal came to the conclusion that as a matter of law the contractors had not been negligent; and that as a matter of fact, the evidence showed that he making of new holes would not have obviated the chances of in explosion. The judgment of the first court was therefore reversed, and the action against the contractors was therefore dismissed.

New legal points in cases affecting contractors are constantly arising, as was demonstrated when Judge Edge admitted at the Clerkenwell County Court that he had never heard of an action similar to that before him. The case was Williams v. Bronsdon, n which damages were sought against the defendant for personal injuries resulting from defects in materials supplied by him. The plaintiff in November, 1901, contracted to plaster certain houses for the defendant, who was to provide the necessary materials, viz,, lime, sand and crushed slag. It was affirmed by the plaintiff that he complained of the coarseness and roughness of the slag, but was overruled. When plastering he houses his hands became so damaged by contact with the stuff he was compelled to give up work and subsequently the first joint on the index finger of his right hand had to be amputated, which prevented him from working for three months. An analyst after examining the slag reported that it contained a percentage of organic matter. The doctor who attended the plaintiff agreed with the analyst that the plaster was not likely to contain deleterious matter. Another workman however, had suffered in lie same way. On behalf of the defendant it was urged that there was no evidence of negligence, and that if the plaintiff used the material knowing it to be unsuitable he was guilty of contributory negligence. The defendant stated that he had employed a trustworthy contractor to supply he material, and a number of witnesses were called to prove hat the material usually so supplied was satisfactory. his Honor said it was clearly the duty of tile defendant under his contract to supply proper materials and the evidence showed hat in order to carry out this obligation he had employed a competent contractor. Further, before finding the defendant able, the jury would have to be satisfied that tile plaintiff had lot been guilty oh contributory negligence in continuing to use the slag for plaster, although he knew it was unsuitable. The following questions were left to the jury and the findings :—(1) l)id tile defendant supply improper material ?—Yes. (2) Were he injuries sustained by the plaintiff due to the use of those materials? Yes. (4) Was the defendant guilty of negligence ?

-	Yes. (5) Was the plaintiff guilty of contributory negligence ?

—	No. (6) Damages, if any ? 50l. Judgment by this amount was entered with costs.



NOTES.

Messrs. Frederick j. h)rake & Company, of Chicago, have just published a new work entitled Practical Uses of the Steel Square, " by Fred. T. Hodgson, of Collingwood, Ont. This book is an extension and amplification of previous publications by the author on this subject, and in addition includes new matter culled from various sources. Numerous illustrations serve to make clear and more valuable the letter press. Canadian orders for the book, which sells at one dollar per copy, may be addressed to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



A correspondent who has to put in a price for painting and regilding the clock face of a church, about 9ft. 6in. in diameter, and 60 ft. or 65 ft. from the ground, asks the best kind of paint to use is a basis ; the number of gold coats to make a sound job; how natty books it will take and an idea as to a fair price for the job. Carefully clean and scrape the lace, coating first with lead colour, one coat good oil black, one coat spirit black. Gild, and give two coats of varnish, but do not varnish the gold. Lay in with best gold size, to dry in from 18 to 24 hours. One layer of gold is sufficient.

