<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



A SUGGESTION.



Toronto has recently rounded out her suburban

park system by the purchase from the Dominion Government of the garrison common extending

TESTED FIREPROOFING.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—A publication in Chicago which represents the Tile Manufactures, has been making a record for itself in attempting to be- I

little all other forms of fireproofing and is especially bitter in condemnation of concrete as a fireproofing material. They make use of some mishaps during construction, to argue that concrete is unreliable and lacks strength as a fireproofing material.



A great many accidents have happened to brick or terra cotta blocks, but that does not condemn their use in buildings.



Alter all the real test of fireproof construction and the test upon which one can form a correct judgment is an actual fire in a building, and from the effect of such a fire upon the materials used one can judge as to whether the construction is reliable or not.

We propose to print cuts showing the effects of fires in number of buildings, some of them where terra cotta was used as a fireproof material and some buildings where the concrete system was adopted.

Illustration shows the Horne building in Pittsburg, Pa., where the fire burnt out the woodwork and contents, but was not hot enough to destroy the stonework on the front; it was hot enough to destroy the terra cotta floors throughout great part of the building, necessitating rebuilding of all the floors.

Illustration 2 it is a case where a small fire occurred in pipe shaft in the Old Colony Building, Chicago. There was supposed to be nothing combustible in the shaft, but there was some pipe covering and some pieces of board and these caught fire. Even with this small confined fire, the heat was sufficient to displace the terra cotta partition, adjoining the shaft.

In another issue we will illustrate some

FIG.





along the lake shore to the exhibition grounds. When cases of lire in buildings where concrete systems were improved this will form a combined park and driveway used.





unsurpassed probably by any on this continent. The	F. W. BARRETT, city is still in urgent need of one or more squares in the Manager Expanded Metal Co., Toronto. business district. The Council having decided that the proposed new Public Library building shall be located down town, the opportunity is afforded of placing it in the centre of a pub1k square convenient to the business district. In order that the building may form one of the prominent architectural features of the city, and be well lighted, it should have an ample site. Why not as it were kill two birds with the one stone, by purchasing a site which would add to the appearance of the library building and of sufficient area to meet the requirements of a public square? The opportunity should not be missed of thus accomplishing both objects at a minimum cost.