<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



side of the original fire. The building where the reinforced concrete floors were, stood the fire which burned out all the windows, doors and contents of the building on that side, but the floors were intact after the fire, and the repairs were made so quickly that inside of a month the building was reoccupied. The damage was to the superficial parts, the woodwork and that sort of thing. On the other hand the building fireproofed with terra-cotta blocks, on the other side, caught fire and it not only injured the floors but it absolutely destroyed them ; the terra-cotta floors fell down though to the basement.

<person>Mr. Duck </person>Was that hard tile or porous.

<person>Mr. Barrett </person>I could not tell you.

<person>Mr. Shankland </person>You remember that the engineers that reported on those two fires sent in very diverse reports.

Mr. Barrett Yes; thc engineers at that time favored the concrete, and the architects the terra-cotta blocks.

Mr. Shankland The city I think appointed three experts ; I do not say they had three reports, hut they had two.

Mr. Barrett They had two the engineers reported for the concrete, and the architects reported against

it. Then the <building>Schiller Theater in Chicago </building>was subjected to a fire test, and the terra-cotta cracked and split and fell off very largely. On the other hand while we cannot recall many buildings giving tests of very severe fires on concrete construction, largely because I suppose the fire protection systems are so complete that they do not have very large fires and they are able to put them out but there are no instances where buildings have been very seriously damaged. In Montreal recently there was a building where they had concrete walls, and a great deal of the other parts of the buildings were of wood ; all this wooden construction burned out and subjected the concrete walls to a very hard test. It was a very hot fire, but the concrete stood it all without any damage and it is as perfect now as the day it was built. Tests hove been made with small sections of the terra-cotta work and concrete ; they have been subjected to an intense heat and made red hot. Terra-cotta blocks made red hot, then taken out and subjected to cold water will crack and be very seriously damaged; a cinder concrete block of the same dimensions put into the tire and heated red hot and taken out and subjected to cold water is very little affected.

<person>Mr. Denison </person>This discussion reminds me of the rival safe agents after the Chicago fire who were calling upon a mail who had been burned out. One said, "Do you know that when Jones' building was burned down all his papers were in ore of our vaults and, when the fire was out, they opened the safe and what do you think ?" The man said, I don't know 1 suppose you are going to say the papers were intact." The agent said "More than that ; there was a little banty cock in that safe, and when they opened the safe that cock jumped out and crowed." The other fellow says, ''That is nothing; one of our safes was in a bigger fire than that, and when they opened the safe what do you think was in it ?" " I suppose you had a banty cock that crowed too," said the other one. '' No, he didn't," said No. 2, '' There was a banty cock all right in the safe, hut he was frozen 'stiff."

Mr. Jarvis: I should think that the concrete used for fire protection could not stand at all if it were made with crushed limestone or broken limestone, because the limestone under any great heat would calcine and you would have nothing but lime left. If it were made with crushed quartz or granite or some material of that kind it would be all right, but certainly not limestone.

<person>Mr. Aylsworth </person>As concrete is used more and more for building walls, the question in my mind is what should be the proper treatment for the outside. I do not like the color of Portland cement and it will be necessary to treat the outside plaster with something.

would like your opinion on the question.

The President I do not know whether you consider that within your province, Mr. Shankland.

Mr. Shankland It is out of my line.

The President If we have heckled Mr. Shankland LS much as we can, I would like to put the vote of banks which I have been asked to put. We are very much obliged to Mr. Shankland for coming here and standing this cross-examination; I think that when our proceedings are printed we shall find that we have got some valuable information, which will be of use to us n our work in the future.

It is moved by Mr. Wickson, seconded by Mr. Burke, that this Association pass a vote of thanks to Mr. Shankland for his kindness.

The vote was carried amid applause.

Mr. Shankland bowed his acknowledgments.

The President Before the meeting adjourns I believe Mr. Symons has an addition to make to his report as Treasurer.

Mr. Symons Since reporting to you yesterday in

regard to the finances of our Association I have received the total sum of $461.20 that was outstanding for advertising in connection with our papers. This sum, added to that previously reported, makes our balance now in the neighborhood of over a thousand dollars. (Applause.)

It being o'clock p.m. the meeting adjourned for lunch.





<article title="stone working by machinery" author="">STONE WORKING BY MACHINERY.

A correspondent of ''The Quarry" agrees with the opinion expressed by that journal that the successful working or otherwise of the wire-saw depends very largely on thc constituents of the stone it has to cut, as it will work fairly well in one stone and be a total failure n the next. He says: "I have found these failures arise not only with wire-saws, but with other stoneworking tools. I have been concerned lately in some experiments with pneumatically-driven chisels for stone dressing, and found them work well with many stones, but with some hard stones containing much silica they have been a failure. The stones I am alluding to are at present dressed by hand for paving, setts, etc., successfully, but when a pneumatic chisel, making some 1,000 strokes per minute, was used, it was a failure, as up to date I can get no steel to stand it, although I have tried samples from five leading English manufacturers; in all cases it turned up at the edge after a few minutes' use. After some 30 years' experience in this connection, I have come to the conclusion that stone conversion is rather a ''tricky" thing, and every stone must be carefully judged on its merits.





<article title="Ferro-Concrete Construction" author="">FERRO-CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION.

At a recent meeting of the <assoc>Society of Engineers</assoc>, Mr. <person>Augustus de Rohan Galhraith </person>read a paper on the Hennebique system of Ferro-concrete construction. The Hennebique principle consists in embedding in concrete straight and cranked iron or steel tension bars and stirrups, to take the shearing stresses, together with distance pieces, the system being applicable to entire buildings from foundation to roof, inclusive. The piles used in the new dock works at Southampton, England. are built up in vertical moulds, in which are placed long steel rods, which give the required strength. These are laced together with wire stirrups, and Portland cement concrete of the best quality is filled into the moulds and rammed round the steel. After a month the pile is taken out of its mould and driven in position, much in the same way as timber piles are. The ram is exceptionally heavy, generally 30 cwt. The head of the pile is protected from injury by covering it with a helmet or iron case filled with sawdust.



The annual average cost of' making absolutely necessary repairs to <building>St. Paul's Cathedral, London</building>, is $9,000, and it is estimated that $250,000 is necessary to put it in first-class condition and to make sure its future.

