<doctype type="text">THE  CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

drawing does not give a proper indication of the material or construction. The draughtsmanship generally is commendable and the lettering is neat excepting in the floor plans.

MAPLE."—The plan of this house is one of the best, being compact with space well utilized and careful attention given to the disposition of rooms, aspect, etc. The dining room with eastern exposure is well placed and the finishing of the first floor ball in bay to the west is satisfactory, thus allowing space for two good bedrooms to the front. The cutting of the corner of the south east bedroom might have been avoided, as it is almost always an undesirable feature in a room. The exterior massing is good, but the detail is somewhat mechanical. The two small circular bays to the south are rather trivial and the half timbered spandril over verandah, finishing against the brick wall is a feature which would be unsatisfactory in execution.

(Signed),

<person>W.L. SYMONS</person>

<person>A.F. WICKSON</person>

<person>W. RAE</person>	Committee

<person>J.P. HYNES</person>

<person>A.H. GREGG</person>

NOTE. —The names and addresses of the successful competitors are as follows:—" Canada" (awarded first position) Mr. <person>A. A. King</person>, 73 McGill College Avenue, Montreal ; "Pen" (awarded second position) Mr. <person>Charles Wellington Smith</person>, Jane Street, Toronto Junction, Ont. "Mayfield" (awarded third position) Mr. <person>George C. Egg</person>, 24 Tupper Street, Montreal ; ''T Square Jr." (honorable mention) <person>Clarence Thetford</person>, with Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Imperial Bank Building, Toronto.—EDITOR C. A. & B.]





<article title="Meterials, Methods and Terms Used in Plastering" author="">MATERIALS, METHODS AND TERMS USED IN PLASTERING.

At the request of the Toronto Chapter of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>, Mr. <person>W. J. Hynes</person>, on behalf of the Plasterers' Section of the <assoc>Toronto Builders' Exchange</assoc>, has prepared and submitted the following description of materials, methods, tools and trade definitions used in plastering, the object being to assist in bringing into use specifications that shall be more nearly uniform than those heretofore employed

DESCRIPTION OF MATERIALS USED IN PLASTERING.



1.	No. I WOOD LATH consists of white pine, cedar or spruce, free from large knots or bark, 3/8 thick, feet long, in widths of 1", 11/4" and 13/8", of uniform dimensions.

2.	No. 2 WOOD LATH consists of hemlock, hard pine and culls from white pine, cedar or spruce, of irregular dimensions.

3.	EXPANDED MET AL LAIR made from sheet steel, cut and expanded, may be procured either in the naked steel or painted. The Expanded Metal Company, of Toronto, manufacturers.

4. HAYES' METAL LATHING is made from sheet steel which is perforated, with the points of perforations turned back to form keys. Manufactured by the Metallic Roofing Co., Toronto, either plain or painted.

For either metal lathing the bearings require to be not more than 2" centres.

5.	GREY LIME from Georgetown, Limehouse and Milton is generally used for mortar for the under coats in plastering. It should be well burned and used while fresh.

6.	WHITE LIME from Guelph, Galt, Innerkip and other places is used for the finishing coat. Like the grey lime it requires to be well burned and should be made into lime putty while fresh.

7.	WHITE ROCK FINISH, a new preparation on the market appeals strongly for consideration, from the fact of its being scientifically ground, and slacked with only sufficient water to complete the slacking, leaving the product in the form of dry powder which can be conveniently handled and used same as lime putty. Manufactured by the Imperial Plaster Co., Toronto.

· To be used according to the directions of manufacturers.

8.	PLASTER—Made from Gypsum requires to be finely ground and properly calcined. Should be white in color, and of uniform setting properties. Our market is chiefly supplied by the Albert Manufacturing Co., of Hillsborough, N. B.

9.	SAND for lime mortar should be sharp and clean but not too coarse ; for cement work, coarse sand is best.

10.	HAIR should be long winter cattle or goat hair

b

properly saved.

II.	FIBRES have been offered as substitutes for hair, but nothing at present offered answers the purpose.

12.	NAILS for wood lathing 11/8" long, of good weight and head. For expanded metal large-headed slater's nails. For Hayes' lathing heavy lath of good head.

13.	METAL ANGLES. Hoidge metal angles patented and manufactured here are a good protection for external angles.

14.	HAIR MORTAR consists of grey lime properly slacked and mixed with clean sharp sand, to which is added sufficient hair to hold the material from falling or wasting through keys of lathwork.

15.	STRAIGHTENING MORTAR made same as above with a greater quantity of sand and one third the quantity of hair.

16.	COARSE stucco made from grey lime, or white, as desired, with clean coarse sand.

17.	FINE STUCCO made from lime putty or white rock finish, mixed generally one of lime to three of clean sharp sand.

18.	LIME PUTTY made from white lime slacked with a surplus of water, run through a fine sieve, and allowed to stand in vats until fit for use.

19.	GAUGING is the term used to describe the admixture of calcined plaster with mortar or lime putty. The larger the proportion of plaster used the stronger the work will be. The same term is used to describe the mixing of cements with mortar, sand, lime or other material.

20.	PORTLAND CEMENT gauged with lime mortar is used generally for outside work and first coat on lath work, the proportion varying according to require-men t s.

21.	PORTLAND CEMENT STUCCO generally used for outside work and places subject to damp or moisture. when applied on lath, use one of Portland, three of sand, and add one of hair mortar. Second coat, three of sand, one of Portland, and finishing coat generally two of Portland to five of sharp sand. When used on lathing, metal lath is to be preferred.

22.	PORTLAND CEMENT WORK is generally conceded to be the best base coating for Keene's or white cements.

23.	KEENE'S, PARIAN, MARTIN'S generally described as

''white cements," were originally patented. The base of all is gypsum mixed with alum or borax and recalcined and ground. English Keene's cement is generally made in three grades—coarse, fine and superfine— the first of a pink shade and the latter pure white.

24.	FOR BASE COATS Portland cement work is generally used, but many manufacturers advocate the use of coarse Keene's and sand. This method requires that the heads of all lath nails and exposed metal work be well shellacked to avoid rust. For first coat use two coarse Keene's, three sand. For second coat use one of coarse Keene's, one sand. Finish with neat cement.

25.	VICTORIA KEENE'S CEMENT manufactured in England by Cafferata & Co. allows the use of lime in small proportions. This greatly reduces the cost, not so much in the material as in the ease and speed with which work may be executed.

26.	BEST'S AMERICAN KEENE'S also uses this method for plastering.

In specifying these materials it is advisable to say they shall be used as directed by the manufacturers.

27.	PATENT OR HARD PLASTERS are numerous. The base of nearly all is calcined plaster mixed with sand, cement, hair or fibre, and treated with a chemical retarder which delays setting and allows time for use. They are generally good, being machine made of ac

