<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

NOTES OF TRAVEL.—IV.

THE GUILD OF HANDICRAFT.

<article title=" NOTES OF TRAVEL.—IV.

THE GUILD OF HANDICRAFT " author="Langton, W. A.">

An actual, practical, going concern, devoted to handicraft as opposed to machine workmanship is worth visiting, and, as the new home of the Guild of Handicraft came by my way, I turned aside for a couple of days to visit it.

The Guild of Handicraft originated in an educational effort in East London. It began with classes for the study of design and the reading of Ruskin, carried on by the Guild's present head, Mr. C. R. Ashbee, at Toynbee Hall, the University settlement in East London. This was in the years i886 and 1887. Reading led to designing, and designing to its application in practice, all in a small way at first. From this gradually grew a school in connection with a workshop, with the men in the workshop teachers in the school and the pupils in the school becoming gradually drafted into the workshop. When the Guild of three members had a school of fifty members, the indefatigable English benevolent subscribers stepped in—and here the story ends as an example of anything that would be possible in Canada. Funds were provided to carry the school through two trial years, on the top floor of a warehouse which became the school and workshop combined.

The school continued for nine years before it was extinguished by the State-aided competition of the London County Council Technical Schools. In the meantime it had not only had 700 pupils pass through its hands but had strengthened the Guild by the addition of a dozen or so of members, and their work was in demand. Beginning with wood and sheet metal work, they had added other works ; they established themselves at Essex House, an old house in the East End, and became an established company of co-operative, autonomous workmen. Organization was in the hands of a committee ; the committee elected a manager, who had a free hand in workshop discipline, but the individual guildsman had a right to lay his case before the committee. Such a thing as a real labor dispute is said to have never happened, and the value of the committee as a means of education, in the way of a sense of responsibility, steady and good work—in fact in the cultivation of a corporate conscience—is said to have been immense. The bonus at the end of the year is said to far outweigh, in the added sense of responsibility it gives, its actual cash value Mr. Ashbee says "we have never found that the actual bonus made much difference ; it is always the theoretical bonus that does the work."

Wages are paid on the basis of the Trade Union rate, wherever there is one, and the principle of inequality in human values is added. If, as sometimes happens, the Trade Union rate, in any individual case, is found to be in excess of the man's market value, the matter is settled by the manager and the Guild Committee in consultation.

It only remains, to complete the history of the Guild, to say that they are now a limited liability company, retaining as far as possible the good points of their original constitution. The workshop committee is still there, and the right of appeal from it to the manager the committee does not, however, now elect the manager, which is done by the board of directors, but it sends a labor director to the board that does so.

A year and a halt ago the Guild, finding itself enlarging to the point when expansion was inevitable, and as

London is not an easy place to expand in, made what to an onlooker seems its happiest move, in establishing itself in the country. Having found in Campden, in Gloucestershire, a decayed town, with houses to be got for the workmen, it moved there about a year and a half ago.

















































<article title=" High Street, Campden " author="langton">



High Street, Campden.



Campden, at the centre of the Cotswold wool growing district, was a great wool weaving town in the























































A House in

Campden.

fifteenth century and later.	The old buildings remain

—a fine church, some gothic houses, and some of

