<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ENTRANCE TO NEW MAJESTIC THEATRE. TORONTO.



<article title=" THE NEW MAJESTIC THEATRE, TORONTO " author="">

THE NEW MAJESTIC THEATRE, TORONTO.

The accompanying engraving reproduced from a photograph shows the facade and main entrances of the new Majestic Theatre on Adelaide street west, Toronto, as they appeared a few days before the opening of the building for public performances. The building occupies the site of the Toronto Theatre. The destruction of that theatre

by fire only a few months ago might have been expected to result in the erection in its place of a thoroughly up-to-date structure. How far this expectation has been fulfilled from the standpoint of artistic design the illustration will show. The theatrical profession is supposed to be composed of artists. Theatre buildings should therefore be artistic in design, and in many cities of the United States and Europe they stand in the front rank in this regard. The most notable example is the great opera house in Paris designed by Gamier, the principal entrance to which is shown herewith. Not only is the new theatre in Toronto not artistic, it is so conspicuously ugly as to be a positive eyesore.

On the ground of public safety also the building seems to be deserving of criticism. Notwithstanding the fate of its predecessor no attempt seems to have been made to render it even fire-resisting, not to say fireproof. Wood and plenty of it has been employed in the construction. The arch above the main entrance is a mass of wood veneered with plaster. In the event of the building being attacked by fire, we fear it would prove a veritable tinder box.

On either side of the main entrance

are smaller entrances to staircases leading to the galleries. These staircases, which are steep and narrow, appear to be enclosed on one side by a plaster wall and on the other by the outer wall of the building. Doors opening off these staircases on both floors give access to and exit from the galleries. In the event of a fire or panic the occupants of the galleries might find their only exit by the staircase blocked by smoke and flame. The height, narrowness and steepness of these stairways would in such an event be likely to lead to many persons falling and being trampled to death.

In cases wherein damages have been sought for injury or loss of life occasioned by defects in public buildings, the Canadian courts have interpreted the law to mean that in the construction of such buildings every human precaution must be taken to prevent accident. It will scarcely be contended that this new theatre comes within reasonable distance of this standard.

The actual responsibility for the safety of such buildings, however,

lies with the civic authorities and officials. If Toronto had a properly framed building by-law and competent officials to enforce it, it would not be possible for fire traps to be erected. The existing building regulations are in such a chaotic state and so out-of-date as to be almost useless. The only clause we have been able to find bearing on the construction

