<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" PERSONAL " author="">

PERSONAL.



A pioneer builder of Toronto passed away last month in thc person of Mr. William Carlyle. The late Mr. Carlyle was a native of Dumfriesshire, Scotland, and had been a resident of Toronto since 1849. He retired from the building business about 20 years ago. He was for many years a member of the city council, and for six years chairman of the board of works.

Professor S. H. Capper, formerly at the head of the Architectural Department of McGill University, is about to commence his duties as Professor of Archaeology and Architecture at Owens College. Manchester. lie was tendered a farewell reception by the officers and members of the Montreal 3rd Field Battery, in which he holds thc rank of captain. It is learned that Professor Percy R. Nobbs, of London, England, has been appointed Professor in Architecture at McGill University, in succession to Prof. Capper, and is expected to arrive from England shortly.



NOTES.



A company to be known as the Cement Building Block Company has been organized at Winnipeg to manufacture hollow concrete building blocks.

The new Board of Trade building in Montreal was formally opened last month by Lord Strathcona in the presence of a large gathering of business men. The building was artistically decorated for the occasion.

Mr. J. B. Duffy, of Chicago, recently interviewed thc Minister of Customs at Ottawa with the object of endeavoring to have the duty on roofing tile made to correspond with the duty on roofing slate. The existing duty on roofing tile is 35 per cent, ad valorem and on roofing slate 75 cents per 100 square feet.

Canada's annual trade with Belgium amounts to $4,600,000. Among our principal imports from that country are Portland cement to the value of $11 9,000, window and plate glass, value $586,000, and metal goods $286,270. Our exports include lead, ore, asbestos, lime and other mineral substances to the value of

$371,000.



Mr. T. Stirling Lee, a well-known English sculptor, has been

engaged to execute twelve figures to be placed above thc panels on the principal facade of St. George's Hall, Liverpool, This commission has been given as a step in the direction of the completion of the building. Mr. Lee in a letter to the English architectural journals points out that when this important building was erected, the designer contemplated the use of a number of sculptured symbolical figures, for which places were provided, but the figures have never been supplied. The sculptor urges the gradual completion of the building according to the ideas of thc designer, thereby making this the grandest modern building in Europe.

At the recent Fire Protection Congress, held in London, England, the following resolution was adopted The Congress considers that having regard to thc neglect of precautions against damage caused by lightning, the subject should have the serious consideration of the government and local authorities, the technical professions and the fire service. The owners of a building known as Westminster Chambers erected in Copley Square, Boston, Mass., carried the building to a height exceeding the limit prescribed by law for buildings in this locality. After a lengthy legal fight the city has succeeded in getting a verdict against the owners of thc building compelling them to reduce the height of thc building to the legal limit.



A proposal is before the city council of Montreal for the appointment of a city architect. The argument is advanced in favor of the proposal that by its adoption the city would save money and secure uniformity in the style of its public buildings. The opinions of local architects differ with regard to the matter. Some hold thc view that there might be some advantage if the appointment were based on merit alone, and thc salary made sufficient to secure the services of a first-class architect. Doubt prevails, however, as to whether either of these essentials would be realized. The reason why better results are not obtained tinder the present system is said to be that the work docs not go to the best architects but to those having the greatest ''pull." Thc suggestion is made that it would pay the city to engage a first-class advisory architect to pass upon all plans for city buildings.

Ornamental Iron Details Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Montreal Halifax Ottawa Winnipeg Vancouver Victoria Rossland