<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">

BUSINESS NOTES.



The Samuel Cabot Co., of Boston, have recently issued a pamphlet, containing the report of Prof. Charles D. Norton, of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, on the tests for soundproofing the dormitories of the New England Conservatory of Music. This book has been gotten up in a very neat form, and contians valuable data regarding the advantage of using sheathing and deafening quilt for sound deadening.



Interlocking Rubber Tiling is gaining greatly in popular favor, principally because of its usefulness, from a sanitary and noiseless standpoint. Many handsome designs in this line have been recently introduced by Canadian manufacturers. Among these the Dunlop Tire Co. figure prominently. Some time ago they added this feature to their business and have been remarkably successful in their efforts to impress the public with the good qualities of rubber tiling.

The engineers of the Canada Paint Company are now engaged in drawing up plans for their extension on Hunter street. The gratifying increase of business which has come to this company necessitates larger premises than those occupied at present. The Canada Paint Company has purchased a tract of land on Hunter street, bounded by Chatham street and Notre Dame lane, which has the merit of being central and close to their present extensive plant upon William street, Montreal. The Canada Paint Company employ their own engineers, carpenters and machinists, and the new works will be erected by their permanent staff and will be the most complete yet devised upon this continent. It may not be generally known that the Canada Paint Company, Limited, is by far the largest paint and varnish manufacturing company in the Dominion of Canada, and the only company in Canada who ship large quantities of painting material to the United States, in spite of the high tariff which our American friends have against us. Shipments are also made to Great Britain and to the Australian Colonies.



Ornamental cast iron details Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto





Patent Store Fronts J.W. Coulson and Company Columbus Ohio



