<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



LEGAL.

<article title=" LEGAL " author="">

Extra work on a bridge pier contract was the subject of a suit in the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut recently. The plan of the piers, which was a part of the contract papers for the construction, indicated the depth to the foundations by perpendicular lines running downward from the high-water level. The pier in controversy was marked as 26 feet deep, with a plus and minus sign following in order to denote the approximate character of the measurement. The contract provided that the piers were to be founded on rock bottom, except the center one, which might rest on gravel if the engineer consented. The price was $14 per cubic yard for all work and materials. It was necessary to carry one of the piers to a much greater depth, nearly 34 feet, and the contractor sued for a greatly increased rate of payment on the work below the 26-foot depth. The court ruled, 55 Atl. Rep. 584, that this additional excavation and mason work was not an extra, as the plans clearly indicated by the plus and minus sign the possibility of variations in the elevations of the foundations, and that the contractor was entitled to payment only on the basis of $14 per cubic yard for the finished pier.

ONTARIO PAVING BRICK Co. v. BISHOP.—Judgment (L.) by Justices Meredith and MacMahion in the Divisional Court at Toronto, on appeal by defendant singer from the judgment of an official referee after the new trial of the action by him pursuant to the order of a Divisional Court (2 0. W. R. 320). The action was brought by a man who supplied materials to the contractor

<article title=" ONTARIO PAVING BRICK Co. v. BISHOP " author="">

for the work done by him for the owner. The work was done by the contractor, the defendant Bishop, under an agreement with the owner (the applellant ), and the work contracted for was the erection and completion of two brickhouses in Crawford street in the city of Toronto. By the terms of the agreement the work was to be completed on or before 14th August, 1902. The contractor proceeded with the work, but only a comparatively small part had been done on the 14th August, 1902 The owner entered into new contracts with other tradesmen for the completion of the work, and it was completed by them at his expense. The referee decided that the owner was not entitled to set off against the value of the work done by the contractor the difference between the actual cost to the owner of the work and the price which he had agreed to pay to the contractor. Held, that it was a proper conclusion from the evidence that there was an unqualified and absolute refusal by the defendant Bishop to go on with and complete the work on his contract after he had been more than once requested to do, which evidenced an intention no longer to be bound by the contract, and justified the appellant in proceeding to complete, and the appellant is therefore entitled to recover the damages sustained by him owing to the default of defendant Bishop in the performance of his agreement. These damages exceed the amount found due to defendant Bishop. Appeal allowed with costs, and judgment appealed from set aside so far as it affects the appellant, and action as to him dismissed with costs.

Cold water paint for outside and Inside use W.A. Fleming and Company Montreal



Luxfer Prism Company Limited toronto