<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" METHODS OF REMEDYING DAMPNESS AND EFFLORESCENCE IN WALLS OF' BUILDINGS " author="">

METHODS OF REMEDYING DAMPNESS AND EFFLORESCENCE IN WALLS OF' BUILDINGS.

The following on the above subject is extracted from a work by Adolph Wilhelm Keim, German Chemist:— Most of the methods which have been proposed for

curing damp walls have been based on the use of waterproof plastering or paint, or depend on the principle of employing hollow walls, with or without ventilating apertures. The former device may in certain cases fulfil the desired end, although as a rule it merely hides the mischief for a time and actually aggravates it. The plan of using hollow wails with ventilating channels, whilst more correct in principle, is both costly and difficult of application to old houses.

Vaudoyer has the following remarks on these two methods: Imagine the wall of a basement to be affected by moisture, and to exhibit efflorescences on its external surfaces; it would be of no use to try to shut the damp into the wall, we must rather afford it an opportunity of being dried by the air, whilst endeavoring to remove the cause. With this object air channels should be inserted in the walls above the ground level, cellars may be excavated where none already exist, the inner and outer plastering of the walls may be removed, and any precautions similar to those which are employed in new construction may be adopted. In cases however, in which these precautions are 110 longer possible or when in spite of them the effects of dampness still continue to exhibit themselves, recourse must be had to other means, such as the following: To prevent the moisture which is present in the wall of a building, and shows itself on the interior surface, from influencing the air of the apartments, the best plan is to face the wall with hard tiles, set on edge at' a distance of about an inch from the face of the wall so as to permit a circulation of air between the wall and the inner casing. It is beneficial to give the inner surface of tiles a coat of asphalt, especially those which are tied to the wall, whilst the outer surface may be coated with plaster(?), which when perfectly dry can be painted or plastered, or, since wall-paper does not adhere well to plaster of Paris, it may be pasted upon coarse linen.

This system would afford all needful security, and further harm would arise from the moisture even if it still remained in the wall which was originally affected by it; but even in the wall itself it would be markedly diminished by the ventilation which would be established between the wall and the inner casing. A less expensive expedient would be to erect wooden battens against the wall, with diagonal ties, to nail laths upon these, and then plaster the laths. This would give a thin partition, isolated from the wall. The wooden battens, being in contact with the damp wall, would have no great permanence; they should at least be well tarred, and have sheet-lead interposed between them and the wall; a free circulation of air is, moreover, absolutely necessary. Wooden wainscoting amounts in fact to an isolated partition, and it is certain that the partial, or, if necessary, the complete lining of the walls of a room with wood is a great protection against damp; nevertheless, the ill effects of moisture on the building itself will still have to be feared it a free circulation of air is not provided for behind the wainscot, the back surface of which, moreover, should be well tarred.

Although the system which has just been described is to be preferred to any other, it nevertheless has the disadvantage of reducing the size of the apartment considerably; we have therefore to consider whether other devices may not in some cases be adopted.

In cases where the wall in question is an interior wall separating two apartments, both of which require to be screened from damp, there is no alternative but to adopt the system of isolated partitions; for if any coating impervious to moisture were applied immediately to the wall, the result would simply be to enclose the damp in the substance of the walls, and would promote a destructive action which would be all the more detrimental because it would escape observation. But where the damp shows itself in only one of the rooms, it would seem that to suppress it on that side of the wall would drive it to the opposite one, where, however, it would not be so harmful as in the former case, because at that side the air might be relied on to evaporate it to a large extent. In such a case it is better to avoid the use of an isolated partition, and to apply directly to one side of the wall the waterproof coating which is regarded as the best protective. It must, however, be admitted that few of these will long maintain their coherence with a wall which is perpetually damp. Framed partitions take such a coating more readily than walls built of stone. The material selected for application should, if possible, be one that will penetrate into the substance of the wall. Such an application may also be employed for the inner surface of an exterior wall, if this has a favorable aspect. For if one of the surfaces is exposed to the influence of the air, the damp will be able to escape from the whole thickness of the wall.

Although this plan presents indisputable advantages in some cases, there are others in which the wall may be coated with glazed tiles, affixed with good mortar; or, in rooms where a tiled wall is not appropriate, the rough side may be left exposed, and can then be covered with paint and any desired style of ornamentation. In some instances, tiles saturated with asphalt may be used; in others the whole surface may be covered with thin sheets of lead. The chief difficulty in using metallic plates is to find a suitable material for attaching them to the wall. This is required not only to harden readily, but also to adhere firmly to both the surfaces to which it is applied.

It would be superfluous to remark that a damp wall to which cement, or any other waterproof material, is to be applied, should first be stripped of its former coating, and allowed to dry for some time before the new coat is laid on. And it must further he remarked that rendering with mortar consisting of hydraulic lime and sand gives a surface which is quite unsuited to receive a coat of oil paint, since the latter would not adhere well, but would speedily peel off.

C.	G. Demich has proposed some extremely complicated ventilation attachments, which are so costly that scarcely any one would introduce them into old buildings, on which account I pass them over. But he also gives the following method for protecting against damp:— An excellent method (he says) of preventing the escape

of water vapour from damp walls is to cover them with small glazed clay tablets. These tablets, which can be made by any -potter, are about 7/8 inch square and 3/8 inch thick, 'and are glazed on one side. They are attached to the wall, with the glazed side outwards, by good mortar or plaster and small clamps. A wall covered with such tablets has not an unpleasant appearance, but when lighted up at night, the glitter is injurious to the eyes. To avoid this the tablets may be fixed with the glazed side towards the wall, the rough side coated with a thin layer of fine cement, floated, and papered. When the damp is not excessive, the wall may be covered in the same way with old window glass, then floated with cement, and papered.

