<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



surfaces are exposed to what is comparatively a hot blast. The question is, how long will the furnace stand such treatment?

Mr. Cobey: I do not think a fire pot is more likely to bc destroyed by passing 120 degree air over it than by air at zero, which is likely to disturb the iron by unequal contraction.

Mr. Chew: Moreover, to raise air from zero to 200 degrees the fire pot would have to be white hot, which would not be necessary if the return air is at 100.

Mr. Oldacre: I have never observed any deteriorating effect from cold air—even 10 below zero. Tile highest temperature of air discharged from a register, in very cold weather, was 190, which 1 consider too high, and that more air, at a lower temperature should be used—not above 150. Thc larger tile volume of air the more nearly it approaches the quality of outside air.

Mr. Roys: I think Mr. Oldacre is speaking of an ideal system, while the Doctor is speaking of common practice. In my experience I find the air coming from registers as high as 400 degrees, and only getting down to 150 in mild weather.

Mr. Oldacre: Would not the casing of this furnace be so hot as to lose much heat in the cellar? When air is taken from outside the casing is so cool that you can put your hand on it. When I have found a hot casing it has indicated poor circulation, or some other trouble.

Mr. Roys: As a furnace is commonly installed it would often be impossible to even touch your hand to the top of the easing. I believe the fire underwriters say there are more fires caused by hot flues than any other cause.

Mr. Oldacre: I would like to have pointed out to me a single case where a house was set on fire by a hot pipe--I do not mean the chimney.

Mr. Roys: Mr. Sims, of the board of underwriters, claims that there are hundreds of such cases.

Mr. Switzer : I know of such a case. The wall pipe was not protected in any way and the pipe was air bound, so that it did not circulate. It was in 10 below zero weather, with a 30 mile gale forcing tile air into the lower rooms, which grew colder, and this pipe to the second storey got hot enough to ignite the wood work.

One of the objects of this society is to educate men to put ill furnaces as perfectly as those Mr. Oldacre describes, which it is entirely possible to do.

Secretary Mackay: Dr. Aylesworth does not mention any valves or dampers to shut off the heat from a radiator. What effect would it have on the furnace to shut off one room or more?

Mr. Cobey The system is in a primitive state, and the controlling appliances can easily be added. I think we shall some time adopt tile direct radiation with separate provision for ventilation. I do not think it desirable to introduce the heat and the air for breathing through the same duct as it often gives a bad odor.

Mr. Schaffer: Answering a question of Mr. Chew, I will say that a furnace supplied with air from inside will last longer than if supplied with air from outside.

Prof. Kent : I would ask the size of these radiators.

Dr. Aylesworth : My present idea is to limit the radiators to four sections, of about 14 square feet of surface to the section.

In regard to heating the cold side of the house with these radiators, the colder the exposure the more rapid the circulation in the exposed radiator.

In regard to dampers, the instructions to the manufacturer who shipped this radiator there, were that he should put the damper

in	place, in the inflow pipe of the radiator, at the bottom. The effect of closing a damper would be tile same as closing the register on any furnace, or any steam or water radiator.

For special ventilation it is planned to place another pipe outside of the exhaust pipe of the radiator, and connect it with the outdoor air.

Prof. Kent: I would ask how the Doctor gets a loss of half the heat ill the attic?

Dr. Aylesworth: The attic covers the whole building, has roof exposure, and was kept warmer than the rooms below; there was a good deal of piping in it—the pipe, which is to in. at the start, lulls 34 feet.

Prof. Kent: How would you change that in another building?

Dr. Aylesworth : Put the horizontal pipe below the floor.

Mr. Chew : I notice in Fig. 7 two systems of piping are shown; that at tile right going up through the attic and that at the left being a direct flow pipe along the cellar ceiling, with a pipe up to the radiator and coming directly back. I would ask the doctor's preference.

Dr. Aylesworth : It is decidedly preferable to carry tile pipes through tile cellar.

Mr. Oldacre: What are the advantages of this system over hot water or steam?

Dr. Aylesworth : It is cheaper to install and the expense of repairs is slight.





NORTHWEST LETTER.



(Special Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)

<article title=" NORTHWEST LETTER " author="Over, W. Percy">

WINNIPEG, Sept. 9, 1903.



Although the building season here is not by any means closing in, yet all important work that is to be roofed before the hard frost comes is now well under way. The season has been a most satisfactory one from a builder's point of view and the amount of work that has been carried Out is almost incredible compared with that clone in former years. The groat advance in prices both of material and labor this year would, it was expected, cause buildings to l)e cancelled to such an extent as to possibly retard tile progress of the city, but contrary to expectation the quantity of work proceeded with has been so great that only by the united efforts of the contractors has it been successfully coped with.

Apart from the business blocks, warehouses, etc., the number of residences in course of construction is enormous, and although most of these are not of a very high order of architecture yet the relief they will give in this direction is most edifying. The better class of residences have been somewhat affected by the price of material and labor and in the way of intricate planning and elaborate finish and detail, they do not call forth much comment. The plans of most of these houses are carried out on the first principles of the square and tile elevations have taken a correspondingly uninteresting position. To build with the least cost has been the ruling factor governing all this class of work. Several larger residences were contemplated early in the season but what was considered prohibitive prices caused the work to be postponed indefinitely.



The Steel Apartment Building, Portage Avenue, although not properly under the head of residences will ease the pressure to a considerable extent in the increasing demand for rooms. This is a six-storey building and on plan it is practically a square with a large central light well extending from the first floor to the roof. On each floor a gallery is carried around the well by which access is obtained to the different suites. The staircase and passenger elevator are taken up through the light well and connected directly with the several galleries. The single staircase appeals to one as rather a serious drawback to the satisfactory working of a building of this character, especially with the capacity this has of accomodating such a large number of people. A separate tradesmen's entrance and staircase would if arranged greatly facilitate matters and solve the problem of efficient service to tile different floors. Each floor is divided into eight suites, cacti containing from three to five rooms with a bath room to every suite. A rather doubtful arrangement has, I think, been planned for the bath rooms and kitchens. These rooms are all lighted from the central light well, this light well itself being covered in with a skylight and rendered practically a closed area. In elevation the building is extremely simple; the material is buff pressed brick (Lac Du Bonnet) and Tyndall stone bands.

Apropos of residences, I am sending you for this issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a photograph of a summer house for Mr. R. Wilson. This house is beautifully situated on the bank of the Assiniboine river at St. James, about four miles west of tile city. In plan it is rafter interesting, and I enclose a rough line drawing of same. Tile front of the living room opens by means of glass doors, tile full width and height of room, so that in warm weather this room becomes practically a large verandah. The kitchen arrangement is most satisfactory as it is really quite detached from the remainder of the house and all heat and odor emanating therefrom is kept absolutely clear of tile living rooms.

In taking up the larger work the banks call for tile most attention. The completion of the Bank of British North America has been somewhat hampered on account of the delay experienced in waiting for stone and progress for this reason has been much slower than was anticipated. The work will, however, be ready for the roof towards the end of the month.

The contract for the Union Bank's eleven story steel frame building has been awarded to the Fuller Construction Company, of New York. It is needless to give a dissertation on the status

