<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

ADVERTISING VALUE.<article title=" ADVERTISING VALUE " author="">



It is very well for some men to say they believe in advertising, and to expect a liberal return from their investment merely as a reward for their faith in the value of publicity. It is quite another thing to get value out of the space used. The belief in advertising is natural since advertising has done much for many establishments and individuals, but it will not do much unless much is put into the advertising. The real secret about business is business, and the real worth of advertising depends on business also. It is necessary to put common or uncommon business judgment into the space used for the benefit of the business and to make the establishment, the goods and the methods stand out before the possible customer in a light which will be pleasing and help the public in general to understand the worth of the stock. There are those who talk ethical advertising and ideal publicity to an extent that they really believe in it themselves, but will be disappointed in results unless they get something into that advertising which will give it vitality. It is useless to expect to impress a public with the standing of a firm as an up-to-date business combination unless there bc life in the advertisement. The message must show the strength of the merchant behind it and must demonstrate the merits of the place. The point is the life and character of the announcement. Make it stand out in every line and make it so conspicuous that any possible buyer will see it and appreciate it.—Advertising World.



<article title="Notes" author="">NOTES.



At Upleatham, North Yorkshire, is said to be the smallest church in England. Its size is 17' 9" x 13'. The building which is 900 years old, is now used as a cemetery chapel.

An International exhibition of building materials and methods has been arranged

or at Paris this year.	date of

ing has not yet been announced. Great Britain, Germany and Belgium will be well represented. A leading feature of the British arid Belgian exhibits will be plans for low cost dwellings.

Upwards of twenty committees and subcommittees composed of persons prominently identified with the iron and steel industries of Great Britain have been engaged for a considerable time on the work of standardizing structural iron and steel sections, equal, unequal, and bulb angles, bulb tees and plates, H beams, Z and T bars, channels and beams. Thirty sections of H beams are given, varying from 3in. by 1 1/2in. to 24in. by 71/2in., and weighing respectively from 4 lbs. to 100 lbs. per ft. The Engineering Standards Committee states that beams ordered to thc standard thickness shall be practically accurate in profile; but if the thickness of the web is less or greater than these standards, the width of the section will be decreased or increased by the same amount; and it is suggested that beams be ordered by depth of section, width of flanges, and weight per foot. It is claimed that the standardization of sections will effect a saving of several million pounds annually.



<person>William Clendenning </person>writes in " Fireproof" on the subject of "Misplaced Fire Escapes.' He states that hundreds of fire escapes in our principal cities follow window lines vertically, from top to bottom, thus exposing them directly to the action of fire when it bursts from the windows at each floor, rendering the escapes unsafe and unfit for the exit of any human being, because they become red-hot in many cases, thus making them death-traps rather than fire escapes. In the course of a single street car ride in Chicago the author says he counted on one side of the street sixty-five fire escapes so located as to be utterly useless in cases of fire on either side of the lower

stories. The remedy for this alarming state of affairs is to place the tire escapes at or near a corner, or at least removed from immediate proximity to windows, with platforms communicating at each floor, and so give the tenant a chance for his life. This subject is probably new to most people and should be looked into by building inspectors. A fire escape placed in front of a row of windows should be condemned and the owner required to remove it to a comparatively safe position.



<person>John Mackay </person>& Coy., of The <building>Canadian Bank of Commerce Building</building>, Toronto. would like to be placed in communication with a firm of architects of the highest professional standing, and of special experience in the erection of modern Bakeries. Communications will be held in the strictest confidence.

The <firm>Best Light Co., Canton, Ohio</firm>



The <firm>Sun Portland Cement Company, Limited, Owen Sound</firm>



The <firm>Roman Stone Co., Limited, Toronto</firm>