<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



utility is inseparable from good taste and sound craftsmanship. Beauty is so inextricably bound up with fitness, especially in relation to arrangement of form and colour, that we may almost assent to the proposition that in this connection abstract beauty cannot be considered to exist at all.

The excellence of work is, in a large measure, dependent on its efficiency in fulfilling the purpose .for which it was executed. What would be an excellent finish for one class of work would show bad judgment and ignorance if used for some other position. Utilitarian considerations arc of relatively greater weight than purely aesthetic considerations ; and whilst the endeavour of the decorative house painter should always be to cultivate and forward the aesthetic side of his craft, if he can show that the two considerations are really inseparable, he will go far towards persuading the householder to be less chary of spending his money for the purpose of making his borne and surroundings well-preserved, tasteful, cleanly, beautiful and refined.

The question of colour deserves far more consideration than the average house painter gives to it. When it is remembered that a large quantity of external painting is done yearly, and the frequently unsatisfactory results, and contrast these with what might be done by the same amount of labour and material in the hands of a good colourist working in accord with a common well-defined scheme, astonishment is expressed at the supineness of those in authority, whose tastes are supposed to be cultivated. Compulsory legislation on the subject is almost pined for. Take for instance, the West-end of London, where acres, yea miles, of frontage are painted annualy, and practically the whole triennially. We are asked to just imagine a standard three or four colours made compulsory for outdoor work for a period of five years, and what a different scene the place would present ! Our cities, instead of reflecting the dirt and smoke in the colouring of the walls and roofs, might be cheery and even elevating to  the senses.

The query arises, is there some weighty element that makes for the universal sadness and badness ? It is believed there is, and that it is in a great measure due to a total misconception. Ninety per cent. of persons appear to think that the one desideratum in a paint is that it " won't show the dirt." This is quite desirable, but when the desideratum is obtained by using '' dirt colour," it evidences a lack of thought and a failure to appreciate the value of colour. In however dirty an atmosphere they may be placed, clean-looking tints will look cleaner than the dirty sombre ones, and under the ordinary deposits of soot and dust bright colors will have a generally cleaner and brighter appearance than grays and drabs. Yellows, blues, and reds, when bright in hue, will, it is said, actually he improved and  toned by the accumulation of a normal quantity of dust. These facts, it is urged, should be borne in mind, and no opportunity allowed to pass unimproved when the surroundings of our life may be cheered and brightened by a little of one of God's best gifts to man,

colour."



Now, ' quoth an impecunious nobleman to a cautious architect, " I want a mansion five storeys high."

It will be very expensive,' was the considerate objection.

Ah ,' returned my Lord, "but that's another storey." We'll stop at five. -Irish Builder.



<article title="Area of Pipes in Heating Systems" author="">AREA OF PIPES IN HEATING SYSTEMS.



In answer to the enquiry of a correspondent F. Dye writes in the British Plumber and Decorator. There are tables, in the books on hot water heating, which give the sizes of main or branch services suited for various areas of heating surface, and for 70 ft. of 2 in. pipe the connections would be given as 1 1/4 in. This latter, however, is not the best size in a general sense it is the minimum that will give normally good results and it is best only in costing the least for successful working. So far as quick results, speed of circulation, noiselessness with excessive firing, etc., are concerned then 1/2 in. is better than 1 1/4 in., while 2 in. would be better than both. Briefly, the larger the pipe the more successful the circulation is, and the only fault attached to large pipes is that they offer a larger heat-losing surface if they are not covered or protected and are run in cold situations. This would not apply in this instance, as the radiating pipes commence within two or three feet of the boiler.



<article title="Mortar in Frosty Weather" author="">MORTAR IN FROSTY WEATHER.



There are many substances which can be used to resist the action of frost on mortor, but it is questionable says The Irish Builder whether they are purely effective. Alum certainly lowers the freezing point, but its use is not recommended. It is a salt, and when the atmosphere is damp the absorbent nature of the alum would show itself by damp walls. Sulphuric acid is sometimes employed. Add a small quantity of sulphuric acid to the water with which the mortar is to he mixed, only instead of using slaked lime use quicklime; but mortar made in this way can only he employed in slight frosts. Smith's ashes have a selenitizing action, as they are rich in sulphurous acid. The use of sugar or saccharine mixed with mortar is to have a quicker set, and to harden it. It is therefore a race between sugar and frost; if the sugar causes the mortar to set before the frost attacks it, the sugar wins; but if the frost attacks the mortar before the sugar sets it, the frost wins. As yet we must give in to the frost, for there is no cheap solution to the problem.



<article title="Reinforced Concrete" author="">REINFORCED CONCRETE.



It is learned from the Architectural Record that an interesting test in connection with the strengthening of concrete by steel, which is attracting so much attention, was made recently at Messrs. Connal's pig-iron stores, Glasgow, upon a slab of concrete 7 in. thick and 15 ft. by 15 ft. in the clear, with a tension bond of Expanded Metal (steel) about 3/4 in. from its lower surface. The slab, which had been completed some three months, was supported by dwarf walls 3 ft. high and had a hearing on these walls of 6 in. on all four sides. On November 12th a preliminary test was made, and the slab loaded to the extent of an evenly-distributed load of 3 cents. per sq. ft., which had remained there until the final test was made. The object of the final test was to ascertain the ultimate load which a slab could sustain up to the breaking point. The inspection committee consisted of Mr. <person>A. T. Walmisley</person>, M. I. C. E., engineer to the <firm>Dover Harbour Board </firm>; Mr. <person>J. P. Allen</person>, P.A.S.I., of Newcastle-on-Tyne ; and Mr. <person>Andrew Home Morton</person>, A.M.I.C.E., of Glasgow. the total breaking load amounted to 56 tons 11 cwts., when the slab' gave way, the fracture radiating from the centre towards each angle of the square. There was no evidence of the supporting walls sinking.

