<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



them their present dignity! There is however no doubt that the ground floor service room should be managed somehow. It is quite otherwise with the kitchen; the beauty, not only of this house, but of the whole neighbourhood, lies in the basement kitchen; and here is the point best worth considering about the London house. With us it is considered a matter of necessity, for the sake of easy service, to have the kitchen department on the same floor as the living rooms and the front door; but how much we suffer in consequence! The service rooms are pinched to the last degree yet without preventing the living rooms from being pinched too. The kitchen must, except on a prohibitive scale of cost for land, share the best floor with the best rooms ; intrude a perceptible presence among them ; and condition their arrangement and lighting, in other words the family suffer in order to give advantage to the servants. What is this advantage? It is not an all around advantage. Cramred quarters are no gain to the servants, nor are they any happier for being so close to the living rooms. It is chiefly for convenient communication with the dining room and the front door that the kitchen department is placed on the ground floor ; and the insertion on the ground floor of a serving pantry, with a sink and with cupboards for china and glass, fairly meets this necessity ; for the maid, whose duty it is to attend to the front door during most of the day, will have her special quarters in this pantry. If ease of service for the dining room and front door is met in this way, the balance of advantage seems to be in favor of a basement kitchen, merely from the servants' point of view; for there will be ample quarters, isolated and distinct, and comfortable in summer as well as in winter. We are apt to think of a basement as a damp and dreary place; and so they are in houses where the basement is not used, and is not built for use ; but these high, airy and dry English basements are quite another thing, and indeed it is more sanitary for the rest of the house that the cellar should be kept warm and dry by being occupied. But the great gain is in point of beauty and cost; larger rooms on the ground floor for the same money, and every room with a free look out.

It is in the matter of look out that the London house is such a useful study of how to make the most of a town lot. It is not an individual work ; all the houses in the block must be planned with the same idea: If the custom is not already established it is a case for building restrictions; and in the borough of Kensington, where the house before us is situated, the law comes in also forbidding the drying of clothes in gardens. The result is a block of buildings as in Fig 4.

The kitchens are all invisible and there are no back yards—except in the American sense of ornamental ground. Ashes and rubbish are placed in two large cans which nave a place of their own, outside in the kitchen area of every house, where they are concealed from view, but readily accessible to the dustman on his rounds. Rag and bottle men and all kinds of waste

	FIG 4	View	PLAN OR BLOCK

users also thrive in London. The result is a clear area, on both sides of the house, which is devoted to trees, shrubs and flowers in borders, and either paved or tamped hard with London red earth mixed with gravel. The street fence is a low wall, usually of brick plain or stuccoed and painted like the house. The divisions inside the lot are often of inconspicuous iron. Sometimes there is a stone or terra cotta balustrade on top. An interesting feature is the gate which rises up between posts, no matter how low the wall is, and is























































FIG. 5.—VIEW FROM DRAWING ROOM WINDOW.





more often than not a solid door. Sometimes this door is kept shut and can be opened from the house when the bell is rung. The bell pulls are usually in any case in the gate post, in beautifully kept brass; there are a pair,

















FIG. 6.—FROM DRAWING ROOM BAY WINDOW.





one labelled " visitors " and one " tradesmen " so that the servant within knows whether to go to the door upstairs or downstairs. W. A. LANGTON.