<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT JXND BUILDER



work there except on one point and that is that, to carry out their original scheme of a long brick, (I never heard why they could not or did not get it) they bound two bricks together with a fine joint between them. That is of course an essential dishonesty, and a great drawback from a building that is, apart from that, very simply constructed and beautiful. That peculiarity does not show up in the photograph very well; for one reason because it is only a fragment. You have there a pediment with an entrance door, which is practically but a porch to the main building, with a flat dome back of it, and it naturally looks severe; but the texture of the building is perfectly charming. The bricks are a dark and rather heavy brick, and the mortar is a cement gravel mortar, with three-quarters of an inch thickness of joint, and laid up

Mr. Price: Ordinary brick, about 81/2 inches.

Mr. Hynes: I notice that where they used moulded brick it did not seem to have as satisfactory a result as where they had used other brick in a pattern; a kind of a frieze, with a row of headers under, which is all that marks the change from the wall to the frieze. In other places there is a row of projecting headers which are bullnosed and (particularly as the lines of the brick work are not very good with this heavy joint in it) it seems inappropriate to mould the brick; to put a moulding on something in which a virtue is made of roughness. While the variegation of brick work was kept on the surface it was very satisfactory indeed. I thought one lesson might be drawn from that building and that is to leave moulded brick alone. It was, however, only where the moulded brick projected past the

CORNER DOME OF <building>VARIED INDUSTRIES BUILDING, LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION, ST. Louis.</building>





slightly back of the face; that is, it is rot a raked joint exactly but it is pushed in as well as they could. They have added a large amount of color work to the building through by introduction of mosaics in brick and terra cotta and marble and stone; anything at all that would give them the color effect. There is no sham about it as far as I know, unless you choose to call the color of the marble a sham. The marble they use is treated with iron, which rusts it and makes permanent stains. It may be questionable whether that is proper or not, but we should be all very glad if our marble in conjunction with brick work were so unfortunate as to have a nail driven in just above it and became rusted naturally. They have only gone one better than that; and it is probably a color that the marble would get with extreme age.

Mr. Mortimer: What is the size of the brick?

surface that it did not seem to be satisfactory. Where they kept it in the surface, as headers, it seemed to be very effectual as decoration. I do not know whether Mr. Price would agree with that or not.

Mr. Price: I should agree with it very largely. Moulded brick of course is very dangerous material, because the essence of the building is that it shall be a long line and the essence of the brick is that it is a short chunk which tends if made too much of to destroy the long line. Much of the best mouldings of that work are not moulding at all but projections which give a shadow and do not pretend to be mouldings. Besides the moulding is smoother than the rest of the brick and gives a difference in texture.

Mr. Helliwell: In common with those who have spoken I would like to express my appreciation of the paper we have just listened to and at the same time

