<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



work for lower wages during the winter season and work could perhaps under those conditions bed one more cheaply, hut those conditions do not prevail at present.

R.	G. KIRBY.



MONTREAL, May 2nd, 1903.



My experience in over twelve years practice as an architect is that the inside work of a building- can be done cheaper in winter than in summer. I believe the reason of this is, that the building operations are more active in summer than winter.

ALCIDE CHAUSSE.



QUEBEC, May 3rd, 1903.



Replying to your enquiry of April 29th, I beg to state that all things considered, I do not see how the inside finish of a building can be done cheaper in winter than iii summer, the on!)' difference in favor of the former being a slight increase in cost of labor, practically compensated for by the shortness of working hours and the extra cost and inefficiency of artificial light, to which must be added the cost of heating, which comes very high in an incomplete building. That is my own experience, and I hear it has been strictly confirmed by the experience of contractors on our new theatre, the Quebec Auditorium, where the cost of heating, even under normal fuel rates, would still have overeaten the saving on winter labor.

C.	E. TANGUAY.



MONTREAL, May 5th, 1903.



Re price of summer vs. winter work, I would say that I would not be an authority on the question of inside work. With regard to our roofing, of course there is a heavy difference in cost, although we cannot obtain any better price for doing it. Our Montreal winter season's work costs us fully 20more than the same work during the summer weather.

C.	1. WILLIAMS.



TORONTO, May 5th, 1903.



I have always found that men working on buildings always work better during the summer than in the winter They enjoy the fine weather and are in better spirits, can keep their tools in better order. Material can be got in better, while on the other hand, no matter how comfortable a building may be enclosed during the winter, there is always a certain amount of running in arid out, dampness in the building, the difficulty of getting to work on time in bad weather, all of which affects the men, and I have always found that I could do my work better and cheaper during the summer than winter and do not consider that any contractor is justified in taking contracts cheaper in winter, the wage question being equal.

H.	MARTIN.



TORONTO, May 7th, 1903.



My experience has been that winter work is slightly cheaper. Wages in both seasons are the same, but mill work would be cheaper during the winter months, as the factories prefer to keep running on, taking work at low figures rather than stop machinery or lose good men; and the contractors also prefer to keep going for less returns in order to keep their men together. I prefer winter finishing; on account of the scarcity of work there is a chance to get the better class of mechanics, and the temporary heating of a building is preferable to finish in rather than the changeable atmosphere of summer. My experience has been, without exception, that interior work stands better' when done during winter months, and tinder conditions that are most trying to such work, namely, when artificial heating is being used.

W.	L. SYMONS.



MONTREAL, May 7th, 1903.



My experience is that with a climate like ours it is cheaper to do work on buildings in summer than in winter.

In winter buildings require to lie heated to prevent water and steam pipes from freezing, also all pier and mortar of all kinds has to be more closely looked alter than in summer, and even if there were no water Or steam pipes, plaster and mortar to freeze, the building not being heated there would be dampness which would cause lumber to twist and warp. I am of the opinion that all building trades require more attention in winter than in sum— mer, therefore conclude, building operations are more expensive in winter I than ii in summer.

JOHN WIGHTON.

VANCOUVER, May 5th, 1903.



The writers experience is that winter finishing is more expensive than that done in summer. Heating, special care of the premises and waste of materials all have to be taken into account, also time for completion, interest on money in the event of the work being prolonged. Winter work means that painting or other branches will be delayed for spring, hence extra time is required. A contractor under certain circumstances might be able to figure lower for winter, especially if sub trades are done by contract and special. reduction made to have work going on during the dull season. Over here in British Columbia we consider a contract requires a higher figure, but localities differ in this respect. My advice would be do everything possible during the summer months, put on extra men and rush the work  save time and save money.

E.	COOR.



WINNIPEG, May 8th, 1903.



I consider it worth from to to more to finish work in winter Than in summer, besides getting a better job done ii summer

W.	F. LEE.



MONTREAL, May 16th, 1903.



We know that in our line it costs less to do our work in the summer than it does in the winter. The long light days and the more comfort able climatic conditions are all in favor of summer work. It used to be the custom to reduce wages in the fall, which has probably given rise to the cheaper idea. Bit men now get as much per hour in winter as in summer.

J.	W. HUGHE5 & SON.



VANCOVER, B. C., May 7th, 1903.



Your enquiry of April 29th at hand. Will answer wit h few lines covering my observations for over twenty years—providing the wages paid per hour are the same in winter as in summer, I consider the work will cost at least fifteen per cent, more in winter than in summer, and in seven out of ten cases, the finished work does not give the satisfaction to owners or architects that the summer work would have given at the less cost. The imperfect light in most parts of tine building for two to four hours each day (although men are only working from 7 to 8 hours daily), the imperfect heating and (trying of most buildings, during finishing ; the extra amount of time required in cleaning and caring for the finishing materials are the chief contributors towards their extra cost. Under conditions favorable towards contractors, with an oversupply of labor to select help from (only the best of men will be used) arid the men anxious to hold their positions by working well and doing good work the fifteen per cent. extra cost referred to might be reduced to about five per cent. or in some cases brought even with cost of summer work.

C.	P. SHINDL ER.



LONDON, ONT., May 11th, 1903.



Yours of April 23rd received and the contents considered by the Board of Directors at their last meeting. They were unanimously of the opinion that building contractors were not under any condition ever justified in submitting lower estimates for winter work. The lack of proper light and heat are of course the two principal hindrances to work being done as cheaply in winter, and added to that in some trades, particularly bricklayers and plasterers, is the very great waste attendant upon winter work.

Geo. S. GOULD,

Secretary, Builders' Exchange.



VICTORIA, B.C., May 6th, 1903.



My experience as a contractor teaches me that work cannot be done cheaper during tile winter months, than the summer months. The material is in better condition to work in the summer and much more easily cleaned to a smooth surface. In this climate we have considerable rain during the winter months ; tile atmosphere is damp and penetrating and buildings erected during the winter require fires to prevent dampness penetrating and swelling the inside finished. The dry saason lens the advantage as to cost. We make no difference as to cost summer or winter.

H.	C. MCKILLICAN.



SAN FRANCISO, CAL., May 12th. 1903.



My opinion is very positive that work can be done inside building much cheaper in summer than winter in any

