<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Court House at all." The Commission is a power in the city. Simply by exercising it's veto, it kept the committee for the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument marching about for a site, disapproving of one after another, until the present admirable site on Riverside Drive was found. It has kept numberless unsuitable structures from being erected in the Plaza, to the injury of Central Park. The Commission works. When shall we see something of the sort in Canada? Here is the composition of the Art Commission of New York:

The Mayor ; three permanent officials, viz.: the Presidents of the Public Library, of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences three representatives of the three professions of architecture, painting and sculpture ; and three gentlemen specified to be not members of any profession of the fine arts. We have at least half a dozen cities in Canada in which a similar body could be selected without difficulty.



<article title="The Basing Unit in Concrete" author="">The Basing Unit in Concrete  Mr. <person>Charles M. Crawford</person>, of the

<firm>Hartford (Conn.) Paving and Construction Co.</firm>, in a paper, which was read before the <assoc>Connecticut Society of Civil Engineers</assoc>, and published in a recent number of the Engineering Record, demonstrates the importance of more accurate definition than is usually given of the basing unit in cement concrete. Mr. Crawford cites the specification for an important public improvement in the State of New York. This specification reads :— the ''concrete . will be proportioned: — one part by volume of Portland cement; eight parts of volume of aggregate of stone, gravel and sand." The question is, how is the volume of the unit of Portland cement to be measured—in the barrel or out of the barrel? A barrel of cement is the usual unit of volume; but a barrel of cement has two volumes —— one in the barrel and one out of the barrel.



Mr. Crawford quotes test measurements of barrels, in which Portland cement of different brands had been packed, as ranging from 3.24 to 3.59 cubic feet; but the volume of the cement, when loose, is greater. Tests made for himself established the weight of a cubic foot of Atlas Portland cement, loose, at 91.27 lbs., making a barrel (380 lbs.) equal 4. 16 cubic feet. Here is a difference which has a serious bearing upon the question of cost.



Take the smaller measurement. If the "one part by volume of Portland cement" be taken as 3.25 cubic feet, the aggregate will be eight times as much, or 26 cubic feet. Of this 40 per cent., or 10.4 cubic feet (which is about the proportion of the voids), will be sand and 60 per cent., or 15.6 cubic feet will be stone; and the mixture will make about 16 cubic feet of concrete.



If the larger measurement, 4. 16 cubic feet, be taken for the barrel of Portland cement;— there will be 33.28 cubic feet of aggregate, composed of 13.31 cubic feet of sand and 19.97 cubic feet of stone; and the mixture will make about 21 cubic feet of concrete



The cost of these two operations—with cement $1.50 a barrel, sand 60 cents a cubic yard, and stone $1.50 a cubic yard—will, in the first instance, be $4.37 cubic

yard, without labour, and, in the second, $3. 74; a



difference of 63 cents a cubic yard. We have made the calculation from prices said to have been in force when the work for the specification in question was let. As cement has since gone up in price, the difference now would be even greater. But taking 63 cents as a possible difference in the cost per cubic yard:— as the work covered by the specification in question amounted to about 90,000 cubic yards of concrete, the sum involved in a difference of opinion as to the volume of the basing unit would be, as Mr. Crawford says, "worth considering.



<article title="P.Q.A.A. Scholarship" author="">P.Q.A.A. Scholarship		

It is rather remarkable that the well endowed and equipped department of architecture at McGill University should still lack students in spite of the fact that examination is the only way to the practice of architecture in that province. The <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>have considered it incumbent on them in order to make the benefit of the architectural course felt, to create a scholarship both entitling and compelling the winner of it to take the full four years' course at McGill University, This is no doubt a move that will in time effect its object. The first student who wins the scholarship and takes the course will of course be snapped up by a good office, and then it will begin to become apparent to the rest that something has happened which makes the architectural course desirable. If immediate advancement comes to two or three students who have taken the course, it will become a necessity. A distant view of himself either the better or the worse for having or not having a good professional education it is not easy to bring before the mind of a young man, but he can see immediate consequences ; and it ought not take long to fill the architectural lecture rooms of McGill with students, if it is once demonstrated that to have passed the course gives the student an immediate success that can be measured in terms of dollars and cents as well as of opportunity.



A further proposition was made, as an additional suggestion, in the same report of the Educational Committee of the P. Q. A. A. :—that "some (members) might see their way to make arrangements with students in their offices so that for the help given by such students outside of the regular season and hours of a college course, the employer might pay the fees of such course." This in common with the rest of the report was adopted and "the Council instructed to take steps to give effect thereto," but this is a proposition that requires careful handling lest it do more harm than good.



The thing to be borne in mind, in offering inducements to architectural students to do their studying thoroughly, is that the inducements must be inducements to work, to take the profession seriously ; not inducements to enter the profession as the softest thing going ; and it is a question—if education is provided, for the mere consideration of filling out the year in an architect's office (which the student would do anyway if he were obliged, for want of this kind offer, to get his training entirely in an architect's office)—it is a question whether the profession of architecture in the Province of Quebec will not have

