THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<doctype type="text">

ments, according to their requirements ; the entire system to he



positive in its action and under the control of the operator.

In taking this matter up I think it would be well to have an approximate estimate of what the installation of this system cost; we would then be in a position to make a comparison of the costs of the various systems. My own opinion. is that a mechanical device could be installed for a little over the cost of gravity ventilation, while the cost of operation would be very small if you take the results into consideration.

I take this matter up as I am interested in ventilation and I would be very glad to see a general discussion upon this question.

Respectfully yours,

VENTILATION.





<article title=" NORTHWEST LETTER. WINNIPEG " author="">

NORTHWEST LETTER.

WINNIPEG December 14, 1902.



Although the winter has now thoroughly taken hold of this country and the thermometer bas already registered as much as 25 degrees below zero on several occasions, building operations have by no means come to a standstill. It is most sat is-factory to note this, for at no distant date it was universally considered, and is so yet by those not acquainted with the actual conditions, that for a period of some four months duration building of all description was compelled to cease. Work is now progressing in all trades and although the severe weather makes the cost much in excess of tiornial prices, on account of heating, etc., required, the cold weather does riot prohibit the carrying out of good work. If these points were more widely advertised it would dispel the illusion many people hold, that because the thermometer at times registers as much as 40 below zero, work of all kinds must be suspended for the whole of the winter. This belief is held more particularly by those in the " Old Country, and if these facts could be brought to their notice it would help materially in encouraging good mechanics to immigrate to these western provinces. A present difficulty in building, on account of the great amount of work in hand, is the scarcity of skilled labor and much work has been hampered this year for this reason. The enormous amount of building, compared with former years, and the lack of labor will necessitate, for the completion of same to be realized before spring, the carrying on of the work throughout tire winter months, arid although it may be a loss to contractors in many cases, it will benefit the country at large, in that it will not only give continuous employment to the trades but it will more establish the truth and destroy the fallacy regarding building in winter.



The carpenters' strike which took place late in the summer retarded work to some extent. The disturbance was the usual several complaints of the Union, viz a nine hour (lay from seven to live, a minimum wage of 35 cents and the recognition of the Union. No prolonged lockout took place and in a number of cases the employers agreed to the demands of the Union immediately upon receiving a notification specifying their requests. In some instances the mien were Out several weeks, but these cases were rare. Some seventy-five, more or less, masters have up to (late agreed upon several points demanded by the Union, which agreement holds both parties for one year. The employers who refused to submit to the demands number about fifteen and include some of the large firms of the city. As no association of master carpenters exists in Winnipeg, the difficulty found by the Union was that each contractor had to be notified individually and each acted according to his own judgment. The advisability of setting the minimum wage at 35 cents appears on looking into the matter to be questionable. Taking a nine hour day with eight hours Saturday at 35 cents, gives a weekly wage of $18.55. This amount for a minimum appeals to one as rather high. There must be many instances in the carpentering trade where rough work is done, especially in a growing country such as this, where the labor cannot possibly be worth that amount. Many men there are who are worth no more than say 30 cents brint who can perform this rough class of work as well as a thoroughly experienced man. It would be different if work was scarce and labor plentiful and where the good men would be frequently discharged in favor of the cheaper ones, but this is riot the case. When such time arrives then the Union can protect the best mechanics but in the meantime the contractor or public must nay the price and consequently building becomes more expensive and the class of work stands still.

The subject of trade unions brings to one's mind the desirability of a "union " among architects. Not on the lines of protecting themselves as is the case of the trades, but for the protection of tire public and the advancement of the art. On this theme I should like to bring to your notice some points that have impressed me as illustrating the great need of such an association to be formed inn Winnipeg. Things in the profession are at present being carried on in a very loose way. Some years ago the resident architects in the province submitted a bill to the local Legislature petitioning them to grant a charter to an association formed of resident architects empowering them to prevent any outside architect practising without first becoming members of the provincial association arid thus making it a close



profession. This idea of "union" is not of a very high order as it was apparently one meant, I am given to understand, not to



further tire interests of the profession but only to act as a barrier against outside men from entering tire province. What is needed is an association formed on the basis of the Ontario Association or other similar body with the direct object of raising the standard of architects and of work done. This can only be accomplished by educating students of the rising generation by the help of the Association and by making it compulsory to pass certain examinations before being allowed to qualify as architects. This might be done by an association being formed and a bill being authorized which would make it necessary for such qualifying examinations to be passed before one world be allowed to practice and for the measure to take effect say five years from the date of the introduction of same. This procedure has of course been ineffectually placed before the Ontario House on several occasions hut Quebec has been more fortunate and Manitoba might do likewise. The present manner of practising architecture necessarily reduces work to tire very honest standard and it seems an injustice to the public that any man on tire street can, when the whim takes him or when a prospective job looms up, place the worth Architect after his name and publicly practice as such. It would be most unfair to cause those who were not architecturally educated to a specified level to cease from practising the profession, but it would be most just to compel those who were not competent from the public safety standpoint, to withdraw the designation "architect" from their names. Time free use of time word by such a nondescript class has become such, that in some cases, within a certain public, it is simply synonymous with 'Jerry Builder.' This does not exaggerate the prevailing practice in any way or form, and in fact one would hardly dare to describe the exact condition of affairs in this direction. Tire course now open is, for those architects who feel that the exigencies of the case demands it, and regard time profession as one worthy of protection and who can realize the effect of the continuous practice as now prevalent, to join in forming an Association as above for the repression of a system that can do nothing but lower the status of all concerned.

Taking leave of "Unions' —the city of Winnipeg tax papers are now being presented and show a rate of 21.50 mills made up as follows schools 4.38, municipal commissioners .23, public parks .50, municipal expenditure 16.39. Total amount of taxes levied $779,878.10 on an assessment of $36,264,920. To keep the rate of 21.50 mills throughout the "business tax," is arrived at in a strange manner. It is done by multiplying the actual annual rental by four or five so that although the rate is really 95.50 mills it reduces it to the 21.50 mills required. The tenant of an omee or a shop having a rental of say $1000 pays $91.50 on shop or office. This business tax is of course in addition to the regular tax of 21.50 mills on the assessed value of the building and land. It is hard to obtain information as to the reason of this apparent extortion, but of course there is a reason, and that is supposed to be sufficient information for the taxpayer. To carry on the administration of the city's wants it requires that tire amount of money expended must be paid, but the equity of pro. portioning the taxes in this manner looks on the face of it doubtful. 

The prospects of building for 1904 look very cheerful. Although the total amount of building permits issued in 1903 aggregated to something like $6,ooo,ooo the feeling at present is that this amount with probably be doubled next year. The C.P.R. improvements, the agreement of which has now been finally signed by the city, will entail an expenditure of something like $2,500,000. The whole of this project may not be proceeded with next year but the building of the subway is definitely settled.



MAN ITOBAN.

