<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



though the body of architects is a very small one compared with the community- it has been a very efficient mover of the community. The difference between the Philadelphia—I speak of Philadelphia because it is my own place—of thirty years ago and of to-day is almost entirely due to the few architects who have worked for better things there. They insisted and insisted again and again in spite of the conservatism of client and builder that material and design should be better, and they have bettered them. Now it is in our hands very largely to influence the men who do our work by continually insisting on honest work just as our friend who spoke here on decorative work, assuring us of their willingness to co-operate with us. You will find that these men, who work with you in making buildings, will do exactly the same thing. 'flier may be more stubborn about it, and they have a harder row to hoe than the decorators, for the decorators are more closely in touch with their own work than the builders are. They have the work more nearly in their hands than we have. The men who erect our buildings are divided into two classes, the contractors, with whom we come in touch, and the men who actually do the work. The contractor has, in a large measure, ceased to be a builder; he is simply a contractor; he gets a number of sub-bids, adds them together, and puts on his commission for profit and superintendence, and finances the job, and, to a certain extent sees that it is carried out, that the people working under him carry it out. But he has comparatively little touch and little sympathy with the actual workmen who carry out the work, and they are the men that we must go after. It is not the contractors who have much to do with the actual building; it is the craftsmen, if you call them that, who do the work.

Now, it seems a reactionary proposition, and possibly a hopeless one, to fight against the machine. Here we are at the end of the 19th century, the century that brags more of its methods of production than any other one thing; and I say that those methods of production are them selves absolutely immoral and reactionary. And I mean it. I mean that the method of production that considers only the amount of the product and the profit that can be made upon it1 is absolutely immoral, and that the products of these methods are essentially inartistic, especially in our decorative friends' materials. I know, for instance, what it is to try to select papers for other people; 1 know that always or nearly always, when the people get the paper on the wall they think you have buncoed them they will come into the room and say, 'That is not the paper I selected, it was not that color, it was not that design." There is a difference between the design which may be very beautiful and the thing you get upon your walls, wherever it is mechanically made. And that is an essential difference. It is a difference that is bound to exist. I do not care how far you may perfect your methods of production if they are mechanical the result cannot be artistic, because art is, after all, as far as I can see it, only the expression of ones own individuality. Hubbard has said that art is the visible evidence of man's joy in his work. And that is almost a definition, but it is not the real definition, because the art is in the doing of the thing and not in the product of the doing. You cannot if that be true, et art material or art results without artists. The proof that it is true is that the artist never hoards the things that he makes; his real joy is in the making. The rich people do not possess the art of the country,

they have the crumbs that fall from the artist's table, and that is all that they can get of it. The artists are the fellows that get the fun out of it. Art truly is to the artist. Now we architects are only half artists, because while we guide the hand we are not the hand. It is a pity, but it is true. And yet we have the biggest opportunity in the world, and that is the making of ourselves and the crowd better men at the same 'time, and it is in our hands to do it. We may he really leaders, but the evidence of leadership is a following. If we have not a following among the people that create the things that we are supposed to create then we are in nowise leaders; but we have the privilege of being leaders and educators of the people, and especially educators of our co-workers in making architecture. And how shall we go about it ? Of course I do not want to be too savage against machinery and I do not want to repeat what I said last night, but I will repeat just one thing that came up in conversation with <person>Mr. Langton </person>and some others.

Mr. Langton—I think it was too good to be lost by not giving it to others.

<person>Mr. Price </person>This machinery question is a vital one and one we cannot ignore—as to where we can draw the line on the machine. I was trying to make a distinction, and I think I can make one; I think you will agree that the place where we can draw tile line is this—just so long as a machine is a tool with which a man works it is a benefit no matter how highly it may be developed, but the moment it ceases to be a tool and becomes a mere automatic machine into which material is fed, and out of which the product comes without any volition of the man who is working it then that machine becomes an immoral affair and the product of it becomes absolutely worthless as far as the art world is concerned. That seems to me to be the place to draw tile line. That does not cut out baud saws or turning lathes, or other power tools but it does cut out much of the work we have to put up with; for instance, it cuts out machine carving in all its forms. It is an easy way to make a yard or a yard and a half or a whole piece of so-called ornament, but of what value is such ornament, Now can we get the people we build for and the people we build with to go with us, and return if it be a return, towards a more simple method of construction? I think we can. I think that there is one way we can do it if no other, but it would be a drastic method. That would be to cut off all the ornaments, make the thing absolutely simple and plain with only the essential features in it. Then at least there would be no bad ornaments in it. I think we can go a step further, and instead of cluttering up the inside or the outside of our houses with numberless moldings and brackets and the Lord knows what, of round and square. stuck here, there and everywhere." without any special meaning except that our ancestors or forefathers did it in marble or some other material, for I am afraid that is the reason we put most of those things in—we can eliminate most of these things and substitute for them extreme honest simplicity in construction, and a little bit of good carving, for we still have the carvers left to us and some of the carvers and decorators are really artists and artisans. I Would rather have on my wall a patch a foot square of real decoration interesting enough to go and look at twice than to have the room covered with decoration that has no interest except as to design. That seems to me a most practical line of elimination; cut the quantity of it down to the quick if need

