<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The dwellings arc in flats, but are only two floors high. Perhaps this is their most noteworthy point. It represents the teaching of experience, that it flats, of this kind, are to have anything of thc self contained character of a home, they must have each a separate entrance direct from the street to the dwelling. A common entrance is apt to take its character from the worst occupant of the building; the sense of home for the best occupants, and the safety of home for their children is neutralized. The bottom idea of these flats is a separate entrance for each floor. The doors stand side by side on the front under one arch and one canopy; and the entrance ways run side by side, taking up three feet of room apiece. It is evident that in these circumstances, the number of entrances must be limited; and therefore the number of floors. The limitation of two floors is evidently going to pay sufficiently, and it is the making of the buildings from the point of view of the residents. The streets and the space between the houses inside of the block, though not wide, have an open appearance; and it is pleasanter and more convenient to live near the ground than to he cut off from it by flights of stairs.

There is also, in being only 10 feet up, safety from danger by fire—-though these buildings are nearly fireproof. Their stairs are of wood, but there is a second stair from the scullery to the garden, starting from a landing of concrete.































THREE ROOMED TENEMENT—- FIRST FLOOR.





The exterior walls are 9" brick; ground floor partitions which carry floor beams are 4½" brick; other partitions are 3" brick noooed or made of a concrete of breeze and cement, plastered with a waterproof plaster.

The lower floor is concreted on the ground; the upper floor has 5" steel I beams, about three feet on centres, fitted in with a concrete of breeze and cement. The method is simple:-—boards are pinned up tight to the underside of the beams and the concrete is filled in between the beams, flush with their tops.

It takes about 12 men to lay a floor expeditiously:

5 mixers at the door shovel the stuff into the house; it is further mixed by being passed on by 4 more men, who shovel it one to another, until it reaches the 3 layers, who ram it in between the beams one bay at a time. The wooden flooring is nailed directly to the concrete.

The roof is quarter pitch, covered with slates on battens. External openings have sills and lintels of granolithic cement, and thc entrance door canopy is a granolithic slab about 6' x 4' supported by corbels of the same material. There is no other exterior detail. The only wood visible on the outside is that of the frames, doors and sashes. It is good solid building likely to last long and to keep neat.

All the conveniences, by the way, are supplied. For heating there is no occasion: the kitchen range supplies all the heat that is necessary for ordinary cold weather, and fireplaces are provided in all other rooms to give whatever additional heat is necessary. Hot water is supplied to the bath from the kitchen boiler, which is supplied from a tank connected by a ball-cock with the water main. The water comes from an artesian well bored to supply these buildings and, I believe, the municipal baths adjoining. The lighting is electric, and is also a municipal work. Each house is provided

with a penny-in-the-slot meter. It is found to be most satisfactory for the user that he should pay as he goes, and experience in the other system seems to show that a penny meter will give enough current for a day's supply of light to a house of this kind. If not, it is not a case of sudden extinction and feeling for a slot in the dark; an automatic warning of the approach of the cut-off gives notice, in time for the insertion of a new penny while the light continues.

The cost of all this work is about sixpence a cubic foot. This price is probably rock bottom. The borough does almost everything for itself, and the Superintendent of Works is practically running a large contracting business under an undertaking to make his work both cheaper and better than any other; for there will be private contractors, ratepayers in the borough, ready at any moment to present at his head the doublebarrelled proposition—"Why should we pay for work a higher price than we charge for it?"; "Why should we not have this work to do, since we can do it better?"

The manufactured woodwork all comes from the municipal factories; and can be easily undertaken by them for the rows of buildings progress in consecutive stages. Most of the other work is done on the ground and consists—besides the ordinary works of bricklaying, setting beams, roof building and slating—chiefly of operations in cement: floor laying, making sills, lintels and door protections, also slabs for partitions and paving. The breeze which is the foundation of all the works in cement conies from the municipal destructors where all refuse—garbage, ashes, and even (Oh joy!) tin cans—is burnt up together and makes a slag which is used in paving and other works. Some of it is brought to the Latchmere buildings and ground and sifted for the various works in cement; making both the rough basis of the ground floor and pavement concreting, the strong though finer aggregate of the flooring on steel beams, and the fine stuff that goes into the partitions. The sills, lintels, door-heads and pavement flags are concreted with granite dust.

Every building is put together with the same standard parts; so that the construction, though good, is economical. It is not likely that so low a cost per cubic foot can be reached by any work, as good, on a smaller scale. There is of course no paring of wages in the borough that elects John Burns. There is a 48 hour week with wages running from 101/2d. to 18. an hour according to skill.

The proof of a building is in the renting. One of these four roomed dwellings—the larger size—rents for 10 shillings ($2.42) a week. The rent is charged on the land as well as on the building, although the land cost nothing; but the London County Council, which lends the money for municipal improvements within the area it governs, required the estimate on which the loan was based to include a charge for land; valuing the whole site at £7000, which I made out to be between $8 and $9 a running foot of the frontages.

The actual value of the land to the tenants is doubled by the reservation of halt the estate as an open space in connection with the buildings. Since the tenements are proving a success there is some talk of occupying- this space with a second batch of buildings. Of course it would be a nice thing to have more good residences for workingmen in the borough, and to have their rent paid into the borough pocket; but to accomplish this by crowding seems an insufficient ending to an estate which lays claim, in the name of its streets, to such ideas and personalities as Freedom and Reform. Burns and Joubert.

I do not know who Ogden was, but may his memory be sufficient to preserve the land from such a catastrophe.

A reasonable compromise may perhaps be found in surrounding the space with houses. It would cut 5oft. off the ground all round, but there would he some

additional houses, and perhaps the place would look the neater for it, for the fronts of their own houses, in an orderly arrangement, would make a better boundary than the random backs of the neighbouring buildings.

<person>W. A. LANGTON.</person>

