<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



The price of brick at Vancouver, B. C., has been advanced from $9 to $11 per thousand.

Transverse breaking tests of plate glass furnished by several different makers were recently made at the Watertown Arsenal. The thickness of the glass varied from 1/8 inch to inch, and the span from 8 inches to 24 inches. The modulus of rupture, which ranged from 2,000 to 8,000 pounds per square inch, was generally greater with the lesser thicknesses. Of the various kinds of glass tested, rough, ribbed, polished and wired, there was little difference in strength; except in the case of wired glass, which showed somewhat greater strength than the other kinds; the strength being also greater for the sandwich rolled than for the solid rolled wired glass. The strength of glass set in frames was practically double that of the specimens tested transversely. Very little difference appeared between samples submitted by different factories.

Q uero writes as follows to the London Builders' Record:

"How is the paintwork measured inside and outside respectively in the following cases :—(a) a double-hung window, top and bottom sash in one square only; (b) the same, but and bottom sash in four squares each, or more or less, as the case may be?" The answer given is as follows: (a) This would be measured as No. 2 on sash-frames (one for each side) and No. 4 on squares (two for each side). If the sash-frames are over 24 ft. super. describe as "large," and if over 36 ft. super. as "extra large." If the squares are over 2 ft. super. describe as "large," and if over 4 ft. super. as "extra large." (b) The last description will apply to this. Casement windows would be measured in the same way. If the frames have mullions or transoms, describe them as in so many lights, i.e., with one mullion and one transom would be in four lights; or, as an alternative, describe the frame as "with one mullion and one transom." In the case of bays it is well to take each side as a separate window, with an extra quantity (added to the superficial work) for the large angle mullions where they occur. The edges to opening casements are "numbered."

Ornamental cast iron details Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Montreal Halifax Ottawa Winnipeg Vancouver Victoria Rossland



Patent Store Fronts J.W. Coulson and Company Columbus Ohio

