<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



back the hip rafter unless the roof is one-quarter pitch or more. It is always desirable to have the hip rafters on a mitre line, so that the root will all be the same pitch ; hut when for some reason this cannot be done, the same rule is employed, but the jacks on each side of the hip are different lengths arid bevels. We may explain here for the benefit of those who do not know what is meant by the term ''jack rafter" that it is a short rafter extending from and joining to the hip rafter forming the corner framing of a hip roof. With regard to ornamented or cut shingling, the first thing to do will be to decide the width of the shingle you intend using ; generally, six inches is the width of the shingle employed, though shingles five, and sometimes four inches, are made use of. Shingles must be all made of the same width, only at the start, when a shingle half-width is used as shown in the illustration,

















































FIG. 2.







Fig. 2, in which are shown four styles of "cut" shing1mg. No. shows a hexagonal pattern with one angle or lapping joint. No. 2 shows an octagon ended shingle. No. 3 shows semi-circular ended shingles while No. 4 shows a diamond or lozenge shaped end. All or any of these forms are easily made, and the manner of laying is shown in the illustration.





From "Carpenter": Will you kindly point out a ready way of laying out a bay window showing a portion of an octagon projection? In previous issues of the paper, there has been some reference to this subject, but not sufficient in my opinion to give a clear understanding of it. Any further information will be appreciated.

ANS—Suppose AB, Fig. 3 represents the width of octagon. Divide the line AB, into 12 equal spaces as numbered from to 12; from A set off 31/2 spaces, and square out to C 31/2 spaces, as shown; from B, set off

31/2 spaces, and square out to D, as shown; connect

A C, C D, and D B, as we have the sides of the octagon complete. This method is very simple and will be

found very practical, especially in drawing floor plans

of buildings having octagon bay-windows, ends or corners. Fig. 4 represents another method of drawing an octagon window or plan with an octagon end. Let AB, represent width of octagon. C, is the centre. Make AB, and BE, equal AC, arid connect D E.















FIG. 3.





Draw the diagonals CD and CE. With C, as center and AC, as a radius, describe the arcs crossing the diagonals and locating the points F arid G. Now with FD, as a radius, strike the semi-radius HI, and JK. Connect HI, and JK, across the diagonal, and the



















FIG. 4.





lines for the octagon are complete and as accurate as it is possible to make them. In conclusion it might be well to state that the figures on the steel square for laying out an octagon miter are 17 inches on the blade and 7 inches on the tongue. The tongue gives the cut.





From "Plasterer": Having some peculiar work to do, in which "staff" has to be used, and having but a hazy idea of what the material is composed, and not being able to find a full account of it in Miller's large book on plastering, I appeal to you for information for which I will be thankful ?

ANS. ---Staff was first brought into extensive use in the construction of the World's Fair buildings in Chicago, in 1891 93, although it has been used for a long period in Europe. As used in Chicago, it was made about as follows The ingredients are plaster of Paris, water and hemp fibre, the latter being used to bind and strengthen the cast. A suitable mold having been made, the hemp is cut into pieces about six or eight inches long, bunched loosely, dipped in a liquid, arid placed in the mold in layers until the mold is full, each handful being interwoven with those previously laid, and pressed in so that the cast will he compact and uniform throughout. When the mold is filled, the surface is smoothed over by hand, and the cast is removed when set. About thirty-six hours are necessary for thorough drying in warm weather; in winter more time is required, and the cast should not be subjected to frost before it is dry. Staff may be nailed directly to rough boarding of a wooden building; if it is to be applied to a new brick structure, furring strips should be inserted in the brickwork. This material, while cheap and satisfactory for temporary structures, does not seem well adapted for permanent buildings, as it 

deteriorates in course of time, owing to rapid changes o temperature.

