<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



The building permits issued In Winnipeg up to the close of September numbered 1,127, their value being $5,235,700. Last year up to the same date they numbered 888, of a value of $2,213,100.



The Medical Health Officer and Public School Inspector of Toronto agree in recommending that baths be installed in certain of the public schools attended by children of the poorer class.



If according to the St. Louis Builder hotel projects now under way materialize, St. Louis will have hotels to burn after the World's Fair. Even now there is great danger of the supply of names becoming exhausted.



Rubber mats are coming to be a modern necessity in house and office furnishing. The Dunlop Tire Co. have introduced this season some splendid designs in these and in rubber matting. The best qualify of strengthened rubber is used in these goods. The company have lately issued a new catalogue, which will be mailed for the asking.



At the annual convention of the International Association of Factory Inspectors held recently at Montreal, Mr. Geo. McLean, of Connecticut, read a paper on "Well-Lighted Work Rooms. Reference was made to the use of corrugated glass in buildings, which was considered injurious to those employed in such prem-

ises. In the discussion of the question it was stated that investigation had shown that headaches were frequent among workmen employed in factories where corrugated glass was used.



It is a curious irony of history, says the Toronto Globe, that there is no means of indisputably deciding in what building at Niagara the first Parliament of Upper Canada held its meetings. It does not settle the dispute to know that early official documents were sent out from "Navy Hall,' which is still standing, for that was the Governor's residence. There is still some reason to believe that Parliament met in the old Indian Council House which stood on the Garrison Common until a few years ago.



A Nova Scotia correspondent of the Monetary Times writes " There is one industry in Nova Scotia in which a greater advance might be made if the parties concerned only realized the value of co-operation. I refer to the free stone quarries in the north of the province. A comparatively small quantity of Nova Scotia building stone has so far been sent to Montreal and Toronto, nothwithstanding the fact that stone of equal quality to that from Indiana can be laid down in Montreal at a cost of from two to three dollars per ton less. If our quarry owners would combine, and maintain a representative at western points, an immense business could be developed. As it is, local jealousy between quarry men hampers the development of a promising industry.'

The Sun Portland Cement Company Limited Owen Sound



Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto