<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



covering and sides well soldered to keep the drippings of the ice out of the cold room. A drain around the outside of the cold room, with a connection to the ground to take away the water from the melting ice next to the cold room. The first ice should he taken from over the cold room so that the weight may be lessened, as it will become cavernous and may fall on the roof of the cold room and do damage. Otherwise the ice house may be used as usual in disposing of the ice, hut in such a way as to leave the cold room in-closed, with ice to the end of the season.





From " Student ": I would like to know the way in which the formulae for wind pressure on roofs differ from the simple method of the resolution of forces ; if you will be kind enough to exhibit the method in this column, it will be appreciated.

ANS.:	The following, which is extracted from an authority, shows the method quite clearly :—When the wind strikes a roof at an angle, the impact is not the same as a force striking a body in the manner shown in the text-books of mechanics, where the force A (Fig 1) can be resolved into the two forces B and C, and there end the matter. In the case of the wind meeting a sloping roof, the first effect is that force C





































<article title=" WIND PRESSURE ON ROOFS " author="Heron, George">



WIND PRESSURE ON ROOFS.





slides away and force B acts with full effect at right angles to the rafters. '[hen the effect of B may be resolved in two directions, D and E, shown inside the roof in order to save overlapping of diagrams, as shown in Fig. 3. The force D produces vertical load and force E tends to push the roof off its bearings ; but when the effect is required for calculating the scantlings of the truss, force B is taken and combined in a parallelogram of forces with the weight of the roof-covering F acting at the same point, giving the final resultant G as shown in Fig. 4. The whole question will be found discussed in a pamphlet entitled "Wind Pressure on Roofs."





Arrangements are now being made for an excursion to the United States next year of members of the British Institute of Clayworkers.



The thirteenth annual convention of Railway Superintendents of Bridges and Buildings will be held at the Chateau Frontenac, Quebec, from the 20th to the 23rd.

THE VARIOUS METHOI)S OF HARDWOOD FINISH .*

BY GEO. H. HERON.

<article title=" THE VARIOUS METHOI)S OF HARDWOOD FINISH " author="Heron, George">

I will take up the finishing of oak first. A great deal of oak to-day is finished in very dark colors, and I will try to explain the different methods and materials used. For Flemish oak, one half pound of bichromate of potash. dissolved in one gallon of water. Coat woodwork. When dry, sandpaper down smooth; then coat with best drop black, ground japan, thinned with turpentine. Let stand five minutes and wipe off clean, then coat with pure grain shellac and sandpaper with No. o sandpaper; then coat with beeswax, one pound to a gallon of turpentine, one-quarter of a pound of drop black mixed in the wax, then wipe off clean with cheese cloth.

Weathered Oak.—Give woodwork one coat of strong ammonia. When dry, sandpaper down smooth and stain it from the following colors: Lamp black, ocher and two pounds of silica to a gallon of stain. Wipe off with cheese cloth, then gives one coat of pure grain shellac, then sandpaper and give one coat of wax and wipe off clean. If you should desire a brownish shade put one ounce of bichromate of potash and ammonia, or if a greenish shade, put some green and stain.

Verde Finish.—One ounce of nigrocene dissolved in one-half gallon of water. Give woodwork one coat; when dry, sandpaper, care to be taken not to rub off edges: then fill with a bright green filler, with some white lead in the filler. When thoroughly dry, give one coat of pure grain shellac and then wax, or it could be finished with three coats of varnish and rubbed. This finish leaves the pores of bright green color, while the rest of the wood is almost black.

Black Oak. One ounce of nigrocene to one-half gallon of water. Give woodwork one coat, then fill with a black filler, then one coat of shellac and three coats of varnish rubbed with pumice stone and water, then oil and wipe off clean.

Austrian Oak.—Fill with a light antique filler, colored with raw umber. Give two very thin coats of shellac, colored with nigrocene and yellow to the desired shade, then sandpaper down and wax and wipe off clean.

Mahogany: Antique Mahogany—Take one-third linseed oil, two-thirds turpentine : coat woodwork and wipe off clean. When thoroughly dry, coat with bichromate of potash; then fill with a dark rich filler; then shellac and give three coats of varnish and rub with pumice stone and water, then oil and wipe off clean. If an extra good job is required, give woodwork one heavy coat of polishing varnish after being rubbed in water; then rub again in water and polish. In finishing mahogany, some put the bichromate of potash without oiling, but they do not get as good a color. All mahogany should be oiled first, unless you want a very light color, then it should have a thin coat of shellac first.

Birch.—To finish to represent mahogany, coat with a weak solution of bichromate of potash, then stain with rose pink, vandyke brown and burnt sienna; then shellac, with a little Bismarck brown dissolved in the shellac. This makes a better stain and more lasting than a water stain.

DISCUSSION.



Mr. Luthe said he could dissolve bichromate of potash and add ammonia to make a sort of emulsion which

*	Paper read before the Ohio Association of Master House Painters and Decorators.

