<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

of a company which has reached such unprecedented records both in the amount of building continually under its supervision and in the remarkably short space of time in numerous instances required for the erection of same. The company is commonly known as the pioneers of steel frame buildings and their name is synonymous with " sky-scraper. The receiving of this contract has caused a new departure in the business of the Fuller Construction Company as it opens up a field in Canadian work which up to now had not been entered upon. Although the granting of the contract for such a large work would perhaps have been more satisfactory if it could have been given to a Canadian firm, yet in the present instance it can hardly be looked upon with disfavor. The methods employed by such a company, who are habitually used to command material and labor in any proportions, will be most interesting to follow in this western country where the supply of material of all description is chronically infinitesimal. To push a work of this category in Winnipeg with anything like the marvelous rapidity with which it is consummated in the States would from our present mode of building be nothing short of a miracle, and the entry of such builders amongst us cannot help but accelerate the movement of material in all quarters, and the benefit accruing from such cannot fail to eventually benefit the community at large.



The undertaking of a building of this description by the Union Bank cannot but be an incentive for other institutions of like calibre to follow aad we may in the near future anticipate a series of like structures to be erected.



The building of the Carnegie Public Library is at last under way. The commission for this work was finally awarded to Mr.

S.	Hooper, architect. The original competition, open to all architects in Winnipeg, was after much turmoil and many stormy and unprofitable meetings, cancelled by the City Council on the grounds that the tenders on the first three selected designs were above the stipulated cost, and the remainder of the designs (five) not meritorious enough (presumably) in their opinion to warrant them considering same for tender. A second competition was subsequently held when Mr. S. Hooper and Mr. F.

S.	Griffiths were invited (the remaining original competitors ignored) to again submit plans in competition. Mr. S. Hooper was the successful competitor in thc duel. Messrs. Smith & Sharpe are the contractors for the work and they expect to have the building closed in before the severe frost arrives.

Augustine Presbyterian church, Fort Rouge, Mr. J. H. Russell, architect, is well under way. The cost of the work is roughly about $40,000. The building will be faced with Tyndal stone throughout.

The Land Titles large new building on Broadway is progressing, but sufficient work has not yet loomed up to judge of anything relating to design.

The vote on the City By-law asking for an additional $6o,ooo for the addition to the Winnipeg General Hospital resulted in rather a peculiar manner. The total vote polled was somewhere about 2,000, and out of this number less than 100 voted against. As the law governing a poll of this nature stipulates that 2/3 of the total number of names on the voters list must be cast the measure was at first thought to be lost on these grounds. The matter has, however, been taken up by the City, and legislation is now being sought whereby the poll can be legalized, as the vote showed that it was only through apathy on the part of the citizens that the by-law was not carried through. The passing of this measure by the Government is now Practically settled and work is being proceeded with accordingly.

Nothing definite has yet been decided upon by the Canadian Pacific Railway regarding the projected new Subway, Station Hotel, etc., although work may commence here at any date.

W.	PERCY OVER.



<article title=" THE CANADIAN BUILDING AT THE ST. LOUIS EXPOSITION " author="">

THE CANADIAN BUILDING AT THE ST. LOUIS EXPOSITION.

The contract for the erection of Canada's Pavilion has 'been awarded to John J. Dunnavant & Co., the contract price being $28,000. The building will be 100 feet square, two stories, and surrounded by porticos. The architect is L. Fewings Taylor, of Ottawa, Canada.

The building must be completed by December 1. A permit for its erection has been issued, and Mr. Dunnavant says he will commence work at once.

The Canadian reservation is about half way between the Agricultural Building and the Forestry, Fish and Game Building. The handsome pavilion which is to be Commissioner-General Hutchinson's official home on the World's Far Grounds next year and which will serve as a club house for Canadian visitors to the Exposition, will stand southwest of and close to the big floral clock on the northern slope of Agricultural Hill. The building will face the avenue which runs north and south in front of the Administration Building and extends to the Agricultural Building.



The National Fire-Proofing Company, of New York, have published a leather bound Catalogue containing many useful tables giving safe loads and illustrating methods of fire-proof construction. The price of the book is $3.00.

Attention is called to the advertisement in this number of the Canadian Casualty & Boiler Insurance Company, whose head office is in Toronto. The managing director of this company, Mr. A. G. C. Dinnick, is a gentleman of ability and large business experience. He has associated with him men having the high standard of technical knowledge requisite for the proper inspection and insurance of boilers, &c.

The Milton Pressed Brick Company Limited Milton Ont.



Empire Machine and metal stamping Company Limited toronto