<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<person>Mr. Wickson </person>In your address your criticism was largely as to concrete floors.

<person>Mr. Shankland </person>Concrete floors altogether.

Mr. Wickson It we take the dictum of a paper called ''Fire Proof" we would not use concrete in any shape. It says ''During the mediaeval period concrete was extensively used for tombs ; the same is true even unto this day." I suppose we will have to wait for further development in regard to superstructure, in building.

Mr. Shankland There are going to be great advances made in reinforced concrete in the next few years ; but we do not know yet how they are going to Lake care of a concrete building.

Mr. Wickson : In your address and also in an article in the last ''Brick Builder" there is this clause, ''Good Portland cement even in thin layers is an effective preventive of rusting.... . . it is of the utmost importance that the steel be clean when bedded in the concrete." It seems to me a great difficulty is getting the steel actually into the building without spots being exposed, even in the handling of the steel, provided it is properly treated at the mills. I suppose in very large buildings they have sonic way of overcoming that ; but in the ordinary building such as we get in Toronto what is to prevent these places from being exposed to rust ?

Mr. Shankland We used to give it a coat of oil at the mill and a coat of paint at the job, and a second coat after erection. We do not now paint it at all till after erection. A little red rust won't hurt steel at all; it is the mill scale which if painted over will come off sometime and take the paint with it.

Mr. Wickson : Then if the steel be delivered on the job properly clean, it is quite sufficient to paint it then ?

Mr. Shankland : After erection.

Mr. Wickson : With the use of the wire brush.

Mr. Shankland That is used after erection. But after two or three mouths the greater part of the mill scale is off, and what remains is loose enough to be easily scraped off.

Mr. Wickson In the steel caissons for the concrete bridge piers you showed on the screen, you said the steel work was for bracing against the wind. Would that steel ever rust ?

Mr. Shankland : It has got to be painted outside and is right up against concrete inside and won't rust inside.

Mr. Wickson It depends on the paint outside.

Mr. Shankland : We investigated a good many buildings in Chicago last spring ; the oldest was about fifteen years old. We cut into the foundations of eight or ten or a dozen of them and we did not find a particle of rust in the foundation. Sonic places we had to bale the water out when we cut away the concrete. But the blue-black of the mill was on them in every case there was not the faintest indication of rust. Steel should not be painted when bedded in concrete.

Mr. Wickson : That leads me to ask another question. The preservation of steel seems to be very complete where it is coated with cement, and I notice in the ''Brick Builder" also that there is a statement that the use of hollow porous terra cotta blocks in connection with the cement is now considered to be an excellent method. I did not quite see how they would use them. Was it a matter of entirely coating or casing the steel work with the cement first?

Mr. Shankland Plastering against the beam and tile.

Mr. Wickson : The columns would be filled as you mentioned.

Mr. Shankland Yes.

Mr. Wickson : I am not sure whether it is a fair question to ask you if any of these patent paints so extensively advertised have been found to have special in e r it s.

Mr. Shankland An architect does not get a chance to see the steel after it is in the building. I have always followed the best. bridge engineers' practice in the United States and that means red lead and linseed oil.

I have never used any of the patent paints. If architects had a chance to investigate for themselves they might be able to do it ; but, as t is, the only thing is to follow your leader.

Mr. Wickson Have you ever on any occasion found the beams which are sent out from the mills not sound? What defects have occurred? Are they tested at all at the building as they are used.

Mr. Shankland Only surface inspection. That should be made at the mill.

Mr. Wickson : Is there any other test.

Mr. Shankland No. There couldn't be any other test. We have an analysis of the steel at the mill; and then the surface inspection is made to see that there are no surface defects.

Mr. Wickson I ask you that because there were a couple of cases I happened to hear of in which beams collapsed or broke before they were really in place, after they had been delivered at the building.

Mr. Shankland I do not think that has happened for a few years. When they first started manufacturing steel they got internal strains in the steel. When the market building was in progress they unloaded a beam from a wagon on the street and it split up about six feet. But now they are making so much better steel than they did that it is not dangerous.

Mr. Wickson Could you give us approximately what the percentage is of extra cost on a building which is made all fire-proof over one that would be well constructed without being fire-proof?

Mr. Shankland I could get nearer doing that a year ago than now. In the present conditions of work it would be hard to sty. It would run from twenty-five to forty per cent. Steel itself is forty per cent. higher than it was two or three years ago.

Mr. Wickson : There is one other question I wanted to ask you although it hardly comes under your paper; I am going to ask it for the general use of architects. 'What are good hand books to use for construction formulae.

Mr. Shankland The best books are the Carnegie and Pencoyd pocket books.

Mr. <person>A. H. Gregg</person>: What about the various text books?

Mr. Shankland : I hate to discuss books of that sort in a gathering like this.

<person>Mr. Denison </person>: They are compilations.

Mr. Shankland : That is it. You can't depend on all being reliable. <firm>The American Bridge Company</firm> is getting out a specification that promises to be very valuable ; it will give floor loads and methods of construction, the building laws of the different cities, and a great deal of data of that kind.

Mr. Wickson : I should like to be the mover of a vote of thanks to Mr. Shankland for his paper.

<person>Mr. Jarvis </person>: Mr. Wickson asked a question with regard to data for figuring the strength of concrete. I do not see why that should not be a very simple thing to get at, by going to the School of Science and having tests made. It is a very simple matter provided we are always sure of the cement ; and that is not a difficult proposition either, so long as you have it tested one week before the time that it is to be put into the works. I am sure that it would be one of the most accurate things in the world do deal with, just as accurate as steel, because it is so very positive ; that is cement is a positive article to deal with, and so is your crushed stone, if you have them both right. With regard to making beams and columns of concrete, it seems to me that that is also a very simple matter to deal with, having them strengthened with steel rods to increase the tensile strength of the concrete and that it would be a splendid thing for the Association to take up with the School of Science through <person>Prof. Wright</person>. I am satisfied myself that there is nothing in the world equal to cement concrete armoured with steel for almost every kind of building Construction which will be better arid cheaper than steel. I happened to pick up a paper in Prof. Wright's office a few days ago which told of some engineer reading a paper, to the Society of Engineers

