<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



congratulate the Committee, who had charge of the arrangement of our programme, because there has been such a variety of subject and topic. We have had the structural part very well brought before us, and this afternoon we have had this other feature. In connection with the address we have just listened to, I should like to say how fully I fall in with the idea of the importance of house architecture, in this way, that, while comparatively few architects have the privilege of dealing with monumental buildings or even with very large and expensive commercial buildings, there are no architects who have not the opportunity of dealing with the domestic subject. Another point too is this:—when Mr. Price was speaking of the part that the artistic had in the production of architecture, and in connection more particularly with the use of material in its common state, such as brick of the coarse stamp; it struck me that this coarse texture, one of the beauties of that kind of material, depends more on the way in which it is put in than on the material itself. Take for instance these bricks of which we have heard, the mottled or multicolored brick; there are instances in our city, known to us all, where these bricks have been used and where the effect is not altogether pleasant; where we have a rather speckled or spotted effect; there are cases, on the other hand, where the bricklayer, in using this brick, has exercised his judgment and taste in working the brick together in such a way that the effect is beautiful. This is one of the instances in which I think we can see the advantage and great importance, if we are to have the best kind of results, of the craftsman himself entering into the feeling of the architect and the idea which is sought.

Mr. Burke : That very point came home to me very closely when I was building my own house ; I had practically to educate the bricklayers. I went down to the brick yard and saw a pile of culled bricks there that the brick manufacturer said came off the arch of the kiln. I said, ''Those are the bricks I want." I had a great deal of trouble getting sufficient to do the work because the bricklayers were rather wanting to throw out the roughest bricks ; they wanted to get the bricks all the one color. Whereas I did educate them to understand that they should just take the pile as it was ; not to deliberately put a black brick against a yellow brick, but exercise a little judgment. They took the run of the kiln. With regard to the chimney Mr. Price spoke of I had the very same experience ; I had only just enough brick left to finish my chimney ; and the hod carrier said, " We have not any bricks."

said, ''Yes, there is a pile there." ''Oh, he said those are all knobby bricks great big knobs on them ; they wouldn't do at all." I said, ''Take them up.'' And I think I have one of the prettiest chimneys in Toronto in consequence. Regarding the question of design in connection with the steel framed buildings I think Mr. Price struck the right note there, that the cover of the steel should be a plastic cover. Then comes in the question how to make our plastic covering agreeable to the eye. We all know of course that Portland cement has not an agreeable color and it is practically impossible to make it agreeable. It seems to me then that we should get a plastic material with an agreeable color ; and what more agreeable color could you think of then tiles ; carefully made tiles or tiles of suitable color? Should not this, then, be the future of the steel framed building covered with plastic material?

The President : We cannot close this discussion up in the absence of Mr. Price who has been called out of the room to speak to some one and we will have to converse among ourselves as he is unfortunately speaking to a friend outside. The principal difficulty about molded brick is always that a molded brick is out of scale and it is difficult to get any scale for a building with molded brick because the horizontal size is too small. I was very interested in a point that has been spoken of by other speakers ; in the way Mr. Price proposes that we should look at the point of view of our uncultivated client. He likes something and it is a bad thing, but what he likes is not necessarily it's badness

and what we have got to turn our minds to is to find out what is the good thing in it that he likes and we can appropriate. The client who admired the building on 49th Street evidently was a Philadelphian who had had enough of the old fashioned Philadelphian work — two windows and a door, with marble lintels, downstairs, and three windows, with marble lintels, in upstairs; a pressed brick front ; and what pleased him was the life he saw in the inverted arches on 49 Street. It is quite possible to fiet the idea that he wants some life ; to avoid the monotony which he wished to avoid, without perpetuating bad art. If a client likes bright color it is possible to give him bright color without giving him crude color. I was glad when I heard Mr. Price was coming to speak to us because it is impossible to see any representation of Philadelphia work or hear anything about Philadelphia without perceiving that there is a great deal of life there; and I thought we should get some life. We have certainly done so. Mr. Price has demonstrated that although the pen is mightier than the sword the tongue is mightier than the pen. I think if we could have him a little more amongst us we should soon be strongly infected by the spirit which is in the air now, and nowhere, I think, more than in Philadelphia. 1 am glad to see such a meeting as this, it could not have occurred fifteen or even ten years ago. The public are getting interested in art. If we could have a little more of Mr. Price—we shall have a little more of him when we read the Proceedings. We shall do a great deal to bring about what Mr. Hughes said at lunch about having an ideal and bringing our environment into harmony with that ideal. I have much pleasure, Mr. Price, in presenting to you the vote of thanks.

Mr. Price: I should just like to acknowledge the extreme pleasure I have had in being here with you, especially in being able to be with you through the entire

session. I doubt whether it is possible to speak intelligently to people that you do not know, any more than to build houses for people that you do not know; but if there has been anything in the few rambling remarks that I have given that have been good for you I feel quite confident that you yourselves have brought it out by your sympathy.



At the Louisiana Purchase Exposition the <building>building of the State of Washington </building>is to be in the form of an octagonal tower 114 feet high. The framing is to be all of wood and the main members will be eight diagonal timbers resting on the foundations and meeting in an apex. Each timber will he over 90 feet long and 24 X 28 inches in cross-section in one piece.

How Greater London grows is shown by the annual report of the Chief Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, who gives a return showing le number of new houses built and new streets and squares formed, with their length in miles and yards, during the past year. There were 27,174 houses built, 301 new streets formed, occupying a length of 6o miles 408 yards, whilst the number of new houses in course of erection was 6,449. There was just over 2,000 more houses built than in the corresponding period of the previous year. Since 1891 the number of new houses built number no less than 1,812,127 the number of new streets made being 8,643, and seven squares, the length of such being 531 miles 206 yards.





Agent wanted for Tiles and sanitary Earthenware. must have first-class connection throughout Canada. Apply with all particulars and information to THE HENRY RICHARDS TILE Co., Longport. Staffs. England.









GEORGE E, GREEN

	Limited

28 Wellington Street West

	TORONTO	ONTARIO.



Importers arid Dealers in



HIGH WALL

	CLASS	PAPERS 

HANGINGS and FABRICS

English, French and German.



Correspondence solicited.

