<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



would make a beautiful green stain for a dark shade of weathered oak.

The paper was accepted with a vote of thanks.

in reply to a question, Mr. Heron stated that the green finish he had mentioned was not strictly green, but green in the pores only, the other part of the wood showing black. He had one case which has stood for three years outside. It is more of a den or billiard-room finish.

Mr. Luthe said that if the filler were stained with any good permanent green it will not fade. On outside work the finish must be built up with varnish, and shellac must be excluded.

Mr. Rittel said a good many of the antique oak stains could be made by soaking rusty nails in vinegar and using pigment stain in the vinegar. This is much less expensive than paying for prepared stains.

One member said that in Cleveland they did not have time for the nails to rust.

Mr. Herron said a furniture factory said that fumed oak was made by having an airtight and highly-heated room, with pans of water and ammonia in separate rooms. There was no finish used on the wood at all.

Mr. Luthe said that other woods beside oak could be stained with iron rust and vinegar. You could get a beautiful black by applying a solution of logwood chips over this stain.

Mr. Herron thought that two coats of any water stain would surely give trouble by raising the grain of the wood too much.

Mr. Romeis spoke of finishing a billiard-room in chestnut to match one that had been finished in Atlantic City. The original had been a wiped stain made with burnt umber. He used drop black and vandyke brown, instead, cutting the color with turpentine. It had been applied on the surface and wiped off, leaving the pores darker than the high lights, using no subsequent finish. It was dead with no gloss. He was afraid it would not do in any house where there was much dirt or dust, as there was nothing to protect the finish. He would suggest the use of a thin wash of varnish and wax, or something of that nature.



<article title=" WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT OF NEW BRUNSWICK " author="">

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT OF NEW BRUNSWICK.

During the present year the Legislature of New Brunswick passed "an act respecting the liabilities of employers for injuries to workmen ". The term ''workmen" in this act is meant to include only any railway servant, ship labourer, longshoreman, journeyman or handicraftsman, of any age, engaged in manual labour under contract with an employer, irrespective of the nature of the contract. The term 'railway servant' includes employees on tramways and street railway systems. The term 'employer' includes a body of persons whether corporate or incorporate, as well as the legal representatives of a deceased employer. ''Superintendence' is held to denote the general function of a foreman, whether ordinarily engaged in manual labour or not.

In cases where the work on which the labourer is employed is being carried into effect under contract, and the injury has been received through a defect in machinery, plant, premises, etc., of the person for whom the work is being done, the latter is held to be the employer under the Act, and as such liable to pay

compensation. The contractor or sub- contractor, however, is not relieved from responsibility, though double compensation is not recoverable for the same injury.

The amount of compensation recoverable under the Act is limited to the amount of the estimated earnings during the three years preceding the injury of a person employed in the same grade as himself within the province, provided the amount is not less than $1,500, in which case the latter sum is recoverable. This compensation is not to be subject to any deduction or abatement whatever except damages secured under other legislation.



PAINT REMOVERS.

<article title=" PAINT REMOVERS " author="">

The following ingredients may be taken :—7 lbs. rosin ; 3 lbs. caustic soda ; 2 lbs. of soft soap ; 31/2 gallons crude carbolic acid (30 per cent.) ; 21/4 gallons water.

Dissolve the soda caustic in half the water, then add the rosin and heat the mixture. When the rosin has dissolved, put in the soft soap ; continue the heating and stirring, then gradually put in the remainder of the water. Now add the carbolic acid, and cover it up until cold.

For use it is spread on the paint to be removed with a brush, and allowed to remain thereon until the paint is softened sufficiently to be scraped off.

For a varnish and paint remover

Three gallons of water ; 2 pecks of unslaked lime three gallons of water ; 6 to 7 lbs. treacle ; 14 gallons water ; 2 stones of flour (mixed to paste with 7 to 8 gallons of water) ; 100 lbs. carbonate of soda crystals.

Put the lime into three gallons of water, and allow it to remain until well slaked, then add the second 3 gallons of water so as to reduce the slaked lime to milk of lime. When the mass is cool, stir in the treacle ; mix well and then put in the 14 gallons of water ; drain off the liquid, and put it in a copper boiling vessel. Separately make the flour into a batter with the 7 or 8 gallons of water, and add this to the lime water in the boiler, and stir the mass for half-an-hour. Then boil in heat to about 200 Fahr. for about twenty minutes, finally adding the soda crystals, and keep the mass continually stirred while boiling. Draw off the liquor and strain it, and when cool add 1-5th of a gallon of carbolic acid as a preservative against decomposition.

The mass thus prepared may be made more liquid by the addition of more water, or it may be rendered of a stiffer consistency by evaporating some of the water while boiling. It is useful for spreading over paint, varnish or japan, previous to removing same from wood or metal surfaces.—H. C. Standage, in Decorator's Magazine.



The Cape Breton Silicate Brick Co., North Sydney, N. S., had an excellent exhibit of their brick at the recent Provincial Exhibition at Halifax.



A strike has been inaugurated by the Builders' Laborers Union of Montreal. About one hundred men are still out, and are



likely to remain so seeing that in Montreal the building season



is nearing its close.



To make wood fillers an English writer recommends the following Ninety-nine parts barytes, 3 parts borax, 12 parts brown soap, 72 parts raw linseed oil, 72 parts drier, 72 parts turpentine, 72 parts water. Grind up all the ingredients and add sufficient red oxide, yellow ochre, or carbon black, to produce the shade of colour desired.

