<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCO M MUNICATION.





[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hot will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. e do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]





From '' Wood-Butcher " I am just commencing to take contracts and find myself " weak " on estimating the cost of labor and materials and would like to know something on the subject. Are there any books or papers that would give me an idea or ideas regarding the cost of different kinds of work, and if so, where can they be obtained and at what price? Any information will be appreciated.

ANS.—We may say' to '' Wood-Butcher" that there are quite a number of works on estimating of more or  less value. Perhaps the most useful of Canadian and American books on the subject are (1) "The Canadian Contractors Hand Book and Estimator," (2)

Estimating Frame and Brick Houses," by Hodgson,

(3)	'' The Builder's and Estimator's Guide." The

prices are No. 1, $1.50; No. 2, $1.00; No. 3, $2.00.

They may be obtained at the office of the CANADIAN

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.







From " Carpenter ": I enclose a rough sketch of the roof of a frame church I am building (sketch not shown) and for which I have to make an arched ceiling with three curves shown ; how can I do it so that it will be sufficient, and not cost too much? The ceiling is to be lined with thin sheeting. Building is of brick, and is 22 feet inside walls.

ANS. —The sketch sent us gives but a faint outline of what is required, but we think the scale drawing herewith will enable the workman to build the ceiling. The





































<article title=" SKETCH OF CURVED CEILING " author="">



SKETCH OF CURVED CEILING.





curved ribs should be cut from two-inch plank, or from inch boards which may be spiked or screwed together on the flat, overlapping the butt joints, it made of 2" plank, a flat iron bar, bent to the curve, as shown by the black line, may he screwed or spiked to the planks, crossing all the joints, which will make the whole quite strong. The cripples may be cut in as shown. No attempt is made as to how the curved ribs may be fastened to the rafters. This is left to the workman, who may nail strips from rafter to rib, as

shown by dotted lines, or he may make use of iron rods at regular intervals to hold the ceiling in position.

From " Puzzled" Kindly give me a few hints regarding " Casement Sashes," why they are called so, the manner in which they should be hung, and any other information you think useful, and you will oblige me very much.

ANS. ---The following, perhaps, will in a great measure satisfy the forgoing query (1) Sashes hung on centres are usually called " casements." The pivot should be Off the frame, and the slot plate on the sash. The beads should be worked in the solid, and should be grooved for the passage of the pivots. The pivots should be fixed above the centre, so that the weight of the sash will keep it closed. Cord, pullies, and cleats should be provided. (2) Casement frames should have paint used in the joints, and not glue. Mouldings should be scribed, and at least the outside shoulders franked. The sills should be provided with water-bar, and well weathered and throated. When transoms are used they should be housed in the face of the jambs, and throated outside. (3) When fanlights are hung at the top a gutter should be worked inside the transom, with one or more copper tubes inserted to carry the water outside. (4) The difficulties of casement construct ion have, for the most part been overcome by the recent introduction of several excellent draught and wet excluders. '[he casement should be securely hung, and be of the very best seasoned stuff, and should open both ways for cleaning. (5) In French casements the lights should never be less than 3Am. thick when finished. The meeting stiles should be double rebated or hook jointed, the hanging stiles tongued into the jambs, and the top and bottom edges throated. Double tenons should be used at the meeting stiles, and the front edge of the threshold tongued into the stone sill. When water bars are used they should be sunk into the jambs at their ends. Sometimes casement sashes are made of oak, and when such is the case the material should be of the very best and the workmanship beyond suspicion. We do not advise the adoption of casement or French windows in this climate. They seldom give satisfaction.



From "Painter" Please describe the progress of staining maple silver-grey right through. What chemicals are used for the purpose ?

ANS. The original silver-grey maple was produced by soaking the wood in certain natural springs of water heavily charged with mineral and chemical substances. One of these is at Sorrento, in Italy. The effect can be closely imitated by brushing over a solution of copperas and acetic acid in water; to dye deeply the wood may be boiled in the solution. Small pieces may be dyed by covering them with the iron and steel grindings and mud found at the bottom of a grindstone trough. A useful work on this and similar subjects is

The Art of Dyeing and Staining," translated from the Germ a n.



From " Builder " Is it possible to build a cold storage room under an ice house so as to keep it dry and efficient ?

ANS.—Certainly. The building of a cold storage room in or under an ice house is practicable, with the only precaution to make the ceiling strong enough to bear the weight of ice above, and all parts watertight by planking and caulking or with a galvanized sheet iron

