<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

Once in the house there is no occasion to think of the approach, which is indeed partly justified already by its quietness. In London it is only necessary to be one remove from the frame of a main artery in order to be quiet. There is no roaring trolley or ringing asphalt ; the pavement is of square wooden blocks on concrete, and the intervention of a garden is enough to make its soft roar sufficiently remote. The front of Leighton House is desirably quiet and the rooms looking upon the garden behind, upon the north side of the house, are a model of peace and dignity.















<article title=" TOWER OF ST. PETER MANCROFT, NORWICH " author="Langton, W. A.">

TOWER OF ST. PETER MANCROFT, NORWICH.

C. E. STREET, ARCHITECT.





NOTES ON TRAVEL.—I1.



LEIGHTON HOUSE.



Lord Leighton's house has been pocured for the public by subscribers ; and, under the management of a committee is open to the public. The floors are properly covered and there is a good deal of furniture but no knick-knackery. The walls are covered with chalk and pencil studies for his various paintings. These were also procured by the committee from Lord Leighton's heirs and elsewhere. They are well arranged in groups as pendants to a photograph of the painting which resulted from them, and form a valuable series of lessons in design for artists. But the house itself is the object of this study.

The house is designed for the interior. The exterior is not composed for display and would have little chance of being seen if it were. It is in the middle of Holland Park Lane, which is in reality a stable lane about 33 feet wide, with a cobbler's shop on one side of the entrance to it and the hack of a livery stable on the other ; one good house next to Lord Leighton's but retired in its grounds ; a row of cottages opposite, two of which, as their signs declare, are inhabited by a clear starcher and a carpet sweeper ; the rest of the lane occupied by studios of a modest kind some of which are converted stables, and by stables which are still unconverted and in the gall of bitterness.

The house is distinctly a house for entertainment. Lord Leighton was unmarried and lived alone. His bed room was in the shaded portion of the upper floor. This area is now set apart for the office of the honourary secretary of the committee and is not open to the public, but, from its shape and the arrangement of the doors it seems probable that the bedroom was the larger square to the east and that the smaller square beside it was a dressing room or bathroom.

The kitchen was in the basement, as is usual in London, and the servant's bedrooms on the third floor, over Lord Leighton's own bed room.















































The special feature of the house is the Arab Hall. It is of course an exotic the latticed windows are not needed to exclude the already subdued light of

nor is the air so parched that a fountain is a first consideration for luxury ; but, like many other exotics, it has a special charm from being a remove from the

