<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" A DISCOVERY IN BRICK MAKING " author="">

A DISCOVERY IN BRICK MAKING.

Mr. D. J. Acheson, of Niagara Falls, N. Y., claims to have discovered why the Egyptians used straw in the manufacture of their bricks. According to Mr. Acheson, it was not alone as a binding material, but because the tannin extracted by the soaking of the straw in water added greatly to the strength of the bricks. By treating clay with an extract of straw Mr. Acheson has shown a 50 2223ncrease in tensile strength and an increase of plasticity, with a decrease of shrinkage.

The clay is worked with water in which straw has been boiled. So little as one-half of 1 per cent. of tannin is said to develop a wonderful effect, the clay requiring 13 per cent. less water to make it soft. The maximum effect of the process and treatment, however, seems to be obtained by the use of 2 per cent. of tannin in a ten-day treatment. The treatment is merely keeping the clay wet with water in which tannin is dissolved, which can be done in vats.

Besides the above-mentioned 50 per cent. increase of strength in the burnt form, the clay in the sun-dried form acquires an increase of 350 per cent. in tensile strength.

As a result of this discovery Mr. Acheson has patented a combination of clay and tannin under the name of "Egyptianized clay.

AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE IMPROVED. <article title=" AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE IMPROVED " author="">

The meeting in Montreal next month of representatives of the leading Chambers of Commerce of Great Britain should prove an event of great importance to Canada. No effort should be spared to afford these representative business men of Great Britain opportunity to see every part of this Great Dominion, and judge for themselves of its resources and trade possibilities. The subject of preferential trade within the empire, now the leading topic in political and commercial circles throughout Great Britain, will doubtless constitute one of the leading subjects of discussion at the Montreal Conference.

The ABC Heater and fan Alfred J. Stevens Toronto



The Sun Portland Cement Company Limited Owen Sound



Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto