<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

British government should lose no time in appointing a Commission capable and willing to give it prompt and careful consideration. The national life of the people of Canada, in all its varied relations and aspects must necessarily be largely influenced by those with whom we have most intimate trade relations. Therefore should not this question of our future trade relations possess an interest for architects, builders, and indeed citizens of every class ?



<article title=" The Slate Industry " author="">

Several years ago one of the

The Slate Industry,	few slate quarries then in operation in Canada, was closed

down because a profitable market could not be found for the output. The Canadian market had been made a dumping ground for the product of United Stales quarries, for which there was not sufficient home demand, and prices were cut so close that there was no money in the business for anybody. Now the conditions are very different. The United States market largely absorbs the output of the quarries, and British importers who formerly got their supplies from that source are trying to buy in Canada. This would therefore seem to be a favourable time to revive the manufacture of slates on a larger scale in this country and especially in view of the assured increase in the home demand arising from the rapid growth of our population.



<article title=" The Dominion Exhibition " author="">

The extensive and interesting

The Dominion Exhibition. display of natural and manufactured products of all kinds

shown at the Exhibition which has just closed in Toronto, taken in conjunction with the great improvements made to the buildings and grounds fully war— ranted the more ambitious title of' Dominion Exhibition employed by the management this year. From an architectural standpoint the Exhibition has been rendered much more satisfactory by the erection in permanent materials of a number of well designed buildings, such as the Art Gallery, Manufacturers' Building, Stove Building, etc., and the removal of many small structures which gave to the grounds a crowded appearance. With these out of the way the grounds convey an impression of spaciousness which greatly enhances the appearance of the principal buildings and satisfies the eye. The Stove Building, a substantial brick structure, has already proved inadequate for its purpose. While there was an exceptionally good display of heating apparatus by the various Canadian manufacturers, the exhibit would have been still more representative had the necessary space been available. It seems unfortunate that in planning this building provision was not made for the larger requirements of the future.



In keeping with the permanent character of the new buildings, the exhibits were on a larger and more varied scale than ever before, and received greater attention from visitors. The exemplification of manufacturing processes was a new and instructive feature, and the high quality of the finished products marked "made in Canada," should tend to dispel the too largely prevalent notion that for goods of the highest quality one must purchase from foreign makers. The expense and care bestowed on the

arrangement of the exhibits is deserving of praise and gave to this year's Exhibition a refinement in pleasing contrast to the crude results of earlier efforts. In this respect we have no doubt learned profitable lessons from the larger exhibitions in the United States. It is gratifying to know that we have reached a point in our national development where there is demand for beauty as well as utility. This demand is likely to be stimulated by a sight of the many beautiful examples of artistic workmanship comprising the collection of Jubilee presents, the loving tribute to Queen Victoria from her subjects in all parts of the Empire. The Canadian people are under a debt of gratitude to King Edward for the kind consideration which prompted him to allow this valuable treasure to be brought to Canada and placed on public exhibition. The enterprise of the exhibition management in securing such an interesting feature is also deserving of recognition.



<article title=" Building Conditions " author="">

The recently published statement

Building Conditions	showing the value of building operations in Toronto for the

first half of the present year to be considerably in excess of the corresponding months of last year, came as a surprise even to persons most closely identified with the building industry. The opinion prevailed that owing to the long continued strikes the showing would be a bad one. The great scarcity of houses for rent in Toronto has compelled many persons to build, notwithstanding the high cost, and has induced a considerable amount of speculative building of houses of a fairly substantial character. It is in this direction that the greatest volume of building has been done this year. Apart from a number of new factories very few important buildings of a commercial or public character are in process of construction. The high prices of materials and labor coupled with unsettled labor conditions in Toronto led to the abandonment for the present of several costly undertakings. One regrettable feature of the situation is that owing to changed conditions some of these projects may never be carried out. In Montreal as in Toronto the demand for houses is very active, with corresponding activity in building. The suburban real estate sold during the month of July amounted in value to $180,989 and in the city proper to $732,838. The value of building permits for the month named was $533,247. Reports from Winnipeg and other cities indicate that the building operations will probably exceed those of any previous year. Satisfactory as are the existing conditions, reflecting a high state of prosperity, they would have been much more so, had it not been for the uncertainty and delay caused by labor troubles.



It has been estimated that the aggregate cost of large buildings in South Africa now in process of construction or under consideration is about $100,000,000, one half of this amount being for government work. The general tendency is not to be sparing as to the additional expense necessary to insure stability arid comfort by the adoption of the most approved modern systems. A suggestion has been made for the establishment by English manufacturers of central depots at Cape Town and

Durban, where stocks of heavy building materials would be carried. In the present state of affairs in South Africa there is a



marked preference for constructional supplies available for immediate delivery. The results of similar arrangements in



other branches of trade seem favorable to the development of this new project.

