<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUN ICATION.

<article title=" INTERCOMMUN ICATION " author="">

Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance,]







"Subscriber," Bracebridge, Ont., writes I take the liberty of asking you the following question. A bricklayer takes the job of laying brick (for a dwelling house, 9 inch wall) for so much per thousand, (the owner supplies all material). In finding the amount of brick in building he figures thirteen (13) to the square foot (which is the rule among the brick masons in town). There is an ornamental fireplace (pressed brick) which he figures as solid, taking the greatest width and depth. The owner claims he is only entitled to twelve (12) bricks to the foot (which is the actual amount in a square foot) or in other words is willing to pay him for the amount of bricks delivered on the job, and allows him one-half of the openings. The size of brick is 8"x21/2" face measure. Is there a standard rule upheld by law?

ANS. We think the fairest method of settling the dispute would be to measure the amount of brick-work, deducting the half of all openings, then measure separately the face brick used, superficially, and allow extra for face work. This would be according to custom in this country. In the Old Country the full amount of all openings would be deducted, and chimneys charged as solid. From a legal standpoint the Courts would probably uphold the local custom of measuring 13 bricks to the foot.



"Country Mason" Please inform me of the best way to "lay off" a stone foundation so that the corners will be at right angles, or "square?"

ANS. :—The general principles of setting out a foundation, is to first determine on a front, or a side line, according to the circumstances. Next, set up a square line at each end, the distance between A and B, being the length of the barn or other building. This can be done by measuring off 30 ft., 40ft., and 50 ft., as shown in Fig. 1, produce the sides as far as necessary, and if

























both sides are the same length check the squaring by measuring the distance between the ends, which should equal A B. Cord, the same as used for a chalk line, will do for the lines, but fine brass wire is sometimes used. The stakes at A and B may be in line with the outside of the concrete. The width of the trench for concrete or stones may be set off at various points by measuring from the main lines, and stakes may be used for measuring from to get the line of brickwork. Generally, any single wall or pier is set out by lines strained from stakes outside the area as shown in Fig. 2. In the case

of larger buildings setting out by a theorolite is quick and accurate, but the method described above is sufficient for ordinary cases. If the building is small, then make the figures 6, 8, and 10; measure 6 ft., on one side, 8 ft. on the other, then if the lines are at right angles with each other, the diagonal to these two points will be 10 feet. This rule is based on a well known rule in geometry and is perfectly correct.



From "Northwest" Please publish a diagram or sketch for a low cost window frame for a balloon frame house. Frame to be prepared for weights ; showing stops, inside and outside finish.

ANS. :—About the cheapest way to make a frame of

























FIG. 3.





the kind desired, is shown at Fig. 3. Here the window stud is made use of for the back of the frame, and the casing on the outside answers for one side of frame, also forming rebate for outside blinds if such are required. Another, and a better scheme for a frame, is shown at

































FIG. 4.





Fig. 4. Here also, the stud is used for back of box, and lath for one side which is perhaps, an objection While either of these frames may do for the cheaper kind of houses, they are not recommended for good

















FIG. 5.





work. A better plan, and one suited to any frame house, is shown at Fig. 5. This is simple and econ

