<doctype type="ad;cover">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XVI.—No. 187	JULY, 1903.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Competitive Sketch for Presbyterian Church, Vancouver, B. C.—Arnold Woodroofe, A.R.I.B.A., and C. S. Wickender, Associate 

Architects.

St. Stephen's Church, Winnipeg, Man.—S. Badgeley, Architect.

House in Spencer Avenue, Parkdale, Toronto.—R. J. Edwards, Architect.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

House in Cluny Avenue, Toronto.—S. H. Townsend, Architect.

Statue in Queen's Park, Toronto, of John Graves Simcoe, First Governor of Upper Canada. Walter S. Aliward, Sculptor.







ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.



Views and Plans of Leighton House.







CONTENTS

Editorial	. .	.	.	.	.	105-1 o6 Intercommunication	.	, .	. 114—115

Notes on Travel.—II		.	.	.		. 107	Something on Color Decoration	.

By the Way	.	 .	 .		.	. 108	Building Conditions in South Africa	  .	.	.

The National Association of Master Plumbers, Steam and	On Architectural Nomenclature	.	. .

	Hot Water Fitters of Canada	.	. .	. 109 An Opportunity to be Improved	. .	. .

Fallacious Cement Tests	. .	.	.	10 Correction	117

Building Materials at the London Building Trades Exhibition	The Building Strike in Toronto	. .	.	.	.	II I-I 12-1 13 American League for Civic Improvements	.	.	120





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.



PROF. S. H. CAPPER, R.C.A., Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

EDMUND BURKE

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

J.	C. 13. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto. '' A. F. DUNLOP, R.C..A., .Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





		It is usual in England to floor

Large Scale Parqueterie. <article title=" Large Scale Parqueterie " author="">

stone or tiles and the seating

areas with wood, in the form of herring bone flooring, composed of pieces of unfinished wood about 4X 18." The size of the pieces is the principal part of the excellent appearance of this kind of flooring and the fibrous appearance of the unfinished surface is the rest. It is suggestive also, from the ease with which it can be repaired in parts, of suitability for a building where the flooring may be worn out in some spots sooner than in others.



There is nothing in the way of

Walls.	railing so satisfactory as the stone baluster. The difficulty about

it is its cost, for in order to give it its proper effect it must be used in stretches of some length. In London where, if there are, as it is said, 3,000 miles of streets there must be at least 300 of garden walling; a cement baluster and rails are extensively used on the top of a low brick wall plastered with cement. The effect redeems a very plain street from dullness, is not unmanageably expensive, anti yet does not look cheap. One never sees a fence of this kind in a state of deterioration, so that there is no reason to suppose it is

not durable ; indeed the evidence of other work in the same material would go to promise a durability as great as that of stone. Sometimes the baluster and rails are of terra cotta. Both are apt to appear alike in time, because of the London leases which exact repainting every three years.





It is stated on authority of the

Insurance Against Strikes.

President of the National Manufacturers' Association of the

United States that a Mutual Company is to be formed with the effect of insuring employers of labor against losses occasioned by strikes. The company will also aim to protect independent workmen, by establishing a legal department and prosecuting persons who may attempt coercion or violate the law. It is proposed to keep secret the names of the members, so that when a strike is instituted it will not be known whether the fight is to be with an individual employer or a powerful organization of the character described. There is a movement all along the line to curl) the powers of the unions to demoralize business and restrict the freedom of employers to employ whom they please and of workmen to sell their labor to whom and at whatever price they may choose. The general public are a unit with

