<doctype type="text">

all over it to make up this surface; that is what it amounts to, most of the ornament is just that—wriggles; and we smear that over it for no other reason than that we want surface; 1 do not think that the lack of ornament enters our mind one time in twenty when we put that kind of stuff on; I do not refer especially to terra cotta, but to all senseless ornament, it is because we are afraid the surface will look flat without the ornament, and that is a mighty poor excuse for putting it on. As I say, texture should be the first consideration, because the bulk of our building will depend for its beauty on texture and on the disposal of it's masses and not on ornament, in the first place real ornament that really beautifies the building is too expensive to spread all over it; and, in the second place, you cannot see it if you do so; it becomes merely surface, and here is where fortune favors us, as it so happens that the cheaper and rougher materials naturally have the better textures. 1 remember when building a house some years ago 1 arrived on the scaffold just as the bricklayer was starting to build a high kitchen chimney—it was my own house, and I could do as I pleased—and he had there two piles of bricks, very nice bricks; One pile was of quite smooth, beautiful bricks, the other pile was of the roughest bricks that he could get. I said, 'What are you going to do with those bricks?'' He said, "1 am going to use these rough bricks for the lining and the others for the outside.'' I said, "Reverse it he nearly fell off the scaffold. I said, "Wont those smooth bricks make a good lining for the flue?" He said, Yes, very good, excellent lining.'' I said, "I am quite sure the other bricks will make a much better looking outside, and that is the part 1 am interested in, apart from its drawing qualities.'' So lie put the chimney up wrong side out; and when bricks on the inside cost probably $11 a thous he had his scaffold down he said to me, "That is the best looking chimney in this town." The and  those on the outside $6.50; and those rough hard bricks are the only kind, in my judgment, of which to build a country house the roughest ordinary hard brick that you can get. I will stand fight with a client on that before I will utilize anything else, because it is the brick with texture and color, the brick that has the burnt head on it, not to be picked into a pattern necessarily, but put there to have its influence on the texture and color of the building. What is true of brickwork is true also of stonework, with us. When we really want to get expensive stone then we get Avondale stone, which is as white as the driven snow and as uninteresting as anything in God's creation; or we use rubbed or sawed limestone, and if not satisfied with the surface being perfectly smooth, we specify that it shall be drove-tooled; when it is generally planed on a machine. Whenever they get the chance to put tile machine on and make grooves they do it; and all the texture and sense of stone is gone out of it. For house building the rough stone, the common flat stone that we use down there makes, in my judgment, the finest wall surface in color and texture and interesting light and shade that we can get. Next comes another material, and, in spite of what our friends who like dark exteriors say, I am extremely fond of it, and that is rough plaster, the roughest sort of dashed work or pebble dash. I think that when we are considering the color of the exterior we must remember, as your president said, shadow, the shadow of the eave—make it big if you want to; the shadow of the trees that overhang it, the shadows of the vines that grow on it. What is there more

charming, more beautiful than the white cottages and thatched or tiled roots of England, with their beautiful vegetation around them? We may, perhaps, consign white to a greyer climate than ours, but much of the time we could stand white or nearly white here. And this material, it seems to me, is a very valuable one that is much neglected; it gives us mass, it does not chop the surface up, and it gives us a fine contrast with either stone or brick, whether it l)e white or colored.

Of course we use a great deal of timber work down with us, and I am sorry to say we very seldom use it honestly, most of our timber work being stuck on the outside of the house and not part of the structure. That of course is inexcusable, there is no possible excuse for it, as far as I can see—I do it myself (laughter), but 1 am ashamed of it and I am trying to stop. It is almost impossible in this country to use it honestly; I doubt if tile timbers will stand in our climate long enough when really built in the wall to make it a practical mode of building.

These are, to my mind, the kinds of material that it is worth while to deal with in housebuilding. Of course we build wooden houses too We build shingle houses, and they rot out in from a year and a half to ten years; it is not a permanent building material. We have not used tile roofs nearly so much as we might, that is one of the things that 1 think the architects here and with us should steadily work for, to get sonic kind of roof that is not flat, stale and unprofitable like slate, or merely momentary like the shingles of to-day. Tiles are just about as hard to get, but as interesting as bricks or anything else in this machine-made age. I will give my secret away— it may be your secret, too—the only tiles I ever put on a building are the seconds, the culls; they are the tiles that are uneven rough and crooked amid of a good color. The average American selected tile is about as good as red slate, but that is all; as far as texture goes it is about the same. It is worth while, it seems to me, to make a fight on some of these materials that we have to use.

Perhaps the most serious problem we are up against is, how to get this material put together so that it may properly be called architecture after it is done. how much of the building that we are doing in this country would we walk out of our way to see in the old country? or would we collect pieces of as we do pieces of the old buildings? That comes back to the proposition of my friend that tile architect is not a designer of buildings, but a designer of opportunities and, if we cannot find the people al)out us who will seize those opportunities and together with us make architecture, the net result will not be architecture; we will have design but not architecture. Here is where I am going to get ''reactionary'' in trying to go 011 straight. People say that we are in a condition, and always have been, of evolution, and that we cannot fight against tendencies. But we know how mankind has evoluted in the past, it has been in spirals. When they were rebuilding a brick Rome in marble they little thought that Rome was in its decline. Their literature, they thought better than the more rugged and rough literature of former days; their architecture they thought better, more refined and elegant; but just the same Rome was on a decline and not on an ascent; it seems to me that it is worth while for architects especially to see what can be done in stemming the tide or at least in diverting the tide from methods that are suicidal as far as art goes. You must remember that

