<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="By the Way" author="">BY THE WAY.



Among the restrictions which are being imposed by the city authorities of New York as safeguards against fire is one which prohibits after the beginning of this year the sale and use of parlor matches. Another regulation compels the use of fire-proofed wood in lofty structures, and large quantities of material called by this name have been rejected by the Building Commissioner as worthless.

	x	x	x



Mr. <person>M. B. Aylsworth</person>, a well-known Toronto architect, has recently returned from Port Arthur and Fort William, where he was engaged for four months in the erection of a hospital and other buildings. He states that building progress in these northern towns is only limited by the difficulty of securing workmen. Bricklayers are being paid $7 per day and labourers $2.50 per day. There are no vacant houses and not enough mechanics to put up the new ones which the citizens wish to build. Each of the railways will be compelled to build at least one elevator every year for some time to come to provide necessary storage for the rapidly increasing supply of grain.



 x



In reply to an English draughtsman's enquiry as to the chances of employment in Canada, the Canadian Emigration Commissioner, in London, Mr. <person>W. T. R. Preston</person>, advised the young man that personal application would be necessary, and that the best time to come to Canada would be in the spring, when other

employment could be secured if an opening should not present itself in the line of his usual employment. There never was a better time than the present for efficient architects' assistants to secure employment in Canada, and especially in Toronto. The demand far exceeds the supply, and competent young men in this line from Great Britain arriving here about March or April would be almost certain to secure immediate employment.

	x	x	x





The congregation of the <building>West Presbyterian Church in New Westminster, B. C.</building>, find themselves in serious difficulty as the result of having misplaced their building. The board of managers agreed with the board of managers of St. Andrews' Presbyterian Church, that they would not build nearer than half a mile to that church. It has now transpired that the West Church stands 200 feet nearer St. Andrew's than the specified limit, and the Presbytery has been appealed to by the congregation whose territory has thus been invaded. That body after much debate has allowed the congregation of West Church five months in which to remove their building and thus fulfil their obligation. To do this will cost $1600, and as the church property is heavily mortgaged, this becomes a heavy burden. One is led to wonder what possible injury could result to the complainants from a mistake which placed a sister church 200 feet nearer to them.



"Alas for the rarity



of Christian Charity."

Artistic elevator cars, elevator enclosures, office railings, tellers' cages, etc. in all finishes, <firm>Canada Foundry Company Limited</firm>, Toronto Montreal Halifax Ottawa Winnipeg Vancouver Victoria Rossland