<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" AN ARCHITECTURAL ALPHABET " author="">

AN ARCHITECTURAL ALPHABET.

A was for architect, old in his prime,

B was a builder who took his own time.

C was a client who had his own views,

D was the details that no one would use.

E the erection he tried to excuse,

G was the ground plan exceeding the site,

11	was the half-timber he had to reveal,

I	was the ironwork he had to conceal.

J was the joinery, mostly of deal.

K was the king-post that ought to have stood,

L the stone lintel that proved to be wood.

M was the mullion that blocked out the light.

N was the newel too thin for its height.

0	the oak sill that was not water-tight.

P was the price on the contract agreed,

Q was the quantities down to a bead.

R was the rage that the client displayed ; and

S the sarcastic remarks that he made—when

T was the total that had to be paid.

U was the umpire called on to decide.

V	was the value the client denied.

W stands for the words that he said,

X	was the xtras for which he was bled,

Y Z the young zealot who wished he was dead.



You might as well try to conduct a business without advertising as to operate machinery without oil—Printers' Ink.

"Book of Too Stained Houses" is the title of a new publication by Mr. Samuel Cabot, of Boston. it contains illustrations of houses on which Cabot's creosote stains have been used and unsolicited testimonials as to their value.

Wallpaper of special design for the children's room continues to receive attention from the makers. A recent suggestion is wallpaper panels. They are about 12in. by 36in., and are shown in broad poster designs of life-size duck mothers leading a fuzzy yellow brood to a brook, fox terriers pursuing a red and black rooster, and apparently overtaking him, and processions of beggars coming to town. There are also posters of children going

to bed, saying their prayers, eating their break-fasts, or playing. They are artistic, durable, and useful, as inculating a love of art and the beautiful.

Shingle tint Berry  Brotheres Limited Walkerville Ont.



The Canadian Bridge Co. Limited Walkerville Ont.



Terra Cotta Fireproof building material The Montreal Terra Cotta Lumber Company Limited Montreal



