<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="0. A. A. EXAMINATIONS " author="">

0. A. A. EXAMINATIONS.



The Examinations of the Ontario Association of Architects were held in April. The following were the successful candidates:

1st Examination.—Messrs. W. F. Sparling, L. C. Montizambert and Edwin Menger.

2nd Examination.—Mr. J. A. Mackenzie.

<article title=" PAINTERS' AND DECORATORS' CONVENTION IN TORONTO " author="">

PAINTERS' AND DECORATORS' CONVENTION IN TORONTO.



At the Nineteenth Annual Convention of the National Association of Master House Painters and Decorators of the United States and Canada, held in Richmond, Va., in February last, a cordial invitation was given the Association by Messrs. Jas. J.O'Hearn and Stewart

N.	Hughes, President and Secretary of the Toronto Association, to hold its convention of 1904 in Canada's Queen City. The invitation was backed by a letter from the Mayor of Toronto, and was accepted. Mr. Hughes was elected a member of the Executive Committee.	___________





<article title=" TESTS OF MATERIALS " author="">

TESTS OF MATERIALS.

The care exercised in Germany to demonstrate the qualities of materials employed in construction, is illustrated by a recently published report of the operations of the Imperial testing station at Charlottenburg. During the year in question 32,580 tests were made, against 31,982 tests in the preceding year. Some of these were carried out at thc request of foreigners. Of the 1901 tests 20,391 were of binding material 12,189 of various kinds of stone. Armed cement was especially dealt with. But many tests were made with trass-lime mortar. There was a considerable increase in the number of samples of lime sandstone, showing that this is coming into use. Another notable feature of the tests was the number of samples of jointless flooring in imitation of linoleum and woodword. For this purpose for the first time the sandblast has been employed in producing patterns on these materials. A committee appointed by the Minister of Public Works and for Trade and Commerce was charged with the testing of gypsum ; samples are being obtained from abroad as well as at home.

FJXING TILES.

The general custom nowadays, says the Builders' Record, seems to be to use copper nails for fixing tiles or stone slates, that is, in work where some little pretention is made to doing the thing well. Of course a speculative builder uses the cheapest thing he can get bold of so long as it lasts long enough for him to sell the house, and he may use iron nails unprotected or perhaps coated with tar. If he adopts galvanized iron nails he no doubt considers he is doing the thing handsomely. But let the conscientious architect avoid being misled into them by the persuasive builder. Zinc or composition nails are better—but not good enough. Wooden pegs seem to have gone out, but they were fully as good as iron nails. In some ancient buildings the tiles were fixed with splinters of bone, and excellent they were for the purpose. And now another instance has recently been offered by a writer in the daily press of an old building at Mansfield which was a good many years ago roofed with stone slates fastened with hundreds of the prongs or tynes of the antlers of deer. They were pegged into holes pierced in the slabs

—two to each slate—in the ordinary way. Their use was evidently traceable to the ancient builder's desire for quaintness. It is these little tricks and fancies of the old workmen which more often than not give the quaintness and charm to old country houses so much admired by all our architectural students. All the striving after effect so characteristic of to-day does not make up for the interest we derive from the evidences of the loving hand and thoughtfulness and resource of the craftsmen of old.



Cassidy Oi want a wreath av flowers, an put on it, "He rests in pieces. Florist—Don't you mean "He rests in peace?"

Cassidy—Oi mane phwat Oi sed. 'Tis fur Casey, thot was

blowed up in the quarry.—" Tit-Bits."

Sash doors blinds hardwood flooring stairs and interior finish Wilson Brothers Collingwood Ont.



Artificial marble E. Caron proprietor and manufacturer Que.



We will bond you The United States Fidelity and Garanty Co. Baltimore Md., Toronto