<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



LEGAL.



French laws are quite different from our own. A fire having begun in a paint shop and spread so as to damage neighboring property, the authorities found that because of neglect of proper care of his premises, the owner of the place in which the fire started became responsible for the loss incurred by the neighbors, and as the evidence showed that the official inspector had failed to require better care of the premises, he was fined for neglect of duty. This is a good law.



In France municipalities as well as individuals are held to strict account for carelessness resulting in personal injury or loss of life. A case in point is the recent decision of the courts condemning the City of Paris to pay an indemnity of 2,500 francs to each of five children whose parents were killed by the fail of a foot bridge on the Paris Exhibition grounds. The judges decided it was the duty of the civic authorities to withhold the concession until a detailed plan of structure, with the calculations of strength, had been submitted and tested.. The works were allowed to be commenced and carried on without any official superintendence, and no steps were taken to insure public safety. The first care of the authorities was therefore neglected. The contractors have also been condemned to give 500 francs a year to the two youngest children until they have attained their majority.

NOTES.



The death took place in Toronto recently of Mr. W. H. Ferguson, a well known contractor.



The masters and journeymen plumbers of Winnipeg have come to an agreement with regard to wages. The schedule of wages agreed upon is 50 cents per hour for first class men, and 25 cents per hour and upwards for second class men. Nine hours to constitute a day's work. Overtime shall count as time and a quarter up to 10 p.m., after 10 p.m. time and a half. Sunday and Labor day double time. First-class steam litters shall be allowed only two helpers. The apprentice system shall be governed by joint meeting of the masters and the union.



The petroleum wells in Russia are in some cases 1,750 feet deep, and some are cased with riveted pipe, with the interstices filled with cement to exclude the ground water. The waterproofing is effected with a solution made with 100 parts of Portland cement and 122 parts of Caspian sea water, which is delivered into the well through a 34 inch pipe and hardens within two days. Sometimes a pressure of 40 atmospheres is used. It is considered that sea water is preferable to distilled water, and that grout made with it hardens more rapidly under pressure. The temperature of the water does not affect the hardening, but it is more satisfactory with pure cement than with cement and sand mixed.

The Sun Portland Cement Company Limited Owen Sound

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto