<doctype type="text">	THE	CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Intercommunication" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]



"Manitoba," Winnipeg writes In your issue for this month "City Builder" complains of smells from the drain. I think he will find this comes from the inlet to the so called fresh air pipe outside, and does not necessarily mean any defect in the plumbing work. Let him put his nose to the fresh air inlet whilst some one lets off a charge of the water closet and I think he will find an outrush of the offensive gas complained of which would show the house drains to be foul. Let him then put a teaspoonful of "Permanganate Potash" crystals into the closet tank, flush down same once or twice and in about half an hour test the fresh air inlet again, when he will find the outrushed air to be sweet. The Permanganate Potash should be applied occasionally and I know that this has remedied several bad cases. Stinking gas forced out of fresh air inlet will blow into the house when windows are open. The Permanganate Potash has been bought here as low as 35 cents per lb. so that the annual cost for house for its use should not be very great.



From ''Young Carpenter"—I am going out to settle in New Ontario, and expect to - have several frame barns to build, and would like to know of the latest improved methods of framing timber barns. A sketch of an end "bent" would help me very much, giving size of timbers, pitch of roof, and such other details as may be useful ?

ANS. :—The elevation of timber barn shown in Fig. 1, is about as good an example of frame barn building as we know of. This plan is useful where it is desired to have the lower floor or ground all clear, for example, for a wagon-house. The plan also serves quite as well as under other circumstances. The frame makes a





FIG. 1.---END OF A TIMBER BARN.





very rigid structure. The purlin post should be centered, tennoned, dovetailed and keyed into the beam, also drawbored. The beam should also have dove-tailed tennons keyed into the post with drawbores, the frame without guards or guards either 3 or 4 inches in from the base of the post, according as you use either 3 or 4 inch studs. These extend from the sill plate and are nailed or spiked to the guards. To support the floor timbers or joists spike a 2X4 piece on the sides of the beam and let the ends of joists rest on these. Mortise or dovetail one or two of the joists in each tier fur ties, cover with good siding; If it is desired

to use a hay-fork and the purlin beam is in the way we would suggest the plan of framing as indicated by the dotted lines. A B indicates a rod with no strain. A guard should then he framed into the purlin post, where the plate is now, for top end of lower tier of rafters. This plan gives an excellent method of ventilation, and, is better in both utility and appearance than the usual gambrel roof.

A A and B B show the lines of braces if such are deemed necessary. The barn is 40 feet wide over all. Sizes of timbers are shown on the sketch.



From " Amateur Decorator "--Will you kindly inform me as to the kind of ''gum" or ''shellac" that is used by plasterers for preventing suction in plaster work, and how is the material dissolved?

ANS. :—Use ordinary shellac which may be obtained from any druggist. Thc most suitable solvent for shellac is methylated spirit. Place 1/2 lb. of orange shellac in a stone bottle with 1 gal. of methylated spirit and agitate at intervals until the shellac is thoroughly dissolved, after which the preparation is ready for use, and must be stored in an air-tight vessel ; apply quickly with a fine-hair brush. The cheapest shellac is a deep orange color, and it will color your plaster. If this is an objection get white shellac, and dissolve and apply in the same way as for the orange.



From " Contractor"—I have just completed a home for myself, in the suburbs of the town I live in, and I. want to finish up one little corner in my sitting room, with a lounge seat, reading desk and book case, making the whole into a sort of bachelor's cosy-corner. It must be made in one corner of the room in which there are no objections. Can you publish some sort of a design suitable to what I require; if so I will appreciate it very much ?

ANS. :—In answer to this request we publish the illustration shown in Fig. 2, as being near about what is asked for, so far as we can understand it. It will be seen that this "nook" is formed by having a book-rack at one end, the side of the room forming the other end where a plain reading shelf forms the boundary. The reading shelf is placed near a window so that ample light is given. If there is no window in this position then the order of the scheme may be reversed to suit conditions. The back of the " nook" may he papered as shown, with a narrow moulding dividing the paper from the other part of the wall, or it may be upholstered, or even panelled, according to taste. The hook-rack and reading shelf are simple affairs hut may be elaborated if desired. A three-leafed screen may be placed in front of the opening if more seclusion is desired, and the little stand removed altogether. Properly managed this "nook" may be made quite attractive and add very much to the appearance of the room.



From "Ambitious Workman"—I am a young man have learned my trade as a carpenter, and have a general knowledge of brick and stone work, and of painting and plastering, but feel that this is not enough to enable me to become a successful building contractor, which I desire to be. What kind of education should a builder and contractor receive? In addition to a good knowledge of building construction, is a knowledge of estimating and taking out quantities an absolute necessity ? Any information or ''pointers" will be thankfully received.

ANS. :—Something more than a fair knowledge of building construction is required. A builder and contractor should know all about every material that is used in building, such, for example, as the place or origin, the best place to buy, the best method of using and the faults that have to he allowed for or provided against; and he should be continually on the lookout for new materials, or for new methods of using existing materials. lie should also be conversant with all rules

