<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



which the first coat is two coat work, and stucco coat in two coat stucco is levelled or roughly straightened.

THE FLOAT is a wooden tool about 14" long, 4' wide and 3/8" thick, used after the "darby" and straightening rod to level out the work, also for finishing stucco work.

25. GROUNDS for plastering work should be of soft pine firmly nailed and made true and straight. The thickness of grounds determines the widths of frames and jambs and should be considered together. For brickwork or terra cotta the thickness here given is supposed to be fixed close to wall ; if unduly packed out to straighten defective walls a dubbing out coat is necessary.

Two coat work in lime mortar on lath 34" grounds.

brick 3/8

Three coat work in lime mortar on lath 7/8'

brick 5/8"	''

Grounds for metal lathing 34".

Two coat work hard plaster on lath 5/8 grounds.

	"	brick 8



<article title="Design" author="Price, William L.">DESIGN. * William L. Price



Mr. President, brother architects, and friends of architecture. I have not any paper to offer you, just a few remarks that I am afraid will be rather rambling because I want to touch on a great in any subjects; I want first to speak of the question of making the talk a practical talk. We have heard a great deal of discussion to-day at dinner and at other times about being practical hut every time we try to be practical we turn to the ideal, because when we come to analyze what is ordinarily called the practical it is the transitory; it is the bread and butter that we eat, not for its own sake, but to make the man the practical part of our work is only the mother of the ideal. Architecture could not exist, architects would be an absurdity if it were not that the ideal is after all the main object of mankind's search and endeavor. Now it so hap— pens that architects are not only clothiers of mankind, but teachers of mankind, teachers for good or ill; teachers whether they want to be or no. Now I do not know of any royal road to the ideal, if I did I would not tell anybody about it, because the only thing that any man can get to help him towards the ideal comes from within and not from without. We spin our own cocoons (especially as architects) and it lies with us whether our cocoon shall be a monument or merely a sepulchre. And we must not compare those cocoons one with the other and say of this man that his cocoon is not as fine a monument as the other man's. Compare it with the man himself and ask, Did he build as well as lie knew, or didn't lie? That is the only question. If he built as well as he knew he couldn't help building to himself a monument and for the crowd a betterment. The architect's profession or art or whatever you choose to call it, is perhaps the most involved that there is. We have just been discussing a question of color decoration; the architect that does not consider the question of color in his buildings when lie is designing his mouldings and ornaments is not designing at all. It is just as much an essential part of the design, the color of the walls or an approximate idea of the color of the walls as the moulding; they are there for the same reason, to give color effects, light and shade. One of our architects some years ago denounced American architecture as 'an attempt to make something look like something else that would not be desirable if genuine.'' That is a pretty savage arraignment,

* Paper read at the annual convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>held in Toronto January 13th and 14th, 1903.

and it is perhaps not quite so true as it was; hut still it is in a large measure the truth. When we build the big structures that we call buildings, office buildings or similar buildings (they are not buildings at all in the real sense. hut are structures or erections), we clothe them carefully with building material, nine times out of ten, stick it on, bolt it on. There is a building in Philadelphia in which the granite corner piers, a perfect absurdity in itself, are apparently of solid blocks, carefully and painfully cut out in the form of an L,'' allowing the column to stand within it in this fashion.



























If that is not an attempt to make something look like something else that would not he desirable if it was genuine. I (10 not know what it is. It is a lie that works both ways; it hurts the community and it hurts the man who did it, and hurts him worst.

Much of what I am going to say may appear reactionary, but I want you to notice one thing, that the man lost in the wilderness (and we are just a little lost in the wilderness in art matters, if he has not some guiding point, will go around in a circle—at least I am so told. So while the line of progress may be something like that—an upward slope—we may be travelling























a line something like that, believing all the while that we are Oil an upward course.

And we must not measure the line by what we call see of it; we do not see enough to make one part of it look different front another part at any time. We have to consider a great many outside things; to look at history and experience, to the architect especially that is essential. There is only one timing worse, in my judgment, than ignoring precedent, and that is following it. (Applause and laughter.)

Now I want to take you with me in a little practical talk—we are up against a serious proposition. having secured our client, time first question for us. what next? Shall we build around that client our shell or his fitting shell? Now when we stop to think of it, how often are we striving to build the best possible monument to ourselves and not the best possible house or building for that man?

During a first interview with a client a year or more ago, after talking to him about an hour, he said, I would like to see the house you would design for me. Mr. Price, and I said I would too. Being agreed on that he then said: "Now I have told you the things that I want, time size of the rooms and the number of them; you know

