<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



which constitute the base of the tall building; the bank's cornice with the top member of this base; their columns and arcades are fairly comparable. Here is dignity with out monotony, picturesqueness without extravagance, height without gloom; every gain without any loss except loss of space, and loss of space is gain in this case.

What other cities have to learn from New York is to put the limit out of the question by taking precautions in time. The limit is not practical. It is not worth while to shut numbers of people in darkness, for the sake of getting them all together, only to find that it would be better if there were not quite so many together. The limit of elevators, and the limit of traffic and transit in the streets, seem to point to the same moderation in close building which is indicated by the requirements of planning for light. It is no extreme to advocate the attainment of this moderation by municipal regulation, requiring that every tall building shall be isolated above such height as usually forms the base storeys of a sky-scraper. This allows for such an arrangement as is

suggested by the bank on Broadway between two such buildings. It would make a satisfactory street effect if the cornice at this height were continuous and the sky line above broken at intervals, more or less regular, by buildings more or less tall.

A way to bring this about would be to require every high builder to isolate his upper storeys by the purchase of land sufficient for the purpose. This would

not be tyrannical legislation. If any criticism is to be made of it, it might be called grandmotherly legislation; for it is looking after the interests of the high builder himself to compel him to guard the value of his building in this way. It is not however entirely grandmotherly, for the interests of the public are also guarded in matters for which it is certainly within the province of the City Fathers to care, viz., light and air and reasonable density of population. There is also plenty of precedent, in cities which owe part of their success to regulations of this kind, for requiring that the low part of the building shall have for aesthetic considerations, a cornice line of a fixed height.

<person>W.A. LANGTON</person>.



Messrs. King and Bannigan, of Boston, are reported to have purchased a large plaster quarry at Hillsboro, AIbert county, N. B. ,and to be making arrangements to open up the work and to prosecute it in a vigorous manner.

The <firm>Lake Manitoba Quarry and Transportation Co.</firm> has been formed to develop extensive deposits of excellent building stone at the Lake Manitoba Narrows.

<article title="By The Way" author="">BY THE WAY.

There are said to be within the limits of the city or New York two hundred thousand inner rooms unprovided with means of ventilation. To this cause is largely attributed the increase in the number of consumptives.

 

The inconvenience arising from lack of uniformity in size of bricks is evidently not confined to Canada. A petition has been presented to the legislature of Massachusetts praying that the standard for face bricks shall be fixed at 838 by 4'4 by 21/4 inches and for common brick at 81/4 by 4 by 21/4 inches.



Recent excavations in the far east have revealed the fact that the Jerry builder had to be reckoned with one thousand years before the time of Moses. The following has been found among other enactments of a Babylonian ruler of that period:—"If a builder build a house and finish it, but does not make it solid, and if then the house fall and kill the owner, that builder shall be

put to death. If it strikes the owners son dead, then the son of the builder shall be put o death"

 

The Deputy Chairman of the <firm>Liverpool Corporation Housing Committee </firm>thinks he has solved the problem of the cheap and substantial construction of dwellings for the dispossessed slum population. He proposes to use very large slabs of concrete made from re 

DECORATIVE PANEL FOR A DINING ROOM—<person>G. A. REID</person>, R. C. A.



fuse-destructor and



clinker cement,

hoisted into position and bolted together. A quicker and therefore cheaper method than this would be the plan attributed to <person>Thomas A. Edison </person>of pouring the concrete into a mould of the desired form.



<article title="Glass-Faced Brick" author="">GLASS-FACED BRICK.



The Cleveland Leader says that a new company has



been organized lately to manufacture glass-faced brick.

A number of prominent Cleveland men are financially

interested in the project and the concern is looking for

a factory site of from three to five acres.

The new brick is another of the great variety of concrete building material now being manufactured. A glass plate is laid in the bottom of a mold, and the concrete mixture is poured in on top of the glass. The concrete hardens on the glass, thus forming a brick or building block with a very brilliant exterior.

This kind of brick is for use in such places as courts and light wells in large buildings, where the glass becomes a reflector, and on account of its smooth surface does not become soiled easily, and is readily washed. The new process will yield a product similar to enamel brick.

