<doctype type="text">



be to get the quality a little where we want it. We can do that, and the people will go with us, for they arc just as sick of the uninteresting wall papers and truck that their houses are cluttered up with as we are. I have had no difficulty in getting people to allow me to simplify their houses for them. Thc tendency to ornament comes from the architect rather than from the client, almost every time. Of course there are exceptions and people want a lot of gaudy ornamentation and display; and I think, in these cases, we had better give it to them, I think that is possibly the best way to cure them. It is a little rough on us, but I think we had better suffer if we can make architecture possible in the doing of it.

1 have not talked to you about methods of design. I have not talked to you about what moldings you should put here, there or the other place, I think that would bc rather inconsistent since I have been advising you to cut them nearly all out. But what I have been trying to do is to point out certain lines along which we shall design; that we shall in the first place surround the client with a shell that shall be appropriate to its site and its use, that we shall simplify it so that we shall get in the main honest construction and honest ornament so far as we use ornament at all. I think you will readily agree with me as to that question of ornament, when you consider, for instance, the main building of your Toronto University and look at the carving on the inside of it (as I did yesterday with great pleasure), where you can walk along from step to step and find the ornament interesting and worth looking at. That was not the architect's fault altogether. \\ hen your president asked me to see it he explained to me very carefully that the architect brought out a real craftsman from Germany or some other place and put him to work there, and lie put in those interesting spots. The architect can't do that himself.

The President—I told Mr. Price that the architect was entitled to the credit of bringing him out.

Mr. Price—Yes, you did; but the fact remains that it was the craftsman that did the work. The architect gave him, no doubt, an idea of what lie wanted, but like all these things that are worth doing or having, they must he designed in the doing, and not in tile lay-out of the doing.. You cannot design carving on paper; you can only design carving with a gouge and a mallet. You cannot design wrought iron in any place in the world except on the anvil with a hammer. You can make a suggestion for wrought iron or for carving. You can show the general design or character of it. but you cannot draw it until alter it is cut or hammered, because otherwise it is not carving or wrought iron at all. We must recollect that our position is the one that I have pointed out, a designer of opportunities; an(l what we must do to make architecture a possibility is to go to these craftsmen and ask them, if it be turning hack, to turn back; and I think we will get something

Possibly you are not tip against the same difficulties that we are, but this is characteristic of what we have to contend with. Take your carpenter, who is your highest class of craftsman because he does the most varied work, and lie will plane and scrape and sand paper the sill of a window and will then proceed to get up on it and stand on his heels to pull nails out above. I do not know whether that happens here or not, but it happens with us. And if the carpenter

does not do it the decorator will do it for him. The President— It is usually the plumber who

does things in our buildings.

Mr., Price—The plumber generally does not get as good a chance at it as the decorator; and if he does not do it the man that puts up the curtains and window shades will do it. They are bound to have it in some way. Is it not a distressing situation, that our highest class of craftsmen either do not know or do not care about much except Saturday night's part of their work. It is a pitiable commentary on our civilization that the bulk of our people care for the wage and not the work, because the only thing that is worth doing, in my mind, in the world is work. I am quite sure that the same man, when lie gets through working at the job be bias to do, if lie does not work too long and is not so tire(l as to kill his ambition, turns to other work. I am quite sure that what <person>Prof. Shortt </person>said about himself is true of most of us, that lie gets his recreation ion by turning front the work lie is engaged in most of the time and making furniture carving and doing such work and he thinks his best thoughts when lie is doing so. That our craftsmen should have abandoned that position and accepted the 19th century ideal, that the way to get development is to make the greatest number of things with the least possible effort, or in the least possible time so that lie may have time to devote to something else seems to me suicidal . There is some— thing in work besides wages and a good deal better than wanes and I think we can prove it by simplifying the work, by teaching him that he must do this thing in this way because it is the right way to do it amid because it is handsomer when done the right way, as well as more moral and that it will be reflected in his character. But when our work is nearly all sham, as it is in one way or another, how can we expect a man working at that sham work to develop into an honest, straight thinker? I can't (1.0 it, and the consequence ms lie walks on our window sill. I (10 not want to talk longer about this matter; I would very much rather have a good heavy scrap in which we all could join, so with your permission I will stop. (Applause).



DISCUSS ION.



The President I think Mr. Price is a little of an extremist in following the rule of leaving his audience when they still want to hear him. But we cannot ask him to speak too much. I should therefore like to hear the discussion which he proposes we should have.

Mr. Baker I have much pleasure in moving a hearty vote of thanks to Mr. Price for his very agreeable remarks which I am sure we all appreciated ; and I think we all, without exception, agree with him. I feel a little at sea in attempting to say anything as I presume I am expected to do. for I see my name of the eaper as leader of a discussion on his address ; but if I am able to get around in a circle and back to the place I started from I shall be glad. I am a little helped in starting out by being right in my conjecture as to the line of talk that Mr. Price would give us. I did not expect somehow that he would take up design in the abstract and talk to us about how to put the different parts of the whole design together and that sort of thing I expected more that he would do just as he has done and give us the moral aspect of it. He has told us that we have got to be teachers. Incidentally I think we have to be learners also, because where we get a client who is a cultured man of understanding and learning and refinement we then find that he is quite capable of leading us in some cases ; and we should allow ourselves to be led I take it, as long as we are not led away from practical lines. In thinking this over I came across some lines which were peculiarly

