<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ordinary. The real charm is however its perfection, the work, at the bottom, of the architect, Mr. Arichison. It is the proportion and balance of the design which are the real base of the beauty which the enamelled oriental tiles decorate ; but, together, they make a piece of work which seems to lack nothing of perfection. To sit in one of the wide window seats and let the eye rest on the harmony of the design while the ear enjoys the music of the fountain echoing in the dome is to enjoy perhaps as distinct pleasure as mere architecture can give.

There is no photogragp procurable of this hall, or indeed of any part of the house ; and in any case a photograph could not take in the upper part of the hall, which is included by the eve. A drawing may be made to suggest a little more in this respect but can do almost nothing in the hands of an unskilled draughts-man, towards giving an account of the elaborate decoration of the surface, even as regards the lines, and nothing at all to suggest its colour.

The Arab Hall is 17 feet square. The floor is of mosaic marble with a border of coloured scroll work round the edge and a black marble border round a basin of water, 5 feet square, in the centre, which, below the surface of the water is sunk in the form of an octagon with angles centered on the sides of the basin, and a semicircular sinking springing from each side of the octagon and about half a side in diameter. A pipe nozzle, projeecting above the surface of the water, at the centre, sends up a stream, of about 1/16 inch in diameter, about 3 feet high. This tails back into the basin with a musical sound to which the echoing character of the hall largely contributes. The walls have a black marble dado up to the window sills, 2 6" high. The windows are covered by lattices of Masharabeeyeh work. The window bays are 9 feet wide by three feet deep, with angle columns of white marhie (incorrectly shown in the plan as projecting into the recess). The column recesses are lined with light coloured marble an inch thick. The outer edges of the slabs are flush with the wall surfaces and form a boundary for the tiles which cover the walls. The columns have alabaster capitals carved with storks, which are reversed on adjacent sides and make symmetrical forms. The columns carry a flush frieze, about 2 feet deep, with a mosaic scroll, having birds and animals for the details. This frieze runs across the windows also. The frieze is finished with a 6 inch cove and fillet, with about half-inch projection from the frieze and quirked at the top of the cove. The wall spaces from dado to frieze between the columns is covered with old tiles, mostly of the 16th century, procured in Rhodes, Cairo and Damascus on different occasions. They may all be described as a rich blue and white. The blue has that mingling of green which is usual in oriental work. The tiles came from different places and are probably the work of different generations ; each portion of wall has at least two subdivisions of pattern, and no two portions of wall are alike ; but the harmony both of design and colour is perfect. The windows have pointed arches faced with dark marble, moulded the soffits are mosaic, similar to the frieze. From the frieze spring squinches, if they can be so called, like inverse and inverted pendentives, with a delicate outline of many curves which carry a truncation of the hail with great neatness. The

truncation is further extended by a complicated Arab cornice, of many ogee arched projections, until they become side of an octagon upon which the dome sits. This part of the wall is all in porcelain or enamelled tile ; white, with wide blue bands which cross the squinch forms so as to exhibit their modelling. The dome has moulding in colour at the bottom, a dull gold or yellow surface and eight circular headed lights filled with genuine Persian coloured glass, very deep in colour. Over the frieze where it crosses the entrance to the hall (a marble beam on columns) is one of those projecting lattice windows, a piece of old work, brought from the east. This looks into the hail from the hall in the first floor.

A description of the Arab Hall would be incomplete without some notice of the value which the unlighted middle hall gives to both this and the well lighted staircase.

W. A. LANGTON.

(to be continued.)





BY THE WAY.



The field is already so full of specialists and so-called experts that the functions which ought to belong to and discharged by the architect, are becoming less and less clearly defined. Yet there is apparently a disposition to specialize still further. The recommendation has recently been made that service of the " lighting engineer" should he procured to determine the character and location of lighting fixtures which should be employed in a building, their effect upon the decorations, color of light to harmonize with fittings, disposition of occupants of rooms and character of employment therein, expense of installation and maintenance, burners available and supplies or repairs for the same, etc., etc, Now if the architect who plans a general scheme be not competent to deal with the details thereof, it seems to me he had better abdicate entirely, and hand over the whole business to the " specialists." Within proper limits the latter are doubtless a distinct aid to the architect, but if success is to crown the work, there must not only be expert knowledge in the various departments, but also a master mind to plan, supervise and harmonize the whole undertaking.



xxx



According to the Meriden Journal, M. M. Jones, (nothing extraordinary about the name) an architect of that city, has invented a measuring rule that may almost be said to he capable of measuring- anything, anywhere, and of any size, beneath the skies. He (Mr. Jones) says the Journal: Has taken a cheap, common rule, and, without increasing or diminishing its original size, weight, appearance or original usefulness or convenience, has produced a rule that will give the length and levels of the ends of all kinds of braces or rafters. It will square off a board or square and lay out a cellar, make an octagon or square mitre. It will tell the height of any building or elevation, the depth of any valley or chasm, the width of any street or stream, or both. Anchor a boat in the middle of a river, and the rule will tell how far it is from shore ; a roofer can tell the dimensions of any roof while standing on the ground ; it will measure anything in sight, whether in reach or not ; it will give the length of any straight or slanting line, it solves all the problems in geometry and trigonometry the mechanic is ever called upon to solve. The improvement can he attached to all kinds of rules in use, whether of the French or English systems, and to a new rule while making. One cent per rule will pay the cost of the improvements ; to a rule already made it will cost two cents a rule.

