<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<building>TOM MOORE HOUSE AT STE. ANNE, NEAR MONTREAL</building>.







<article title="High Building" author="Langton, W.A.">HIGH BUILDING.



It is satisfactory for the rest of the world that New York should proceed as fast as it can to the logical extreme in high building. What the rest of the world wants to know is, what will it come to ? What is the limit ; and what are going to be the consequences of building up to the limit?

The limit in height is practically in sight. Passenger elevators, which were the generating factor in these buildings, are also fixing their limitations. Accessibility to the street level is what is required for an office ; and, when buildings are so high that time is wasted in going and coming-in the elevator, the offices in the highest floors will not rent sufficiently well. The device of express elevators gets over the difficulty to some extent, but in the first place there is a limit to the percentage of floor space that can be given up to the elevator shafts, if the building is to pay ; and in the second place there is a speed limit in elevators. What is known as a "nausea limit" is recognized anything above this rate of speed is found to be uncomfortable—at least for landsmen. For men this rate is said to be 720 feet a minute ; for women not more than 6oo feet ; and the descent must be much less rapid than this. Anything faster than 400 feet a minute going down, is distressing ; so that about 6oo feet per minute up and 400 feet per minute down is the maximum for an express elevator. The floor to floor elevator is still further reduced in speed, to enable the operator to make a prompt stop. If, with higher speed he bobs up and down at every floor—a consequence partly of human weakness and partly of the elasticity of steel rope—there is no ultimate gain in speed and considerable waste of power. Limiting calculations are often upset by new inventions ; but, where the human body is the measure, there is a standard which may be relied on not to change. It is difficult to conceive of more rapid motion up or down for human beings than the present nausea limit, or of more abrupt stops at this rate of speed without great discomfort to the occupants of the car ; and we may therefore accept as a scientific datum the present opinion of engineers in New York, that the limit of business buildings due to the limited speed of elevators, is between twenty-five and thirty storeys.

This may be the limit of height, but how to fix the limit of continuity. A sky scraper at intervals is a gain in every way ; it gives well lighted, airy, and quiet offices ; and it makes the street picturesque. A row of sky scrapers converts the street into a box canyon of unwholesome gloom; but it is not to be com

pared to the gloom and unwholesomeness within the buildings themselves. This condition of affairs is rapidly approaching in New York. There is what almost amounts to a skyscraper war going on. The early tall buildings in which, with more confidence than judgment, the party walls were filled with windows, are now in an awkward position. Skyscrapers are rising beside skyscrapers and blocking up whole walls of windows. Rooms which, when the buildings were erected, had the winter sun and the summer breeze, are now sealed up in darkness forever ; and the sanitary consequences are beginning to cause alarm. In the lower rooms, in a street of continuous sky-scrapers, there is no light anyway; and, if darkness is to invade the upper storeys too, the unwholesomeness of the overcrowding in these expensive offices is going to be as bad as that in the poor tenements, which so much effort has been made to stop. At a recent meeting of the <firm>Municipal Art Society</firm>, a prominent speaker said

"I read in my newspaper to-day of the benevolent project to build a great hospital for consumptives, the victims of tuberculosis; where they may have air and sunlight. And in the same paper I read of plans for a thirty story building. What are we trying to do? What do we mean by putting up these horrible structures, to the lower floors of which no light can ever penetrate? . . . We build hospitals for the poor consumptive, and then we turn around and erect skyscraping structures where consumption may breed, so that we shall not lack for patients."



It is not merely the darkness, but the crowding of the streets and buildings which is a menace to health and safety. This same speaker calculates that "when Broadway is lined with these structures, there won't be room for the tenants, unless they are packed horizontally thirty feet thick." It is not hard to believe that this calculation, if checked, will be found to be not far from the truth. It was calculated at the beginning of the year that the buildings of nine storeys or more in the lower part of Manhattan Island, below Leonard street—that is to say only in the tall building district proper—have added the floor area above their fifth storeys, 180 acres of area to the island. The estimated cost of these buildings was $33,000,000. There is said to be $10,000,000 worth of buildings of the same sort in process of erection now, so that, as area may be presumed to compare consistently with price, when these are completed, which will not be long at the rate these buildings go up now, there will be added to this small district 240 acres of standing room above the streets ; but there will be only the same old streets to walk in, and these more than ever filled with vehicles from other parts. The <building>Broad Exchange Building </building>has a floor area of 121/2 acres and a normal population of 4,000 persons. Apply this rate of population to the 6o acres or so of floor area (above the fifth storey) which are now being constructed and it will appear that this portion of New York is about to receive an increase in daily population of at least 20,000 souls. If they only were souls ; if, " in going from place to place," they need not "pass through the intermediate space," it would be all right ; but 20,000 hustling bodies in streets where one has already, in going to keep an appointment, to allow time for hindered progress—it is nearing the limit.

The cure is exhibited in a trio of buildings on Broadway; a two-storey bank between two sky-scrapers. This is, at any rate, the solution of the light and air problem. It would also solve the problem in design. The two storeys of the bank run with the two storeys

