<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING

For thickness, permanent white backing, and ease of fixing. Mr. J. T. Newell the patentee, is one of the pioneers of the glass tile trade, and has produced the opal glass tiles as a result of long and careful study. The firm, who are contractors to II. M. Government and the principal hospitals, handle all kinds of sanitary ware and hospital fittings, and specialize on thick opal white microbe proof wall linings and slabs. Newell Bros. have a large export glass tile trade, and are selling in millions a very cheap and good glass tile.



Stanley Bros., Limited, Nuneaton, had on exhibition the following list of goods manufactured by them Glazed bricks—brown, grey, granite, white and coloured glazed sinks, brown and amber; glazed socket pipes and connections; terra cotta, red and buff ; chimney pots—-red, buff and salt glazed roofing tiles

—plain and ornamental ; semi-encaustic paving tiles—plain and ornamental ; red and blue ridges, finials and ventilators ; blue pressed bricks, copings, garden tiles, and ventilating bricks red, blue and buff Staffordshire quarries, glazed and unglazed malt kiln tiles; stoneware conduits, troughing, etc.



The Cloisonne Glass Co., 66 Bern ers St., Oxford St., London,

W. The manufacture is called "Cloisonne Glass" and we cannot do better than quote the description of the inventors, and the logic of its name "Cloisonne." On a plate of glass of any text-tore or colour, the design is executed in thin metal strips or cloisons in precisely the same manner as in the older industry, but in the latter case a copper plate was used as the foundation upon which the strips were arranged The design having wrought out to the required point, the cloisons are permanently cemented in place. The spaces between the cloisons are then filled in with small particles of glass of different textures or colours to carry out the design. The whole is then cemented to the transparent backing by a translucent material; a second sheet of glass is hermetically cemented over the work, and neither temperatures, nor climatic influences can affect it further. Most artistic effects are thus produced, the colours being radiant with light and valuable when seen through or when looking upon them. Portions of the glasses may be left clear and thus a beautiful contrast effected.

E. Turner & Sons, Penarth Road, Cardiff, exhibited samples of the different stones they quarry, namely, grey and blue Forest of Dean stone, Tin tern Abbey stone, Farleigh bed bathstone, Corsham bed bathstone, Corngrit bed bathstone, also the red St. Bees stone, for which they are agents.



Darwen Sanitary Pipes Limited, Darwen, Lan., exhibited samples of large pipes, consisting of 36", 30" and 24" diameter sanitary tubes in 3 ft. lengths, also sample of an ordinary 18"/6" street gullies ft. deep, and samples of special channel interceptors, and yard gullies. This firm make a specialty of pipes of large diameter, and their works are exceedingly well equipped for turning them out in large quantities and first—class quality, their raw material being most suitable for 21" pipes to 36" diameter.



F. McNeil & Co., Lambs Passage, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., exhibited asphaltic roofing felt for exterior roofing, bituminous or inodorous felt and sarking felt for lining slate, tile and metal roof, and for lining corrugated iron buildings.



Colledge & Bridgen, Wolverhampton, are sole licencees and manufacturers of Fisher's patent window attachment which has been designed with the object of preventing the numerous accidents frequently occurring when cleaning widows from the outside. Fisher's patent fittings are neat, easily fixed and cheap, and can be applied to new or old sashes. They allow the sashes to slide up and down in the usual way, and also to be opened into the room for cleaning and other purposes.



Messrs. H. & S. Massey, Openshaw, Manchester, exhibited an extremely useful drawing desk for the especial use of architects and other draughtsmen. The board is so constructed as to allow the user to keep in a perfectly upright position or adjust the desk to meet his own wishes. The table which is of the outfit is constructed to hold conveniently any designs the architect may have or whatever size they may be. The whole apparatus is handy, neat looking and should be a useful adjunct to a designer's office.



The Marmorite Artistique Syndicate, Ltd., 154 and 155 Salisbury House, London Wall, E. C.—This firm's exhibit of Marmorite was much admired at the Building Trades Exhibition. The material is a splendid substitute for marble, can be made to any design and in any colour; and is specially suitable for public or

private buildings, luncheon rooms, lavatories, advertisement tablets, shop-fronts, etc.



The Crystalline Co., Ltd., The Platts, Stourbridge, exhibited snow white, opaque colored, porcelain opal, overglaze, and semitransparent tiles—A new product manufactured from porcelain opal with a "grip" or "key" back to enable it to adhere perfectly to cement.



An effective exhibition of "Mezotil" a new and attractive mural decoration, was shown by the London Tablet Co., of Sydenham, whose proud boast it is that their product is the result of a combination exclusively English, namely, that it is made in England with English capital and by English labour. This wall covering consists of sheets of zinc of the normal size of 3 X2 feet, enamelled and decorated in various styles, the designs hitherto employed being chiefly in imitation of tiles. As a clean, bright and inexpensive wall decoration this material deserves more than cursory attention. It is of course non-absorbent and verminproof.

The Permanent Decorative Glass Co., Lancaster, Manchester, and at 36 Basinghall St., London, E. C., exhibited examples of their well-known "Florite Opal" tiling and metal wall decorations, including a large variety of pattern tiles, imitation marbles, granites, ornamental borders, &c. They had also a tiled partition showing several excellent examples of their work. The advertisement of this company will he found in the British section of this paper.

Mr. W. E. Farrer, Cannon street, Birmingham, exhibited an automatic alternative e distributing apparatus for small bacteria beds, such as are required for use for large public buildings, as asylums, isolation hospitals, barracks, &c. Distribution is provided for by means of an automatic tipper discharging alternately into two sets of light perforated east-iron channels supported about 1 inch above the filtering medium. Torfit urinals, by the rise of which flushing is rendered unnecessary ; an improved apparatus for flushing sewers, closets, etc.; a patent lattice-gear

penstock or sewerage valve, a inst-collecting chamber for the base of sewer ventilating columns, &e. ; and a selection of his sluice, air and other valves were also shown.

Messrs. Mather & Platt, Salford, exhibited a model of their automatic mechanical sewage distributor which according to the analytical report by Inspector Leigh, gives admirable results. A model may be seen here of their patent gravity filter, which consists of a large circular iron tank, open at the top, and resting on a cast-iron chamber in which the filtered water collects before its discharge through the outlet-valve. The collecting chamber is separated from the filtering-tank by a dished iron plate into which a large number of brass nozzles of special design are screwed, the object of which is to insure the effective use of all parts of the quartz bed during filtration, and a proper distribution of the water used for washing out. On this plate rests the quartz bed in graded layers, passing from the coarsest at the bottom to the finest at the top. The filtering-tank is fitted, at a few inches above the surface of the quartz bed, with an annular channel communicating by a number of openings with the tank, and into which open the inlet-valve for unfiltered water and the wash-out discharge valve. This annular channel affords a free outlet for the wash-out water, and is a marked improvement on any former arrangement, there being nothing whatever to impede the free discharge of the wash-out water. A third model represented the Archbutt-Deeley water-softening apparatus, all the mechanical operations in connection with which are very simple, and the labour involved light.

Messrs. Geo. Jennings, Ltd., of Lambeth, arranged a number of their well-known sanitary appliances, including some admirable specimens of fitted baths. These are shown in many forms and styles of decoration. A large variety of closets were also shown, including the ''Century Syphonie,' an ornamental as well as useful adjunct to which is the semi-circular porcelain flushing cistern, which advantageously replaces the old and somewhat unsightly iron tank. A new bath, valve, Jenning's patent duplex attracted a good deal of attention, as by its means the water can be supplied to the bath hot, cold or blended, while all fear of scalding the bather or spoiling the enamel through the inadvertent turning on of the hot water first is obviated. The exhibits here comprised urinals, housemaid's sinks, vegetable, salad, poultry, fish, and kitchen sinks, wash-up, bed-pan and slop sinks for hospitals, and other cognate items.

Messrs. Shanks & Co., of 81 New Bond street, were represented at two stands, and showed many of their well-known make of baths

