<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	\OL. XVI.—No. i88.	August, 1903.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Studio Residence for J. C. Pinkey, Hudson heights, Que.—W. H. Watts, Architect.

Design for House at Collingwood. Ont.—J. W. Siddall, Architect.

Houses in Maitland Place, Toronto.- -J. W. Siddall, Architect.

I House in Jamieson Avenue, Toronto.—J. W. Siddall, Architect.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

New Retable, Embroidered Dorsal, Wings, Altar and Altar Frontal, Rochester Cathedral Lady Chapel.—A. H. Skipworth, Architect.

Buildings in Russian Section, Glasgow Exhibition.







ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Views and Plans of Leighton House.







CONTENTS

Editorial .	.	. 121-122	Proposed Standards of Fire Resistance	.	.	131

Notes on Travel.——III		123-124	Failure in a Building Carried on Columns	 .	.	131-132

Some Lessons of the Recent Strikes	. 125	Notes	.	.	.	.	133

Finishing in Woodwork	. .	. .	126 Natural Light to Basements	.	.	.	134

By the Way	.	.	. .	.	126 Sanitary Characteristics of Made Ground	.	.	134

Intercommunication	.	. .	. .	I 7	British and American Standards of Workmanship	.

Chimneys	.	.	.	. .	.	I 28 Legal	.	.	.	.	.

The Testing of Building Stones	.	.	.	129-130







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER K C A Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR. w. A. LANGTON Architect Toronto.

	EDMUND BURR

S.	H. TOWNSEND

FREDERICK G. Tonn I Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT Toronto

J.	C. B. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R C A Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON N Architect, Collingwood, Out.





<article title=" Fire Protection Engineering " author="">

Fire Protection Engineering.

 The Armour Institute of Technology, Chicago, has recently established a four years course in Fire

Protection Engineering. Special instruction will be given three hours a week during the second year in the chemistry of fire protection, eight hours during the third and fourth years in fire protection engineering, and eight hours during the fall and winter terms of the fourth year in schedule rating, special hazards, underwriters' requirements and insurance practice.



It is usual for writers about

<article title=" Colour in Churches " author="">

Colour in Churches.	mediaeval architecture to speak with great sadness of the glories

of the wall colouring, that time, assisted by whitewash, has caused to disappear. It is trite that the small portions of frescoes that remain here and there have usually the peculiar softness of colour of a faded fresco. But it is not likely that the colouring was always so. And if it were —with the varieties of colour and scale, the beauty, if there was any, must have been the beauty of a patch-work quilt ; interesting perhaps in part, but queer as a whole. But as a matter of fact what remain in the way of wall paintings are hideous in their grotesqueness, regarded singly, and could give

no real pleasure, or be of real value, except to an antiquary. The church, when it is scraped down to the stone, is really more suitable and more pleasing. The present generation owes a debt of gratitude to the vandalism of the past. The best architectural colour is the colour of stone, especially of old stone. This is equally true of wood. Looking tip at a perpendicular roof of carved oak beams, whitened on the outer surfaces of the mouldings and darkened in the hollows, one thinks with horror of the fragments of red and blue and gold which are said to be visible to close inspection. What if the whole root were to be covered with them ! The writers upon the church may regret, as much as they like, the loss of this ancient blaze of colour, but an architect is thankful.



A good arrangement, constantly

<article title=" Common Entrances " author="">

Common Entrances.	to he met with in London, is a row of houses set back some distance from the road and having a common carriage drive. It is in fact a double road, as far as it goes or, when both sides of the street have the same plan, a triple road ; the public highway flanked by private entrances, which turn out into the public way at each end of the block and are divided from it by a railing of

