<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



accompanying table, which contains a selection of eighteen runs from the twenty-eight as given with the report. Three runs at different speeds arc given for each of the six different amounts of heating surface used, each amount representing a unit consisting of two superimposed radiators. The diagrams herewith show the relation between the speed of the fan and the pounds of steam condensed per hour for different amounts of heating surface ; and the relation between the pounds of steam condensed per square foot of heating surface per hour and thc cubic feet of air discharged per minute by the fan, for different amounts of heating surface. These curves show at a glance the proportionate decrease in the benefit derived as more heaters are added. In the discussion following the paper Prof. Carpenter stated that beyond 16 pipes, or in this case four heaters, the advantage gained was slight.

Three other diagrams presented with the paper but not given here, show the relation between the steam condensed for different speeds of the fan ; the relation between the temperatures of the entering and discharge air ; and the relation between the speed of the fan and the steam condensed per square foot of surface per hour, for different amounts of heating surface. The author was assisted in the test by Messrs. Neave and Cazenove, graduate students in the University.

<article title=" DEMAND FOR ROOFING SLATES " author="">

DEMAND FOR ROOFING SLATES.

Mr. Harrison Watson, Curator of the Canadian section of the Imperial Institute, London, Eng. , has written to the Department of Trade and Commerce at Ottawa, regarding a possible market for Canadian roofing slate. He says

Quite recently a favorable opportunity for developing trade in an article which Canada possesses to a considerable degree has come to my notice. There is in the United Kingdom a very large consumption of roofing slates, many of which are imported. At a time when roofing slates were practically not used in the United States, the quality of slate deposits in that country was so suitable that several quarries were developed and worked solely for export purposes. In 1896 the slate trade with the United Kingdom amounted to some 46 million slates. Gradually, however, the utilization of roofing slates in building operations in America has been adopted, and between the domestic demands and the consequent increase in prices demanded by American slate producers, this export trade has steadily fallen away until at the present time it has almost ceased. Welsh slates, owing to labor troubles, have been also scarce, and United Kingdom buyers have been obliged to look temporarily to France for supplies. The French slate is inferior to American but is cheaper. A company which has developed and established the trade in American slates in Great Britain applied to me for information as to the possibilities of being able to secure suitable supplies from Canada. Upon inspection of a number of samples of roofing slates from Canadian deposits, the expert informs me that the quality of the Canadian slate is very good and equal to, if not better than, the average American. The company, therefore, site that if they can arrange for regular supplies of the quality equal to that examined by them, they are prepared to contract for large quantities for which they would pay cash.

Provided that further investigation confirms the impression that large deposits of a suitable quality of roofing slate exist in Canada only awaiting development, the establishment of the industry would appear to offer a most profitable investment for capital which will, it is hoped, appeal to Canadian enterprise. The sizes most in demand here are 24' x 12" 22' x 12', 22" x 11", 20' x 12", 20' X to', 18 x 12, 18" x 10", 18"x9", 16 X 12" i6" x 10", 16" x 9, 16" x 8". They should measure 18 to 19 inches per 100 slates piled up in the

	flat.	Quarrying is a fairly simple matter, the cost of

the necessary equipment being less than in connection

	with most kinds of mining.		As to labor, it is pointed

out that a large number of experienced slate workers arc at present idle owing to labor troubles in this country, and many would readily go to Canada for reasonable wages.



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">

BY THE WAY.

Mr. Chas. Baillarge, the well known engineer and architect, of Quebec has had printed in pamphlet form his interesting paper presented recently before the Royal Society of Canada on " The Construction of an Indestructible Vessel for a Voyage to the North Pole, and How to Reach it." Accompanying the paper is a map of the polar regions showing recent Arctic discoveries and plans for an indestructible vessel.

	x	x	x



Sonic of the ancient monuments in English cemeteries bear quaint epitaphs, complimentary and otherwise, to the departed. Here is one from a tombstone at Awliscombe, Devonshire

Here lie the remains of James Pady, Brickmaker,



late of this parish, in hopes that his clay may be



remoulded in a workmanlike manner



far superior to



his former perishable materials,— Keep death and judgment always in your eye,

Or else the devil off with you will fly,



And in his kiln with brimstone ever fry,



If you neglect the narrow road to seek,



Christ will reject you, like a halt—burnt brick.







NOTES,



So far as experimental results now available indicate it would appear that in order to attain impermeability in concrete, whether of gravel or of broken stone, that the mortar mixture must be at least as rich as 1 cement to 2 sand, or 1 cement to 2.5 sand, the proportion of mortar being sufficient to fill entirely the voids, or possibly a little more than that in order to provide for inequalities of mixing in different portions of the mass. Although apparently mortar of cement to 3 sand has occasionally been found impermeable under as high pressure as 40 pounds per square inch, there is little evidence that such a mixture can in general be relied upon. In addition to the importance of these matters of composition to be employed for a permeable concrete, it is undoubtedly also of essential importance that the concrete should be kept thoroughly moistened during the entire period of setting; otherwise not only the ultimate resistance may tie impaired, but also the impermeability by the slight contraction, of setting in air which has been observed repeatedly. This has a marked influence upon the use of concrete in the walls of buildings, which in their subsequent experience may he exposed to driving rain storms, against which ordinary walls of masonry have frequently been found ineffective.



When an advertiser complains that his advertisement does not interest lie readers of a paper, lie might do better to change his ad writer than to change his paper. The public is anxious always to be interested, and if the advertisement fails to do it the fault probably lies with the advertisement arid not with the public or the newspaper.—Printers' Ink.

