<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="C.A.&B. Students' Competition" author="">"C. A. & B." STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

The committee of award in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER'S Students' Competition for a $2,500 town or suburban house, have awarded first place to the design by "Canada," second place to the design by "Pen," third place to the design by " May-field," and honorable mention to the design by "T Square, Jr." The judges submit as a part of' their report the following criticisms of the several drawings

CANADA" (design placed first)—The front would be much improved by designing the main gable more in scale with the rest of the work. The designer has not sufficiently studied the effect of the lines of the semicircular gable above the rafter lines of the roof. The effect in execution would be even more clumsy than on the drawing.

In regard to the plan, pantry accommodation should have been provided and connection from the kitchen to the dining room without having to go through the main hail. The bathroom is too small. The subdividing of the basement should have been shown.

PEN" (design placed second) has won his position in this competition not so much by what he actually presents as by the possibilities of his design.

In the first place the drafting is very incomplete, particularly in the planning ; while the lettering is unnecessarily large and very ragged.

He certainly should have indicated more clearly than he does the steps approaching the entrances also the wall section on the front elevation is entirely out of place, hindering the completion of the side elevation of the dining room extension, which is far more important than the wall section.

In the plan there seems no reason why the staircase hall should be shut off from the entry hall in the manner it is; nor why the bed room over the dining room should be practically entered through a closet.

The stairs would have extremely high risers indeed to reach the first floor in the space allotted to them, but however there is no doubt space enough in the hall to permit of them being made adequate.

The principal charm of " Pen's" design is the quiet and thoroughly domesticated character of the elevations, which are rather weakly rendered, but are entirely free from over-strained or exotic features, and had it been more carefully worked out in plan and also more carefully rendered in elevation, it would have been more worthy of the design, which is quite charming and capable of being put into very effective shape.

MAYFIELD (placed third).—This design shows a large amount of restraint, is simple in plan and the draughtsmanship is good. As regards the plan, the direct entrance to both the dining room and hall from the kitchen would be undesirable. This could have been obviated by moving the kitchen more to the north, and by placing a pantry and small hallway on thc south side of kitchen, the pantry to project over dining room with serving door on west side of dining room. The servants' room would then be reduced in size but with closet in north west corner it would be ample. It might be said that most clients would object to a servants' bedroom opening off the kitchen. In the ground floor a door should connect the dining room and front hail. The exterior design while plain, is original in conception. The barge board seems a little heavy and the method of projecting the ridge board is hardly commendable.

"T SQUARE JR." (Honorable mention)—This design calls for great commendation, but is open to the insurmountable objection that the cost would far exceed the amount allotted, and so was ruled out of consideration as a prize winner.

The ground floor plan is excellent, and the Pergola introduced is at once unusual and suitable.

In the first floor the objection to be noted is that inferior rooms such as w.c., linen closet and cupboards, in addition to the bathroom, take up the south front of the house, while a bed room is placed facing north.

The elevations are extremely well handled, both as to design and rendering. The general composition is

good, materials properly used, and the character is both reserved and interesting.

The details submitted show careful study and skill in obtaining a good result by simple means.

UTILITY."—This design shows careful study and aptitude in planning, design and rendering, but, as in the case with "T Square Jr.," the cost would far exceed the stipulated amount.

One feels in regard to the ground floor that more advantage might have been taken of the south aspect.

In the first floor plan the exposure has been more considered, and altogether the arrangement is good.

The elevations are well rendered and the design on the whole is satisfactory, although better results would have been obtained if more distinct character had been aimed at.

"BOBS."—This design could not be built for the amount stipulated in the conditions.

For the size of the rooms the hall area is too great and there is much waste of space on the first floor wing, the bath-room being unnecessarily large and the bedroom cupboard out of proportion to the size of the room, and the linen closet inconveniently arranged off the bathroom.

The main outlines of the elevations are good. Much of' the effect thus gained has been lost in striving after effect by detail, as for instance, in the chimneys.

The verandah is especially weak in design.

The interior details are good. The design for the front entrance door is bad.

"MULTUM IN PARVO."—The plan and elevations on the whole are good but commonplace. There has been too much striving for effect in the main hall, ground floor. If more room could not have been obtained it would have been better to omit the fireplace and to have formed a vestibule, doing away with useless small closets, and possibly the beams and column. Thc plans and perspective are neatly executed.

"CYMA"—The author of this design has evidently made a conscientious effort to plan an everyday house to suit the average householder—but a greater effort might have been made to improve upon the ordinary run. The position of the pantry between the kitchen and front hall is objectionable and it would have been better to have used this space for a back hail and rear staircase, placing the pantry and a cupboard on the south side of kitchen. Upstairs, such an arrangement would allow the bathroom to be put on the north-west corner, with better light. The stairs to attic as shown, over rear stairs, give little headroom, a matter of vital importance in planning. The alcoves off the parlour and main bed-room might be made pleasing features, but the proportions of these rooms are not of the best. The single .sliding door between parlour and dining room is too large for practical purposes. As regards the exterior, the gable over the square bay requires support at north-east corner for appearance sake and the pediments of verandah roof are unsatisfactory without breaks in cornice line to give them a meaning, For the front door and side light a more symmetrical arrangement would have been desirable.

"IF"—This design shows a plan of a character well suited for a suburban or town house, but a vestibule is an essential in a climate like ours, for which it is assumed the house is intended1 and this could easily be arranged. In the dining room the fireplace might have been omitted and the space provided for a sideboard. The first floor plan is good but would have been improved, if' at least two of the bedrooms opened off the front hall. The perspective drawing is certainly distorted and hardly gives the correct impression. The large gable in front and short ridge from front to back would look out of proportion if correctly drawn and it would have been better to have omitted the more easterly of the two gables on the north side. The finish of octagonal bay, etc., under the overhanging part of first floor as shown looks crude. On the whole with a little more study of the elevations a much more satisfactory design might have been evolved. The two mantels shown are rather weak as to design, and the

