<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



as the Drawing Room but not with the same detail. The gilding is here carried into the baseboard of which the top member is gilded. A gilded moulding also finishes the bottom of the wall beam of the ceiling. It is not a picture moulding, but is evidently introduced for the line of gold the pictures are carried on brass rods below. The ceiling beams, which are deep and heavily moulded, are coloured a deep red, something near crimson in colour. The walls are deep red also—a paper with a small pattern, a little lighter than the ground. The panels of the ceiling are white.

Lord Leighton evidently valued light from above. All the ceilings in the rooms, are white ; and thc distinguishing characteristic of the upper floor is the skylight in every ceiling. The staircase has a long panel in plaster, next to the wall all around, and the remainder is covered with a barrel shaped skylight. The staircase hail, with its columns, has, in consequence, all the effect of an open court; and the striking

Upstairs, the distinguishing characteristic is abundance of light. The double hail, between the staircase and the upper part of the Arab Hall, was evidently intended for the display of pictures. Each division has a skylight, in the form of an octagonal pointed dome, in the middle of the ceiling. The walls are hung with stuff of one colour canvas of a bronze yellow in the northern division, and gold yellow silk in the southern. This latter division is dignified also with a marble

mantel, which, though simple, is worth a drawing. Marble columns supporting a plaster beam divide the spaces.

A couple of steps up from the floor is the level of the projecting lattice window which overlooks the Arab Hall. Latticed casements open so that one can look down into the hall ; and the sound of the water, falling back into the basin, ascends from below. A large plant standing upon the platform between the steps, shows well under the skylight, with the lattice work as a background.

The Studio is of course the principal room of the





Fig. 5 Studio Door





























balusters (which like the rest of the woodwork are a shiny black) are shown to advantage.

The remaining room down stairs—the Library—has black bookshelves, to the height of the window stools, round most of the walls. There is a fireplace in green marble, under the window again about as effectually tucked away out of sight as it is possible for a fireplace to be. Lord Leighton does not seem to have been of the same mind as the rest of the world who have adopted the Latin word for a fireplace, Focus, as

general term for an essential central point.

The most instructive feature in this little room of which the ceiling is as high as the other rooms on the floor, is its cornice, which must be of 3' o" girth and has a good effect upon the proportions of the room. It must be remembered that there is a heavy base of book shelves.

house in scale. Its finish is correspondingly bold. The main door in the centre of the Studio, which is shown

