<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The infiltration water prevented the excavation being carried any deeper to get to the virgin Soil. As there are no cracks in the outer walls of the building, it may

·be assumed that this float of concrete is intact.

Soon after the completion of the building, cracks appeared in the brick cross-walls of the top storey. Starting at floor-level, where this wall rests on the corridor-wall below, the cracks followed a straight line drawn from this point to a point where the ceiling meets the corridor-wail of the top storey, which is carried on the columns.

These cracks were evidently caused by the columns settling, and on investigation it was found that the base-flanges of some of the columns were cracked. On stripping the asphalt off the stone bases these also were found to be cracked, and the failure was therefore attributed to the crushing of the stone. It appeared also that the base-stone had been dressed hollow, which would have the effect of throwing the pressure on the outside of the base-flange, and would account. for its being cracked. It was further observed that the stones were saturated with damp, which made them soft. This was the result of the water used in swabbing down the ground floor finding its way to the stone, through the joint between the asphalt and the cast-iron column. By calculation it was found that the basestone, which was of limestone and measured 2 feet 8 inches square by 1 foot 6 inches in depth, was overloaded, as it was exposed to a pressure of 590 lbs. per square inch, whereas ordinary samples of this stone are crushed at a pressure of 3,000 lbs. per square inch, giving a factor of safety of only 5. This explanation of the failure was not very convincing. That the stone should have crushed when only loaded to one-fifth of its laboratory crushing-strength, even although it was weakened by being saturated with damp, seemed doubtful. New stones 3 feet 6 inches square by one foot 6 inches in depth were ordered from Trieste, and new columns from England. Tripod shores on wide timber bases were erected round the columns, and gypsum tell-tales showed that the movement continued. Much deliberation was given to deciding on the best means of supporting the superstructure (a load of 58 tons) while the thirteen columns and base-stones were changed. No risks could be run which would endanger the lives of between 400 and 500 people who inhabited thc building. The result of this forethought was so satisfactory that during the work no change was found necessary either in shoring or in the method of working.

The shoring consisted of a pair of A-frames set up under the girder carrying the gallery at first-floor level. Their feet were let into timber bed-plates, 2 feet inches by 1 foot 2 inches, with a tightening-wedge under each toot. These wedges were especially useful in loosening the shoring before removing it. Under the bed-plate and directly below each foot were inserted iron folding-wedges working between iron plates. The lower plates rested on a bed of cement concrete 12 feet by 12 feet by 3 feet 6 inches in thickness. This bed of concrete was necessary to distribute the pressure, all of which came on new filling, 10 feet in depth between the concrete foundation and the bottom of this concrete. The pressure on the earth was thus reduced to less than 12 ton per square foot.

The longitudinal rolled joist (1 toot 2 inches in

depth) at the first-floor level not being stiff enough to carry the weight between the A-frames when the column was removed, iron joists which bore on the A-frames were packed in under the flanges of the saddle piece between the upper and the lower column. Also vertical shoring with tightening-wedges was carried up to main girder carrying the top-story corridor—wall. The upper columns were thus relieved of their weight during the operation. All the shoring was braced across the building and tied to the main walls. To avoid vibration as much as possible in tightening up the wedges when transferring the load to the shores, two 50-toil hydraulic jacks were set up between the A-frames and the base-stones. These took the first lift. A piano wire was stretched between the main walls, touching the columns, to enable the vertical movements to be recorded.

On excavating to put in the cement-concrete for the first column, the cracks in the base-stone, which were little more than visible on the surface, were found to be wide enough at the bottom of the stone to allow of the insertion of the fingers of the hand up to the palm. Wrought-iron straps were quickly fixed round the stones to prevent them opening further, and shoring was erected under the longitudinal girder of the first floor at the edge of the pit. A boxing of 11/2-inch boards was made round the pit, to prevent the earth-filling from falling in while the concrete was being rammed. The concrete was allowed to set for 7 days before the shores for changing the columns were erected. When all was in place the wedges on the first and second floors were driven hard with a sledgehammer. The jacks were then worked until a slight rise (1/32 to inch) was observed on the wire. The iron folding-wedges under the A-frames were then driven hard. Stone-cutters with chisels then cut away 1 inch clearance under the column, which was thus left suspended by the bolts of its upper flange. The jacks were next slacked, when a drop of 3/32 inch to 3/16 inch* occurred. After a short pause to let the shores settle down to the weight, the rest of the base-stone was cleared.

The main cause of the failure was then discovered. The stone had been levelled by means of wooden wedges, which were left in place, and had been grouted with pozzuolana mortar. The grouting in some cases had not even touched the underside of the stone at the centre, and in all cases the bed was found to be hollow, so that the whole weight was supported on the wedges and an outer margin of about 6 inches in width where the mortar could be rammed under with a trowel. Consequently the stone had broken into four pieces. There was not much evidence of what might strictly be called crushing, and the dip of the stone in breaking and settling into the hollow gave the appearance which was attributed to faulty dressing, and accounted likewise for the flanges of the column becoming cracked.

The old base-stone having been cleared, the old column was removed, and, in order to provide clearance for getting in the new stone and column, the top course of the rubble masonry under the stone (about 6 inches in depth) was demolished. The new Trieste stone base was then slung into place, by means of a lewis and differential blocks, without being set, and was left about 6 inches below its ultimate level. The new

*These figures represent the maximum and minimum observations taken on the thirteen columns.

