<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" A ROUND SQUARE " author="">

A ROUND SQUARE.



At the erection of a large brick plant a number of laborers were engaged to supply the material to the man undertaking the construction of a  10-ft stack. Among these was a young Irishman, a recent arrival from the land of the shamrock, whom the foreman of the works took pleasure in making the butt of his jokes. These the Irishman received with perfect good humor. At noon the foreman, winking to some of his trusted men, told the Irishman to go to a saloon some blocks away and ask the saloonkeeper for a round square. The saloonkeeper was a particular friend of the fore man's and was also a practical joker of the first water and much run was anticipated to come from the simple Irishman's visit. Friend Michael did as he was told but did not return for a considerable time and when he did so work had been resumed. He ascended the ladder to the platform, where the foreman and his companions were working, with a gallon can of beer in his hand.

He said "Here, I have had around or two myself and here is another round for the lot of you and the saloonkeeper says it is up to you to square for the lot.' The foreman is now sensitive at the mention of the round square and the joking has been done vigorously by Michael himself.

<article title=" RAISING A CHIMNEY STACK " author="">



RAISING A CHIMNEY STACK.

The extension of a brick chimney shaft is often required, and the following account of the addition of 50 ft. to the height of a stack for the power house of the Columbia Railway Company is of interest. The shaft was originally 8ft. in diameter inside and 16ft. externally at the top, larger at the base. It was 160 ft. in height, and the shaft was built with double walls inclosing an annular air space. It had a cast-iron cap After the introduction of the mechanical stokers, &c., a heightening of the shaft was required for increasing the draught. The extension was made without interrupting the service. The cast-iron cap was removed, and on the top of the cleaned brickwork a single shell of brick 50 ft. high, supported entirely on the outer wall of the old chimney, was built. It had a batter of 9: 600. By means of a line carried up by a kite the ropes and tackles were pulled up, men ascended, and attached, by means of chains round old shaft, light radial angle-iron brackets, which were secured and boards were laid on them, forming platforms for two masons and a helper. The smoke, heat, and fumes were such that a light sheet-iron cylinder, 3ft. or 4ft. high, was placed on top of brickwork to protect the workmen. The new brickwork was built of the Custodis standard radial bricks, without metal ties, anchors,

or any reinforcement. The platforms were placed 5ft. apart vertically, two or three being in use, and the lower one constantly removed and placed above the other two. Details to the added structure and the scaffold bracket used are given in the Engineering Record. From the section of the new shell, the outer diameter at the bottom, where it rests on the old chimney, is 13 ft. 31/4 in., and the diameter at the top 11 ft. 914 in., or 10 ft. in. in internal diameter. The shell is built in three stages or sections one of 17 ft. 2 in. at bottom, and two of 16 ft. 5 in. The thickness of the bottom section is 105/8 in., the section above 85/8 in., and the upper section 71/8 in, in this case the radial made bricks insure a stable shaft. The Alphons Custodis Chimney Corporation Company were the contractors.





NOTES.



Good advertising is the path finder for all who seek success in business.



Not less than $50,000,000 is expected to be the outlay on the elaborate public buildings now planned for the city of Mexico.



A very pleasing and bright green may be obtained by using extra light chrome green glazed over with emerald green, or, as it is often called, Paris green.



The records of the Building Inspector of Montreal, show that for the first eleven months of the present year, the value of new buildings erected was nearly $5,000,000, or about twice as much as the total value of buildings erected fast year.



A new patent frame for buildings is being used on some new buildings going up in Salt Lake City. The upright pieces of these buildings are made entirely of the new frame, which consists of short iron studs. These are fitted together so that an upright piece of any length can be made. The joists rest upon this frame work. The edges of the stud have a row of teeth upon which metal lathing is hung.



It is proposed to establish at Vancouver, B.C., a business consuming B.C. lead by converting it into white lead, lead colours, ets., with pipe and sheet lead, &c., beginning with white lead as a chief staple of the trade. This is to supply B.C. and the NorthWest as far east as Winnipeg or Ontario, and For export to



foreign ports or across the Pacific. At present these ports of Canada are supplied from Eastern Canada, drawn chiefly from imports from continental Europe. This home consumption will relieve B.C. of a little of her surplus lead, which must otherwise pay freight to Europe or to Asia. The U. S. tariffs on lead and its products are prohibitory.

Mr. Alcide Chausse, city inspector of buildings, of Montreal, has been awarded a silver medal by thc general exhibition jury of the International Fire Exhibition, held recently in London, England, tinder the auspices of the British Fire Prevention Committee. The award is for general excellence and utility in the municipal section. Mr. Chausse's exhibit consisted in a collection of building Jaws of almost every city in Canada and the United States, and some large cities in Europe, views of the city fire departments and models of fire escapes. Mr. Chausse has since presented to the British Fire Prevention Committee his whole exhibit. It has been accepted and will form a part of the Committee library.

The Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville Ont.



