<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From "Carpenter" As you so kindly answered my query last month regarding laying out a bay window, I am encouraged to ask a few more questions on the subject. (1) What constitutes a bay window, and should it always show an octagon front ? Please give me—and other readers—some pointers and instructions regarding the construction and treatment of bay

windows generally.



often occur the three sash frames are fastened together at the proper angles by pieces nailed upon the heads and sills (top side) of the frames so as to connect

FIG. 4.





each two together, and when the under structure of the window up to the sill has been built, and three frames thus connected are set upon it, plumbed and levelled,



FIG. 1.





ANSWER—Bay windows form a very important feature

in '' domestic architecture," as both externally and internally they are capable of a great variety of treatment.





FIG. 5.



and then what forms the brick reveals just built against them ; no brick-work occurring between the frames. The bay window may be carried up two stories, or as











FIG. 2.





Any window which from its plan causes a distinct bay or recess in the room may be styled a bay window but there are, it is probable, more of this class of windows, octagon in plan, than in almost any other outline, and they will be the first dealt with. Fig. 1

FIG. 6.





high as the house is reared, and its eave level with the house eaves, or it may be stopped at the first story, when it may be roofed against the side wall, diagonals



I











FIG. 3.





gives a skeleton outline of the plan of the piers, between which the sash-frames are placed. The sash-frames would be put in the ordinary way, although in some of the common class of houses in which bay windows

FIG. 7.





occurring at each angle or it may be flagged and cemented so as to be water tight: or joisted, sheeted, and

