<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

A SAFETY SWINGING SCAFFOLD.

<article title=" A SAFETY SWINGING SCAFFOLD " author="">

The day of the old-fashioned wooden scaffold for building construction is rapidly passing, at least on large work. Instead of the once familiar staging of slender wooden posts, X-braced with boards, with its put-logs and loose board platforms, several forms of working stages have come into use which can be more rapidly erected and removed, are safer and more economical, and have other advantages. A safety swinging scaffold designed particularly for use in the facing of high buildings of steel-frame or ferro-concrete construction which have an outside covering of brick, terra-cotta or stone has recently been patented, says the Engineering Record, by W. H. Ellis & Company, of Cincinnati, and successfully used by them on the 15-storey concrete-steel Ingalls Building in Cincinnati, now nearly completed.

The Ellis scaffold consists substantially of a platform in sections, suspended by wire cables from brackets supported by the walls of the building at window openings in an upper storey, as indicated in the drawing. Each pair of cables supporting the platform sections passes over two sheaves in the horizontal member of a bracket and are held by a clamp inside the building. The platform may be raised or lowered by means of a block and tackle attached to the cables and may be held at any height convenient for the work. The platforms have solid floors, preventing the dropping of materials and an outside guard rail ensuring the safety





















































A SAFETY SWINGING SCAFFOLD.



of the men. Preferably the sections are placed to abut, so as to form a continuous staging along a whole side or clear around the building, so that the work may be completely finished to any given level before raising the scaffold. Other advantages of this scaffold besides those indicated are that the sidewalk and the portions of the building below it are not obstructed and the work below may be left completely finished instead of having put-log holes to be filled afterwards.



A company has been formed at Warden, Que., by Austin Berry, to manufacture a hot air heating furnace of which he is the inventor.

A BUILDING TRADES ORGANIZER.

Mr. Charles L. Eidlitz, whose portrait is presented herewith, is the recognized leader of the movement which resulted in the successful organization this year of employers in the various departments of the building trades in New York city. By means of this organization known as the Building Trades Employers' Association, the unjust demands and methods of the









































MR. CHARLES L. EIDLITZ.



unions have been successfully resisted. Mr. Eidlitz, who has been elected President of the Association, is a native of New York, 36 years of age, and a graduate of Columbia University. For fourteen years he has been engaged in electrical contracting.



CONDITIONS IN SOUTH AFRICA.

So difficult has it become to secure needed help in South Africa that an emigrant's information branch has been opened in London under the auspices of the Agent General for the Cape of Good Hope and Sir Gordon Sprigg. There is urgent demand for building mechanics. Wages for carpenters are 11 to 1 2 shillings per day, with a rate of time and a quarter for first two hours of overtime, after that (and on Sundays) time and a half, 48 hours constitute the week. A third-class free passage out is given, with half-pay on voyage ; the agreement being for one year, and the government having the right to extend it for another two years. If men are incompetent or are dismissed for misconduct they are required to refund the passage money and the half-pay on voyage. There is a large demand for substantial building materials, and for brick and quarry machinery. Owing to apathy of British manufacturers the bulk of the orders are said to be going into the hands of United States firms. To secure this business it is said to be necessary to have representatives on the ground.



According to a correspondent of the Iron Age there would seem to be a good market in Mexico for roofing material. He states that with the exception of the modern buildings in two or three of the largest cities, leaky roofs are the rule. There are comparatively few houses in the city of Mexico whose roofs would withstand a 12-hour downpour in the rainy season and afford no evidence of water dripping down the walk inside the living rooms. Roofs are generally constructed over adobe buildings in a very defective way. Common "shakes" are laid across huge roof beams, or "vigas," making a flat covering, upon which is laid earth from T to 3 feet deep. This earth is capped with small earthen tiles. No patent roofing material of any kind is used to make the roof water tight. Between the seams of the tiles the heavy rains soon find a way, softening the earth and rotting the "shakes." After heavy rains, not infrequently half a wheelbarrow load of the earth covering falls within the rooms beneath.

