<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



for building a branch library—is enough ; and where the building should be placed. The money is certainly enough to make any addition to it a light matter and the pertinent question for the City Council seems to be whether they would rather provide the whole amount or the small part that it may be necessary to raise to supplement <person>Mr. Carnegie</person>'s grant. It is only a library that is wanted. It is not necessary to aim at the general purpose arrangement which spoils so many libraries and adds unnecessarily to their cost—combining an art gallery, museum, etc. The project of an art gallery has already been under consideration in private circles and there is some prospect of its being built under auspices that will insure its being a good thing.



As to the question of site—it seems obvious that the central public library should be down town, where most of the population

collects during the day. Between those who work daily in the city and those who come in to shop, to attend the theatre matinee, etc, the city proper is frequented, during a week, by nearly the whole population, and there is no other part which is. People live at opposite ends of the city and pass through the central part on the fly on their way to and from the business part, what we have called the city proper, or what is usually called "town." It is in town therefore that the central public library should be placed for it is only there that the business part of the population, who work in

town from early to late,	would have a chance to visit it at all ; and it is 

only there that the part of the population, whose daily occupation is domestic, could include the public library in their town round instead of being obliged to make a special visit to it at the cost of more time and an extra street car fare.



If the building is to be down town the site does not seem difficult to choose. There is plenty of room vis-a-vis of the City Hall, and the buildings to be removed are unimportant; the situation is probably the most convenient that could be chosen, and the conjunction with the City Hall, like the conjunction of a planet with the moon, will give greater importance to each. It is a pity that the site adjacent to the City Hall on the north side of the street has been occupied by a private building. Here, in the sunlight, where its retirement from the road would have increased the space about the City Hall, was the site for another public building; but there is a sunlit corner still available on the east side of Bay street, and there the Public Library should be placed.



<article title="Office Management (Concluded)" author="">OFFICE MANAGEMENT.

(Concluded.)



MEMO RECORD The satisfaction of getting notes down in writing is apt to be delusive unless there is a certainty of the notes being forthcoming when wanted. A scribble book for all notes, dated at the beginning of every day, does very well in a small office, but as soon as the office rises above one man power and there must be more than one scribble book, it becomes evident again that the only way to provide for expansion is to keep everything together that refers to each piece of work. In the case of notes of all kinds the simplest. plan is to keep a scrap book for each job into which shall be pasted every note that is made in connection with it. A standard size of note pad, distributed through the office and ready to every one's hand, will produce neater and more orderly results. Should a client come in with instructions the first thing is to

date a sheet of the scribble pad. When he is gone the notes should be pasted in at once, both for security and also to keep everything in order of date.

CALL BOOK. — The office boy should keep a book on his desk in which to enter under date the name of every one who calls on business of the office and whom he saw. The time of coming and going should be entered. In the case of a client it may be useful to exhibit in support of an account a statement of the number of hours of office time consumed in interviews.

EXTRAS. — Here is a



great centre of trouble in building, not always on

MR. <person>WILLIAM L. SYMONS</person>,	account of the amount of

president <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>, 1903.	the extras so much as

	because they are unex-

pected or incurred without permission. It seems to be commonly held among architects that extras should be kept in the background as long as possible. If this is intended to further the maintenance of smooth relations with the client as long as possible, it is a mistake, ministering only to a deceitful smoothness which must react upon the architect's mind and effectually destroy the frankness that ought to be the essential condition of his dealings with his client. If a statement of extras is delayed in the hope of reducing them in some way before the day of settlement, the path is made easy for temptation to juggle with the extras and the contract to drop some item of the contract in payment of extras, or to substitute a cheaper material for a dearer, and set off the amount of the difference against the extra account before making the statement of extras. Either of these methods of reducing the extra bill may be a judicious decision, and cheerfully accepted by the owner; but to make them without his knowledge is an act which bears a strong symptomatic resemblance to dishonesty; for the contract which the owner has

