<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



PERSONAL.



Mr. Fred J. Hodgson, of Collingwood, Ont., was recently presented on his birthday with a gold watch charm set with diamonds, as a token of appreciation by the publishers of his books, Messrs. Frederick J. Drake & Co., Chicago. The books on building recently written by Mr. Hodgson and published by the above firm, have had a very rapid and extended sale.

The death in Toronto last month of Mr. Edward Terry is felt to be a distant loss. The late Mr. Terry was specially well known to the builders of Toronto, having for many years been engaged in the sale of builders' supplies. He was a man of exemplary character, and as a citizen was most highly esteemed.

The death is announced at Owen Sound of Mr. R. J. Doyle at the age of 69 years. He was one of the earliest pioneers of the Portland cement industry in Canada, and one of the founders of the Owen Sound Portland Cement Co.



NOTES.



Mr. John Clayton, the designer of the cartoons for the mosaics on the Albert Memorial in London, has recently made a close inspection of the mosaics, and finds that with a small exception, the whole of the colored figures are in as good a condition as when first fixed—now thirty years ago. The gold background, however, is seriously damaged. Experiments are now proceeding to obtain gold cake which can resist the effects of frost and moisture ; or, failing this, to find some suitable substitute for gold enamel.

The idea of fixing the sizes of bricks is by no means a novel one, and, if they had not been repealed, there were old Acts of Parliament, going back three and a quarter centuries, giving their dimensions. By an ordinance made in 1570. the thirteenth year of Queen Elizabeth's reign, the size of a brick was to be 9 in. by 41/4 in. by 21/4 in. An Act of the twelfth year of George I., cap. 35, "to prevent all unlawful combinations among any brickmakers or tilemakers within fifteen miles or the City of London, in order to increase or enhance the price of bricks," was more stringent, as it

prohibited the use of "Spanish mixture," of soil or of breeze in bricks, and provided (hat place bricks shall be, when burnt, not less than 9 in. long, not less than 41/4' in. wide, and not less than 21/2 in. thick, adding that all stock bricks shall be of the same dimensions as and 1-8 in. thicker than facing bricks—a puzzling requirement. By a later Act, that of 17th George III., cap. 42, all bricks made for sale must measure 81/2 in. by 4 in. by 21/2 in. thick.—Mr. Max Clarke.

The settlement of piling and cribwork under heavy loads has been investigated at Duluth for Capt. D. D. Gaillard and Mr. J.

H.	Darling. At the south pier of the canal there is a row of cribs, each 100 ft. long, 21 ft. deep, and 24 ft. wide except for the end one, which is 36 tt. wide. Their channel walls are 2ft. thick, and rear walls if t., and there are 10 in. solid transverse bulkheads every 4ft. There is an 8in. floor resting on piles nearly 14 in. in diameter at the cut-off, spaced 4ft. and 5ft. apart. The piles were sunk 17 it. in good sand bottom by means of a waterjet and 2,800 lb. hammer. The final penetration under a fall of  ft. to 30 ft. did not exceed in. The cribs were filled with stone and gravel and support a concrete superstructure imposing a net load, allowing for buoyancy, of 15.5 tons per pile in the main pier, and 18.9 tons per pile in the pierhead. The pierhead settled 003 ft. in the first seven months and 0007 ft. in the next nine months; then the concrete was put in place, and directly afterwards there was a further settlement of 0.065 ft. and 0.05 ft. more in the next three months. The concrete itself settled 0195 ft. in the first three months after building, and 0.043 ft. in the next six months. In the main pier, the average settlement of the cribs was oo5 ft. previous to loading with concrete, and 007 ft. during the six months of loading; the average settlement from the landing of the cribs to June, 1901, an average period of 22 months, was 0'146 ft.



BUSINESS NOTES.

<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">

All the travellers and salesmen of the Canada Paint Company have been advised to meet in Montreal on November 18th., to attend the yearly convention and annual re-union of the manufacturing and selling forces. The business, it is said, shows a remarkable uplift for 1903 and points to a busy winter for the several factories of the company.

Ornamental Cast Iron Details Canada Foundry Company Limited toronto Motnreal Halifax Ottawa Winnipeg Vancouver Victoria Rossland