<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



opening between the tracks and between the jambs, through which the lower part of the door hanger passes, is only one inch wide. The hangers have small friction rollers, which run between the two tracks, serving as a guide for the wheels above, and not leaving more than 1-8 inch play between the two tracks. This 1-8 inch is plenty of room it the work is properly done. It is necessary that the friction rollers run close to the











































FIG. 3.



track in order that the doors may run true and without crowding the door steps. But suppose the boxing be insecurely fastened to the studding, and the dampness from the plastering, when it is put on, causes the two 6-inch boards to cup. The tendency at once is to narrow the opening required by the friction rollers of the hangers, thus causing a binding of the door hangers between the two tracks. Again, suppose the spreader, which is for the sole purpose of keeping the tracks the right distance apart, is carelessly put in a little narrow, or, perhaps, left out entirely, as it is occasionally by some, who consider it an unnecessary appendage to the working of sliding doors, then there is practically nothing to keep the tracks from springing together, causing a binding of the doors. There are several kinds of hangers now in the market some of which have a metal track which is held in place by steel brackets. This style of rail is much easier to adjust than the wooden track shown in the diagram, but it has its disadvantages. The dotted lines shown, represent thin matched stuff lining up the inside of the pocket. This is necessary, as the box should be made tight all round on the inside, or there will be a cold draft always making its way from the space between the Joists and floor, and escaping through the door openings. In hanging sliding doors it is better, if possible, to do so before the jambs are set. Many times little things that would interfere with the proper working of the doors can be readily remedied ; whereas if the jambs are set, they will be concealed from the general view and not discovered until they had caused a considerable amount of trouble. Sliding doors that won't slide are an abomination and a great disturber of temper



From "Enquirer"— Will you kindly inform me of the best material to use for backing for gilding on

glass ? I have tried asphaltum, but find, when it is necessary to shade the lettering, the paint softens the backing and spoils the work. What I want to know is, whether there is a backing that will harden in twelve hours and increase the burnish of the gold ?

ANS. —The best backing for gilding on glass, when the same is to be shaded is dry lampblack mixed with quick-drying rubbing varnish and thinned with enough spirits of turpentine to make the material work evenly and freely. Or drop-black ground in japan, thinned with turpentine to which a moderate portion of quick-drying varnish has been added, will serve the purpose also very well. Either of these will not soften under the shading color, and can be made to dry hard in less than 12 hours, but will not increase the burnish of the gold. That is an entirely different matter, and depends on the condition of the size used in laying the leaf and on the subsequent treatment in burnishing. Some authorities recommend the use of gum arabic size, one drachm to one pint of boiling water, which is to be filtered through blotting paper, and to which, when cold one teaspoonful of white whiskey is added. Kept in a bottle well corked, it will keep for a year. The most favoured size, however, consists of isinglass, of which a piece of size of a nickel is dissolved in pint of rain water, boiling hot. This solution is filtered through filtering or blotting paper, and when cold a teaspoonful of whiskey or alcohol added. If the use of asphaltum for backing the gold leaf is avoided and japan color, thinned with rubbing varnish, used, the gold will retain its burnish, because such colors will not strike in, as may be the case with asphaltum.



From A. Z. :—I am building a large barn 30 ft. wide and 1 10 ft. long and am to put a gambrel roof on

it.	Could you publish a sketch of a roof that would be suitable for this building ? I am sure other car-































FIG. 4.





penters besides myself would benefit by such a sketch, particularly if any description was given along with it?

ANS.—The accompanying sketch illustrates a good rule for this purpose. Divide the width of the building into five equal parts ; set the purlin posts one-fifth of the width of the building in from the outside posts. Allow the outside posts to extend one-fifth of the width of the building above the second floor. Then, for the height of the first section of the roof, let the inside posts extend above the outside posts to the amount of one-fifth of the width of the building and one-third of one-fifth additional. For example, the sketch Fig. 4

