<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHTECT I\ND BUILDER

<article title=" NEW CANADIAN EMIGRATION OFFICES " author="">

NEW CANADIAN EMIGRATION OFFICES.

The remarkable growth of emigration from Great Britain to Canada has necessitated the erection by the Dominion Government of large new offices in London, England. These new offices, which were opened in April, are located at Charing Cross, in the centre of the Metropolis. They comprise a very imposing block of buildings of commanding appearance, and should provide adequate accommodation for the purpose for which they have been erected for many years to come.

The accompanying illustration shows a portion Of the interior of the ground floor. It is partitioned off for various departments. The office of Mr. T.R. Preston, the Canadian Commissoner of Emigration, is on the ground floor. All the fittings are of Canadian wood, comprising bird's-eye maple, cherry, ash, and oak, the fittings having been mainly supplied by the Office Specialty Company, of Toronto, and the Canadian Office and School Furniture Company, of Preston. All the offices are admirably arranged to meet the work of

Secretary's scheme. Then as regards cement. During recent years the English market has been invaded with foreign cements in 1901, more than 220,000 tons came from Germany, Belgium and the United States, as compared with 105,000 tons in 1900. America is likely to be a great competitor for the cement market of Canada ; the latter country having largely deserted us of late in favour of the enterprising nation next her boundaries, In this latter connection account should also be taken of the rapid growth of cement manufacturing in Canada, the Canadian product having largely displaced the imported article.

<article title=" THE COLOURS OF STAINED GLASS " author="">

THE COLOURS OF STAINED GLASS.



Mr. Walter Rosenhain points out, says the Builders' Record, that the loss of the secret to produce the tints of old stained glass is not indeed a loss, for the secret was never ours, but was always one of Nature's. Glass changes its colour under the influence of light, as anyone may perceive who will glance upward at an













































NEW CANADIAN EMIGRATION OFFICES, LONDON, ENGLAND.



this department, which now comprises quite a considerable staff.

<article title=" THE BUILDING TRADE AND MR. CHAMBERLAIN'S PROPOSALS " author="">

THE BUILDING TRADE AND MR. CHAMBERLAIN'S PROPOSALS.

The building trade of this country is very directly concerned with Mr. Chamberlain's fiscal proposals, says 

the London Builders' Record. We are largely dependent on other countries for certain building materials. Brick and stone are home products and may be set on one side ; but wood, cement, joinery, rolled iron joists, glass and numerous other goods are imported in great quantities from countries which would be penalized by Mr. Chamberlain's tariffs. A few weeks ago we published some figures showing how the McKinley tariff of 40 per cent, on manufactured granite goods had affected the Aberdeen trade, the total value of granite shipped from that port to the United States having dropped from 112,382 in 1891 to 19,710 in 1902 so that the more favourable tariffs prevalent with our colonies (Canada being only 20 per cent, and Africa 10 per cent.) has led granite merchants to very seriously consider the Colonial

old railway terminus roof and notice how some of the panes have changed from their original greenish tinge to yellow or even pink. A large number of experiments have been made on this subject, and Professor Gaffield has carried out a series of tests, lasting in some instances over thirteen years. He found changes of colour, in what may be termed "white" glasses, as follows :—From white to light yellow, light green to yellowish green, brown and greenish yellow to various tints of purple, light green to light blue, and in some cases merely a deepening of the original tint. In the majority of coloured glasses he found little alteration except in violet and brown tints. Nevertheless, when ancient coloured glass is removed from its setting it is often found that portions of the glass which have been protected from the light are, of a different tint from those portions which have been freely exposed. There can be little doubt, therefore, that we do not now see ancient glass windows with the colours they originally possessed. The change of colour is probably due to a change in the state of oxidization of the manganese and iron present in the glass. Professor Currie recently showed that the rays from radium have a powerful and ready effect in changing the colours of certain glasses.

