<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE –Winnipeg-  " author="Litchfield">

CORRESPONDENCE

VENTILATION OF OFFICE BUILDINGS.

<article title=" VENTILATION OF OFFICE BUILDINGS " author="">

WINNIPEG, MAN., Oct. 3, 1903.



To the Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—I see that some sanitary authority has called attention to the bad ventilation in some of the sky scrapers of the larger American cities, although there have been large sums spent on

































PLAN OF FOURTH AND FIFTH FLOOR, MCINTYRE BLOCK,

WINNIPEG, MAN.





the mechanical ventilation of same. Judging by the experience I have had with the McIntyre Block illustrated herewith, large buildings can be well ventilated at reasonable cost and without any so-called mechanical ventilation appliances, the operative charges for which are somewhat heavy to say nothing of their first cost.

The McIntyre Block has a frontage on our principal street

have a good deal to do with the success I speak of. Trusting the above may be of interest.

Yours truly,



WM. LITCHFIELD.

<article title=" HOLLOW BUILDING BLOCK CONSTRUCTION – New York- " author="">



HOLLOW BUILDING BLOCK CONSTRUCTION.



New York, November 6th, 1903.



To the Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



SIR—Some time during 1902, we were very much interested in an article, which appeared in your columns under the caption "Tests of strength of hollow building blocks" in which you suggested their use for outer wall construction ; enumerating the advantages possessed by them for that purpose as principally the saving of weight, of great importance, especially where the material must be sent great distance this saving of weight of further importance as it lessens the load on the foundations ;---the air spaces insure a drier wall and greater rapidity in laying.



Your article closes " It would therefore appear in general that hollow blocks should furnish a wall amply strong for the circumstances under which they are commonly used."

It might interest your readers to learn that the idea is no longer in the experimental stage, but has proven to be highly practical and the advantages you suggested as being possessed by the hollow blocks for wall building, fully demonstrated in actual operations.



Making the blocks of hard burnt terra cotta, 4"X8"X12" and weighing 16 lbs. each, by the addition of band-iron between the courses, we have constructed walls 350 feet x 200 feet and 24





























































MCINTYRE BLOCK, WINNIPEG, MAN.



here of 1731/2 feet, and the sketch with plans will give a fair idea as to size. Every suite of offices has a connection to one. of the numerous ventilating chimneys or shafts in the fire walls, which are shown on sketch plans. I never was in a better ventilated building (either large or small) in my life, and if desired I can detail easily provable facts that bear out my assertion that the ventilation is really good. I don't wish to advertise the McIntyre Block or to bring my name into question, but would not a discussion in your journal on this matter be both interesting and instructive to your subscribers? The general construction of the McIntyre Block, apart from the ventilating shafts, may possibly

feet 6 inches high, of a tank house for the American Smelling & Refining Co. at Perth-Ambey only 4" thick, which were computed by their engineers as being equal in solidity to walls of common brick 12" thick while saving in weight some 850 tons, a matter as you state of the greatest importance where the material must be sent any distance and a further saving of fully 33 1-3  3973n cost, taking price for common brick as $5.75 per thousand, a very low estimate.



We are under contracts with the Barber Asphalt Paving Co. to erect several buildings with this wall, for their new plant at Maurer, N. J., some of which being completed, we are enabled

