<doctype type="text">

the site, make me a sketch of the house you think will fit these requirements." I said, "Mr.

—, I will gladly do that; I can do that, I think, but if you take that design and build it you will be a fool." And then I went on to say, "for I do not know you well enough to draw a house for you." I hadn't the slightest expectation that I would get that job, but right there I got it, because that man began to see something different in architecture from what he had ever seen before; he began to realize that this was to be his house, not an architect's house merely. Afterwards, sure enough, to show you how the good work took effect, one of the leading finishers of the city went to him and said, "Mr. —. you are a busy man, you don't want to bother with the designs for the inside of your house; I will refer you to So and So—we did tile work for him—$ 17,000 worth of interior work and we did not take up two hours of his time.

This gentleman said, "Well, that settles it, you could not decorate my house or do my interior woodwork because I can see that that is your interior woodwork and not his, it does not fit him." I simply tell you that to point out that what we have to do if we are going to have real architecture is to make our product more than beautiful, more than fitting to the situation. primarily fitting the man that is to live in it or the purpose for which it is to be used. That means a pretty savage thing sometimes: it means that if we are going to build a house for a vulgar man, that we must build a vulgar house. It wouldn't he architecture if we did not. It must be better than that man; it must be what that man might be. it must represent that, but unless it has in it some element of that thing which makes him the vulgar man, in my judgment. it is not architecture at all, we are up against difficulties and limitations of that kind. and it does not seem to me to be such a bad thing after all. Fortunately the vulgar man usually pees to a vulgar architect. so that we need not often be seriously troubled that way. (Laughter.') But the fact remains that it must fit the man in some way or other, and I think the most of us (even if we do not analyze these questions of design) naturally tend to draw a vulgar house for a vulgar man. But we must be mighty careful of what we mean when we call a man vulgar. A difference in taste does not constitute vulgarity. or the reverse. People have come to me and said.

"1 like that house out on 49th street. in West Philadelphia. and that is the limit. I have been around your town a little. but there is nothing that I have seen here that approached 49th street; it is absolutely the limit." Most of the arches on the porches are wrong side tip, thus:



Nearly all of them. My client will say, "I like this or that house at 49th street." And instead of falling dead I go out and try to find what it is he likes about that house; very often it is a bay window on the side of it, or it faces this way or that way, or it has some other feature

absolutely irrespective 01 design or drawing that fits the man. If, for instance, you take a man that likes brilliant colors and set him down as being ignorant and vulgar1 because you have put two things before him; one good, in low tones that you care for, and one bad in high colors that you loath and that attracts him because lie loves color, YOU make a great mistake. for that is not a fair test; you ought to put before him things good and bad in both bright and quiet colors, and you will find ninety nine times out of a hundred he will choose the good thing Find out what it is he likes about the had thing, give him a chance and he will choose the good thing rather than the bad. If that were not true there would be no civilization; we would have devoluted back into oysters by this time because we have done so many foolish things and so neglected the laws of nature that it must be some principle in us that seeks the right rather than the wrong. to keep us going at all. As <person>Prof. Shortt </person>said to us yesterday, we have gotten away entirely from the mainsprings of the art and architecture of the past, we have conic to a time when neither the civic or the religious is the ideal around which we build our civilization, but the individual, the domestic. Take all these high buildings with which you gentlemen are wrestling in pain and trouble (and it is a serious trouble); what are they for? After all are they not merely the places that we go to (to get away from as soon as we can). that we may have enjoyable surroundings in our home life? That is the sole object, and while we should make them as little obnoxious as possible and keep them as quiet as possible, because they tend to ramp and rave

—while we should do that it seems to me that our greatest effort should be put upon the making of the object of all this beautiful. and that is, after all. our homes. (Applause). Therefore. I am talking mainly about house de I want to say. though, that your president yesterday pointed out what seems to me the only logical materials in which to design the once building, and that is a skeleton of steel clothed with a plastic material of some kind. I cannot conceive. though I admit I have done it myself. that it is proper to clothe a steel frame by putting brick or stone around it or any real building material: it is a lie on the face of it. for it would not stick there and stand unsupported. If we must have that kind of building let us encase it with some plastic material like cement. The engineers are looking after the bones and we are after all only the planners and decorators of it.

The most serious question as I see it. in designing a house that we have to meet with is what shall the concrete thing be made of and how shall it be made? Or. perhaps, how shall it hue made and what shall it 1)e made of? We will treat, what. shall it be made of, first. The material must be moderately cheap. We do not often have palaces to build: we are riot working for Gould or .T. Piemont Morgan but for each other. the average community which we find around us: therefore. the buildings which we build must be cheap They must not or should not require any great amount of ornament and T want to point out that the bulk of the ornament that we rise is used purely to get surface and not for the value of the ornament itself The pressed brick of (rood old Philadelphia was so horrible that after we once waken up and got past the marble steps and marble lintels we flew to the other extreme and brought in the tortured mud (the terra cotta man) with his substitutes for surf ace; and we put wriggles

