<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

accepted states the work which he has a right to expect unless he agrees to deduction from it.

The wisest plan is to keep the statement of extras as far as possible abreast of the progress certificates. For this purpose as well as to avoid disputes it is well to settle the amount of the extra, as far as possible, when it is ordered, and to give all orders for extras in writing stating the estimated cost. For this purpose a form is necessary, printed with headings for the building number, order number, dale, contract, description of work to be done (with plenty of space left for this) the cost, and Signatures of contractor, owner and architect. The form should be issued in triplicate, and it would be best to have it in book form with one stub for each three blanks. If there is to he but one writing with carbon paper between the blanks, this would require a page with three divisions perforated between and printed alternately on the front and back of the page, so that the printed surface of all three may face upwards when they are folded for reduplicate writing. The three blanks should have "owners' copy," "contractor's copy," "architect's copy" printed across the face.



CONTRACTS.—The contract should be made out in triplicate; a copy each for owner, contractor and architect, and the office copy should have attached to it the tender and memoranda to show how the contract sum was made up.

A set of blue prints, as less susceptible of alteration, is usually set aside for the signed contract drawings. Subsequent alterations may be then made on the tracings and should always be dated. A print of each alteration may be made.

CERTIFICATES AND THEIR RECORD.—The certificate form should have headings on the stub for a full statement of the progress of the account and these should be repeated on the certificate. The items should run:

Contract amount, extras, total, deductions, net total, (thus taking account of extras and deductions to date of issue of certificate) former certificates, this certificate, drawback, total, and balance on hand (when total of certificates and drawback is subtracted from the net total above.) The drawback and balance do not seem to be inserted in the American certificate. The building number and progress and trade numbers of certificate should be given and the date; the name and address of the owner or his agent to whom the certificate is addressed and the contractor's name. All information on the face of the certificate should be entered on the stub. It seems to be usual in American offices, to have only a brief note of number, date, amount and contractor on the stub, but to keep a letter press copy of the certificate, and the form is sometimes printed in aniline ink for the purpose.

<person>Frank Miles Day </person>& Bros. print on their certificates the following excellent notice;— "On making this payment the owner should assure himself

that his interests are protected by insurance sufficient to cover his liability in the increased amount resulting from this payment."



This notice is supplemented by a note to the same effect, on a form added to the certificate with a perforated attachment. It reads thus (after number, date and address):— "We have this day issued to      a certificate of payment

on account of	contract for work on your       We call your attention to the insurance clause of your contract and to the notice as to insurance on the certificate.

Yours Truly

F or the record of certificates and contract accounts, the writer in the  Brickbuilder recommends a folder for each contract. Copies of contracts, orders and accepted estimates are kept together in the respective folders. These documents are apparently fastened on the inside. The record of accounts are made on the outside and are displayed at one opening, thus:—The sheet, which is in the proportion of 3 long to 4 wide, is folded vertically in three; the middle division which is to be exposed, is titled with the building number, the contract, contractor's address, etc., the side divisions have recorded on one the certificates issued, with columns for date, amount and total to date, on the other a statement of deductions and extras in four columns under four headings, viz., date, order number, deduction, extra. The deductions and extras in parallel columns show at once the progress of the extra account. The bunch of folders having to do with one building are kept together in a special file. As an assistance to picking out the right folder with ease, the tail of the outside fold may have printed on it a list of all trades, and the trade accounted for by each particular folder may be underlined.

It is worth notice also, in pursuance of the idea that printed headings for everything that should be filled in are a necessary guide to prompt the memory of office subordinates as to method and ensure orderly work, that across the head of the exposed surface of the contract folder is printed "file herein contracts, accerted bids and orders."



SUPERINTENDENCE REPORTS:—In a large office where superintendence is done by an outside man or a draughtsman, a form of superintendent's report is essential, but even when a principal oversees the work, it is desirable to keep a record of progress, and to keep a reminder of work not done according to contract that it may not be lost sight of until corrected. The form in use by A. J. Manning serves both as an instruction to an unskilled superintendent and as a reminder to an experienced man. It has the following heads with space sufficient after each for the sort of note that follows:— "Weather conditions.. .1-low much time lost owing to bad

weather.... Number of men at work... .What doing... Work done since last report... .Work not according to contract..

Defective work formerly reported made good and how.... Materials delivered since last report... Materials wanted on the work now... Materials not on the ground that will be required two weeks hence. ... Mechanics wanted on the work... Mechanics that will be needed two weeks from this inspection... .If work is delayed or will be delayed for want of materials, details or other reason, stale for what, and include any remarks not covered by above inquiries



If this form or one to the same purpose is filled in periodically the work is not only more methodically looked after but there is a continuous record on file of the progress of the work.

WORK SLIP.—A convenient device to keep work moving with little personal oversight is the workslip. The following heads for entry are taken from a slip in use in the office of George B. Post. After the building heading and slip number are as follows:

"Title of work... .Origin and date.... Drawings ready....

Drawings submitted.... Drawings approved    Specification ready... .Contractors affected... .Estimate invited... Estimate ready... Estimate Submitted... Work authorized    contract awarded or orders issued"



When the last item is dated the slip may he filed away. The "origin" may be the Memo Record, the authorization a letter. A rubber stamp for such constant authorities will be found useful; in .particular a rubber stamp, lettered "vide letter.... 19....," will be found of great service for marking, authorization or directions on drawings, records) reports, work slips, etc.

