<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES OF TRAVEL.-—III.

LETGHTON HOUSE

<article title=" NOTES OF TRAVEL.-—III.

LETGHTON HOUSE " author="Langotn, W. A.">

(Concluded)



The entire suite of halls is paved with mosaic work of marble. The openings, between the different parts, are finished with marble columns. This solidity is carried to the staircase, in which the steps of the first flight are of stone. This flight is contained by a stylobate wall, on which stand marble columns to take the staircase wall above; for the first flight of the stair is

trees, as seen through the window, would form a good decoration over the mantel ; better if the sashes were barred, which they are not. But, unless there was some idea of gaining wall space for large paintings on the east, with which a fireplace would interfere, the result does not seem to justify the arrangement. The fireplace opening is a semicircle, about 2 6" in diameter, faced with white marble, inlaid with black in the form of an iris or rush-leaved plant, to decorate (rather thinly) the sides and spandrils. The mantel shelf runs into the window recess.







































not within the staircase proper, but in a space beyond, which forms a sort of vestibule to the drawing room and dining room. The comparative retirement of the drawing room and dining room doors and of the bottom of the staircase, and the retirement of the latter behind a wall and a screen of columns, are good points in the plan; and an appearance of spaciousness and dignity is given to the hall by the added size and richness.

The drawing room depends for its interest upon the































how in the centre of the west side. These windows open down to the ground, and from the window in the middle proceeds a flight of stone steps, leading to the garden. The boundary of the garden is not more than fifty feet in this direction. The direction of its greatest extent is to the north, where the limit is practically out of sight. The garden is large and has trees which intercept the sight of what is beyond it. The window on this side does not seem to have been specially designed for looking upon the garden—not downwards at any rate. The window is four feet wide and the stool is not less than 3'. 6" high. The fireplace is under it; and no doubt, in winter, the branches of the

The wall of the drawing room are painted a deep red ; the ceiling is white, panelled with moulded plaster beams ; the wood work is finished with shining. though not glossy, black paint. This is the manner of finishing the woodwork throughout the house. It is rather sombre, but dignified ; and in respect of its shininess has this point in its favour, that the diffused light within doors is better calculated to give effect to mouldings designed to catch light than to those intended to make shadow. The incised work of the door architraves, in the drawing room, is peculiarly indebted to the way in which the wood is finished. A first sight of this incised ornament did not command admiration. Sunk patterns are but one remove from jig-saw work, and one might expect something better in Lord Leighton's " front room." But for some reason this ornament gave pleasure, and close inspection showed that the sinkings are not square, but pitched or curved. Stems are v'ed, but flowers and leaves are delicately and not monotonously curved and the shining surfaces reflect light like an intaglio. The flowers or rosettes, at the bottom, centres, and angles of the architrave are gilded. The panel moulding has a curious, delicate effect of being scored horizontally. Inspection showed that the mouldings are, at this member, subdivided by a number of small beads, which are run with a surface that waves on the plane of the face of the mouldings, producing horizontal bands of light and shade.

The Dining Room is trimmed in the same manner

