<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Northwest Letter" author="Over, W. Percy">NORTHWEST LETTER.



WINNIPEG Feb. 12, 1903.



In giving you a resume of the work in course of construction, in my letter some months ago, I stated that I would give a description of the finished work in this letter.



Of all the large work that was commenced last year such as the Strathcona Block, <building>St. Mary's Academy</building>, <building>St. Stephen's Church</building>, etc., the <building>Canada Life Building </building>is the only one that can be said to he in any way completed. The alterations and additions to this building has entailed a very great amount of unusual work in the way of underpinning. Great credit is due the contractors, Messrs. IlIsley & Horn, for the workmanlike manner in which they carried this out. Although they were handicapped in several ways, such as strikes, scarcity of material and labor, they completed the whole work in the space of seven months, which is an extraordinary short period for this western country. The whole of the walls of the ground floor on the street fronts was taken out and rebuilt in Bedford stone, an operation which required the most careful handling and which was finished with the thermometer registering somewhere between 20 and 30 below zero. This work was done after the remainder of the building was completed, and which therefore necessitated the carrying of the four floors above. The Canada Life will occupy the main portion of the ground floor, the upper portion of the building being laid out as a modern office building.

In looking into the prospects of work for the coming season, it seems almost incredible that the sum of $4,000,000, as given in the daily papers, is to be expended. I have made numerous enquiries as to the authenticity of these figures and find it impossible to arrive at a total in any way approaching this

amount. If, as it is reported, this 



proceeded with this year it means that there will be a deadlock in all branches of the work before the season ends. A famine in both material and labor will be the result. During the past year, with the small amount of work done, compared with the figures given, there was a paucity in the supply of all kinds of material and to obtain labor of any description was most difficult. This was most noticeable in the demand for Portland cement and building was stopped in numerous instances on account of the scarcity of this material. Oak is another commodity that cannot be had at the present moment except in very limited dimensions. To remedy the conditions of the supply market immediate steps should be taken by contractors and others to accelerate the shipping of supplies from outside.

In order to be able to successfully cope with larger work, a number of the most prominent contractors of this city have formed themselves into a supply construction company. This company with a membership of twenty-five, more or less, will include members of all trades and the most prominent ones, generally speaking, in each case. The form rig of a company of this description is, I think a very doubtful proposition, and whether Winnipeg will benefit by it is very much a question. It will no doubt be a monopoly to a great extent of the building trades and the successful working of such a scheme as this is a matter of conjecture.

In looking forward to the large work, contractors are reserving themselves from tendering on smaller work, and it is now a difficult matter to obtain tenders on such buildings. Work that has been tendered on shows a great increase in the cost of building compared with last year and all branches of the

Plans and Specifications for Hospitals wanted, <person>W.C. Sanders</person>, Secretary Moose Jaw, N.W.T.

Wanted young man with limited experience in Architectural Drafting. Roman Stone Co, Limited, Toronto

Examination to Qualify for Associateship in the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects</assoc>, <person>Andrew T. Taylor</person>, Hon, Sec. R.I.B.A., Montreal

Embossed and turned moldings, wood grilles, Boynton and Company, Chicago Ill.

Tenders wanted, Canadian Contract Record, Toronto

Mantels, grates, tiles, gas grates, gas logs, andirons, jewel stoves and ranges, hot air furnaces, registers, The Batty Stove and Hardware Co., Toronto

The James Morrison Brass Mfg. Co. Limited Toronto

