<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Oxford St., London XV., and is called "cloisonne glass," which is similar to "glacier." It costs about 8 or 10 cents a square toot.



From "Workman" :—Please advise me it the white figures on blued steel-squares, are permanent or not?

ANS.-—The figures are inlaid with hard porcelain cement, which is said to be "burned in" at the time of "bluing." It this is the case, and we have reason to believe it is, the figures are likely to last as long as the square itself with ordinary usage.

<article title=" GERMAN PRACTICE IN CHIMNEY CONSTRUCTION " author="">

GERMAN PRACTICE IN CHIMNEY CONSTRUCTION.

A tall mill or furnace chimney is a great test of the builders' art and of the strength of his materials, says the British Clayworker. The stresses to which the bricks are subjected and the conditions to which the mortar is exposed are all abnormal from the point of view of ordinary building construction. Again, compared with other brickwork, tall chimneys occupy but short time in building, hence it. is of the utmost importance to pay attention to the composition of the mortar, which must be so arranged that even while yet "green" it may be able to sustain the immense superincumbent weight.

Opinions differ very much amongst builders as to the right kind of mortar to employ. Many consider that lime-mortar, strengthened by the addition of Portland cement, is the best when the work has to be carried out quickly. 01 course lime-mortar alone becomes equally strong in time, but it does not harden quickly enough, although when ''set" it certainly resists the action of the heat better. And the interior of many tall chimney stacks, especially near the base, often has to sustain very considerable temperatures.

If lime-mortar is employed in building high chimney stacks the construction must proceed slowly, and the joints must be frequently tested to see whether they are hard enough to bear the courses which have to follow.

In Germany tall chimney builders are now using a mortar composed of a mixture of cement, lime, and sand in the proportions

	Cement Lime Sand	1 2 6

for the upper portion of the chimney stack, where the gaseous products of combustion of the fuel are comparatively cool ; but for the lower portion of the stack, where the temperature of the smoke and fumes is comparatively high, the proportions are

Cement Lime Sand	8.

If the lime is of hydraulic nature the proportion of the cement may be reduced but if the sand is very "sharp" the proportion of cement must be increased.

For the cap of a tall chimney stack the proportions of the ingredients of the mortar may be altered with economy and advantage. In German practice the mortar is composed of

Cement Lime Sand	1 4.

Mortar made of cement and sand alone is not at all suitable for tall chimney work, because it does not resist the action of heat well, and is attacked by carbon dioxide, of which there is always a large quantity present in the flue gases ; this is especially the case in the presence of moisture, and, of course, steam is always present in the gases which are found in a smoking chimney.

TO MARK BOARDS INTO TWO OR MORE EQUAL WIDTHS. <article title=" TO MARK BOARDS INTO TWO OR MORE EQUAL WIDTHS " author="">

The readiest method of doing this, no matter what the width of the board is, is to lay the rule across it diagonally—as in the drawing—keeping the ends of rule level with the two edges of the board. Then to divide it into two parts, a mark at the 6in. will do it, as A; for three parts, at B, and for four parts, at C, and so on. For division into five, seven or nine parts,



















open the rule, and place it to the 121/2 in., 14 in., and

121/2 in. marks respectively, when the division will be

at the 21/2 in., 5 in., &c., marks, in the first case; at

the 2 in., 4 in., &c., in the second; and at the 1/2 in.,

3 in., &c., in the third case.

By this method it is easy to equally divide any board, no matter what the width is, into any number of parts, without the trouble of making exact calculations, or any waste of material. The Woodworker.

<article title=" FRESCO PAINT " author="">

FRESCO PAINT.

According to tile Painters' Magazine, the following formula makes an excellent distemper for interior work. It works freely, and the most perfect results may be obtained by its use.

The medium given below may be used for mixing either the pale or richer colours and tints, lakes, &c. Decorators will also find it a valuable material for hastily preparing washes for ceilings, walls, &c. Its main features are that it mixed with suitable colours it may be used upon any class of distemper work ; it is easily prepared for use by simply stirring sufficient warm water to render it fluid.

The following are the ingredients:— Pale glue, in powder, 2 lbs.; glucose, 1/4 lb.; glycerine, 14 lb.; salicylic acid, 1 oz.; and water three gallons.

METHOD OF PREPARATION :—Dissolve the glue in two gallons of boiling water. In another vessel dissolve the salicylic acid in one gallon of boiling water. Now add together the contents of the two vessels. Allow time to cool somewhat, then stir in the glucose and glycerine. It is then ready for use, and should he mixed into a paste free from lumps, thinned down with a little warm water, and used in the ordinary way. It will keep without turning- rancid for a considerable length of time.



The law in Canada to-day as recently expressed by the Toronto courts in the case of the T. Eaton Co. vs. John Guinane

declares that the tenant who puts in gas or electric fixtures in a house may take them with him when he moves but the owner of a store who puts them in cannot remove them if he sells the property.



Barbadoes asphaltum is used for many purposes. Made into a liquid with suitable oils, by fusion, it forms an excellent protection for ironwork against corrosion. Iron pipes coated with this material and placed beneath the ground for a considerable time have remained intact. It is now being utilised as a protective medium against corrosion for thc bottom of steel ships. A small quantity placed in spirits of turpentine or kerosene and dissolved by agitation, will form an oak stain of a deep, rich colour, which may bc used with advantage upon new woodwork.

