<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT CT AND BUILDER



<article title="Modern Construction Methods" author="">MODERN CONSTRUCTIVE METHODS.*

Had I seen <person>Mr. Pearsons </person>remarks delivered at your annual meeting of 1902 before accepting your Registrar's very kind invitation to read a paper at this meeting I greatly fear I would have refused.

At the best it is very embarrassing to a modest engineer, and modesty is the essential characteristic of the engineer, to appear before such a body of men as this. It becomes doubly so, when they have been informed in advance that he belongs to a clique who are using all their wiles and blandishments to seduce the simple-minded and unsuspecting architect into all kinds of nefarious schemes and awful projects.

Mr. Pearson's description reminds you of the Garden of Eden with the poor engineer in the role of the wise and

he not only has to call upon the structural engineer, but the electrical, the mechanical, the sanitary, the heating and ventilating engineers as well.

The architect is at the head, he is responsible for the completed structure, and the designs of the various engineers are only integral parts of the whole, but it is manifestly impossible for one man to know all of the details of the various lines. He may have a smattering of each, but he cannot know, he has not the time to master each and every one. When he tries to do so he fails.

After this somewhat lengthy preamble I will get into the subject matter of my paper.

The most interesting portion of a building to the structural engineer is the foundation.



Levels Showing Settlement of <building>Masonic Temple Chicago</building>.



subtle serpent, and the architect, whom I have always found perfectly able to take care of himself, under any and all circumstances, personating the lovely, but misguided Eve. However, I thank Mr. Pearson for one remark. He says "For the solution of these problems it was necessary to appeal to the engineer." And he was right. In these strenuous days an Admiral Crichton, or a Leonardo Da Vinci becomes an impossibility. Competition is too keen ; the lines are drawn too closely.

It is not many years ago that the architect felt himself to be, and was, perfectly competent to do any class of work which came to him. Now when he is designing a large office building, or any similar work

* Paper read at the annual convention of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>held in Toronto January 13th and 14th, 1903.

In Chicago the very compressible soil made unusual care necessary in designing the foundations of the high office buildings.

The soil of Chicago is made ground to a depth of 2 to 14 feet thick, then a layer of hard clay 6 to 10 feet is struck, and upon this layer is placed the spread foundations. Below this layer is a soft clay extending down to a shale formation overlaying the rock, the latter being found at a depth of 8o to 100 feet.

The first high buildings were put on spread, or floating foundations made of steel beams imbedded in concrete. Each foundation was made of such a size that the load coming on the clay would not exceed 3,000 to 3,500 pounds per square foot. This often necessitated putting two or more columns on one foundation.

In figuring load on clay, only dead weight of building is taken into account, as it was found impossible to get a uniform settlement when live load was carried into the footings.

In one large and costly building in Chicago built some years ago after plans by a celebrated Boston architect, the live load was considered in designing the foundations.

The result is that the walls of the building settled very much more than the foundations, carrying the interior columns, and the floors are 6 or 8 inches higher at the center than around the outside. In consequence extra men are stationed on the floors to help the truckmen push the trucks up the incline.

The settlement of the buildings put on spread foundations is from 8 to 20 inches. This is allowed for by putting up the foundations when work is begun.

