<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



MOVING CARRARA MARBLE.

<article title=" MOVING CARRARA MARBLE " author="">

The marble quarries of Carrara, Italy, number about four hundred and give employment to nearly seven thousand men. Hard labor is the rule, for the distances separating quarry from quarry and the declivitous nature of the country make the use of machinery almost impossible. Hence, say a writer in Pearson's Magazine, have grown up the methods of the lizzatura, or workmen, who convey the marble over the roadless steeps that stretch from the quarries to the wagon track.

As soon as a great fragment of marble, detached by

a blast, has stopped rolling, it is roughly squared into

a block weighing, say, forty tons. Then the lizzatura

set about getting it down.

Along certain lines of descent offering the least resistance a succession of stout posts has been firmly driven into the mountain side. The men, by means of crowbars and screwjacks, raise the block on to a soaped skid of beechwood. Before doing this they secure the block by means of three long kempen cables, with which they take turns around the posts. They pay out sufficient rope to allow the ponderous mass to slide over the soaped skids by its own weight, but not enough to allow it to gain too much momentum down the incline.

During the descent, besides the men tailing on to the ropes, two or more men are seated on the block. A man following closely on the wake of it hands them the skid just passed over, which they resoap and hand to a man who keeps just in front of the moving mass, to put down in its path, and so provide a continuous slipway. This last-mentioned worker has the most perilous task. If one of the cables parts at a critical moment, or if a mistake has been made in paying out or slackening them, he must inevitable be crushed.

It is an amazing fact that in former times the lizzatura

used only one cable to hold back the load, until the government, rightly regarding their's as a dangerous occupation, passed a law that not less than three cables should be employed. On an average, this work is responsible for three deaths a year, but for the most part the finest discernment, judgment, coolness and skill are displayed by the lizzatura, who work in gangs numbering twelve to fifteen men.

It is really astounding to see how these workmen handle the huge masses of marble, without machinery of any kind but crowbars and jackscrews. Pieces of forty tons' weight, with those simple implements, are loaded on bullock wagons and carried down to Carrara all the way by road—a terribly toilsome process, for the mountain road is more like a bed of a torrent than a beaten track.



NOTES.

Up to the first of October the value of new buildings erected this year in Vancouver, B.C., as represented by the building

permits is $1,300,000. The total for the year is expected to reach a million and half.

Interest has been aroused by the announcement, as the result of a prolonged series of experiments, of a method of so treating timber as to secure even from soft wood a largely increased toughness and hardness. The process is described as one of vulcanizing, comparable in some respects with Bessemers process for converting iron into steel, and is the invention of Mr. Powell a Liverpool merchant. The treatment to which the timber is subjected is, roughly speaking, that of saturation at boiling point with a solution of sugar, the water being afterward evaporated at a high temperature. The result is to leave the pores and interstices of the wood filled in with solid matter, and the limber vulcanized, preserved and seasoned. The nature of moderately soft wood, it is claimed, is in this way changed to a tough and hard substance, without brittleness, and also without any tendency to split or crack, It is also rendered remarkably impervious to water. Hardwood similarly treated derives similar benefits. Moreover, it is claimed that the process may be completed and timber turned out ready for use in a few days.

The Canadian Bridge company Limited Walkerville ont.



Hurry in with your specifications James Morrison Brass manufacturing Company Limited toronto