<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" ON ARCHITECTURAL NOMENCLATURE " author="">

ON ARCHITECTURAL NOMENCLATURE.



Lovers of architecture should be glad that their love is not one of the "ologies," and is practically free from those Greek and Latin compounds which it seems to he the delight of scientists to introduce into the English language, says a writer in Building News. Though architecture is essentially a Greek word (as it is fitting it should be), it does not suggest the ''specialist" which clings to the "ologies," and if we examine the architectural vocabulary, it is surprising how simple and elementary very many of the terms are. It is very pleasing, too, when we examine the relation between each feature and its architectural name to find that we can trace its origin, nature, and purpose through that name.

If such a vocabulary is made out, a very great number of the most common terms used in building will be found to be borrowed from natural forms, especially those of animals, and the physical system of the animal kingdom finds its counter-part in architecture.

Thus the very terms of the art show the noble principles on which the true forms of it is developed

—they show both the laws by which a building stands, and the canons by which it is decorated. If the terms are belied or violated, their meanings, which remain, at once point out the barbarisms, and show up the falsehoods. Just as when we call a spade a spade, and someone chooses to call it a pitchfork, nobody is deceived who has any idea of what a spade really is.

Firstly, as to the laws of building in a universal sense. Starting with the solid foundation, the footings spread out to receive the walls, with their face and back. The wall is capped by the coping (Dutch cop = head), and where columns exist they have their capital (Latin caput head). Further, the walls undergo the process of toothing. The vaults are completed with ribs, haunches, and crown ; the roof has its hips, the rafters their heels. The window sills are throated. The very building, finally, has its wings. (It is interesting to note that the epithet of "wingless" applied to the little temple on the Athenian Acropolis is now understood by some to refer to the building itself and not to '' Victory "— a theory which gains in probability on remembering the Erectheion in close proximity, which has so many wings).

Leaving the general structure of the skeleton of the building, we find among moulding such characteristic terms as swan's neck, bird's beak, dog-tooth, and also the wave moulding.

The last is especially pleasing as it is almost the solitary expression in architecture of the ocean. While it is true that flowers or foliage afford the quintessence of architectural ornamentation*, the sea contains such varied and grand forms and waves, that a "style" developed from wavecrests and ripples would be almost as fascinating and as equally magnificent as the most elaborate system of tracery or carving, with ''foil", leaf, or " lobe " as a basis. The " wave-tracery " (suggested, no doubt, in the Flamboyant curves, but there literally developed from flames) is really a phase of Gothic yet to be developed and admired. Something far different, please, from Greek Fret or guilloche spirals, of which Ruskin wrote scornfully by pointing out that "into which the great Greek architect trans

*In flower tracery we get the rose window. Ruskin has suggested a series of tracery devoted to every variety of flower, just as the Japanese, in their exquisite, natural flower decoration, devote one room to one flower.

forms the sea." But conceive how a wave would cast itself around a huge bell capital, and fall in dripping foam down the shaft ! It is surprising that in such a watercity as Venice, with all the wealth and dexterity of Byzantine marble work on capitals and mouldings, no expression of their waterways and lagoons is conceived. The Japanese might do it, as surely they have yet to develop a style of architecture in which the peculiar qualities of Japanese art can exert their influence. The spirit of waves, as above suggested, is found very strongly expressed in the colour—print of Iliroshige and other artists. Perhaps few people have such a vivid way of catching the extract conventional forms of striking natural features. The same remarks might be applied to cloud forms.

Curiously enough, the parts of a ship do find their way into our architectural vocabulary. The keel moulding is characteristic, and there is cabling. On some American plans we lately noticed the delightful use of the word deck for a kind of verandah, and possibly cabin and saloon were originally taken from the ship. As there is no nobler art than shipbuilding, it is appropriate that its influence should be felt in architecture. The anchor is used in decoration, and Venetian masts will soon he adding to the gaiety of our street architecture re.



In Greek architecture, if we may examine the original terms, we find the same association with life. The frieze was " life-bearing," and can anyone conceive a frieze more justified in bearing such a title than that of the Parthenon ? Look, too, at the Caryatides, or "the women of Caryae," supporting their eternal burdens of portico or roof. In the cornice we get the corona or crown. It is not quite clear why the pediment (i. e., foot) should be so called unless the idea was mixed up with that of the pyramidal form of a tripod acting as a foot. Then, again, there is the Greek moulding astragal, from one of the vertebrae of the neck.

Leaving architecture strictly, in carpentry and joinery the same nature of words holds good—witness dovetail (the French '' swallowtail "), foxtail, herringbone, and tusk tenon.

We have by no means exhausted the list, and may mention bird's-mouth, hull-nose, feather-edged, tongue, dog-legged stairs. And, in conclusion, we may remind the weary reader of those delightful '' heavenly twins

who put forth " flying buttresses " as signs of bad weather.

<article title=" AMERICAN LEAGUE FOR CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS " author="">

AMERICAN LEAGUE FOR CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS.

The annual convention of the American League foe Civic Improvement was held at Chautauqua, N. Y., July 13th to 18th, and the Ontario Association of Architects was represented by Mr. Win. R. Gregg. There were conferences upon Rural, Village, City and National Improvement, at which representatives from many localities spoke, reporting a most encouraging year's work. Lectures were given by Mr. Clinton Rogers Woodruff upon "Municipal Progress," Mr. W. R. Eastman upon "Library

buildings," Mr. Albert Kelsey upon "The Model City' and Mr. J. Horace McFarland upon "The Harrisburg Plan." Also two series of lectures were delivered, one by Prof. Chas. Zueblin on Contemporary Society and the oilier by Mr. John Quincy Adams on Art.

Mr. J. Horace McFarland was re-elected President and Mr. E. G. Routzchen is Secretary. An annual dinner and an afternoon's excursion on the lake contributed to the enjoyment of the delegates. The next annual meeting will be at St. Louis.

The Canadian League for Civic Improvement which was formed lately in Toronto is a similar organization.



CORRECTION.



We regret that a mistake occurred in the advertisement of the Henry Richards Tile Company appearing in the British Supplement in our May and June issues. The name connected with the Company's Sanitary Works should have been printed Edward Johns & Company, not Edward Jones & Company.

