<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" NATURAL LIGHT TO BASEMENTS " author="">

NATURAL LIGHT TO BASEMENTS.



An inexpensive means of providing additional light to a basement room is given in the sketches accompanying this article by B. Wand, reprinted from the Builders' journal. Fig-. 1 shows a basement room abutting upon an area and looking out upon a dead wall. The ceiling-line of this room is practically level with the pavement, and in the figure the window is kept to its full height—at a height which would, as a matter of fact, necessitate the threading of a short length or rolled steel joist, or some other contrivance, through those ends of the floor joists which run above the window openings.

In Fig.2 is shown precisely the same room, area and wall, but with the window carried well above pavement level, and giving the room a very considerable increase of natural light. The floor-joists are trimmed at the window openings just as they would he for a fireplace, the trimmed space being filled in with pieces of 3in. by 2in. or other light stuff to carry the lathing and plaster or matchlining with which the soffit is to be covered. Fig. 3 shows (a) the trimmed space with filling-pieces

countering or show-casing might take the place of the window seats. Where an area is covered with pavement lights the same idea is practicable so long as the lights are on private ground and no objection is made by the local authority to their being raised to a level with the added height of the windows. They could then be thrown hack at an angle from window head to pavement level, or built square out from the head with a return to pavement level, the prisms being arranged to throw the light right back into the room; and, either way, a considerable increase of light would be obtained.



<article title=" SANITARY CHARACTERISTICS OF MADE GROUND" author="">

SANITARY CHARACTERISTICS OF MADE



GROUND.



Architects and house owners should be interested in learning the results of an investigation recently conducted by Dr. W. G. Savage and Mr. J. H. Sugden, bacteriologists for the Corporation of Cardiff, Wales, to determine to what extent made ground should be regarded as a menace to the health of the occupants of

















































and (b) the floor when laid. The objection to this mode of dealing with a floor has been that small bulkheads are formed over those portions of the floor beneath which come the basement windows; and this is met in my plan by the provision of window seats, which in their turn entirely cover the bulkheads. It may still be objected that these window seats would in themselves be unsightly; but when I say that I have seen them just as described in one of the finest block of flats in London—Albert Court, Knightsbridge —1 think that that contention also is met. As a matter of fact, neatly panelled, and finished to match the other work in the room, they form quaintly attractive features, which the tenants contrive to render still more attractive by rugs, cushions and general " drapery."

In the plan I have shown the trimming is applied to a floor with wooden joists running from front to hack of the building; but with joists thrown across, or with concrete or any other kind of floor, the idea is just as easy of adoption. In the case of shop property the bulkheads might not be objected to, or, if they were,

houses built thereon, and how far local authorities are justified in passing by-laws prohibiting the use of such ground as building sites. The following deductions are made based on a long and careful examination

"The refuse as deposited contains a very large number of organisms, many of which are in the main different from those met with in ordinary soil. These made-soil organisms as they may be called for convenience of reference, rapidly diminish in number under the conditions under which they are placed. This diminution goes on for the first two or three years. After two or three years, however, the ordinary soil organisms begin to invade this material, and apparently thrive abundantly in the rich organic material available to them. This causes a marked increase in the total number of organisms present in the soil, and the total number remains large, until in quite old soils a diminution is again met with. These soils begin to lose their special bacterial content after two or three years, and from that time begin to take on the characters of ordinary soil."

