<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



above, is made a central feature by the vigour of its detail. The secondary door, to the middle hail, is subordinatcd by its flatness. The shaded section shown at the back of the section of the architrave, in the drawing, represents the whole projection of the architrave in this door ; and its panel is similarly subdued.

The north light of the studio runs practically from floor to ceiling ; and, being in the form of a projection, has a hipped roof, which is also in glass, giving a vertical light. The original studio ended with the gallery, which is now a passage room between the large studio and a later addition with a glass roof. This addition is carried on iron columns. The passage room is also clear of the ground, but not to the same height ; there is a sort of well, (for the storage of canvases, etc., no doubt,) which extends a few feet blow the studio floor; below this the structure is carried on piers. It seems a pity that this space was not included in the lower floor, where it would have made an excellent pantry, adjacent to the dining room, opening off the back hall. There is height enough for both a pantry and the storage well above.

Over the passage in the studio is a gallery, approached by a small stair—which should have been shown in the plan, at the north end, by the little window. A door at the other end of the passage, communicating with the back stair, was evidently the entrance for models. It will be observed that, in connection with this, there is a side entrance to the back hail, at the ground floor apart from the kitchen entrance, which is by area steps

to the basement.	W. A. LANGTON.



<article title=" SOME LESSONS OF THE RECENT STRIKES " author="">

SOME LESSONS OF THE RECENT STRIKES.

As predicted last month the painters' strike in Toronto, like those of the other trades, has collapsed. The present season has witnessed the greatest conflict in the building trades that has ever been fought on this continent. The responsibility for the fight to a very large extent lies with the unions, whose demands were such that they could not be acceded to, and the employers were forced to organize for defence.

In Canada, public sympathy has largely been on the side of the contractor, the general feeling being that the workmen were pressing their demands too far. It is a pity that the men did not realize this fact before resorting to extreme measures and blocking commercial enterprises for the greater part of the year. They appear to have forgotten the old song which declares that "The mill will never grind with the water that is past." Neither will these strikers ever be able to give to the support and comfort of their families the money which they might have earned during the first three months of this season.

However, there is usually more or less silver lining to every dark cloud, and there is reason to hope that some benefits may accrue from the present disturbed conditions. The labor agitators have been discounted not only by the public but also in the eyes of the unions whose interests they are supposed to represent. In some instances they have been proven disloyal, even to the extent of asking for and accepting bribes to call off strikes which were instituted by their advice and direction. This should open the eyes of the unions to the character of some of the men who aspire to be their leaders and will no doubt lead to such a revision of

regulations as will curtail the powers of the walking delegate. The unions have been taught that it is unwise to press demands which are out of relation to and not warranted by prevailing commercial conditions. To do so is to alienate public sympathy and court defeat. It may safely be asserted that an earlier appreciation of this fact would have saved the labor organizations connected with the building trades in Canada the very serious set-back which they have sustained.

The president of the International Typographical Union, in an address delivered at the annual convention of that body in Washington recently, advocated effort 01) the part of labor organizations in the direction of the better education of workmen and apprentices. He upheld the right of the employers as well as the workmen to organize, and suggested, correctly, no doubt, that such organizations might prove to be the mediums through which negotiations between employers and employees could more easily he conducted, and by means of which more satisfactory relations might be established.

If the labor organizations would approach the problem on the broader lines suggested in this address, they would find the employers ready to listen to their representations and to co-operate with them in securing necessary reforms. The interests of both classes are identical and should be so considered.

While the evil results of a long-sustained conflict are still so clearly visible this would seem to be an opportune time to look the situation squarely in the face and see if the policy of the past under which such strife and hardship have been suffered should not be superseded by one which would seek to improve the mental and mechanical ability of the artizan.

The effort to place all workmen on the same level, disregarding the widely varying standards of ability with which the Creator has endowed them, is one of the greatest errors of the union system as it exists to-day, and its abolition should form part of any system of reform which may be inaugurated. Workmen should be graded according to their ability and the rate of wages arranged to correspond.

Attention should be directed to devising means for improving the standard of workmanship, so that the presentation of a union card might he regarded as a guarantee of the competency of the workman. This important matter has hitherto received no attention whatever, but, on the contrary, employers have been made weary and disgusted by the repeated demands for shorter hours and more pay.

What is now wanted is a policy which will encourage workmen to make the most of the ability which God has given them, and teach them that by so doing they will achieve the highest measure of success in life, financially and otherwise. Such a policy would receive the approval and support of employers, would fit workmen to become themselves employers, and go far towards re-establishing the sympathetic relations which formerly existed between employers and their workmen, but which unfortunately have of late been in a measure destroyed.



A Chicago court recently decided that the owners of a building having a smoky chimney are liable for damages to persons whose property is injured by the smoke and soot. The award for damages was $1,500.

