<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	VOL. XVI.—No. 186.	JUNE, 1903.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

I House in Crescent Road, Toronto.—S. H. Townsend, Architect.

Exterior and Interior Views of House in Roxborough Street East.—Chadwick & Beckett, Architects.

An Interior—The Ceiling in a Single Tone of Old Plaster Color the Frieze an Original Mural Painting in Oil Wood-work, l)ark Weathered Oak.—Decorations by XV. II. Elliott & Son Co., Toronto.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Four views showing Interior of Board Room and Offices of Canada Permanent and Western Mortgage Corporation, Toronto, Frank Darling and R. J. Edwards, Associate Architects.









ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Views and Plans of a London House and its Surroundings.





CONTENTS

Editorial	.	.	.	.	.	.	89-90 Covering Turret with Lead	. .	. .	99

Employment Wanted by British Building Mechanics . 90 Test of a Cast-Iron Heating Surface in Connection with a

Errata .		.	.	.	. 90	Fan System of Heating	. .	.	. 100

Notes of Travel.-—	.	.	.	.	91-92	Demand for Roofing Slates		 .	101

Relative Cost of Doing Work in Winter and Summer . 93-94-95 By the Way	.	. .	. tot

Intercommunication,	.	.	.	. 96-97	An Architectural Alphabet	. .	.

Construction of Fireplaces	.	.	.	98 A Fifteen Storey Concrete Building	.	104







SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

PROF. S. H. CAPPER R C , Department of Architecture, McGill University, Montreal

MR. XV. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE,

S.	II. TOWNSEND

FREDERICK G. TOI)I), Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

j.	C. 13. HORWOOD, Architect, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





The Hon. Sydney Fisher, who Canadian Building Ma-                          has recently returned from a visit

Canadian Building Materials for Japan.<article title=" Canadian Building Materials for Japan " author="">

to Japan in connection with the

exhibit which Canada is to have at the Osaka Exhibition, states that a market exists there for various lines of Canadian products natural and manufactured. These include lumber, furniture and sheet metal building material. The Japanese Minister of Education was greatly impressed with the adaptability to school building of the metal roofing and ceiling material forming part of the Canadian exhibit, and promised to send one of his architects to inspect it.

The result of a series of tests

	Brick Tests.	made to determine the weak

<article title=" Brick Tests " author="">

points of bricks under different conditions, was recently presented to the American Society of Civil Engineers in the form of a paper containing numerous tables and illustrated by photographs and diagrams. Tests were made for compression, tension, bending shear and torsion, the following being shown to be the order of increase in strength Tension, shear, torsion bending compression. Further the tests showed that water does not cause deterioration in strength, while reheating greatly improves the quality.

Effect of Climatic Conditions on Cost of Building.  The opinions of more than twenty-five representative Canadian architects and contractors as to

<article title=" Effect of Climatic Conditions on Cost of Building " author="">

the relative advantages and economy of finishing buildings in winter and summer, are printed in the present number. The subject is considered from every point of view. The letters make interesting and instructive reading, and should help to settle in the minds of building owners, architects and contractors, an important question on which there has hitherto been wide divergence of opinion. The consensus of opinion expressed by our correspondents is strongly in favor of the advantage of summer work. Many good and apparently sufficient reasons are given in support of this view, although the minority who hold to the opposite belief, are not without reasons to support their position. There are many questions of perhaps equal importance on which a comparison of experiences would be profitable.





The destruction of the Roosevelt

Fireproofing That is Not Fireproof.

that it is useless to spend money

<article title=" Fireproofing That is Not Fireproof " author="">

in fireproofing buildings unless every detail of the work is thoroughly done. This building was supposed to be

