<doctype type="text">over and under the windows and doors, during' heavy rain-storms. I have one or two stone buildings to erect, and would like if you would suggest some practical solution of this trouble that will enable me, and others, to "build in stone" satisfactorily ?



ANS. :—The underlying cause of all this trouble seems to us to be haste in finishing the building hence the first thing to be done, and without which all else is practically useless, is to '' make haste slowly." Time should be given the mortar to harden, the building to settle, and the cracks to show before the pointing is done. No stone house should be pointed the same year it is built, for two reasons First, the cement used in pointing forms a barrier to the evaporation of the moisture in the mortar in which the stone is laid, and prevents it from drying. The pointing, while keeping the moisture from coming out, will not prevent the frost from going in and freezing the mortar ; this will produce an expansion which causes the pointing to lose its grip on the mortar, and creates innumerable crevices through which the water easily finds its way. Secondly, all stone buildings, even when built in the most careful manner, have a tendency to settle. This settlement cracks the pointing, in many cases these cracks are so fine as to be scarcely visible, especially if some distance from the ground. But no cracks are too small for water to penetrate, driven with the force given it by the wind from an open sweep of miles, as it has in the country. It is absolutely essential, therefore that the mortar should have time to evaporate all its moisture and become thoroughly dry, and the building time to settle, before pointing. Houses built with stone and having all the windows arched solidly through the entire thickness of the wall with brick, seldom have water dropping from the soffit of the frame ; for if any water should beat through the stone work or cracks in same, the bricks having the power to absorb so much of the water, holds it while the rain lasts, and after it is over evaporates it to the outer air. When impracticable to use brick over the windows, from architectural or other reasons, a piece of sheet lead going through the entire thickness of the wall and extending about one foot each side of window, and turned up two inches on the side, will hold the water until it evaporates. A style of architecture much in use at this time necessitates exposed gables. These gables are usually finished so late in the season that the mortar has not time to dry before frost sets in, and in consequence the mortar freezes. Mortar once frozen loses its adhesiveness, and therefore has no life in it. The proper and only safe plan is to use Portland cement and sand (no lime) in all gables. This will set in one-tenth the time of lime mortar, and will be hard and dry before frost comes. All store gables that rise above the roof and are only protected by stone coping should have a sheet of lead to cover the entire wall put on under the coping. This lead should project over the inside of the wall and be turned down over the flushing of the roof. By this means all water that gets through the joints of the coping will be carried off. In conclusion, with care and a proper observance of the natural laws governing the materials used in its construction a stone building can be built in the present day just as tight ·as years ago, when people did not expect to excavate the

cellar in the spring- and move into the finished house in the fall.



From "Painter":—Will you kindly give me a few hints regarding the method of estimating for painting and oblige?

ANS.:	For this work we would suggest that you obtain a copy of "The Canadian Contractor's HandBook and Estimator" which will give you full particulars regarding estimating on painting. We publish the following however, which may assist you at the present ; painting is generally estimated by the superficial yard, and is very easily estimated when the number of square yards of surface to be covered is known. We will offer a few rules to assist iii the work of determining the square yards of surface to be painted in ordinary buildings :—Take the measurements, the distance around the house, and the height from bottom of sill to top of plate, in feet, arid multiply the two together for the square feet in the main body of the house. '1'o this add the feet in the gables, and also the feet in the cornice. The feet in the cornice can be found by multiplying the entire length of cornice by width, and which can be taken at 11/2 to 2 feet wide. After the square feet of surface have been Cound, divide by 9 to reduce to square yards. More or less difficulty may be found in figuring the square yards in estimating porch and veranda work. This may seem rather difficult to get at by many, but we will try to make it an easy matter to arrive at approximately the correct surface measurement. Multiply length in feet by width, and multiply this product by 21/2 to make up for the ceiling, cornice, columns, and if the roof is to be painted, multiply by 31/2 instead of 21/2 ; the amount will be in feet and must be reduced to yards. Inside finish :—Doors with their casings may be counted at 6 yards per door ; this includes both sides. Windows may be counted at 3 yards per window. The base in the average rooms, can be estimated at 4 yards per room, for medium size rooms, and yards for the larger rooms. The wainscoting of an ordinary kitchen can be placed at about 12 to 15 yards. The average bath room can be estimated at about 12 yards. A staircase may De estimated at about 12 to 15 yards. The cost of finish may be estimated at 14 cents per yard for two-coat work and 18 cents for three coats. These figures of cost, however, are only an average, as for plain work, the cost may be as low as 11 cents for two coats and 15 cents for three coats, while for graining or other costly work, it may be run up to 30 cents

per yard.	_________________







A plant for the manufacture of cement building blocks is being established at Westbourne, Man.

In order to aid master steam fitters in preparing more exact estimates, the large manufacturers of heating boilers in the United States have decided to allow full freight hereafter on shipments to central and eastern territory.

A method of splicing wire ropes for use on an 18 or 24-inch hoisting drum is to take a 6-in, piece of black iron pipe, which must be 1/4-in. larger in diameter than the wire rope, unravel the ends of the wire rope and insert into the pipe, so that the ends touch in the middle of the pipe. Stop up one end of the pipe around the rope either with putty, or if this is not at hand with common mud. Hold the rope and pipe in a vertical position and pour enough babbit metal in the pipe and around the ends of the rope to fill up the pipe completely and the result is a splice that is ready for immediate use and is as strong as the strongest part of the rope.

