<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



must generally be carried on long-span trusses, so as to restrict the number of posts and give as much freedom as possible in the arrangement of exhibits. There are no solid walls on which these trusses may be set; they must be supported by pillars front the ground up. The exterior walls are generally secured to these posts and these posts, with knee braces and trusses over them in one direction and portal bracings in the other direction, give to the structure its stability.



All foundations are built of timber, either cribbage or ground sills resting upon the natural solid ground, where the natural ground is not more than four or five feet below the established street grades of the exposition grounds, or upon piles, driven not less than 15 feet into the natural ground, where natural ground is too far below grade to make cribbage practicable or economical, or where the nature of the soil is not above suspicion, as in the basin of the lormer park lake, and the filled—in beds of the River des Peres and its numerous tributaries.

The entire framework for tile buildings is of wood, of small size sticks in close proximity shaped to the contours of the architectural exterior, and of massive heavy timbers for truss posts, trusses, knee spand rcl and sway-braces, etc.

<article title="The Builders' Exchange" author="">THE BUILDERS' EXGHANGE.* 

This is an era of development of organized effort in commercial and industrial life. Religious and political societies were coincident, with man's earliest activities. Fraternal and social bodies among all classes have existed for generations. in art and literature, science and travel, music and philosophy, during all ages, men have come together in organized effort, for mutual help ill their respective vocations. During all time, among all peoples, men have been drawn together in response to a feeling of common interest in a given cause.

Of all the pursuits of men which contribute to the world's progress and improvement, the vocation of the builder would seem to be pre-eminent. Our trade is made honorable and distinctive by divine example. ''Builder is significant of creation and development; of growth and advancement, hence in choosing our occupation, with its subsequent responsibilities, our unique position among the trades of men makes our possible power or influence for good in every direction, immeasurable.

The builder occupies the middle ground between the producer and the consumer. lie stands between the architect, manufacturer and dealer upon one side, and the artisan and owner upon the other. His example should be the standard of principle, insuring fair dealing and unquestioned business practice. Unfortunately there are evils peculiar to the building trades; evils which beset the path of the architect, the dealer and the contractor, offering to some irresistible temptation for larger profits and unfair advantages.

The voice of this Exchange is expressed in earn

*From an address by the President of the <assoc>Cleveland Builders' Exchange</assoc>

est protest against these evils, and every member should support the Exchange in its determination to maintain the dignity and honor of our trade.

Charity and generosity, virtues commonly conspicuous in mans relations with his home and his church, are oft times disregarded in his business dealings with his fellow men. Nothing is proof against human frailty, an element which must be reckoned with in business competition.

The mental capacity, or mental horizon, if you please, of men is hardly alike in two cases. Particularly among contractors, men have come into the trade from every possible condition and environment of earlier life. Many good contractors are of foreign birth and training, and are handicapped by natural conditions which do not lend themselves to a ready understanding of practice of the methods and customs of our country, It is not the rule that the man with the best education makes the best contractor.

Again, some men do not reach the front rank of popularity because of inherent personal characteristics. Business cares and responsibilities do not disturb tile mental poise or personal bearing of some men. it is not fair to take as the true measure of a fellow contractor or dealer, his natural characteristics alone, if he has a proper regard for good principles in business practice, coupled with responsibility and a sufficient knowledge of his chosen trade, he is entitled to just consideration.

In no other branch of business is competition more sharply waged than with the contractor and builder, hence the spirit of fair dealing and



fraternity should never be ignored. The influence of the Builders' Exchange in sustaining these virtues, is conceded and appreciated by all branches of trade.

Let us avoid unjust criticism amid fault finding. Our Exchange and every member is benefited by honest criticism which exposes weaknesses and suggests remedies. Let us not be destructive by fault finding, but rather constructive by seeking the strength and the weakness of our organization, and assisting to find a remedy for what is weak and joining with others in wisely directing its strength for our greatest mutual benefit.

Every member has some ideas of value to tile organization. The man who can give his ideas to others can better appreciate what he receives in return. I am hopeful that in the future a larger number of valuable, and heretofore silent, members will take an active part in Exchange affairs.

Let us regard the fundamental principles of our Exchange its declared principles; determine each and every one, to stand by these principles; to have the same fealty and respect for the principles of our Exchange that we accord tile general laws of the land which protect our property and society. Let the principles of our Exchange be the law that protects and dignifies our trade or calling, and insures to us the peaceful and profitable enjoyment of the results of our labor.

If the principles of the Exchange radiate and their light and precept and example permeate tile individual acts of every member, the full meas

