<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT I\ND BUILDER



A DEPARTURE IN HOT AIR HEATING.

<article title=" A DEPARTURE IN HOT AIR HEATING " author="">

Our readers will no doubt be interested in the paper printed in this issue by Dr. George M. Aylsworth, of Collingwood, describing a new method of heating, of which he is the inventor. In Dr. Aylsworth's system hot air is circulated through pipes and specially constructed radiators in the same manner as hot water is employed in hot water heating systems. The system is a distinct departure from the methods at present in use, and on that account alone is interesting. It remains to be seen whether in actual every day practice, it will fulfil the expectations of the inventor. In some rather severe tests which have already been made of the system by the inventor, it is said to have proved satisfactory. We would be pleased to publish the opinions of any of our readers with regard to this system.



WIRING METHODS AND MATERIAL.

<article title=" WIRING METHODS AND MATERIAL " author="">

We have previously had occasion to call attention to the crying need for improvement in the way in which electrical machinery and wiring is often installed, but the frequency with which cases of criminally careless work come to light, let alone those which at the best are but botchwork, would seem to indicate that the matter is in many cases being entirely lost sight of. As an example we would cite an installation which recently came under our notice in which a 2200 volt line was carried into the basement of a building, no lighter and no dryer than basements usually are, with ordinary weatherproof wire, run on knobs. At several points it had been necessary to insert connectors, parts of which extended to within two or three inches of each other and were not even taped over, notwithstanding that they were within easy reach of anybody passing, being but four or five feet from the floor. Further than this, ordinary lead composition fuse wire, bare, was in use. Compare the above with a proper equipment of rubber wire and enclosed fuses, the former run in conduit and the latter with their necessary connectors and mountings boxed in cabinets, and you will have some idea of its shortcomings. At an

other	installation,	a	woollen	mill,	with	its



usual contents of highly inflammable material occupying all parts of the building, to say nothing of the lint and dust which invariably accompany such processes, there was found the old familiar open lead fuse, some in cutouts with porcelain covers and some without even this slight protection. This meant that the blowing of one of them was almost certain to ignite the pile of material immediately below it, with ultimate results which can easily be imagined. Proper enclosed fuses, installed in cabinets, would have cost but a trifle more and would have made a fire of

electrical origin a remote possibility, instead of a large probability. Is it any wonder that when work such as found in the above instances is allowed to be put in, that the uninformed public, and for that matter, many who claim to be well posted, look askance at the proposal to introduce electric power. in the former of these cases the installation was a positive menace to life, and both offered every chance for a severe fire.



NOTES.



Under the direction of the Montreal Industrial Exhibition Association arrangements are being made to hold an important exhibition and fair in the city of Montreal in 1904.



An exhibit of Canadian building stone from the collection of the Geological Survey of Canada, was one of the interesting features of thc recent Dominion Exhibition in Toronto.



The Allith Manufacturing Company have leased the building formerly occupied by Leitch & Turnbull at Hamilton, Ont., and will engage in the manufacture of track door hangers and other kinds of hardware.



With the aid of a ginpole, instead of derricks or travellers, for hoisting materials, Chas. T. Caldwell, of Columbus, Ind., is said to have made a record for rapid construction on the St. Louis Fair Grounds. Within fifty days he is said to have completed the Agricultural Building, 1800 feet long by 600 feet wide.





Shingletint Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ont.





The Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville Ont.

