<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" FINISHINGS IN WOODWORK " author="Hodgson, Fred T.">

FINISHINGS IN WOODWORK.

BY FRED T. HODGSON.

More attention is now being given throughout the country to the artistic finishing of houses and fine business structures and more expert carving is done for the purposes named, the appearances indicate, than in the manufacture of furniture, which industry for a long time laid claim upon the greater share of this class of mechanical talent. The reasons for this may not be fully self-evident or patent, but it would seem that it is largely because the real value of hardwood in this direction had never been fully, realized or understood in this country, and because, also, the real high art in decorative architecture is scarcely native to American ingenuity and talent, which is famous in other ways, since there are oriental splendors in building and interior display in the palace-like habitations of many a pagan, or uncivilized native, which would never have been deemed possible of execution by our own designers, however artistic their eye, or however deft their touch.

Processes and appliances for producing excellent results are known to many European workmen, in whose breasts the secret of such achievements is firmly locked. DLI ring the past few years many of these expert operatives in wood-carving have come to Canada, and their superior abilities have begun to manifest themselves in the wood manufacturing industry of this country, and latterly, to a very marked extent, so that a renaissance in wood-working may be fairly said to have resulted. The importation and employment of this class of talent led to a responsive sentiment in the  community, or such channels of it as evidenced a sufficiently refined or artistic taste to appreciate and encourage a sensible and utilitarian form of art, which was experiencing an important enhancement of its excellence, and now quite a pronounced stimulus has been given the industry of wood-work for house finishing.

Many of our native woods readily yield to the carver's tools and lend themselves to the artistic development of Canadian workmen, and many of our young native workmen have rapidly attained a state of proficiency as advanced as that of our foreign born fel1ow subjects.

The very finest workmen, especially those in the possession of some secret processes of doing difficult work, receive wages as high as $6 a day. The average pay of good wood carvers is from $3 to $4 a day. The process of ebonizing cherry wood, for instance is a secret known only to the workman who does it. Even the members of the firm in which he is employed have no right to ask what his secret is. The fact that he can get a finer, more ebony-like surface than any other man gives him a high value at once. Although the use of mechanical devices for carving wood are so much disliked by the best workmen, that sandpaper is forbidden, machinery is now used to cut away the rough parts of a bit of carving. A peculiar tool driven on steam power eats out the wood wherever it goes, and thus a skillful man blocks out in a rough way as much work in a day as 20 men could have done formerly.

The delicacy and lightness of wood carving, and the good pay which fair workmen receive for it, have already attracted many Canadian apprentices, who, untrammelled by union rules, are making rapid headway, and promise to surpass the foreigners.

Oak, cherry, birch, walnut and maple are the favorite woods used for interior finishing, oak and cherry being the most popular. The latter of these is now becoming very scarce, while there appears to be no limit to oak. Red oak, when properly finished, makes very handsome work and is quite popular in some localities. The heart wood of beech, when skillfully treated, has a beautiful appearance, and it is a matter of surprise that it is not more generally employed in hardwood finishings. Perhaps, when birch and maple get scarce, beech will have its innings.



BY THE WAY.



The expeditious manner in which the construction of the King Edward Hotel, Toronto, was pushed through by the contractors, Messrs. Illsley & Horn, has been the subject of much favorable comment. It is a subject for particular regret therefore that the firm have not been rewarded by a substantial profit, such as their energy merited. On the contrary they lost so heavily by the transaction as to be obliged to ask the indulgence of their creditors.

x x x



Some of the persons who incite and engineer strikes of workmen as well as the workmen whom they represent, seem to be seriously afflicted with moral obliquity. As an example, I would refer the reader to the case of one Samuel Parks, a walking delegate for the bridge-men's union of New York. Parks was arrested charged with accepting from the Hecla Iron Works the sum of $2,000, as blackmail for having agreed to call off a strike at the company's works, yet the bridgemen's union to whose interests Parks appears to have played traitor, is said to have re-elected him by a large vote as the union's walking delegate.

x 



Difficulty has arisen between the architect of the King Edward Hotel, Toronto, and the New York artist who designed and painted the mural decorations. The courts have been asked to grant an injunction to prevent any person other than the author of the paintings from making changes in them. The architect states that the panels were made too large for the spaces they were to occupy, and that in attempting to fit them in position the artist or the workmen deliberately cut the canvas, and in so doing- mutilated the figures in the paintings. In an interview with a reporter the architect is reported to have said that the contractors for this work seemed to think that any-thing was good enough for Canada. The significance of this remark should not be lost upon Canadian architects who may be tempted to go abroad for skill which could probably be found at home. Some of our Canadian artists have done creditable work in the line of mural decoration, and the question is asked why was not the opportunity given them to submit sketches for these panels? It would have greatly added to the interest of this costly building if, as far as possible, it had been given a distinctively Canadian character, instead of being made a replica of the great hostelries of the United States. One of the charms to the traveller is to be brought into contact with distinctive national characteristics, as exemplified in architecture, social, customs, etc., differing from those to which he has been accustomed.

