<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

A correspondent writes from Hanover, Ont.

A month ago I received your communication with regard to a paper that could be pasted on glass, to give it the appearance of colored glass. I wrote to the Cloisonne Glass Company, London, Eng. and find that it is real glass 1/4 inch thick that they sell. I have found out however where it can be got, and thought that you might find it convenient to know. Messrs. A. Ramsay & Son, Montreal, have a line of, "crystographs" in sheets 16"x 21" which they sell at $1.50 per dozen.

C. C. Sharpe, Montreal, have "crystographs" 22"x 28", 50c. each. Leo. Popper & Sons, Importers, Sullivan

street, New York, have small pictures in sizes 8" X 10,

	etc.,	$2.50

12 X12 , 12"x 18"	which are	up to

each. They can also sell a running pattern at from 10c. to 15c. per square foot. This style comes in rolls containing 40 square feet.



<article title=" CONSTRUCTION OF FIRE-PLACES " author="">



CONSTRUCTION OF FIRE-PLACES.



The following is published in reply to the enquiry of Bricklayer," printed in the intercommunication columns of this number.

Properly constructed, durable, and safe fire-places



Fig. 1



























































THE FIRE-PLACE,

Showing Tiles Placed Against Brick Backing.





should be built substantially as shown in the following illustrations. Fig 1 represents the fire-place, and shows the tiles placed against brick backing, (2). Number 6, the frame, as will be seen, should lap the tiles and the edge of fire brick, (4). The fire-brick (4), (5), should be laid flat, and a mortar-joint made of good bricklayer's mortar.



The common brick (3) back of tiles should be laid in mortar. The mortar should be spread over the entire surface, between bricks, and fill in between fire and common brick with bats and mortar to make smoke tight.

Fig. 2, showing section of fire-place, (2) shows face of chimney, (3) shows brick-work over fire-place supported by iron bars (10). No. (9) shows the throat of flue.

Fig 3, showing ground plan of fire-place and chimney. (1) is wall line; (2) is chimney breast; (3) common brick; (4) and (5), fire brick laid flat; the fire-brick when laid on edge make a job that is very unstable, the brick when heated being easily broken or knocked loose by a careless person or by any one striking them with a poker in poking the fire.

The only excuse for setting fire-brick on edge is that a few cents may be saved. But when repairs are paid





Fig. 2

































































THROAT OF FLUE,

Showing Brick Wall Over Fire-Place.





for year after year, the apparent saving becomes a constant source of expense and annoyance.











Fig. 3





































































GROUND PLAN,

Showing Fire Brick Laid Flat.





Showing the only safe way to prepare for a fire-place foundation. This rests entirely on brick (F), and has an

