<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NEW STREET ENTRANCE TO CITY ARCADES, BIRMINGHAM.



<article title=" BUILDING MATERIALS AT THE LONDON BUILDING TRADES EXHIBITION " author="">

BUILDING MATERIALS AT THE LONDON BUILDING TRADES EXHIBITION.



Our representative in charge of our British office, 22 Great St. Helens, London, E.C., has sent us particulars of some of the exhibits of building materials and appliances shown at the Building Trades Exhibition held in London last month. Out of the large number of exhibits have been selected for mention those which were thought to be adapted for use in Canada and which might therefore be supposed to have an interest for the readers of this Journal. In interviews with the firms whose exhibits are mentioned below, our representative learned that it is their desire to obtain suitable agents in Canada with whose assistance they might be enabled to place their goods on the Canadian market and make their merits known in this country. The firms in question are of first-class standing, and manufacturers' agents in this country would do well to open correspondence with them. By so doing, either direct or through our London office, they would be assisting the present movement for closer trade relations with Great Britain and at the same time would no doubt establish for themselves profitable business connections.

Mellowes & Company, Limited, Corporation street, Sheffield. —This exhibit consists of a wooden structure entirely glazed on Mellowes' patent "Eclipse" system. The bars which support the glass consist of a steel bar entirely encased in a tin lead cover,































having webs on either side, which are rubbed down on to the glass (see sketch). Contraction and expansion are amply allowed for. No paint or asbestos is required, and no maintenance is necessary. It was learned that the glazing has been in use for 22 years, and is absolutely waterproof.

The Newellite Glass Tile Company, Limited, 139 Cannon street, London, E. C., exhibited their glass tiles, a perfect wall lining, with a clean impervious surface, unaffected by frost or weather, and absolutely free from the defect known as surface cracking or crazing. The nature of the key is a matter of the greatest moment, and if the tile is to be relied on, this key must be elastic, because the glass expands and contracts much more than the cement on which it is fixed. They claim the key of the "Newellite" Tile is of this elastic nature, enabling the glass to yield to the action of the cement to which it is affixed, while at the same time most firmly secured. The company are prepared to accept orders under the most exacting guarantee of durability, or on contracts of approved magnitude they will agree to a 10 per cent, retention for a period of two years from the completion of the work.

The stone exhibited by Messrs. Mackay & Davies, Cardiff, is known as the Blue Pennant. It is of a deep blue color and well adapted to all kinds of engineering, architectural, and surveyors work on account of its even grain, exceptional solidity and great resistance to crushing. As regards weathering properties, it is very hard and durable and is largely used and highly spoken of for curbing, channelling and paving purposes. It can be supplied in large blocks sawn for steps, landings, sills, etc. The specific purity of the stone is 2.68 and percentage of water absorbed after 24 hours immersion is only 0.28.



The exhibit of Messrs. Joseph Place & Sons, Limited, Darwen, consisted of white, colored and salt enamelled bricks. The white glazed bricks have a heavy glaze with a perfectly even surface and are in this respect specially noticeable. The colors are in great variety, every shade of color being exhibited and it is now possible to match almost any color that may be desired. The salt glazed bricks are especially noticeable because of the richness of the glaze and the uniformity of the coloring; these salt glazed bricks have now reached an excellence of quality which is seriously affecting the enamelled brick trade, and, which produce a wall having variety without shadiness as compared with the flat uniformity of enamelled bricks.



The Velvril Company, Limited, 29 New Bridge street, London, E. C., made an exhibit of Velvril paint which is said to contain no lead or linseed oil; it is supplied ready for use, is easy to work, quick drying, gives a smooth hard surface, is not affected by atmospheric influence, is elastic, durable, does not fade or blister, and is perfectly waterproof and non—corrosive. It is suitable for use on iron, steel, wood, cement, etc., also for all kinds of decorative work. Velvril priming paints and varnishes are specially prepared for use with the paint. The company would be pleased to receive applications for the Canadian agency.



Major & Company, Sculcoates, Hull, exhibit the effects of their wood preserving stain "Solignum" in a most effective manner. Their stall consisted of a model half timber house in an enclosure, a railing and gate in front separating it from the gangway. All tile half timber work of the house was treated with the medium and dark shades of Solignum, and looked very well, these two shades being most suitable for this class of work. To exemplify its effect as a preservative, three post ends were exhibited which had been buried in the ground for four years. The post ends untreated with Solignum shows considerable rotting, whereas those treated with one and two coats were perfectly sound. Though largely used on all kinds of woodwork in England, there is believed to be still wider scope for Solignum in the colonies and other countries where timber buildings are more in vogue and where in consequence of the severe climatic conditions wood is more liable to perish. It is being used in South Africa and Australasia in ever increasing quantities and with great satisfaction. It renders wood impervious to the attack of the white ant, and is a reliable preventative against dry rot. There should be a great future for Solignum in Canada.



Messrs. Sissons Bros. & Company, Limited, Hull, showed on a screen some charming examples of wall decoration in Hall's washable distemper in conjunction with their white Japan paint. In these schemes of decoration the colors are of the utmost delicacy and bear ample testimony to the value of the distemper as a decorative material, to say nothing of its hygienic qualities, which are of course obvious. It is perhaps necessary to say that the distemper can be had in any color.



Newell Bros., 192 Grosvenor Terrace, Camber well, London, S. E., showed specimens of their tiles and sanitary wall linings, including the opal glass tiles for which are claimed, as specialities, super-

