<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Chimney Design and Construction" author="">CHIMNEY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.



A British contemporary remarks that it is unusual to think that a chimney has in itself ability to create a draught, but this is not true. Force is always needed. usually it is heat; in some cases a fan or other machine gives the motion, or external air movements induce the currents. The chimney is merely a tube—the place in which the results of energy are manifested, and without some external power there can be no draught. When there is a current up or down an unused line, it will be found that the air of the house is warmer or cooler than that outdoors, or the sun's rays may be warming the chimney especially. The amount of current in the line depends on the difference of density between the air within the line and that outdoors. Just as the balance falls when one side is heavier than time other, so the lighter column of air rises from the pressure of denser and colder air. It is pushed up by the heavier volume.

The architect's work is to make easy the operation of currents. There must be a convenient entrance for the rarefied air from the fireplace to the flue, and this throat, as it is called, would best slope at an angle of 45 degs. The line must be built in proportion to the size of the fireplace, and must have as much volume as possible in proportion to its wall area. The surface of a wall exerts an enormous amount of resistance, and especially when there are turns, bends, or changes in size.

Flue linings are desirable, not alone for their

protection against fire, but because of their smooth surface and their uniform size. In fact, a rough brick line, in. x 8 in., when lined be-conies 6 in. x 6 in., and although the cross section is not much more than half, the draught is almost equally as good. The shape of the fine must be such as to give a large area, with little friction. Thus a circular fine is better than a



square one, and a square better than an oblong rectangle. A triangle is bad, for, with but half the area of a square', it has 85 per cent. of time wall surface. The corner spaces, moreover, soon fill with soot, so as to reduce the original area rapidly.

The flues of old-fashioned city houses, wide and shallow, are especially bad. 'Thus, 4 in. by i6

in.	is no larger than 8 in. by 8 in., yet it has 25 per- cent. more wall surface, and 50 per cent.

more exposure to the outside cold.

It is always best to have the chimneys in interior walls, as then more heat is radiated to rooms adjoining time flues and less is taken from the smoke. With an outside exposure, tile cooling of the smoke seriously reduces draught of the flue. With an interior flue, of course, the more exposed tile brickwork the more heat will he received in time house from the chimney, which is not a good feature for a kitchen flue in summer. The size of the flue in cross section should be one-twelfth, or possibly as small as one-fifteenth, the area of the fireplace opening. Soft coal requires a proportion of one to ten.

The chimney must he as high as the highest

point of the house, and if there are any high objects near, there will still be trouble when winds are blowing across tile chimney toward those objects. In mountainous places a fireplace will inevitably smoke in certain winds though of course, an increase in the height of the chimney will help. Except that they increase the height of the opening, chimney tops or cowls do little good. It is not so much the direction of the wind that is disastrous to the draught, but an increase in density of tile atmosphere at the place of obstruction. 'This heavy atmosphere, seeking an outlet to relieve the pressure, goes down the flue and causes a "down-draught."

There is one other feature required for the free burning of a grate-fire, amid that is a source of air to supply or replace the draught. It is evident that the air passing up time chimney must be replaced. One cannot suck air out of a bottle. If the furnace, is running it supplies a volume of air and immaterially helps time draught. In time usual case, the air comes through cracks around the doors and windows, and if there be no cracks time draught is checked. The well-built house is more apt to have smoky fireplaces than the cheap contract house. To supply the draught either use some of time grates that are constructed on this principle, or arrange a similar system. Here, too, the wind has an effect on time fire. 'The side of time house on which the wind blows is under more than normal pressure, and there is a natural exit up the flues of the rooms on one side. On the other hand, the lee-side is subject to suction, and time fireplaces here have this to overcome, or smoke pulls down time flue and into the room.



<article title="Materials Used and Natural Laws which Govern the Building of Great Exposition Structures" author="">MATERIALS USED AND NATURAL LAWS WHICH GOVERN THE BUILDING OF GREAT EXPOSITION STRUCTURES.

The materials amid methods within which time architectural amid the construction problems are solved are here briefly stated.

The in asses and details of time designs are represented and rendered iii plaster amid staff applied to wood sheathing, furring, studding, etc. the latter backed and braced according to needs, by heavier timber and steel framing. All the

pedestals, bases, columns, plasters, antae, archivolts, architraves, friezes, cornices, panels, vaulted, groined amid domed ceilings, pendentives, medallions, consoles, brackets, niches, parapets, archials, balustrades, spandrels, arches, coffers, caissons, gargoyles, diaphragms, obelisks,

globes pavilions, pylons, turrets, trophies, fountains arid what not, which the architects have used in their compositions, require a bewildering mass of light framework approaching the general contours of the architectural for-iris.

When time architectural figures are finished in plaster all(l staff, they merely . 'represent'' masses, while they are only a light shell mounted on wood forums. These shells rise to such respectable heights that special care is required to brace them against buckling, crushing or overturning by wind. Time roofs of these buildings

