<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT I\ND BUILDER



The settlement curves of the Masonic Temple 300 ft. high are shown on preceding page.

The first vertical row of figures on the left give the number of the column, the next row the inches of settlement, and the other spaces on the right show the years covered by the observations. You will note that the settlement is not great for about 2 months after foundations were put in place, but as the building went up, and the loads on the footings increased the curve becomes very much sharper. You will also note that the greatest variation in the settlement of the columns occurred at the start when the difference in loads was greater, afterwards the settlement becomes almost uniform, changing at north-east corner when the smoke stack at column 19 was increased in height, causing an increased settlement at this point.

No settlement has taken place in the past 5 months as shown by the horizontal lines. It is, however, questionable whether any of the very high buildings ever entirely stop settling owing to the effect of the wind against them. The prevailing winds in Chicago come from the west and south-west, and the higher buildings when they lean at all, invariably lean east.

The Great Northern theater hotel and office building was erected east of the <building>Great Northern Hotel </building>built several years before. The hotel has a court in the center of the east side, and the theater of the new building adjoining the court on the west.

Heavy fire walls separate it from the office and hotel portions. These walls, each weighing, with the floor loads, 60,000 pounds per lineal foot, meet the east wall of the present Great Northern hotel at right angles. This east wall had been originally designed as a party wall, and its footing had been constructed strong enough to carry a floor load from each side. The end of the theater wall, where it meets the east wall could not rest on the footing of the latter, which projects 9 feet 6 inches, as it would overload the footing, being only on one side, besides being too great a load. The old building had also practically stopped settling, and the new one would probably settle 10 to 12 inches. The floor load, however, from the east side had never been put upon this footing, and in addition it was deemed safe to load it somewhat higher than it had been originally, as the east wall, fourteen storeys high, had been resting upon it for four years. Plate girders were placed lengthwise in the theater wall, with their ends projecting through the old wall, and resting on 36 ton hydraulic jack-screws, which in turn were supported by I beams lying on the footing and parallel to the old wall. The plate girders were of such a length and so located as to transfer to the old footing the desired weight. The screws were raised to their full height, so that they could be lowered 14 inches if necessary. As the new building settled these screws were run down at regular intervals until the settlement stopped. Levels are being taken on the building. After the settlement has entirely ceased the screws will be surrounded with concrete and left.

A rather curious example of foundation exists at Duluth.  <firm>The Duluth General Electric Company</firm> very recently installed a 1,000 k.w. dynamo, and the vibration caused by it affected buildings 500 feet away. The vibration of a 5 storey building over 500 feet away was very perceptible. The building is close to the bay, and I found on examination that the ground is swamp and made ground, down to about 16 feet, where a hard strata is found. This made ground is filled with water and transmits vibrations in waves.

The buildings are built on piles driven into the hard ground, but the top 16 feet are entirely unsupported laterally. One building, however, also about 500 feet away, was found to have no vibration whatever, and it developed that when the foundations of this building were put in the whole area was excavated down to the hard ground and filled with sand to the top of the ground.

In order to avoid the excessive and long continued settlement due to spread foundations, piles were used, and latterly concrete caissons going down to the shale

overlaying the rock, or going clown to the rock itself are supplanting both. When it is not found feasible to go clear to the rock the caissons are belied out at the bottom, generally to twice the diameter of the caisson itself: that is a 6' caisson is belied out to a diameter of 12 feet on the bottom and the angle of the slope of the bell is about 30 degrees with the vertical. Where the caissons go to reck the belling is not necessary. The caissons are made by digging down from 4 to 6 feet, just as a well is dug, and then lining up the shaft with wooden lagging, the strips vertical, held in place by iron hoops made adjustable. Then another section is excavated and lagging put in, and so on down. When bottom is reached concrete is put in, and lagging removed one section at a time until hole is filled.

One building now being erected will rest on about 90 caissons from 7 to 10 feet in diameter, carried down to rock which is from 100 to 104 feet below surface of ground.

A large State Street department store now occupying a 6-storey building, has just started to tear down the old building, and erect a 16-storey building in its place. The foundations for the new building, however, are all now in place, and have been put in during the past three months. Over 60 concrete caissons from 6o to 8o feet deep have been built without disturbing the old building, and without the knowledge of the thousands of shoppers who daily filled all the floors above. In some cases it was necessary to shore up the of building, and take out an old basement pier and put a caisson directly under it. At night the material excavated during the day was taken up to the street through an opening in the sidewalk, and hauled away in wagons.

Concrete caissons and piles are often used in foundations of some buildings.

There is no settlement when caissons are used beyond that due to the shrinkage of the material while being put in place.

The use of concrete either in large masses, or reinforced by steel has made great strides in the past few years and continues to grow in favor.

The drainage canal used it in immense quantities and in some cases in a very bold manner.

These two views show a recent concrete structure, for the <building>Economy Light & Power Company at Joliet, Illinois.</building> <firm>Economy Light & Power Company at Joliet, Illinois.</firm>



The next (not shown) shows steel cylinders filled with concrete. These cylinders are 7 feet in diameter, 52 feet high above the masonry and carry the ends of two 380 feet spans. The masonry piers are only stone on the outside, the stone being 24 to 30 inches thick, and the interior is concrete.

I have here three samples of concrete. Numbers

and 2 were taken from foundations of the L.S. & M.S. & C.R.I. & P.R.R.'s at Van Buren Streets which were put in about 31 years ago.

Sample No. 3 is about 8 months old, and is taken from the foundations of the new station now being erected.

The old station was built with limestone walls. When the building was torn down this limestone was put through a crusher, and the concrete of which this sample is made is from the limestone just as it came from the crusher without screening.

