<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" RELATIVE COST OF DOING WORK IN WINTER AND SUMMER " author="Gouinlock, George">

RELATIVE COST OF DOING WORK IN WINTER AND SUMMER.

A difference of opinion seems to exist among architects and builders as to whether the inside work on a building can be done more cheaply in winter than in summer, and whether a contractor is justified in submitting lower tenders for such work to be done in winter. The arguments pro and con will be found in the following letters recently received from representative architects and contractors throughout Canada:

TORONTO, April 29th, 1Q03.



I consider the contractor is justified in submitting a lower tender for work on a building to be executed in the winter season. At the same time my experience and observation has been that a client who is obliged to pay for caretaker and for fuel during the construction, also for loss of interest on the work, does not save anything thereby. My advice in future will be for my client to make as early a start as possible in the Spring, and excepting strikes, I think that his work would cost less and he would be farther ahead by thc end of the season.



GEO. W. GOUINLOCK.





TORONTO, April 30th, 1903.



With respect to plastering in winter or summer months would say that. tile extra cost for plastering in winter as against summer is about 2 per cent., but occasionally a contractor being slack and wanting to keep his men employed will cut the figure a little fur that particular purpose. This does not include furnishing heat which would still add about 4 per cent.



J. M. GANDER.





MONTREAL, April 30th, 1903.



As to the comparative advantage of doing inside iron work in Winter or summer, we may say that according to our experience there is very little difference. There may be an apparent difference in lower wages in tile Winter, hut taking the cold into account, which frequently prevents men from doing their best, and the cost of heating, which is a large item, it brings the cost of producing the work up to the highest summer level. In summer wages are somewhat higher, but the conditions are more favorable for doing work, and men will accomplish more than in the winter therefore we consider that there is no difference from point of cost in either winter or summer.

H.	R. IVES & Co.





MONTR EAL, April 30th, 1903.



As a result of an experience of sixteen years in the business, I am prepared to say that inside work on buildings of the fireproof class can be done cheaper in winter than in summer, and as far as terra cotta fireproofing is concerned, the winter job is both better and cheaper.



Arid I have every reason to say that terra cotta fireproof arches, and partitions that are built in winter with  reasonable amount of care are certainly stronger and better in every sense than it the same class of work was done in summer time especially if the terra cotta blocks are kept dry. I claim that there is a better unity between the cement mortar and the blocks than could possibly be obtained in the summer time. I claim this from the reason that the arches in the roof of the Royal Electric SubStation in Montreal were placed in position in the month of February 1902 and the plasterers plastered the ceiling in March— the following month—the said roof was about 60 ft. in the clear above the ground floor and the contractor experienced no difficulty whatever. And also the floor arches, the roof, the partitions, etc., of thc Guardian building of this city were placed in position between October and February and no doubt the workmen made a better average per nine hours day, and the work is certainly better than could be obtained if it had been done in the summer.

N.	T. GAGNON





LONDON, ONT., April 30th, 1903.



With reference to difference in the cost of doing the inside Work on a building in winter and summer, would say my opinion, from past experience, is that the work can be done more cheaply in summer for several seasons. In the first place it is necessary to keep fires going to keep the building warm in winter, and we

have found that this occupies a considerable portion of the time of at least one man. The fire would invariably be allowed to go out during the night, and have to be put on fresh in the morning, which would mean that the house would be too cold for working for perhaps an hour or more, In addition to this the days being much shorter ill winter, it is often impossible for the workmen to see the work properly after 4.30 in the afternoon, whereas in summer there is no objection of this kind. Of course the wages paid are the same per hour summer or winter, so there is no difference in that respect.

S.	STEVELY.



LONDON, ONT., April 30th, 1903.



Replying to yours of the 29th, I would say no, the inside work on a building cannot be done more cheaply in winter than in summer, because labor costs the same in winter as in summer From my own experience, at times I have taken work lower in winter to keep my men employed.

Regarding finishing a house in winter I think the work is much better done, and more satisfactory to the proprietor, as the building must be heated, which dries out the timbers, and with our present heating system greater care has to be taken to prevent shrinkage. A good house I always recommend to be finished in the winter.

WM. TYTLER.



MONTREAL, May 1st, 1903,



I cannot see the economy there may be, in doing inside work in winter instead of summer. Inside work may be considered to be Plaster work, joinery, painting and glazing, plumbing, gas, electricity, heating.



Plumbing, gas, electricity, heating could be done any time and the quality may not suffer thereby. As to strict economy I don't believe there is ally, as working hours are shorter in winter than summer and the wages are as high in winter as summer. It is very well known, at least here in Montreal, that although plaster work is done all through winter, it does not give so good a job and the expense for heating while the work goes on must be added to the regular price.



And should working hours apply just as well to that trade as to others

As to joinery work, short hours apply, and to have real good work heating must be used, consequently adding to the expense



I don't believe there is any economy on that head. Painting, although not so much affected as joinery from the cold and moist weather, is not I believe done more economically in winter than an summer. As a whole, winter work is a necessary evil, that's all.



Jos. VENNE, Architect.



MONTREAL, May 2nd, 1903.



In reply to your equiry I am of the opinion that the season is no factor in prices. Formerly it was so, when wages were lower in the winter.



WM. E. DORAN, Architect.





LONDON, ONT., May 1st, 1903.



My business it is all outside work and from 26 years experience I find that winter work does not pay unless I get more money for the work than I do in thc summer.

JOHN WHITTAKER.





TORONTO, May 2nd, 1903.



Inside work 1 think, cannot be done with less cost to the contractor in winter than in summer, but it is frequently done I am sure with less cost to the owner, for the simple reason that the contractor, to keep things moving in slack time, takes work cheaper. Every architect is familiar with the carpenter's expression, "Well, we're not very busy now, and could do work cheaper than if left till spring." Whether a contractor is justified in submitting lower tenders in the winter than in summer depends on the facilities of the individual contractor. As the conditions under which the work is done in winter vary more than in summer some would be justified while others would not, in taking work cheaper.



HENRY SIMPSON.



TORONTO, May 2nd, 1903.



In answer to your question I would say that in my opinion work can be done more cheaply in summer at the present time, Some years ago during the dull times workmen were willing to

