<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Intercommunication" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]



From R. D. McD. : You were good enough to answer my question concerning mitres, last month, and I now come again with another question that I am sure will interest many readers besides myself. Isn't there some way to lay out roofs and obtain the bevels and lengths of rafters without a draft, by aid of thc steel square?

ANS —An expert in the use of the steel square re

cut On the same cuts. This is quite simple and ought to be easily understood.



From ''Bricklayer": I have been asked to make a "squinch " corner in a little brick parsonage I am building—I have 110 architect's plans to guide me, as I am working after a pencil plan figured out by the



quires no drawing or template for laying out rafters. By a proper application of the square, he can obtain exact lengths and bevels for all kinds of common rafters, hips, valleys and jack rafters. While it is impossible to give a treatise on the subject in the space allotted to this department, as it would take up too much, yet we offer the following. which gives a fair idea of the use of the square for the purpose.

A quick way is to take the rise and run of the root on the square as shown in Fig. 1, which illustrates a roof 25 ft. wide and a rise 10 ft. in. Run 12 ft. 6 in. measure across the square from 103/4 to 121/2 gives 161/2 or 16 ft. 6 in. as the length of rafter.

Fig. 2. If the run of common rafter is 121/2, the run of the hip will be diagonal of 121/2, which is 178/12, as plainly illustrated.

Fig. 3. As the rise is 103/4 and run 178/12 the length will be 2Oft. 2in.

Fig. 4. When a roof must go to a certain height to strike another building at a given point, as in additions, porches, etc., don't forget in getting the rise from plate to given point to allow the squaring up of



heel as illustrated ; and also remember to allow for ridge whenever one is used.

Fig. illustrates the cut of top of 5 pitch rafter for root just mentioned. To apply the square, first lay it on 12 and 6 which is 1/4 pitch and gives plumb cuts, from plumb cut lay off pitch of main roof 10 3/4 and 12 1/2 which gives cut.

Anyone that has studied this with a determination will have no trouble in framing any ordinary roof, as the general principles apply to all roofs, pitches, etc. Remember all sheathing, studding, cornice, etc., are

owner and myself. I do not know that I have a clear conception of what a ''squinch corner" is, and will be pleased to get some pointers on the subject?

ANS.— -" Squinch" is an old name for a corner cupboard. In Gothic architecture the term is applied to the arches thrown across the angles of a square building to bring it to an octagon, as when a square tower has to be prepared to carry an octagon spire. Tile spaces under the arches have a fanciful resemblance to corner cupboards, whence probably tile term. We are afraid it you have never done this kind of work before, you will meet with considerable difficulty in getting in



your squinch properly, particularly if you have any weight above to carry. In all cases of this kind an architect's drawing should be provided.



From " Country Builder" : Is there any danger attached to acetylene gas generators and attachments for farm houses?

ANS.—The danger rests with the foolishness or carelessness of the user. Artificial lights should not be taken into generator houses. Carbide must not be stored ill cellars, hut in the generator house or other

FIG. 5.



outside building where artificial lights are not taken. If an acetylene burner is turned on long enough, say some hours (and not lighted), it would be possible to have an explosion if a light was then taken into the

room. This is practically all that can be said. The I few accidents that have happened are all clearly trace. 

