<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT IXND BUILDER



air space (6) under the brick arch. Over brick arch a concrete (E) of gravel, sand and cement should be put in, level-off at a sufficient distance below level of floor to admit of' the cement (D) and tile hearth (C) to be placed. (I) in Fig. 4 represents floor (H) is the joist















<article title=" FIRE-PLACE FOUNDATION " author="">

FIRE-PLACE FOUNDATION,

Showing the only Safe Method of Making tile Same.





and (J) the header, which should be twenty-four inches from plaster face of chimney (13).

Fig. illustrates the vicious, but common way of repairing to support the fire—place and hearth. This is one which causes, on a low estimate, one hundred fires in United States and Canada every month during the winter. In this cut the joist (G) is shown running under the fire—place and resting on the wall (B); it is cut down a few inches; boards (F) are nailed on and a course of brick (E) laid on them; on these brick a course of sand

COVERING TURRET WITH LEAD.<article title=" COVERING TURRET WITH LEAD " author="">

In reply to a correspondent of the English Plumber and Decorator Mr. J. Wright Clarke writes

With a roof as shown by the figure there is always a difficulty in making the lead rolls on the intersections water-tight especially on the lower parts. To make a really good job it is advisable to have seam, instead of wood rolls; and to prevent the lead bagging between the rolls it will be necessary to have secret tacks soldered on the backs of the bays, the tacks to be nailed to counterstrikings in the woodwork as the bay is unrolled in its position.

The bay can be covered in either one or two pieces, as the total length is not very great. If two pieces are used the horizontal laps should miss each other, or unsightly bumps will show on the roll by having several thicknesses in one place. The bays should he cut to exact size with over-and under-clock margins, which should be folded inward and then dressed flat, the bays then to be placed in position and the folded sides worked up to form the rolls.

If secret tacks are used, the lead, after folding down the edges to be turned over the rolls, should have the tacks sweated on the bank-side and bent to the shape of the roof, and loose end left for nailing the lead to be then turned face-side upwards and rolled up lengthwise from the top to the bottom. The piece should be then













<article title=" DANGEROUS SUPPORT FOR FIRE-PLACE " author="">



DANGEROUS SUPPORT FOR FIRE-PLACE.

Showing Defects and the Cause of Much Loss from Fires.





and cement is usually laid and the cement and tiles laid on top. If the boards (F), being wet and swelled when brick and mortar are put on, dry out gradually, shrinking and opening cracks in joints between brick and through cement, and loosening the tiles, heat readily strikes down through the cracks and chars the boards and soon the wood becomes like tinder and ignites.

If all fire-places were built as in Fig 4 there would be almost a total freedom from fires from defective construction or criminal heedlessness or stupidity.

<article title=" TAKING STAINS OUT OF BRICKS " author="">

TAKING STAINS OUT OF BRICKS. --For removing efflorescence



thc white powder that comes out of brick, the Painters' Magazine advises to sponge the bricks with a mixture of equal parts of hydrochloric acid and water, Iet it dry and then wash with clear water, but let them dry thoroughly before painting. If the stains are from oil paint or oil stain, mix two parts whiting, one part

soft soap and one part potash to a paste with boiling water, apply this paste in heavy layers to the stained parts and let it remain a few hours, remove the dried paste and clean the bricks first with soap and water, then with clear water.

In reply to a correspondent who asked what material should be used as a binder for Portland cement that is to be employed as a size in paint form on walk of brick, concrete or stone, a recent issue of Headquarters has thc following The cement is mixed with water, to which is added a portion of lime water and salt.

The proper proportions are One pint of lime water to 7 pints of soft water and 2 ounces of salt. Enough cement is stirred in to make a paint of such consistency that it may he. spread conveniently with a wall brush. If coloring is desired, add hematite red in powdered form for red, hematite brown for brown, yellow ochre for buff and whiling for gray or slate color. Very good for new or damp walk.

placed in position and the tacks nailed, using copper nails, as the bay is being unrolled. It is advisable to srut the lower portion of the lead bays to hold them tight to the roof until the rolls have been turned.





The only safe way to obtain a perfectly harmonious contrast



in colours is to apply them, when mixed to the actual position

they are to occupy when thc scheme of decoration is completed.

A series of colours that may look very well indeed when used in

a dimly lighted room will often appear very objectionable when

exercised to a brilliant light.



Ordinary paints, when coated on any heated surface, as boiler chimneys, smoke-boxes, cylinder ends, usually blister and fall from the work. The following preparations, according to the Painters and Decorators Magazine, will be found very efficient for this class of work :-.—Procure 3 lbs. lampblack, 3 lbs. blacklead,

lb. black oxide of magnese, 1 pint japan gold size, half-pint turpentine, and pint boiled linseed oil. Powder the blacklead and mix all the ingredients well together to a uniform consistency, and apply two coats as ordinary paints. This preparation will be found very durable, and will not turn white or grey when exposed 10 excessive heat, the same as ordinary black paints. Procure 2 lbs. black oxide of magnese, 3 lbs. blacklead, 9 lbs. terra alba. Mix well together and pass through a fine sieve, then mix to the required consistency with the following preparation:—10



parts silicate of soda (soluble glass), 1 part glucose, 4 parts water, This may be used in a similar manner to the above. It is invaluable to ship and locomotive painters.

