<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



curate proportions and furnished at building ready for use with the addition of water only. To save cost of transportation, some are delivered ready to use by mixing with sand and water. Owing to the increased cost of this material, thinner grounds are used.

28.	WOOD FIBRE PLASTER made in Toronto by the Imperial Plaster Co. is the best and most general in use here. It is supplied ready for use by adding water only.

29.	PARISTONE made by the Alabastine Co., Paris, Ont., is supplied without sand and contains no hair or fibre.

30.	ROCK WALL PLASTER made by the Albert Manufacturing Co., Hillsborough, N.B., is supplied without sand.

It is advisable to specify these materials to be used as directed by the manufacturers.

31.	PATENT OR HARD PLASTERS make only the base or rough coats. Good stucco or float finish work may be done with them but all depend upon lime putty or white rock finish for a trowelled coat.

33.	BLACKBOARDS. — Potter's Blackboard Material made by the Soapstone Finish Co., Chester Depot, Vt., is generally used. Some contractors have their own compounds and methods. They should be black, hard, smooth, but free from shine or polish.

<article title="Description of Work Done in Plastering" author="">DESCRIPTION OF WORK DONE IN PLASTERING.



1.	RENDERING is a good coat of hair mortar on brick or stone walls before lathing.

2.	BACK PLASTERING is lathing and plastering with one good coat of hair mortar on any framework which may be required before regular lathing is done. Back plastering, when done between timbers, is a slow and expensive process. It is better to lath and plaster the timbers and re-strap lath and plaster, as this method gives complete separation of woodwork.

3.	DEAFENING is a body of plastic material laid on boards fixed between joists of a floor, composed of lime screenings and cinder or ashes, or lime and mill shavings, about 2" thick. The use of cement in deafening is a detriment, as when made hard the deafening properties are destroyed.

4.	WOOD LATHING should have joints broken every twelfth lath nailed 3-8" apart for ceiling work and 1/4" apart for wall work. Ends butted, no vertical lath allowed.

5.	METAL LATH should have bearing, not exceeding

12 centres nailed on with flat headed nails for either metallic lath or expanded metal and if finishing coat is required must be specified "three coat work" as all metal lath must receive a scratch coat foundation for straightening: Arches, grains, or furring for heavy mouldings are best executed with metal lath.

6.	ONE COAT WORK is one good coat of hair mortar or other plaster about 1/4" thick and floated to  an even surface.

7.	Two COAT WORK is one good coat of hair mortar straightened with a tool called a " darby" and floated. After this coat is dry apply putty coat of white lime and plaster with sand, if desired. The work cannot be made more than reasonably straight.

8.	THREE COAT WORK is one good coat of hair mortar well scratched. Second coat of straightening mortar laid plumb and true. After this coat is dry apply coat of white lime and plaster with a mixture of sand, if desired and extra well trowelled or polished.

9.	ROUGHCASTING is a good coat of hair mortar left from the "darby," and when dry slapdashed with a mixture of lime arid clean fine gravel.

10.	STUCCO—this term is used to describe plastering work finished with a wooden tool or float leaving a rough granular finish.

11.	Rough or two coat stucco work consists of one coat of hair mortar well scratched and finished with coarse stucco applied when under coat is dry, straightened with a "darby" and brought to a rough uniform surface. This work cannot be expected to be more than reasonably straight.

12.	Three coat stucco or float finish consists of one coat of hair mortar well scratched with a second coat

of straightening mortar laid plumb and true and finished with a coat of fine stucco properly floated to uniform granular surface.

13.	BASTARD STUCCO consists of work executed as described for three coat work with the exception of the last coat being composed of two parts lime putty to three of sand laid true and floated to an even surface; this is then trowelled to a hard surface but the face is not made perfectly smooth.

14.	TROWELLED STUCCO is same in material and method as bastard stucco, the difference being that it is trowelled until face is brought to a true smooth surface. In both bastard and trowelled stucco the under coats must be thoroughly dry ; there being no plaster or cement used in this work the success depends upon proper and uniform suction.

15.	DUBBING OUT is the term given for the necessary work in preparing the uneven surface of rough brickwork or fireproofing to allow of plastering. If done with mortar it will require that not more than 12" be put on at one time and may take several coatings to bring work to the proper surface. By using gauged mortar or hard plaster the necessary thickness may be applied at one operation.

16.	PORTTAND CEMENT WORK requires same methods for stucco work as here described for mortar, the proportion of materials being as described in Materials, clauses 20 and 21.

17.	TROWELLED PORTLAND CEMENT requires under coats, as described above, and is finished with two of Portland, one of fine, sharp sand, to which is added one twelfth of fine lime putty, laid even and trowelled to a fine polished surface.

18.	KEENE'S CEMENT WORK may be finished as described for plastering work, the proportions being as described in Materials, clauses 23, 24, 25 and 26.

19.	PLASTER MOULDINGS are formed with gauged mortar and finished with gauged putty. When weight of mouldings is not too great the mortar may be dispensed with. Owing to the danger from settlements and shrinkages the thickness of these mouldings should not exceed 11/2" in any place. All heavier work requires to be bracketed.

20.	KEENE'S CEMENT MOULDINGS are executed in near Keene's cement, either coarse or superfine as may be desired, with a backing of coarse Keene's and sharp sand.

21.	PLASTER CASTINGS are composed of plaster and cast from moulds required by the design or article to be duplicated.

22.	STAFF CASTINGS are composed principally of plaster to which fibre or canvas has been added before the plaster has set. Their cost is no greater than for the plaster castings and they are much stronger allowing of very large work to be made in one piece. These casts may be sawn and fixed by nailing.

STAFF calls for special attention. There is no limit to its possibilities as a decorative material either in conjunction with run mouldings for enriched members or for the production of mouldings with enriched members and decorative features complete. By its use the entire decoration may be prepared while the building is in course of erection, ready to fix as soon as work is ready to receive it, in this way saving much valuable time. The manufacturers carry full stock of such ornaments as are in general demand but work to detail requires special models, for which due time should be allowed. Specifications should state whether work is to be from stock or specially modelled to detail.

23.	WOOD FIBRE PLASTER or other hard plaster may be specified for any work where mortar is used for interior, as described in previous clauses. A great saving in time can he effected by its use, particularly in winter or damp weather.

24.	TOOLS AND TERMS—Scratching is the term used to describe the cross scoring of the first coat of mortar to form key for straightening coat or coarse stucco finish.

THE DARBY is a wooden tool about three feet long, 4" wide and 1/2" thick, with two handles by means of

