<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



The Berlin Interior Hardwood Company have built a large factory in which to manufacture interior wood work.



The Dutch Government will invite competitive designs for Andrew Carnegie's Palace of Peace, for the erection of which he donated the sum of $1,500,000.



The observation tower that has been a feature of the Tower Hotel at Niagara Falls since 1893, is being taken down and the material will be used by the American Wireless Telegraph Company in building its tower at the Worlds Fair.



Following the example of Ontario, the Department of Education of Manitoba have had prepared a number of mode! plans of school buildings, which are placed at the service of school boards contemplating the erection of new schools.



Mr. Chausee, City Building Inspector of Montreal, attended the convention of American Municipalities held recently in Minneapolis. At this convention the subject of tall buildings was discussed. The consensus of opinion was that ten stories should be the limit.



In an article on foundations in the Builders' Journal, Prof. Henry Adams points out, among other matters, that a greater height in brickwork means a greater settlement above the foundation level, owing to the additional number of bed joints; also

that when sand underlies the foundation the chief precaution is to avoid drainage operations in the neighborhood, especially if the site is a wet one.



Rubber tiling, as supplied to the trade by the Dunlop Tire Company, is gaining steadily in favor. It is interlocking, sets smooth, and is noiseless to walk upon. The nature of the material employed, hard rubber, admits of being worked into many geometrical forms, takes bright coloring and does not wear down under the most continual foot traffic. For interior corridors in offices where it is desired to have a noiseless and at the same time sanitary carpeting, the rubber tiling is the most satisfactory thing in the market.



American architects occasionally secure profitable commissions in Canada, but in few instances have Canadian architects been employed to carry out works in the United States. Such an instance, however, is now before us. Mr. Herbert G. Paull, Toronto, has been commissioned, without competition, to prepare plans and superintend the construction of the new William Smith University at Geneva, New York. The cost of the first group of buildings, consisting of the central administration building and two side pavilions devoted respectively to a women's residence and the educational features of the university, contracts for which have recently been let, will be about a quarter of a million dollars. The buildings are to be constructed of buff colored pressed brick with rose colored granite base and trimmings.

The Sun Portland Cement Company Limited Owen Sound



Luxfer Prism Company Limited toronto