<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" NOTES OF TRAVEL. --V " author="Langton, W. A.">

NOTES OF TRAVEL. --V.

A flying journey on bicycles is not productive of careful drawing; but it was impossible not to make some notes, and they may be worth publishing.

Contemplating in a peaceful mood, on waking up in the morning, the bedroom cornice in my bedroom, in

our inn, a Jacobean



ing, it seemed so thoroughly satisfactory that I thought a measured drawing of it would be worth something to readers of the Canadian Architect and Builder. The room had two windows on a long side. Over the windows, all vertical surfaces were dark, all horizontal surfaces white. Opposite to the windows this effect was reversed.

On the short sides, which got a raking light, the whole cornice was blanched except the weathered soffit, which was a dark band. This variety was delightful. The breaking of the cornice around the chimney breast, at one end, was just right.

We visited a perfect Saxon church ; but, in Canada, we have got ahead of the Saxons. The parish church) on the other hand, if one could bring it over, would be

the finest church in most towns and the most interesting in the country. What, however, seemed best worth noting, because differing from other work of the kind, was a restored portion, in which the architect had, with success I thought1 ventured to be original. Two columns had scrolls as shown above; said to have been a whim of the lady who paid for the restoration. The ribbon ends require judicious abstraction. (They were, in this case, given the comparative obscurity of the aisles). The bands were not in the least simulative of ribbons but good solid masses, 8 inches deep, with a minimum projection of 2 inches beyond the surface of the angle shafts, which meant at least 4 inches out from the deepest hollow of the mouldings. The surface of the bands waved slightly, not to follow the line of the mouldings, but arbitrarily, for the sake of a varied surface. The jointing was a difficulty; it had to be jogged to avoid a feather edge, and was made as

inconspicuous as possible.

The capitals of the restored part were also interesting; as being original, yet in perfect keeping with the style, carefully modelled roses, yet abstract enough for stone. The 14th century could do this sort of thing as well, or better, when it chose. A couple of days afterwards,

NOTE.—We regret that the illustrations to the Notes of Travel in the September number were published without acknowledgment that they were the work of Mr. E. H. New, reproduced from a pamphlet printed by the Guild of Handicraft in connection with an exhibition of their work.

among some beautiful " stiff leaf foliage" capitals (which were, however, not so stiff as they appear in the books but, on this occasion at any rate, full of life and gracefulness) the above flower forms appeared. The sort of clinging springingness with which they grow under the projection of the cap was well expressed.

















































Rose Capitals

It is impossible not to become deeply interested in these beautiful white stone churches, but interest is qualified by doubt as to its immediate utility. The































































roof, however, which is commonly met with in village churches suggests application. It is a form which goes very well with a medium pointed window, and has a

