<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

frame. The box may be about 21/2 inches clear inside. It can be strapped to the saddle post tube and its weight is about 10 pounds loaded with a small kit, including a panel saw. It will save considerable car fare. The tools ought to be wedged in tight with waste or old rags to keep them from rattling. We would recommend that the bottom be made flat.



From "Builder' I am putting a hip roof in a building and must put in a purlin about half-way up the ratter and mitre same on corners. How is this done properly?



ANS.—A good and simple way, and one that can be applied to a roof of any angle, is as follows :—Let A, B, C, D, Fig. 2, be the purlin, E, the common rafter drawn to correct pitch, F, G, H. the plan of' the angle of the building, and G, 1, the plan of the hip. From the angles, A, D and C, of the purlin draw lines, A, J, I), K, C, L, parallel to F, G; make K, N, equal to the depth of purlin and K, M, equal to the thickness of same; draw N, 0, and M, P, parallel to F, U. From the points where the lines from A and C, cut the plan of the hip, draw J, P, and L, Q, square from F, G; Join Q, K, and K, P. The angle of R,K, Q, will be the level for the down or side cut, and the angle M, P, K, will be the level for the cut across the edge. In setting out, it is

is sometimes called, is a vitreous substance in the form of very fine fibres. These interlace in every direction and form an almost innumerable number of minute air-cells. Mineral wool is not unlike glass, save that its fibres are soft, pliant, and comparatively inelastic. One of the most important properties of this product is that of heat insulation, and to accomplish this purposes as well as through the fact that it is incombustible, its extensive use in building work has come about. It is highly advantageous for filling all the interior spaces in wood building construction such as between studs, floor beams, etc. It has been the experience that this not only makes the house warmer in winter and





FIG. 1.—BICYCLE TOOL BOX.



advisable to mark the purlin as near full size as possible, to insure the bevels being accurate.



From "Apprentice" Please show how a circle can be divided into any number of equal parts?



ANS. —There are a number of methods by which this may be (lone, approximately we submit one herewith. Draw the diameter A, B, Fig. 3, and divide it into as many parts as it is desired to divide the circle, say, for example, nine. From the two extremities of the diameters as centres, with the diameter as a radius describe arcs, intersecting as shown at C. Through the second point of division in the line of diameter and the intersection of the arcs draw a straight line, as shown by C, D,



producing it until it cuts the circle at the point E. The distance







FIG. 2. SETTING OUT PURLIN FOR Hip-ROOF.





then from the end of the diameter 13, to the point in the circumference E, will be one ninth of the circle, as you can demonstrate by applying dividers to the sketch.





From "Old Builder" :—Will you kindly describe the substance known as Mineral Wool and what it is used for, and oblige,

ANS:—In appearance Mineral Wool or "silicate cotton", as it

FIG. 3.—DIVIDING A CIRCLE.



cooler in summer, but, in the event of a fire, prevents the internal construction of the house from burning; in other words, the tire can be communicated only over the outside of the woodwork where it can be readily seen and dealt with.



From "R D. McD":—In setting out mitres for all angles, which is the easiest and quickest method?



ANS:	The easiest, best, and quickest, in fact, the only way of getting at these mitres is to bisect the FIG. 4.—SETTING OUT MITRES.



angles. In the accompanying diagram Fig. 4.. let A 13 C be the angle; then, with B

centre and with any radius describe the are D E; then with three points as centres and any radius greater than half the distance between them describe the arcs F G, and H I. A line drawn from the intersection of these arcs to the apex of the angle, B, bisects— that is to say, cuts the angle into two equal parts, and is there fore the bevel required.



RUST-PROOF PAINT.—Of the strongest basic pigments, re lead, says Engineering, stands first, because those pigments completely saponify the oil acids of linseed oil, and likewise absorb almost all the glycerine that is eliminated by the saponification process. The paint that is formed by this pigment is weather-resisting and waterproof, and to a great extent no affected by ammoniacal fumes. No driers are necessary with this mixture of' oil and pigment, but only so much pigment should be used as will combine with all the oil and not leave at excess of that fluid. The product is a tenacious, pliable, adhesive, inert paint, which is not affected by moisture, oxygen, or ordinary noxious gases. When complete saponification has occurred, the paint is a hard, cement-like body—it is use as a cement by plumbers for joining pipe connections ; there lore it should be spread as a paint before complete saponification has occurred.