<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

omical, but should be built up in the opening, as it can not well be put together in a shop as a frame. This is an advantage in some respects, as it may be shipped to a distance in bundles. Fig. 6, shows how the corner

















FIG. 6.



of a bay window may be treated, when the sashes on both sides are hung. The face of this may be ornamented to suit the finish of building.



From "Painter" 1-laying an elevator to paint, and will require to make use of ropes for scaffolding purposes, and not wishing to run any risk, I would like to know something about ropes, how they are measured, and how much they will carry with safety?

ANS.—Rope is measured by its circumference. A 3of hemp laid properly ought, when new, to

in.	rope

bear a working strain of 91/2 cwt. Four stranded rope is about one fifth weaker. A cable laid 3-in. hemp rope should bear a working strain of cwt. If a rope gets chafed, showing portions of cut yarns in the lay, and if it creases and absorbs the wet, feeling soppy after rain, suspicion may well be aroused ; or the rope may become perished by exposure without showing signs of chafe, which can usually be detected by doubling a portion and striking the bight a few good blows with a mallet, when the outer yarns, if perishing, will break. The simplest is to pick out the weakest spot, probably that which is frequently about the tail block, hitch it to a beam, and subject it to a strain of four times that which is to be worked. Make a bow line in the lower end, a foot or so from the ground, and get four men to put their weight on it. Also examine carefully the nips where the rope passes through the holes in the chair. The working strain of a rope is reckoned at not more than one-fourth of its steady strain by means of weights.



From "Mason" Why is it that a tall chimney has a better draft than a shorter one?

ANS.—The difference is the weight of specific gravity of the hot air inside and the cold air outside makes the chimney draw. This is readily illustrated in observing the upward flow of hot air currents around a stovepipe

or the ascent of fire balloons.		The higher chimney,

having the greater volume of heated air and gases, has the stronger draft.

	From " Country Painter"	Will you give me some

information with regard to hardwood finish, especially how to finish oak in natural and antique?

ANS.—In reply to our correspondent it may be stated that there are various methods of finishing oak in the manner indicated. According to one authority a very clever imitation of general antique may be obtained by staining the filler with equal parts of vandyke brown and charcoal, using about one part of the colored to four parts of the light. Another method of giving oak an antique appearance is to make use of hardwood with as full and open grain as possible, in order to secure a

fine effect. After this has been sandpapered a priming is prepared made of one part of japan, one part raw linseed oil and one part rubbing varnish. Drop into

'2 gallon of the liquid 1 pound of commercial corn starch and then add about 1/4 pound some good dry burnt Turkish umber. Apply to the job a good flowing coat of this priming. Let it stand until it is set and then take a broad putty knife and force it into the grain, working the knife crosswise of it. Let it stand a little while and wipe with a rag, taking especial care to clean out all the corners and get the work into as good shape as possible as regards having the grain well filled. When perfectly dry give one coat of rubbing varnish prepared by adding to it pound of starch to each gallon of varnish. This should be flowed on freely as a medium coat of rubbing varnish and should completely fill the wood. After this has been done the work of varnishing, rubbing and finishing can be executed in the usual manner.

To produce a natural oak finish the above method should be employed with the single exception of leaving out the burnt Turkish umber.

Another method of securing very pretty results in oak finish is to spread on the surface of the material a concentrated solution of permanganate of potash and permit it to remain until the desired shade is secured. A few experiments on a piece of wood will readily determine the proper proportions to be employed. When the shade wanted has been obtained, the wood is carefully washed with water, then dried, oiled and polished in the usual way.



From "M. G." :—Is there any method that can be used to give plain glass panes the appearance of being stained?

ANS.—There is a method of painting on windows, but the process requires an artist to perform the work. The method employed, is the same as that used for painting lantern slides. To do this, one of the first things to have impressed on one's mind, is "not to color the work, but to tint it." The colors must be transparent, aniline colors are the best but they require special handling, or they will "creep" and often fade. The vehicle to mix them in, should be either Canadian balsam or Damar varnish, if the best results are desired. Any lady who has practiced painting in oil, may be able to do a pretty fair piece of work—but it takes time. The glass must be made perfectly clean— the work must be done on the inside of the sash—then the ground tints should be laid on in their proper places. When dry, and deeper colors are wanted, apply more tint until the required depth of color is obtained. When the work is done, it may be protected by a thin coat of Damar varnish. This will look very well, but will fall far short of the artistic effects of real stained glass. There is a material on the market, called "glacier" which is prepared to adhere to the glass. it is a sor of silk paper on which ornaments and figures are printed in transparent colors, and it can be cut to suit any shaped glass. It is quite effective, but does not wear very long although we know of several windows that were prepared with this material over 20 years ago, and they are still good, though the colors are a trifle faded. This material, we think, may be obtained in Toronto, certainly in New York—and it does not cost a great deal. A material is also made in England by the Cloisonne Glass Co., 66F Berners St.

