<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

to nearly every known species of stress, without any preliminary trial or experiment respecting their capabilities to withstand the same. Natural stones, as distinguished from those produced by more modern artificial manufacture, were, in those times, when the means of transport were few, tedious and, frequently, non-existent, taken on their own merits. Their qualities, properties and fitness for the work required of them were gauged by the very practical standard of the manner in which similar examples and specimens had performed their duty in structures previously erected. In the present day these conditions are very materially altered. Building stones are now brought from very great distances, and their strength, powers of resistance, durability and other indispensable qualifications can no longer be taken on trust. Besides, new quarries are continually being opened, and experience has abundantly proved that however valuable and excellent the stone of one quarry may .be, it furnishes no guarantee that the product of another, although adjacent to it, will be equally serviceable. The first acknowledgment of the necessity of instituting some test with regard to the properties possessed by building stones was in evidence only a few years ago, when experiments were conducted with the object of determining at least two of their qualities—viz., their specific gravity or density, and their resistance to crushing. It was not until subsequently that it became fully recognized that, in addition to ascertaining the general characters of different stones, it was equally essential that their special fitness for the particular kind of work they were put to should be carefully investigated.

"As a rule, the specific gravity, or the weight of a building stone, is a fairly good indication and criterion of its value as constructive material ; that is, the heavier the specimen, the better. Tests conducted for this purpose are of great importance, insomuch as they are closely connected with the weathering, which is almost synonymous with the durability of stones, which, after all, is the qualification which is the most prized by the architect and the builder. Wherever practicable, it will be advisable to examine any old structures which may have been built of the description of stone proposed to be used. The hardness of stones affects their use in various ways, and there are several means of determining this property, which includes tests for the resistance of stones to friction, or to ordinary wear and tear—when, for instance they act as paving stones. Under the same heading is comprised the resistance to shock and impact. to boring and the attacks of the chisel. When freshly quarried, stones are generally rather softer and more tractable under the tool than when, some time afterwards, they have got rid of their quarry water. Although the chemical composition of building stones is not per se, of any great practical value, yet the aid of chemical analysis—or, in other words, a chemical test—is required in order to discover the existence of foreign substances, which are to be found in all stones, and also the proportions of silica, alkalis and lime they may contain. For instance, if there should be too larger percentage of clay in stones, they should not he exposed to sudden and frequent changes of alternate damp and dryness, since they rapidly disintegrate under such changes. Stones also which, similar to the dolomites, contain a certain amount of magnesia, are seriously deteriorated by the action of sulphur, which, in the state of sulphurous

and sulphuric acid, exists in abundance in both the atmosphere and the soil. Equally, if not more, important than the chemical test, is that performed by the aid of the microscope, which reveals the manner in which the constituent particles or ingredients of the material are mixed together and incorporated. It may not, perhaps, be generally known, that some descriptions of stones, which are of excelleut quality when quarried in summer, are worth little or nothing when taken from the quarries in winter time. Limestone and marble are particularly liable to this incongruous defect.

"Another property of building stones which it is desirable to investigate is that of absorption, which is approximately proportional to its porosity or permeability. This demands another trial, which may be termed the porous test, and is one of considerable utility. The best stones absorb the least proportion of water, or of other fluid, which is an important consideration, when they are exposed to the influence of the gases and acids held in rain, with which they frequently become strongly impregnated. If we now pass on to the action of frost upon stones, it will be at once apparent that another test must be called for. Certain specimens behave in one manner, and others in another, when acted upon by exceptionally low temperature for any length of time. Some gradually and slowly disintegrate, go to pieces and break up. Others develop a process of superficial peeling off by the formation of scales, while others, again, suddenly fly into fragments in precisely the same manner as if they had been blown up by dynamite or other powerful explosive. One of the difficulties attending the successful application of a freezing test is the impossibility of assimilating the condition of the experiments with those obtaining under the natural phenomena of congelation. Various methods have been employed to imitate the operation of freezing. One may be mentioned which consists in immersing the specimen in a highly concentrated solution of sulphate of soda. As the compound forms into crystals it causes a partial disruption of the stone, by breaking off pieces of different sizes. Although this method affords some indication of what may be the effect of natural frost upon building stones, not much reliance can be placed upon it. A few concluding remarks will accentuate those already made, which unmistakably indicate the necessity for the tests to which we have already drawn the attention of our readers.

"It is well known that our information respecting the transverse, tensile and shearing strength of different stones used in the constructive arts is not nearly as full as it ought to be, and that our records of what has been ascertained regarding those properties are exceedingly meagre and incomplete. The results of experiments conducted with regard to the crushing resistance, demonstrate that there is a wide difference of strength per square unit, even in the same descriptions of stone. The varying results are due to the fact that the circumstances were far from being identical in the individual tests. Some of the samples, which were mostly in the form of cubes, were left rough on the sides and beds, and others were dressed and sometimes polished. The last mentioned bore six tons more than the first, per same unit of area. Our want of accurate knowledge—which is fortunately in the course of being supplied—regarding the tensile strength and the transverse resistance of stones, has not been productive of any great damage or injury. Nevertheless, that is no reason why we should not make ourselves thoroughly up-to-date in everything that has been accomplished towards elucidating and placing on a better and a more scientific basis the details of a subject so important.

