<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



DOORS.



For the last few weeks we have directed our attention to the study of doors, pursuing a line of thought that we believed to be original. Imagine our chagrin when on reading one of the " Sketches by Boz," we found this pet idea or theory of ours had been made public years ago ; but the dissappointment we experienced was considerably lessened when we reflected that Dickens himself had viewed in the same light the desirability of the design of the door portraying the character of the occupant. lie states " We are very fond of speculating, as we walk through a street, on the character and pursuits of the people who inhabit it

and nothing so materially assists us in these speculations, as the appearance of house doors. The various expressions of the human countenance afford a beautiful and interesting study ; but there is something in the physiognomy of street doors almost as characteristic, and nearly as infallible. Whenever we visit a man for the first time we contemplate the features of his door with the greatest curiosity, for we well know that between the man and his door there will inevitably be a greater or less degree of resemblance and sympathy."



In designing the street door, did we ever for a moment study the individuality of the occupant? For instance, a five panelled, flush planted moulding, two feet ten by six feet ten door, would be most suitable for little spare priggish men, who are perfectly satisfied with their own opinions, and what can better bespeak the man of substance and genial hospitality, than a door three feet six wide, with raised panels and bo. lection moulded. Then there is the door solid below, with glass in the upper half. This is suitable to an innumerable class of people ; the pretentious and vulgar divide the light into elaborate geometrical patterns, and glaze it with bevelled plate. Sometimes it is glazed with one clear light of glass— a standing invitation to all passers by to look with envy at the gorgeously furnished interior, and very occasionally we find it daintily screened with lace curtains, by the modest and retiring housewife, who timorously shrinks from the vulgar public gaze.

The types of street doors are innumerable and have a far reaching influence. If you ever find your client dissatisfied, or a man changing his habitation without any reasonable pretext, depend upon it, that although he may not be aware of the fact himself, it is because he and his street door are at variance ; he is induced to move and seek a house with a street door more congenial to his foibles.



In studying? this question of doors, we have come to the conclusion, that both the size and design of the door is more fixed than any other feature in an ordinary sized house. Let us take a so-called modern house the drawing-room is designed in a style we will call Louis Quatorze, the library is Elizabethan, and the dining-room has a Dutch feeling- throughout, and the hail, well we will make this Colonial, for it is necessary, if we wish our house to have all the modern improvements, that we treat each room in a different style. It is 'not a question of size or shape, or adaptability of the room, we must cram into it any style that is fashionable, if we wish to have a modern house with the latest improvements. Rosengarten has much to

answer for in this particular, with his six hundred arid thirty nine illustrations of various styles.

Let us now consider the doors opening off the hail into the various rooms. The framing of the door must necessarily show the same on both sides, and therefore, the design is more or less fixed. We must depend largely upon the treatment of the architrave around the doors, to give it the character peculiar to the style.

Another point to consider is the kind of wood in which the various rooms are finished, but this problem is more readily solved than the previous one, for in these days of perfected machinery, the door can be veneered with any kind of wood. We have lately seen a very ingenious method of applying the veneer by Messrs. Gilmour & Co., Trenton, Ont. The core as in the veneered door is built up in three or four pieces, but both the core and the veneer are grooved and fit tightly into each other, thus, apparently giving three times the glueing surface there is in an ordinary flat veneer ; the panels are built up of five ply stuff with the grain running in different directions.























Some two or three years ago we were discussing this question of veneered doors with a builder from England, and it was with the greatest difficulty we got him to admit that a built up veneered door under certain conditions, was superior to a solid door. Even when he was finally convinced, he wound up by saying it was a sham.

Obviously, however, it is no more a sham than a stone front with brick backing. There is no country in the world, where the climate is so varied as in this Canada of ours, and we know that solid doors do not always withstand the extremes of dryness and humidity. The dry steam heat in our buildings during the winter months, and the humidity of the summer and fall, frequently cause solid doors to shrink and check, whilst the advantage claimed for a veneered door is that these varied climatic changes have little or no effect upon it. As to its being a sham, we would remind our English friend of Emerson's statement: " It is a rule of largest application, that in the construction of any fabric or organism, any real increase in fitness to its end is an increase of beauty."



It is reported to be the intention of American Plate Glass manufacturers to make a heavy reduction in prices with the object of crippling their foreign competitors. The announcement is said to have caused consternation among the Belgian glass manufacturers who have hitherto done a large export trade with the United States.

In Dawson City water for domestic purposes is said to bc supplied through machines operated by dropping a coin-shaped slug into a slot, in order to avoid the difficulty arising from freezing of house service pipes in that cold region. Five gallons are delivered at a time. There are few if any house service pipes. Engineering Record.

