<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



BY THE WAY.



The British people seem to have imbibed the craze for large exhibitions which has prevailed in the United States since the time of the World's Fair held in Chicago. It is now announced that an ''International Exhibition" will be held in Manchester in 1905. 1 sympathize with the view expressed by some English journals, that these exhibitions have been overdone and that people have become tired of them. The term "international" as applied to most of them is a misnomer, as they are distinctly local in character.

x x x



The New York courts have granted an injunction restraining the Allied Arts Company and the Tiffany Company from making any changes in the mural decorations painted for the King Edward hotel, Toronto, by Win. L). L. Dodge, a New York artist. It is understood that by direction of the architect a Canadian artist is now engaged in making alterations to these paintings. The opinion prevails here that the jurisdiction of the New York courts does not; extend to Canada and cannot affect Canadian artists. With regard to this the architect is doubtless acting under legal advice.



xxx



On one of the leading business thoroughfares of Chicago a crowd assembles every day, opposite a new sky scraper now in process of construction. Apart from the general interest excited by modern methods of placing materials in position at so great a height, the special object of curiosity is a man at a forge who heats the nuts used in rivetting together the steel framework. This man takes the red hot nuts out of the forge with a pair of tongs, and with a dextrous flip throws them up a couple of stories where they are caught by another workman stationed with a receptacle to receive them. So skillfully are the nuts thrown that the receiver has only to reach out a toot or two on either side to catch them. The swift passing through the air of the blazing nuts, like shooting stars, naturally attracts much attention from passers-by.

xxx



The results of the attempt which has been made in New York to provide suitable accommodation for the poorer classes, is most encouraging and should stimulate action along similar lines in Toronto. Seven years ago the City and Suburban Homes Company was formed backed by a number of philanthropic capitalists. This company have built a number of carefully planned tenements for the wage earning classes. They have as tenants 360 separate families. They have issued capital stock to the amount of $1,707,250 and estimate the present value of 'heir assets at $3,000,000. After declaring a dividend of 4 per cent. they have in hand a large sum as a sinking fund. The company's report to its shareholders shows that but small loss has been sustained from apartments becoming vacant, and that the unrecoverable arrears of rents amount to but $248.

xxx



The lines are being very finely drawn between the various unions connected with the building trades. A short time ago a strike occurred on the King Edward Hotel. Toronto, arising out of a dispute between the plumbers and the electric wiremen as to who should put the electric wires though the ducts. More recently the con-

tractors for a new warehouse building, in order to avoid a strike, were obliged to discharge two stonemasons who had been engaged in putting in position what is known as Roman stone, an artificial stone composed largely of cement. The bricklayers contended that this material was being substituted for terra cotta, that the latter material had always been put in place by bricklayers, and hence that to the bricklayers should belong the work of setting the new material. Rather round about reasoning this but the kind of thing that the modern contractor has to put up with.



<article title=" METHOD OF DRYING OUT DAMP WALLS " author="">

METHOD OF DRYING OUT DAMP WALLS.

A writer in '' L'Industrie " gives the following as a method which he has proved to be successful for drying out damp walls and humid surfaces :—Dissolve lbs. of pure olein in 5 lbs. of benzine, and coat the damp surfaces with the mixture. This solution of oleic acid, owing to its great fluidity and the capillarity of the mortar, sinks deeply into the latter, and together with the hydrated lime in the mortar produces a formation of greasy lime which constitutes a waterproof coat. The proportions of the mixture can, of course, be modified according to circumstances; and, instead of benzine, other solvents of the nature of ether and benzol may be utilized. A variation of this method is the employment of other fatty or resinous acids instead of olein. The resinous acids form with the lime hydrate a resinate of lime which has the same waterproof properties as fat lime. Damp or newly-built walls thus coated may, after almost instantaneous evaporation of the liquid, be papered or painted. As in the case of walls in cellars or tunnels, this process can be also employed successfully to coat cement, terrazzo or mosaic work.



QUARRIES IN SOUTH AFRICA.

<article title=" QUARRIES IN SOUTH AFRICA " author="">

Large quantities of building stone are being imported into South Africa, notwithstanding that the colony possesses large native supplies, says a writer in the Master Builders' Association's Journal. It is nevertheless found that delivered in Cape Town after a long voyage over-sea articles cost less than the native, owing to the cost of railway transit. As a result, however, of the labors of a commission of inquiry, advertisements have recently appeared in the colonial papers inviting information with regard to deposits of building stone throughout the country. Vryburg, the Paarl, and other districts possess excellent stone for building purposes if difficulties of transport could be surmounted. It appears, however, certain that in one way or another the quarrying industry in South Africa must be established, and makers of stoneworking- machinery and plant will do well to watch these developments closely.





There was a strike of bricklayers employed at Neasden, England, the other day. The point in dispute was whether the British bricklayers should wait at the bottom of the ladder until the "hooter" sounded, and then go up, or whether he should go up first, and then wait for the "hooter to call him to work. The employer was paying a half penny an hour over the union scale. The strike was finally settled by knocking off the half-penny an hour, and allowing the bricklayers to wait at the bottom of the ladder until the "hooter" sounds. The victory is costing the bricklayers about a penny a minute.—Montreal Gazette.

