<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the employers of labor in demanding that means shall be found to prevent the continued disturbance of commercial conditions and interference with individual rights. Legislation with this object has recently been introduced and is now being considered by the Parliament of Canada.



As the result of a recent at 

	Building Restrictions,	tempt to establish a factory in

		the centre of a choice residential

<article title=" Building Restrictions " author="">

section of Montreal, Alderman Vallieres has announced his intention to introduce a by-law defining the limits within which factories may not be erected. Such a regulation should be enforced in every city, and ought properly to be incorporated in the building by-laws. There should also be a clear cut provision compelling property owners to keep their buildings back a certain distance from the street line. Numerous cases might be cited in which for want of such regulations heavy losses have been suffered by property owners in residential districts. It should not be possible for a factory, a livery stable or even the back premises of an apartment house to abut against residential property, nor for the house owner to build a porch or other projection so near the street line as to deprive his neighbor whose house is properly placed of the view up or down the street to which he is entitled. It is to be hoped that if the Toronto building by-laws supposed to be now in process of revision, ever reach completion, they will contain a clause which will properly regulate these important matters.

<article title=" Old Mantles " author="">

There is in England a trade in

Old Mantles.	old mantels. When old houses are broken up, these and no

doubt other fragments of detail, are collected by dealers and sold for incorporation in modern work. The paint is cleaned off thoroughly, and in that state it can he seen exactly in what condition the work is. A correspondent in London who has been examining some of the stock at the warehouse of Thos. Hall, 25 Great Portland street, London, W., suggests that some of these mantels ought to be imported into Canada. The price ranges from about $30 to about $60. At that price they are cheap ; and, with cost of importation added, would be still worth while for those who can afford to pay for a good thing. Though old, the mantels that are offered for sale are not shabby. They are usually of good design, which was the origin of their preservation, and are fully ornamented ; and, whether because there is a softening effect of age or that the work is hand work, the ornament is more pleasing than in new productions of the same model. It would be possible for a purchaser to get sufficient description or illustration of some of these mantels to make up his mind as to their suitability.

		There was recently held, at the

	Peasant Art.	Albert Hall in London, an exhi-<article title=" Peasant Art " author="">

		bition of Home Arts and Indus

tries, the annual work of a society which exists to foster the production of various forms of art in the leisure hours of working people. When the movement first began there was a tendency to claptrap hammered brass and other forms of unmistakable hand production, valued more for the evidence of handwork—what

is known as "the loving marks of the hammer" —than for any real beauty. Now, however, there are some excellent productions in the way of homespun cloth and other textiles, lace, tapestry, pottery, cabinet making and wood carving. All these are good and useful productions ; the country is better off and the people who make them are no doubt better off, both mentally and in pocket, for their production. But the interesting thing for a bystander is to observe that there is not a trace perceptible of variation from the ordinary types of similar work produced in the ordinary way. The cloth is simply good cloth ; the lace is, to the eye of a male man, like other lace ; the tapestry might have been designed, at d perhaps was designed, by some one of the school of Burne Jones ; the cabinet making might come from Grand Rapids, Mich. ; the wood carving is as imitative of old work as is the best architect's ; the pottery alone and sonic of the metal work had a noticeable note of freshness.



The tenant in London assumes

<article title=" London Leases " author="">

London Leases risks which would be declined in any other town. Houses are let under what is called a " repairing lease." " Reasonable wear and tear," which are excepted, in our leases, from the tenant s responsibility, are what, in London, the tenant has especially to make good. In other words the preservation of a man's property from the deteriorating effects of time depends not upon his own exertions but upon exertions which he exacts from the temporary occupant. The consequence is that there is always a floating valuation going on outside of the lease. An incoming tenant may have three money questions to consider The rent, the repairs the landlord requires before he will give possession, and a premium to be paid the outgoing tenant for improvements effected by him— this latter in the case of taking up an unfinished lease, which often happens, for leases taken under these conditions are usually taken for as long as possible and are often transferred while still running. On the other hand, before a tenant quits possession, an inquisition is made by the agent of the landlord to see if the tenant is leaving the property in the condition in which it ought to be left ; if not, an estimate is made of the necessary repairs, the sum is extracted from the outgoing and banded to the incoming tenant. It is probable that it would he more exact to say that the sum is allowed the incoming tenant and extracted from the outgoing tenant if possible.



One effect of shifting repairs from the owner to the tenant is that, even when a row of houses remains entirely in the hands of one proprietor, the repainting of the different houses is done at different times and a row is effectually relieved of monotony. The repetition of the original tint (usually a very light colour) in different degrees of freshness is rather an improvement to the look of the row, having all the pleasing effect of cloud shadows on a range of hills.



The most serious result to the tenant, of such a lease, is that the consequences of undermined foundations, earthquakes, windstorms, etc. ,fall on the tenant, who does not therefore feel in a sound position unless he has capital, beyond 1-i needs, practically sufficient to rebuild the house.

