<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee auswers to all queries neither do we nndertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From "A Correspondent" I would like very much to see discussed in the columns of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, the comparative cost of brick and masonry construction as compared with steel construction for office buildings up to ten stories in height.

ANS.—We refer our correspondent to the June issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER, page 96, where he will find some information on the subject in question. The figures given there as to cost per cubic foot show the difference in cost of different buildings. The Rookery building in Chicago, which is eleven storeys high, with steel and iron frame, faced with masonry, cost 32 cents per cubic root. The building is handsomely fitted inside and contains ten passenger elevators of first class make. The Monadnock building, Chicago, sixteen storeys high, steel and iron frame, filled in with bricks, faced with marble and brick, cost 421/2 cents per foot. This building contains twelve elevators and is richly finished inside ; and it has been estimated that the finishings cost more than half the whole cost of the building. Office buildings in New York running from six to ten storeys in height built with steel and iron frames, cost from 25 to 55 cents per cubic foot, if faced with pressed bricks, and from 32 to 62 cents per cubic foot if built in and faced with dressed stone ; much depending on the character of interior finishings and equipment. The Croker building in San Francisco, which is a model in its way, and which is built in with steel skeleton frame, and is ten storeys high, cost 63 cents per cubic foot. In Denver the Brown Palace Hotel, an excellent building nine storeys high, steel frame finished inside in onyx, cost only 30 cents per cubic foot, and other buildings in the same city, built of bricks alone, eight and nine storeys high, cost but 17 cents a cubic foot. It is difficult to determine the cost of a prospect ive building unless the style of finish and general character of the building and materials are known. Perhaps some of our readers who have had experience in the building of steel structures, and of buildings composed altogether of brick or of masonry, such as our correspondent desires to know about, would kindly reply to his request.



From " Rector" A stone building of considerable size and having much carving upon it, has become grimy and weather stained, by rain and dirt in the atmosphere is there any way I can get it cleaned or any material I can use to refresh or renovate the walls?

ANS.—The only effectual method hitherto practiced for this purpose has been by completely redressing the surface with the chisel—a method which is tedious and costly at hest, and which is seldom thoroughly carried out. A different and, it is claimed, more satisfactory prqcess was devised by a Frenchman and used for cleaning the walls of the quays of the Seine in Paris. These walls become every few years covered with a shiny black deposit, which resists acids. To remove it a paste composed of a solution of soda and lime, to which a little chloride of lime is added, was mixed to

the consistency of honey, and spread over the surface, where it was allowed to remain for two or three hours, according to the condition of the stone. When it was removed the deposit was still black, but it had become sensitive to acids. After this preliminary.' treatment a workman passed over the surface (wit:h a large gutta percha brush) a mixture called sulpho-chlorphydric, forming on the stone a kind of glue, and almost immediately afterward he syringed the surface with a jet of the same liquid. It formed an inherent paste, continuing to act upon the stone for about two or three hours. After the syringe came a gang of men who scrubbed the surface, finishing off with a hose pipe. The sulpho-chlorhydric mixture is composed of sulphuric and hydrochloric acids mixed empirically according to the nature of the stone and the necessities of the case. The cost of cleaning stone walls by this method in Paris is 0.46 franc per square meter (or, say about 41/2d per yard) for material and 0.50 franc for labor, by contract. The preliminary treatment by the caustic paste was paid for separately at 0.50 franc per square meter. It is said that the stone itself is not damaged by this treatment and soon regains its natural color.



From " Young Builder ";—Will you kindly describe and show me how to get a mitre on an angle to fit a mitre on a horizontal, or a mitre on the lower end of a gable facia, to fit the mitre on the eave facia, the eave facia being perpendicular; or the mitre on a stair string board to fit the mitre on the end of riser?

ANs.: Take a board with a straight edge, AA, Fig. 1, and lay the square on it, the blade representing the horizontal and the tongue the perpendicular. Draw a line on each side of the blade, as ABCD. Draw EF at right angles to AA. Draw GH at right angles to



































ABCD. Set off KL on the line AB, from GH, a distance equal to IJ, on line EF. Draw line MN through LO. The angle formed by the lines A13 and MN will be the bevel to cut the end of the fascia, the string board C as shown by Figs. 2 and 3.



From " Bricklayer ": I have a contract to do a lot of brickwork, and in the agreement, it is stated that all the flues must be " double pargeted." Now I do not know what this means, and as I want to follow the agreement in both letter and spirit, I would like to know what is meant by the term so that I can work accordingly, and will be pleased if you will give me some information on the subject.

ANS.——The term pargeting as commonly employed in

