<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

THE BUILDING STRIKE IN TORONTO. <article title=" THE BUILDING STRIKE IN TORONTO " author="">

The strike of the carpenters and builders' laborers inaugurated in Toronto more than two months ago has failed. The contractors offered the carpenters 321/2 cents per hour, or within 2 1/2 cents of their demand, an increase of 10 cents per hour above the wages they were receiving two years ago. This offer was refused and the resulting deadlock has continued ever since. The builders' laborers demanded 30 cents per hour and went out on strike rather than accept the contractors' offer of 27 cents. On several occasions recently the strikers sought conferences with the Builders' Exchange hut were told that the employers had made their best and final proposition. In his last letter written but a few days ago, the Secretary of the Exchange intimated that that body had withdrawn its Committee and positively declined further negotiations. This brought matters to a climax, and the strike of the carpenters and laborers was declared off. The early termination of the painters' strike may now be looked for. On excellent authority it is learned that five hundred men are now at work in this trade, and that of this number about 460 are receiving 30 cents or less per hour. Under these circumstances there is not the ghost of a chance for the strikers to succeed in their demand for 35 cents per hour.



NOTES.



The master plumbers of Sydney, Nova Scotia, have recently formed an association.

Mr. W. j. Burroughes, formerly a well-known Toronto plumber, now of London, Eng., is at present on a visit to Canada.

Robert Snarr, a prominent contractor, of Toronto, died at his home in that city last month, aged 51 years. Among the important structures erected by him were the home Life Building, McMaster University and the Mercer Reformatory.

The Trade Papers Publishing Co., High Holborn, London, Eng., has published Part I of a work by J. Petric devoted to an explanation of the methods to be adopted for graining and marbling. The work which is to be published in fourteen parts, is illustrated by colored plates with explanatory notes.

SURVEYORS ASSISTANT

Age 20. Open to engagement. Quantities, details, and surveys 9 years London and provincial experience. Advanced certificate construction. will send photo, specimens, testimonials, and further particulars. NORMAN PHILIP'S, Heigham Road, Norwich, England.

Shingle Tint The Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ont.



The Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville Ont.



Terra Cotta Fireproof Building Material The Montreal Terra Cotta Lumber Company Limited Montreal