<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of public buildings is the following, adopted January,



1890:



No church, hospital, college, school, hail, theatre or other building of a like nature shall be used or hereafter constructed unless the same contains such a number of doors, halls, stairs, stair railings and other means of egress of sufficient size and strength as in the opinion of the Inspector of Buildings shall afford ample facilities for free and rapid egress in case of fire, panic or other cause. No such building shall be erected or altered until the plans shall be submitted to the Inspector of Buildings and certified by him as conforming to the requirements of this by—law.''



It will be seen that the character of construction is not defined, but everything is left to the opinion of the Building Inspector. What that opinion is worth may be learned by an examination of the theatre building tinder present consideration.

There is no more important duty confronting the new city architect and the City Council than that of preparing and adopting at the earliest possible moment an up-to-date building by-law.

<article title=" THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE CAPITAL " author="">

THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE CAPITAL.

The Ottawa Improvement Corn mission appointed to disburse the yearly grant of $60,000 by the Dominion Parliament for the beautifying of the city are going about their work in a wise manner, by first securing the advice of an expert as to what should be done. For this purpose the Commission engaged the services of Mr. Frederick G. Todd, landscape architect, of Montreal, whose preliminary report is before us.

Mr. Todd points out that the proposed improvements should be national in character, as befitting the capital of the nation. He properly emphasizes the wisdom of looking far enough ahead to provide for the future requirements of a city which he estimates will in fifty years have a population of 300,000. The exercise of such wise foresight will save large sums of money which would otherwise have to be spent in the future in removing obstacles out of the way. The report states that while Ottawa can never be "the Washington of the north," as some writers have predicted, because its topographical situation is entirely different, its location and surroundings are such as admit of development on an even grander scale.

As a capital city it is suggested that the parks and open spaces should be numerous with ample boulevards and parkways skirting the different waterways as well as connecting the principal parks and public buildings.

Tile principal suggestions are that forest reserves be secured in the Gatineau Valley and at Marsh Lake, which should contain specimens of the trees comprising the once great forests; that suburban parks be established as follows : 100 acres adjacent to Rockliffe Park, including the shores of Hemlock Lake, and east of Rockliffe Park along the river as far as the rifle range

just below Remous Rapids at the west end of the city on both sides of the river west of Herdman's Bridge, at the south end of the city; and at the mouth of the Gatineau river extending to Pond Creek for the adjoining city of Hull.

The report suggests the location of connecting boulevards, including a drive along the bank of the Ottawa river between Rideau Hall and the Parliament Buildings, which, on account of its magnificent views would become famous the world over. This boulevard should terminate in a monumental circle which could be

made to form in connection with Dufferin Bridge, a dignified approach to the Parliament Buildings. To this end Dufferin Bridge should receive proper embellishment. Emphasis is laid on the necessity for the preparation of a proper plan showing in detail how these improvements should be carried out in advance of any action being taken in that direction, also the importance, once a plan is decided upon, of allowing no departure therefrom.

<article title=" C. A. AND B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION " author="">

C.	A. AND B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

The publishers of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER invite architectural students in Canada to submit designs in competition for a Public Library to contain 10,000 volumes.



The Library is to be built in a small park in a country town.

The drawings required are two elevations, one sectional view and plans of each floor. The plans, section and one elevation must be drawn in strong lines with pen and perfectly black ink on white cardboard or drawing paper. The principal elevation must be a wash drawing, the colors used being such as can be photographed. In making this drawing of principal elevation competitors are requested to bear in mind that to ensure satisfactory reproduction strong contrast in shading is necessary. It is required that the drawing of principal elevation shall also indicate the character of the surroundings and principal approach to the building.

Drawings should be made to 1/8 scale in a manner to permit of reproduction within the limits of a double page of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, i.e., 10x15 inches in size.

Competitors should state the materials proposed to be employed in construction.

Drawings for this competition should be signed with a motto only and be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing the same motto and enclosing the full name and address of the designer and the name and address of his principal. They should be sent FLAT by post or express, charges prepaid, addressed ''CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Toronto, Canada -Students' Competition," and must reach this once not later than noon on Saturday, January 16th, 1904.



The members of the Educational Committee of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club have kindly consented to judge the designs submitted in this competition, and their decision will be final.



The prizes offered are : First prize, cash $15.00 ; second prize, cash $10.00, third prize one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER ARCHITECTS' EDITION.



The publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER reserve the right to publish any of the designs submitted and to withhold the prize if in the opinion of the jury the designs should riot be found worthy of the awards.



Intending competitors are requested to read carefully the conditions of competition, and to strictly comply with the same in every particular.





The Bureau of Forestry of the United States intends to resume the work of testing timber. The Bureau aims at practical results, such as the values expressing the strength and stiffness of the principal species of timber.

