<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.





[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.)









From "Roofer" I am in want of a handy, quickly-made derrick suitable for using on a flat roof for hoisting up tar, paper and gravel?

ANS.—Perhaps the following simple device will answer the purpose of "Rooter", as it is simple and complete. (See Fig. 1.) The crossed legs are framed together about 3 feet to the fork where the pole rests. The pole I use is 10 feet long, 3 inches in diameter and is fastened on the bottom end by the two 7/8 inch cleats shown. A 34 inch tackle and double sheave block may

ANS. :—In answer to this request, we publish a design Fig. 3, showing a good method of constructing a



























FIG. 3.



window sill, stool and sub-sill so as to make the bottom of the window as perfectly tight as possible. This

FIG. 1.

be used which will enable the user to haul up a pretty heavy load with ease.



From "Young Workmen":—Kindly describe a quick method of describing an arc over a given space.

ANS. :—Proceed as follows: (Fig. 2.) Let AC be the chord and B D the rise. Set the dividers to any radius less than one-half the length of the chord. With A and D for centers, strike short arcs as shown, producing them until they intersect. Then through the point of intersection draw lines, producing them until they inter

shows the whole construction, including apron, and the manner of attaching the siding or clapboards on the outside with rain-piece under the sub-sill. This method of finish has proved quite effective. Fig. 4 shows a very good way of finishing a cornice. The siding and bed mould A are cut in snug between the projecting rafters, so also is the rough boarding 0  which tends





















FIG. 2.





sect, as shown at E. Then E will be the centre from which may be struck the arc, and E D will be the radius for the same.



From "Winnipeg" :—Will you kindly illustrate a good method of constructing window sill in a frame house so that it will be water and wind proof; also please show a good method of fixing a cornice so that it will be tight and yet look well, and not too expensive? The building will be a balloon frame built with scantling 2" X 4", having plates formed of 2 pieces, 2" X 4", and rafters 2" X 6".

FIG. 4.





to make the whole work tight and wind-proof. This sketch shows the manner of laying on the plates, siding, rough boarding and inside plastering. Shingling and gutter are shown at B and S respectively.



From "Builder":—I live in a part of the country where stone is plentiful and where a number of stone buildings have been erected but have not proved satisfactory owing to the fact that much settlement of the buildings has occurred, and cracks in the. walls have resulted, and water manages to get into the walls

