<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

Renaissance periods ; all of stone. Mr. Ashbee himself possesses a house which contained the old wool merchants' hail, and he thus has a sitting room with a black timbered roof. The Guild workshop is an old stone silk mill in a garden—mill and residence one building, as was the happy way in those days. They have built a machine house with a gas engine and dynamos, for electric lighting and what machinery they use for preparing their wood ; the smithy is also out of doors ; for the rest the three floors of the woolen mill suffice for their several works which comprise, besides the blacksmithing joinery, wood carving, metal work in silver and brass, jewel making, enamel working, printing and bookbinding. The clink of hammer and



























































The Guild Workshops,

Campden,



metal, which one hears in approaching, strikes an ear, which is accustomed to the sound of machinery in such a building, with a sort of quaintness, analogous to the small scale of old buildings beside the new. Inside there is also a noticeable difference. Instead of a number of mechanics doing the same thing over and over again, and that only a step on the way to something they never know what, every man is here doing a piece of work which is usually his own from beginning to end; if not, it is only, as in the case of the carver, that his work finds its application in work that is done by other hands, and he is at any rate in touch with the work to which it is applied. This is a happy condition and it is no affectation to say that this workshop affects one's spirits pleasantly, whereas a machine shop suggests nothing but working between whistles; a terrible treadmill to which men have doomed themselves, as a consequence of mating. Here the Guild of Handicraft decidedly scores. The cant phrase, that art is the ''expression of the workman's joy in his work,'' has here a chance of exemplification; a man may be interested in his work as well as in his wife. By so much more also that the work is done in a garden, and the air is fresh.

As to the work :—the blacksmithing is of course exactly what blacksmithing should be; a set of Guild fire irons (which, by the way, showed no loving marks of the hammer, but had a sort of lovingness in the soft section of the twist and in a certain whitey blackness of color) would be a pleasure to see—and to use. The smiths are also making electric fixtures which promise to be elegant, though iron. The snakey tendrils of the

pine apple pattern come in well here. The trail of this serpent is over the work of the Guild. They have also come under the influence of Burne Jones' sinuous female with the high navel. In fact there is a school mark upon their work that seems to be conscious, and intended to suit a market that asks for the kind of thing. In their silver vessels—all of which are beaten out of the sheet metal—the hammer marks remain, because they say people like them so. Their silver work is certainly fine and is more substantial than spun silver. The hammer marks are very slight; not made for effect, but merely left, when the form is perfected, without further work; and the result is a sort of richness of surface; nevertheless, as these marks could be removed by further hammering, the dignity of a silver chalice seems to require that they should be removed. There is no particular virtue in the marks of the workman's hand, except as a trademark of the school that does handwork in an age when machine work is the rule.

Of the same kind is the square edged joinery of this school, which, I confess, bores me. If our rude forefathers did not know enough to mould, we do. There is something tiresome about this inability to adopt the method of good old work without adopting its manner too.

There is the same snare extent in the work of the hand printers. William Morris was not really a reformer in this respect. The Kelmscott Press was only an expression of discontent with the present; expressed by reverting to the past. But that sort of past is past. There is a clear field yet for any one who has been infected with the discontent and would allay it by creating a type with the beauty of usefulness. It is not necessary to create; the earliest printing, earlier than the period Morris preferred, has all the qualities of design combined with perfect legibility. Some of the publications of the Guild of Handicraft are printed in this type, making a perfect book. It is to be hoped that the Guild will be content to shine by this simple excellence. But the market for fine books is the market of the connoisseur and collector, perverted beings who from seeking the peculiarity of goodness have come to seek peculiarity as in itself goodness. The hand printer therefore finds it wise to make sure of his market by designing a special type which will mark the work of his own press; but to design a type that will have special peculiarities, and yet be as simple as the best type— which is the simplest—is a feat which will task even such an accomplished designer as Mr. Ashbee.

The Guild seems to have secured a field to itself in jewelry of modern design. There is a staff of men constantly employed supplying the Guild shop in Bond street, where the jewelry which is displayed makes a very attractive window.

They do also some good enamelling—a seductive looking work as applied to decorative landscape. It is simply glass dust floated on metal and fused in a furnace. Here is the principal difficulty, as the colour, without which the work is nothing, depends upon judgment as to the length of exposure in the furnace.

The great satisfaction in working in the Guild workshop, must after all be that designing and execution are, if not always by the same hand, at any rate in such close contact and communication, and standing upon such equal ground, that the designer is really in touch with his material, and this makes designing a pleasure because it makes good design possible.

W.	A. LANGTON.

