<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



circulation is established, which will carry off as formed any gases or odor from the pipes. The fresh air pipe is often omitted from business blocks, owing to the difficulty in obtaining a suitable place for it at the grade level ; hut. as these places are only occupied during the day, and there is more or less coming and going, it is not necessary as in the case of dwellings.



<article title=" SOMETHING ON COLOR DECORATION " author="F. T. H.">

SOMETHING ON COLOR DECORATION.

By F. T. H.



The most valuable colors for decorative purposes, are the ochres, which vary from a bright, though not vivid, yellow, to a color nearly approaching a tawny brown. The best ochre produces quiet tints in white and other colors, including a valuable green when combined with Prussian and other blue. In combination with vermillion, Indian and Venetian red, it produces refined and quiet colors of great value. Most useful reds are light red, Indian and Venetian red ; these may be enlightened to any degree with vermillion. The three reds produce good ground colors when mixed with white, white and yellow ochre, or white and black. Lake and vermillion produce a rich crimson. Of all blue pigments, blue ochre is the most permanent, and Prussian blue the most useful. Blue, combined with white, is of the utmost value in preparing permanent greens, and produce pleasant tones. Cobalt blue is highly commended for preparation of clear, bright, blues. The finest small blue is durable and useful, being unaffected by lime. As a general rule, blues with a slightly greenish tint are more pleasant in decoration than those which incline to purple. Greens for decoration should, as a rule, be mixed with pigments. The ordinary greens of commerce cannot be depended upon. Bright and shining greens should be sparingly introduced, being too hard and forcible, but all tones of suitable green may he found in autumnal foliage. Such greens are readily produced with Prussian blue and cobalt blue, and permanent yellow with the ochres, lemon yellow, and raw and burnt sienna. To compounds of these may be added Indian and Venetian reds, Vandyke brown and burnt umber. All greens may be brightened with bright and lemon yellow. Lake, vermillion, Venetian, and Indian red are to be valued for the bright intensity of their colors. All colors of a decidedly neutral character prove tame and ineffective. Beads and chamfers in gold and black are always appropriate and telling in effect on panels. Lines of light or full colors should be sparingly used on borders, finials and crockets in flat panelling. In the painting of mediaeval times it is noticeable that pure colors are rare ; these are most generally toned, and with admirable effect. The absence of the primaries is a rebuke to the writers on theory colors, who lay down the proportions in which they should appear, in a way to indicate that the presence of such colors is indispensable to rich decoration.

The toning of colors is a very simple matter, but it requires system. The adoption of combination changes colors. Where the form of pattern undergoes repetition in stenciled ceilings, the band is the most satisfactory, as it helps to remove, in a considerable degree, the unavoidable hardness of such bands, and a quiet effect will be secured by bringing the counterchanged colors close to one another in intensity.

A good ground for dark oak is made of pure white lead, golden ochre and royal red. Deep orange chrome is sometimes used when a bright tone is desired. The graining color is made of burnt sienna, raw sienna and Vandyke brown.

Slightly tinted green glass is introduced by decorators in certain rooms having abundant light, as grateful to the sight and having a subduing influence on the decoration.

It is well to remember in all cases, that cool tones and colors are always to be relied on, and are less subject to criticism than any others, and nothing is more calculated to mar architectural beauty and effect of light and shade, and the general proportion of any structure as the adoption of the wrong color, detailed by others inappropriate, that is, the employment of colors with glaring and raw tones, either reduce or bring into prominence those parts which the architect in designing intended should have the opposite effect.



<article title=" BUILDING CONDITIONS IN SOUTH AFRICA " author="">

BUILDING CONDITIONS IN SOUTH AFRICA.

The greatest building activity in the history of the City of Johannesburg is reported to be now in evidence. The majority of dwellings are now being built of stone and brick instead of wood as formerly. Bricks, lime, cement and certain other lines of building materials are reported to be in good demand. The following were the ruling prices of materials in April, as reported by "The South African Mines, Commerce and Industries," Johannesburg.

	Portland cement, per cask	36s. to 37s.

	Lime, per bag	5s. 6d. to 7s.

	Bricks,* stop burnt)	50s. to 55s.

	       common	55s. to 6os.

	       stock	60s. to 70s.

	       facing	6 10s. to 8

	       pressed	£13 to £14 105.

	       unburnt	25s. to 305.

	Deals, 17 in. and under	101/2d. to 11d.

	     18 in. and 19 in	id. to ii 1/2d.

	      20 in. and over	11 1/2d. to 1s.

	Oregon logs, 6 x 6, per cub. ft	5s.

	        12 X 12, long lengths, per cub. ft	5s.

	Ceiling	3d.

	Flooring                                     

	Windows, 8X 10	32s. 6d.

	         10 X 12	37s. 6d.

	         15x3O	40s.6d.

	        18X36	50s.

	Doors, 2 ft. 6 in. x 6 ft. 6 in. x 1 in	13s. 6d.

	       2ft. 6in.x6ft.6in. x 1/2 in	14s.6d

	       2ft. Gin. x6ft. 8 in. x 11/2 in	16s.

	Galvanized iron, 6 ft. to 10 ft. per It	71/2d.

	Shelving, 1X1 2, D 2 s, per ft	6d.

	Clear pine, 1) 2 s	7d.

	Mouldings, 0. (., 1 1/4x in	1 1/4 d.

	                3 in	33/4d.

	Sterling, 4,1/2 in	3d.

	       9in	5d.

	Cornice, 3 in	2d.

	       6 in.                                

	Architraves, 3 iii	21/2d.

	           6 in	51/2d.

	Scotia, 2 in	31/4.

 in		2(1.

	       1 in                                 

	Fret-cut fascia, 6 in	is.

	            7 in	1s.



*These prices are for 1,000 at kiln, and delivery to buildings in town 15s. per 1,000 extra.







The Master Builders Association of London, England, have entered into an agreement with t he trades union which provides "All workmen who are in receipt of full wages and who have been employed for not less than forty-two hours shall, on discharge, receive one hours notice, to be occupied so far as is practicable in grinding tools, with one hours pay in addition.' The rule was made with the object of minimizing the opportunities for strikes and disturbances.

