<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Fireproofing of Steel Frame" author="">FIREPROOFING OF STEEL FRAME.

After foundations, next in importance comes the fireproofing of the steel frame of the building.

Concrete floor systems are now being exploited in great variety.

Some of the systems have merit, but all of them make too great claims.

A concrete slab 3 to 4 inches thick, even if reinforced with steel in some form or other, should not be used in a very much greater span than we now use for steel beams with hollow tile arches between. It has been gravely told me by a concrete sales agent that in case of two 15 in. beams, say 7 ft. span it would be perfectly safe not only to deduct the difference in weight of floor between the 3 in. concrete slab they proposed to use, and the weight of a 15 in. hollow tile arch, but in addition the section can be reduced 25 per cent, on

great possibilities which will be demonstrated in the future, yet I think that now, in order to compete with hollow tile, its advocates are making claims which cannot be substantiated, and in the future they will have to be more conservative not only in their statements, but in their construction in order to succeed.

Recent failures in Jackson, Michigan, where the falling of the floors pulled down the outside walls; and of four floors which collapsed in a $500,000 apartment building in Chicago will undoubtedly prove beneficial in the lessons they teach. Many other failures in concrete floor construction have occurred in the past few years, but these are the most recent.

Another thing, a building is not necessarily fireproof because it has steel floor beams and columns. Naked steel or cast iron is not fireproof. Wood is far preferable, for if it is of sufficient size it chars on the out





<building>Fisher Building, Chicago</building>





	Oct. 12th, 1895.	Oct. 19th, 1895.	 Oct. 26th 1895.

	Nov. 12th, 1895.	Dec. 12th, 1895.	April 29th, 1896.



account 01 the help the concrete gives the steel. In other cases they state you can, with concrete, use 17 to 25 foot spans, and save all the steel thereby taken out.

One question, however, they decline to answer. Ask them instead of telling the vertical load it will support without collapsing to turn their slab of concrete 3 in. or 4 in. thick and 17 ft. to 25 ft., span, on edge, and then load it. They invariably decline to test it this way. Now in a 20 or 30 story office building, lateral stiffness in the floors is more essential than carrying capacity. A thin slab of concrete laid on top of 12 or 15 beams cannot by the very nature of things, add to the lateral support of these beams. But a 12 in. or 15 in. hollow tile arch laid in between the beams does make a stiff floor.

Experiments as yet have not demonstrated that concrete floors are fireproof as compared with hollow tile which already has been burned.

While  have faith in concrete and believe it has

side, and the charring acts as a protection. Every bit of structural steel must be covered with a fire-resisting material in order to be fireproof.

The last engineering papers give an account of destruction by fire of two English spinning mills, one resulting in the death of nine persons, injury of a large number. The report sums up both disasters as due to the breaking of the cast iron posts, but the same report says the cast iron posts were left bare. In the absence of further information it is only reasonable to suppose that the true cause is that these columns were not fire-proofed.

Another and possibly a greater danger than fire is rust. Examination of steel buildings made recently show that the danger is not as great as some alarmists would have us believe, yet it exists.

In a building built in Buffalo in 1895 all the outside columns were filled with cement grout after the brick and fireproofing had been put around them, thus making the whole pier solid monolith with steel core. This

