<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



MINERAL PRODUCTION OF NEWFOUNDLAND.

<article title=" MINERAL PRODUCTION OF NEWFOUNDLAND " author="">

The total mineral production of Newfoundland for 1902 is valued at $1,217,686, an increase of $15,000 over 1901. The annual report of Prof. J.P. Howley to the Minister of Mines states

Our brick and slate industries made a decided advance and showed a marked increase in value over the figures of the preceding year. Both are likely to figure prominently in the future. No returns are forthcoming from the slate quarry at Summerside, Bay of islands. It is not probable any shipments were made, as there is usually a great deal of preliminary work in clearing away the surface debris in such undertakings before the actual manufacturing of slate can he entered upon. Messrs. Mitchell & Campbell have optioned their slate property at St. Jones, Trinity Bay, to an English company who will probably begin operations upon it as soon as spring opens.

The quarrying of granite and other stone to be used in the construction of the new Court House and railway station, as well as for foundation walls and street paving, was actively pursued, but it is not easy to get at the full particulars of this industry.

Prof. Howley's report shows that the production of building stone for the year amounted to 5,000 tons, valued at the quarries at $6,000; of granite, 2,955 tons, valued at $17,730; of limestone, 1,150 tons, valued at $345; of paving stone, 2,250 tons, or 180,000 blocks, valued at $18,000, and of slate, 2,500 tons, valued at $44,000. As compared with the previous year, there was a decrease of $9,486 in the value of limestone pro-

duced, and $1,980 in granite, while the increase in the value of building stone was $1,000; in paving stone, $3,872, and in slate, $21,500.





NOTES.



Building material—mixing mortar.



The new court house at Sherbrooke, Que., will be built of red granite from the Argenteuil quarries, with trimmings of white Stanstead granite.



The organization is reported of local plumbers' associations in Victoria, B. C., and in Sherbrooke, Que. Both associations are in affiliation with the National Association.



Maine's log cabin at the World's Fair will be built in the Maine pineries. In wilt then be taken down, the timbers carefully marked and the material shipped to St. Louis where it will be reconstructed.



The standard size of brick as agreed upon by the R.I.B.A., the Brick Makers Association and the Institution of Civil Engineers of Great Britain has been ordered to conic into force on May 1st next, and is recommended to be inserted in specifications.



The report of the City Building Inspector shows that in Hamilton this year 213 building permits have been granted. The value of new buildings is placed at $785,869, an increase above 1902 of $188,387. The sum of $318,850 was expended on factories. The Master Builders' Association have petitioned the city authorities to reduce the brick limit, so as to encourage the erection of a desirable class of frame houses.



Competitions are not unmixed blessings to the profession, but we must admit that the buildings erected under this method compare favorably as a whole with the average of works erected without competition. I should certainly advise all men, for the first few years of their practice, to take part in well-conducted competitions, but be sure the conditions are fair, the assessor competent, and the subject one they know something about. And as soon as the state of their practice warrants it, I should also advise them to let competitions alone. '-—J. S. Gibson.

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Ont.

