<doctype type="text;ad>THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS OF MATERIALS.



Samples and catalogues of building materials will be received, free of charge by the Quebec Association of Architects, 112 Mansfield Street, Montreal, Canada.

<article title=" NOTICE TO SUPPLIERS OF MATERIALS " author="">



NOTES.



The Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club has put on record its opinion that the most advantageous position for the proposed new public library would be on an ample site as near as possible to the intersection of College street and Queen's avenue.

Piles made of one-to-six concrete, 28 feet long, 12 inches square, tapered at the end, and enclosed in steel wire bands i8 inches apart, are being driven like an ordinary wooden pile for the foundation of a new building now under construction in New York.

Recently carborundum powder mixed with sodium silicate has been successfully applied as a refractory surfacing to furnace bricks. The bricks may be coated with a brush or by immersion It is claimed that a layer about one-twellth inch thick will protect the bricks from injury by temperatures met in any ordinary operations.

Mr. Ernest Caron of Quebec has recently commenced the manufacture of artificial marble. The attention of our readers is called to his announcement in the advertisement pages of this number. The material has been successfully used in many important buildings in Montreal, and is endorsed by leading architects of the Province of Quebec.

In the District of Columbia, surveys of buildings during erection

are required. An official plat of each lot to be used as the site of a building is also required. These regulations went into effect March 1st, 1902. Up to June 30 probably fifteen cases of errors of builders in location of party walls were discovered before it became difficult to correct the error.

At a recent meeting of the Master Plumbers' Association of Montreal, the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Hon. president, J. Date; president, T. O'Connell; 1st. vice-president, C. E. Thibault ; 2nd vice-president, R. Egan; 3rd vice-president, E. Lesperance; secretary, John A. Gordon; English corresponding secretary, J. W. Hughes; French, J. Lamarche; financial secretary, F. Brunet; treasurer, J. A. Giroux; chairman sanitary committee, P. C. Ogilvie ; arbitration committee, John Watson ; auditing committee, J. A. Sadler ; legislative committee, T. Christie ; apprenticeship committee, T. Moll.

New building regulations have just come into operation in San Francisco. Buildings are divided into three classes. Class A includes absolutely fire proof buildings, which are limited in height to 201 feet. Buildings in Class B are required to have the exterior walls and piers of masonry or of masonry and steel, and all exterior surfaces other than masonry covered with noninflamniable materials. The height of buildings of this class is limited to too feet. Buildings in Class C are the same in requirements Of construction as those of Class B, except as to requirements for interior lathing, and are limited in height to 82 feet. Pitched roofs must not have a slope of more than 45 degrees. The height of frame buildings s restricted to 50 feet. Towers and spires are to be covered with metal.

Rubber Stamps The C.G. Young Co. Toronto



Wm. H. Sumbling Laundry machinery Toronto



The Best light Co. Canton O.



Bells Meneely and Co. West Troy NY



Cabot's creosote shingle stains sheathing and deafening quilt, Toronto Montreal Vancouver Winnipeg St. John Halifax



The Roman Stone Co. Limited Toronto