<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

NOTES OF TRAVEL.—VI.

<article title=" WORKINGMEN'S DWELLINGS OF THE BATTERSEA BOROUGH COUNCIL " author="">

WORKINGMEN'S DWELLINGS OF THE BATTERSEA BOROUGH COUNCIL.

































































The Latchmere Estate buildings in Battersea are a good illustration of two things—workingmen's dwellings and municipal contracting. They are the work of the municipality of Battersea and occupy a portion of a piece of public ground belonging to the Borough. This land was originally let out in gardening allotments at a rental which, as it brought in only £16 a year to the municipality, must have been merely nominal. As not much good was coming of this (no doubt, under a system of gardening in a small way, the land did not improve), the idea occurred to someone that the ground might be turned to greater public advantage by building upon it dwellings suitable for working men.



Battersea is a borough in which working men are powerful. It is the constituency of Mr. John Burns, and, whether or not he conceived the idea, he was a principal promoter of the scheme and the mover of the bill in Parliament to authorize the work.



The result is evidently a financial success. The 315 dwellings, which are being erected now, are taken up as fast as they are finished and promise, when all are completed and occupied, to return an annual rental of £7000, instead of £16 as formerly. This means present work for residents of the borough; good homes for 315 families among them; and an application of the annual expenditure in rent by these families so as to reduce the poor rate of the borough to the extent of £7000 a year.

The trapezoidal piece of ground occupied by these buildings is about 500 ft. in greatest length, by 550 ft. in greatest depth. The houses are built in rows and the streets are close together, leaving only enough land

in the interior of the blocks to give for each dwelling a drying-ground about xo' 6" by the width of the house. The streets are 40 it. wide including the width of the sidewalks. In apparent width they are 4 ft. wider on each side, as the houses stand back that much to allow for the projection of the granolithic slab which protects the entrance doors. The granolithic paving of the sidewalks is carried through to the walls of the houses as a preventive of damp foundations, but the ft. space is to be railed off and, it is said, filled with plants in tubs, to brighten the fronts. The pieces of ground at the back will probably be cultivated on each side of a central pathway, for Englishmen are great gardeners even in London. Something of the kind will be needed to beautify the interior of the blocks; the interior of the only block that is completed at present looks too much like a cattle market—all fences.

U 

