<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



N O T ES.



The value of building permits issued in Toronto during April was $297,400, as compared with $575,624 in the same month in



1902.



The Winnipeg Stone Co., Winnipeg, Man., has been incorporated with a capital of $10,000, to manufacture and dress stone. The provisional directors include L. T. LeFebvre, P. A. Deslauriers, and L. M. LeFebvre, of St. Paul, Mann.



"Samson Spot Cord" is the name of the highest of three grades manufactured by the Samson Cordage Works, of Boston. Although Sash cord is not an important item in the construction of a building, from the cost stand point, there is economy and satisfaction in using the best.



The Mississippi Wire Glass Company, of New York, write that the defects in the roof of the South Terminal Station at Boston referred to in an article in our April issue, copied from

the American Architect, are not to be attributed to wired glass. The material used in this roof is said to be not wired glass hut a substitute material. It is said that wired glass is now being put in to replace the substitute material in the roof of the building referred to.



Many times painters have great difficulty in stopping the suction on brick or plaster work which they wish to paint. A perfect article of this kind, and one that is very' economical to use by reason of its great covering properties is Breinig's Lithogen Primer. By its use a gloss finish can be obtained without its flatting in spots, or a flat finish without its getting glossy in some



places. Where difficulty is met in preventing stains from coming through the Lithogen Primer has accomplished the purpose where everything else has failed. The manufacturers of this article, The Bridgeport Wood Finishing Co., of New Milford, Ct., New York, Chicago and Philadelphia, would be pleased to give information or submit samples.

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto



Patent Store Fronts J.W. Coulson and Company Columbus Ohio

