<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of the radiators it had been found necessary, in order to get the same comfort. to supplement the furnace with two stoves and a large drum on the first floor. The latter utilized the heat from the smoke pipe of the furnace and it and the two stoves were done away with after the radiators were put in. Over and above this a very large percentage of the heat generated by the furnace is wasted, while the hot air is passing through the pipes in the attic before reaching the radiators. For the large amount of piping in the attic kept it at a higher temperature, notwithstanding attempts at insulation, than either of the lower floors, which of course was not the case before the radiators were used.

As to the consumption of fuel, it is impossible to bc exact in connection with these experiments, but the quantity consumed during the two and one-half months the radiators were used would indicate that the present arrangement will not require more than the old one has done.

One of the reasons for uncertainty n estimating the consumption of fuel, in addition to the removal of the two stoves and heating drum aforementioned, is its rapid diminution, as the best method of running the furnace under the changed conditions was learned—for instance, two tons of coal were consumed in the first 18 days, a third ton in 11 days, or (omitting fractions) a ton every

11 days. A fourth ton was burned in 23 days, and a fifth in 18 days, or a ton every 20 days. That is an average per day of twice as much burned during the first 29 days than was burned





















































FIG. 7.





during the last 41 days, though the average was within a degree of being the same in each of the two periods with increased comfort during the latter. The rate at which the coal was continued during the 41 days is almost identical with the rate of consumption in the past when registers were used.

The diameter of the fire pot in this instance is 18 inches, because the builders of the furnace claimed that that size pot was plenty large enough to heat 18,000 cubic feet. But this, as was not unusual in those days, was an overestimate, and at the present time it is unusual to find a reliable hot air furnace-maker making such a claim even when the familiar instructions—" Locate the furnace so that all hot air pipes shall be as short as possible and" Place registers as close as possible to the furnace" are closely followed.

In this test of hot air radiators these rules have been purposely violated, and the departure from them is so wide that it is believed that 50 per cent. of the heat from the furnace is lost in transmission to and through the attic.

It is not anticipated that any one in his senses will adopt such an overhead system except under compulsion, neither can it. be expected that the results under the conditions of this test should be ideal, yet they are the bask of the confidence felt that the proper installation of these hot air radiators will demonstrate beyond all question, during thc coming winter, a decided economy in the consumption of fuel through their use.



DISCUSSION.



Secretary Mackay: Before starting a discussion I move a vote of thanks to Dr. Aylsworth for his courtesy in preparing

this paper and presenting it to our Society. Thc motion was carried.

Prof. Kent I notice that the rate of coal consumption is said to be the same as when registers were used, and would like to ask what is the advantage of this system?

Dr. Aylesworth A large proportion of the heat was wasted

—1 estimate 50 per cent.—by passing through the attic, so that there was really more heat produced from the fuel.

Another advantage is that the air does not pass over the excessively hot surfaces of the furnace and then into the rooms. which is one of the points raised by steam and hot water advocates as an objection to the use of furnaces.

Mr. Switzer Had you any supply of outside air?

Dr. Aylesworth: None whatever. My house has a large ventilating shaft, but there is no ventilation in connection with this air that passed through the radiators. The shaft passes between the two chimneys, up through the roof, forming a continual exhaust from the rooms; there are also two fireplaces on the ground floor.

Prof. Kent: How serious is the objection to having the air pass over the furnace in the usual way and be discharged into rooms?

Mr. Cobey: There is more or less objection to burning out certain elements of the air before we breathe it.

President Crane: The temperature given for the air passing into the radiator is 213 degrees, and that at the exit 123 degrees

—a little hotter at the entrance and cooler at the exit than in a well balanced hot water apparatus, which is not commonly more than about i8o at the flow, with a diminution of about 15 degrees at the return.

Prof. Kent This strikes me as a very well designed system for the results sought to be accomplished. Reducing the temperature from 213 to 123 shows an excellent design of the radiator, and the piping system must also be very well designed in order to avoid short-circuiting the air. In larger houses, with more branch pipes, I should expect more difficulty in circulating the air uniformly.

I do not see that pure air is hurt by passing over surfaces at 300 or 400 degrees. If it contains bacteria you may cook them and have a bad smell, but I think that is unimportant in practice.

A disadvantage of this system is that it does not ventilate as do other furnace systems, which is a strong argument in their favor.

This system would circulate just the same if the radiators were left out. The air would he discharged into the room, be breathed and returned to the furnace to be reheated. A disadvantage would be the possible leaks in the furnace.

Mr. Feldman Dust contained in the air passed over a furnace is sometimes burned in cold weather, and can be smelled.

Mr. Roys: In an ordinary furnace-heated house the wind forces the heat to thc other side of the house. In this case the circulation is not affected by the wind, which is a very great advantage.

Mr. Allen : In Fig. 4 thc two circuits of pipe are shown as very unequal in length. I would ask if they are of the same size?

Dr. Aylesworth: No the size of a pipe is governed by the amount of radiating surface it supplies.

Mr. Oldacre: How is the radiating surface proportioned to the contents and exposure of the rooms?

Dr. Aylesworth The same as with steam or water.

Mr. Switzer: What is your source of air supply? If some of it escapes and the supply is insufficient to carry away the heat from the furnace, fuel would be wasted.

Moreover, it would shorten the life of the furnace to reduce the quantity of heat taken away from its surfaces.

Dr. Aylesworth The system is not absolutely air tight any more than an ordinary furnace is. In practice, the furnace was used for two or three months and there was no perceptible loss of power, either by diminution of the volume of air or deterioration of its quality.

Mr. Oldacre: If in a furnace heated house one side is colder than the other the work is not properly done.

Secretary Mackay: I do not agree with Mr. Oldacre. I think that in 90 out of 100 cases the furnaces on the cold side of a building act as a cold air supply. I take it that the doctor heats his house more satisfactorily with the present system than he was able to before with the same furnace.

Mr. Chew An ordinary furnace is to some extent preserved by the constant flow of cold air over its surfaces, in this case the

