<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and the Ministers of all spending departments of the Government and urge upon them and upon the Government the adoption of this measure during the present session of Parliament.

The action of the manufacturers of soil pipe and fittings in deciding to discontinue, after the 1st of January next, the sale of light soil pipe and fittings, was endorsed.

The Committee on Resolutions suggested that clause of the President's report be amended to read as follows "That it be a recommendation from the National Association, that any agreement which local associations may make with the journeymen, should be ratified by the International Association of journeymen Plumbers." On recommendation of the committee the other reports were adopted. The committee recommended that the revenue of the Association be enlarged by an increased per capita tax, thus placing sufficient funds at the disposal of the officers of the Association to properly prosecute the work.

The Executive Committee were instructed to place themselves in communication with the National Association of the United States to learn if it would be agreeable to that organization to have a representative of the Canadian Association attend its next annual meeting and to reciprocate by sending a representative to future annual conventions of the Canadian Association.

it was decided by vote that the next convention of the Association should be held in Toronto commencing on Wednesday, July 20th, 1904.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year President, Joseph Thibeault, Montreal ; Vice-President, Robert Ross, Toronto ; Secretary, H. A. Knox, Ottawa ; Treasurer, F. G. Johnson, Ottawa. Provincial Vice-Presidents British Columbia, John McKinley, Ottawa ; Manitoba, A. J. Hammond, Winnipeg; Ontario, H. Mahoney, Guelph ; Quebec, Joseph Lamarche, Montreal ; New Brunswick, W. Watson, Moncton; Nova Scotia, Geo. Kinsman, Halifax. Chairmen Standing Committees Legislation, E. B. Butter-worth, Ottawa; Apprenticeship, G. A. Perrier, Halifax Sanitary, James Hughes, Montreal Essay, John Watson, Montreal.

A conference was held with representatives of a number of manufacturing and supply firms, when trade relations were considered. The plumbers pointed out the desirability of a Dominion organization of manufacturers and dealers in plumbers' supplies, so that trade differences might more easily be discussed and remedied. At a subsequent meeting of the manufacturers and supply firms it was decided to form such an organization.

A very enjoyable evening was spent in connection with the Annual Association Dinner held at the Windsor Hotel. In the unavoidable absence of Mr. Thomas O'Connell, President of the Montreal Association, the chair was occupied by Mr. Lamarche, having on his right the President of the Association and on his left Mr. J. S. Archibald, Vice-president of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. The toast of "The National Association" followed the toast to "The King." It was proposed by Mr. P. C. Ogilvie, and responded to by the President, Mr. Powers. The President of the Toronto Association, Mr. R. Ross, proposed the toast to "The Montreal Association." Messrs. Joseph Laurier and Mr. Lamarche made suit-

able replies. Mr. W. H. Meredith proposed the toast to the ''Invited Guests," which he said included the architect, the manufacturer and the journeyman. Mr. Mr. J. S. Archibald, Vice-President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, extended the hearty felicitations of that organization to the Master Plumbers' Association, and congratulated the latter upon the scope and usefulness of its work. Replies were also made by Mr. Howard, President of the Journeymen s Association, F. J. Travers, Peter McMichael, S. R. Brewer, A. [). McArthur, Alex. Robertson and J. L. F. Carron on behalf of the manufacturers. The toast 01 "The Ladies" was proposed in felicitious terms by Mr. Fred. Arm strong, of Toronto, and replied to by Mr. Harry Mahoney, of Guelph.



<article title=" FALLACIOUS CEMENT TESTS " author="">

FALLACIOUS CEMENT TESTS.



Mr. I). B. Butler, Vice-President of the Society of Engineers of Great Britain recently read a paper before that body on the above subject, in which he referred to the uselessness of many of the tests now employed. In conclusion he stated that whilst recognizing the fact that exceptional circumstances require exceptional qualities of cement, he submitted the following standard specification as one which would ensure the delivery of a good sound cement suitable for the requirements of general engineering constructional work.

The whole of the cement shall be pure Portland cement, and shall conform to the following tests

FINENESS OF GRADING.—TO be such that when sifted through a standard sieve having 50 holes per lineal inch there shall not be more than one-half (12 per cent.) by weight of residue ; when sifted through a sieve having 76 holes per lineal inch, there shall not be more than five (5 per cent.) of residue; and when sifted through a sieve having 100 holes per lineal inch, there shall not be more than 12 (12 per cent) of residue.

TIME OF SET.—A pat of neat cement gauged with the minimum of water at the normal temperature (60 deg. F.), and placed on a glass or other non-porous slab, shall not commence to set in less than eight minutes, or take longer than five hours to set hard.

SOUNDNESS, OR FREEDOM FROM EXPANSION AND CONTRACTION.—A pat submitted to moist heat and warm water in the Faija apparatus for soundness at the usual temperatures—viz., 110deg. F. and 120deg. F. respectively, shall show no cracks or signs of expansion after 24 hours.

TENSILE STRENGTH. Briquettes of neat cement, gauged with the minimum of water on a non-porous bed and placed in water 24 hours after gauging-, shall carry an average tensile strain of not less than 350 lb. per square inch after three days, 450 lb. after seven days, and lb. after 28 days from the time of gauging. Briquettes composed of three parts of standard sand to one part of cement by weight, treated as above, shall carry an average tensile strain of not less than 150 lb. per square inch at seven days and 250 lb. at 28 days from the time of gauging ; but no matter how much greater strength may be developed at the earlier dates, both neat and sand briquettes must develop an increase of at least 50 ft. between each date.





Building operations in Vancouver, B. C., have been retarded by a strike for an 8 hour day of workmen in the sash and door factories.

