<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]





From '' Inquirer " Is it possible to tell what the King Edward hotel, Toronto, cost, per cubic foot, measuring from foundation footings to top of roof; and if so, about how much per cubic foot did it cost?

ANS.—While we have no exact data at hand regarding the cost of King Edward Hotel, we are inclined to think, judging from a survey made of the building in a general way, that the cost would run up to close upon 32 cents per cubic foot. This is not given as the exact cost, but we are under the impression this figure is pretty nearly correct. We give herewith the cost per cubic foot of some well known buildings in various cities of the United States: Rookey building, Chicago, eleven stories, iron and steel interior, ten passenger elevators, 32 cents per cubic foot; Monadnock building, Chicago, sixteen stories, brick and marble work, 421/2 cents; Masonic Temple, Chicago, twenty stories, fourteen passenger elevators, rich marble work 58 cents; New England Mutual Life Insurance Company's building, Boston, granite fireproof, 6o cents; Herald Building, New York, 200 x 140, two stories and attic and damp proof basement 46 cents ; six to ten story office buildings in New York, 30 to 6o cents ; Wainwright building, St. Louis, ten stories, 25 cents ; Union '[rust building, St. Louis, fourteen stories 28 cents ; Equitable Life Insurance Company's buildings, Denver, nine stories, first story marble wainscoted nine feet high, 42 cents Ernest & Crammer building, Denver, eight stories pressed brick fronts, 17 cents ; Crocker building, San Francisco, ten storeys, steel skeletoned, 63 cents Brown Palace Hotel, Denver, nine storeys, finished in iron and onyx, 30 cents ; athletic club buildings, about 24 cents ; libraries, from 36 to 44 cents ; dwellings, Boston, frame, eight to ten rooms, 11 cents ; Dwellings, Denver, first class, stone, steam heat 27 cents ; Brick cottages, east, ten rooms, about 15 cents ; Brick cottages, east, one and one-halt story, 10 cents.



From "Bricklayer": I have put up several fireplaces within a short period, and I find some draw very well, while other ''draw" but indifferently though all are built in the same manner. It. not asking too much, I would like to have you give a few suggestions, showing the proper method of building a fire-place showing how to "throat" it and how to make it fairly fire-proof?

ANS.—We refer " Bricklayer" to an article on this subject published in another column of this issue.



From "Builder" I have a contract to repair and renovate an old brick house which is over seventy years old, and my main trouble is to freshen the walls outside so as to give them a lively look. How can this be done?

ANS.—The best way would be to paint the outside of the brickwork all over, with two or three coats of paint mixed with linseed oil. First give the whole work a coat of alabastine, having it the color desired; then when dry, go over the work with the oil paint. This makes a good job of the work, but it is, of course rather expensive. An old brick wall may be enlivened and renewed by this process : Remove any moldy green

that may have accumulated by pouring over the bricks boiling water (not greasy) in which any vegetables have been cooked. Repeat for a few days, and the green will disappear. To prepare a red wash, melt one ounce of glue in a gallon of water, and while hot, add a piece of alum as large as a hen's egg, half a pound of Venetian red, and one pound of Spanish brown. If the color, upon trying this paint is found to be too light, add more brown and red ; if too dark put in more water.



From "Nor-Westener" I am in want of information on two subjects, and I am sure the knowledge will be of great use to many readers of your esteemed journal, as well as myself. First, I would like if you would describe or show a good and easy method of laying out a hip-roof including the jack-rafters and backing? Second, will you please show a few cheap designs for ornamented or ''cut" shingling ?

ANS.—The laying out of a hip-roof seems to puzzle a great many young carpenters, yet, it is quite simple when the principle is once understood. A valley roof is simply a hip-roof inverted ; Suppose p p Fig.





























FIG. 1.





represent the face of the plates of the building ; d the deck frame ; a is the seat of the hip-rafter ; b of the jack ; and c of the common rafter. Set the rise of the roof from the ends of the hip and common rafter towards e e, square from a and c ; connect f and e, then the line from f to e will be the length of the hip and common rafter, and the angles at e e will be the down bevels of the same. To find the length and bevel of the jack rafters, suppose b to be the seat of the rafter. Set the length of the hip from the corner g to the line on the face of the deck frame and joint it to the point at g. Extend the jack b to meet this line at h ; then from I to h will be the length of the jack rafter, and the angle at h will be the top bevel of the same. The length of all the jacks is found in the same way, by extending them to meet the line h. The down bevel of the jacks is the same as that of the common rafter at e. A hip roof is a roof constructed of equally inclined planes rising to the same pitch and height, and a hip rafter is a rafter placed at the hips of the hip roof. Now if you wish to find the backing of a hip rafter, at any point on the seat of the hip a, draw a line at right angles a to a, extending to the face of the plates at kk ; upon the points where the lines cross, draw the half circle just touching the line f e ; connect the point at j, where the half circle cuts the line a, with the points kk ; the angle formed at j will be the proper backing of the hip rafter. It is not worth while to

