<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



council should follow up its first wise action in this important matter by taking steps to secure the best possible design and plan for the building. Care should be taken to prevent the commission going into the hands of "the man with a pull." The best results would probably be secured by a limited competition among Canadian architects, governed by conditions approved by the architectural associations of Ontario and Quebec.



<article title=" L'Art Neauveau Architecture " author="">

The merits of the so-called new

L'Art Neauveau Architecture.

question. Its employment in any

form of construction seems to be a violation of the principles which are generally recognized as underlying all work of this nature. Apart perhaps from its sparing employment in decoration, it should have no place in architecture. Yet it has found its way, and indeed has become a leading characteristic of recent work of not a few of the architects of Continental Europe. The results cannot be regarded as other than deplorable. The principles of construction, of proportion and of good ornamentation are all set at defiance by architects whose fancy has been caught by the new art. It is a cause for thankfulness that the craze thus far has not taken possession of architects either in the United States or Canada. It is to be hoped that notwithstanding the influence of the French school on the architecture of the United States, it may not be considered necessary to copy the new art vagaries introduced by French and German architects Some of the new buildings embodying these characteristics recently erected in France and Germany should serve as examples sufficiently horrible to deter architects with a reputation to make or preserve from having anything to do with this fad.

<article title=" Casement Windows " author="">The artistic effect of casement

Casement Windows	windows has always been appreciated by Canadian architects, but

only within the last decade has their use been ventured upon in domestic work. The earlier generation of architects were taught that the casement window was not adapted to and should not be used in this climate. They in turn taught the doctrine to their apprentices. The latter, constituting the practitioners of to-day, have to a considerable extent departed from these teachings, and are using the casement window in house architecture with very pleasing results. It is nevertheless true, that difficulty is experienced in making this style of window weather-tight in this climate. The source of the trouble lies in the use of wooden frames which are bound to shrink. In England steel frames are used and this would no doubt overcome the difficulty here. In view of the extent to which casement windows are now being used in new houses, especially in Toronto and vicinity, where the climate in winter is moderate, there would seem to exist an opening for some enterprising manufacturer to place on the market a steel casement window frame.

<article title=" Foreign Recognition of Canadian Skill " author="">

A Canadian firm of stained glass

Foreign Recognition of Canadian Skill. manufacturers have recently received from the United States

several commissions for memorial windows. The first.

of these commissions came as the result of an inspection of work done in Canada, and subsequent ones because of the satisfactory manner in which the first work done in the United States was carried out. American opalescent glass was used in this work. An import duty of 20 per cent. had to be paid on the raw material, and an export duty of 45 per cent. on the manufactured article. This duty was added to the price and was paid by the purchaser. That the customer should have been willing to pay this extra price for Canadian work is highly complimentary to Canadian skill. Notwithstanding that a great deal of American ornamental glass is purchased in Canada, every obstacle was thrown in the way of the Canadian firm seeking to do business in the United States. In this connection it seems proper to refer to an occurrence which, if the facts are as stated, demands explanation by the Canadian Minister of Customs. It is said that a United States firm of ornamental glass manufacturers lately received an order amounting to about $10,000 for memorial windows to be placed in a church in Montreal, and that the duly of 30 per cent. paid on these windows was afterwards refunded by the government. If the facts are as stated, the action can only be designated as an outrage. The refund is said to have been made because it was represented that the windows were to be used for religious purposes. The tariff, however, makes no such distinction, and no official should be permitted to grant privileges outside of its provisions. Otherwise our so-called National Policy is a farce, and in its administration great injustice may be done.

<article title=" Architectural Accessories " author="">

The growth of wealth and travel

Architectural Accessories,	is resulting in a higher appreciation by Canadians of the refinements of life. Domestic architecture especially is receiving greater attention than at any previous period during the present generation, and in consequence is showing great improvement. Architects who now aspire to be leaders in their profession must not only possess a knowledge of how best to meet the varied requirements of modern commercial and domestic life, but in addition must have the artistic faculty highly developed, so that they may be able in their designing and planning to combine beauty with utility. The fact is also becoming recognized that good architecture can only appear to best advantage when in its proper setting. Therefore, due attention must be given to architectural accessories, which term includes questions of site and proper arrangement of grounds. This phase of building to which so much thought is given in older lands is now receiving greater attention from Canadian architects and building owners. That there is yet plenty of room for improvement in this direction is evidenced by the ugly unpainted high board fences used to separate one property from another. Such fences are a serious disfigurement to many otherwise attractive houses erected in good residential localities in Toronto this year. Are these ugly fences the result of false economy on the part of owners who, after spending thousands on their buildings, spoil the effect by trying to save a few dollars on the fencing, or is there available to the architect no better method of partitioning properties ? Whatever the cause, the disappearance of the unsightly board fence would be welcomed as marking another advance in architectural development.

