<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF' ARCHITECTS

<article title=" THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF' ARCHITECTS " author="">

Arrangements have been made for the annual convention, which will be held in Toronto on Tuesday, January 12th and Wednesday, January 13th, 1904.

Upon the afternoon of the first day an address will be given by Prof. R. C. Carpenter, of Cornell University, upon "Heating," a subject upon which he has written a book well-known as a standard volume.

On Wednesday morning, Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, A.R.I.B.A., of McGill University, Montreal, will give a paper upon "The Delineation of Architecture," and will give examples of various methods of rendering. It is hoped that a very full discussion will follow this address.

The Wednesday afternoon meeting will be addressed by Prof. J. Mayor, of Toronto University, on "Recent Developments in the Planning and Improvement of Cities in Europe and America" and Mr. Frederick G. Todd, of Montreal will, describe the 'The Advantages of a Park System." The exhibition of architectural drawings will be opened on Tuesday evening and upon Wednesday evening there will be a banquet in the King Edward Hotel. It is expected that members of the Association from many places in Ontario will be present.



HEIGHTS OF FAMOUS BUILDINGS.

			Feet

	1.	Old St. Paul's, London	534

	2.	Cologne Cathedral                   

	3.	Rouen Cathedral	492

	4.	St. Nicholas, Hamburg	473

	5.	Anvers Cathedral	472

	6.	St. Peter's, Rome	469

	7.	Strasburg Cathedral	465

	8.	Great Pyramid	460

	q.	St. Stephen's Cathedral, Vienna	441

	10.	St. Pollux Chimney, Glasgow	435

	11.	Salisbury Cathedral	404

	1 2.	An twerp Cathedral	403

	13.	Chartres Cathedral	403

	14.	Friburg Cathedral	385

	15.	Amiens Cathedral	383

	16.	Florence Cathedral	376

	17.	St. Paul's, London	360

	18.	Houses of Parliament (Victoria Tower)	.

	19.	Campanile of St. Mark's, Venice	323

	20.	Mechlin Cathedral	319

	21.	Norwich Cathedral	309

	22.	St. Genevieve, Paris	274

	23.	Chichester Cathedral	271

	24.	Campanile, Florence	266

	25.	Lichfield Cathedral	252

	26.	Canterbury Cathedral	235

	27.	Taj Mahal, Agra	220

	28.	The Monument, London	202

	29.	Porcelain Tower, Nankin	200

	33.	York Cathedral	198

	31.	Crystal Palace (central transept)	198

	32.	Baptistry, Pisa	190

	33.	Leaning Tower, Pisa	183

	34.	St. Sophia, Constantinople	182

	35.	Colosseum, Rome	157

	36.	Albert Hall, London	'54

	37.	Pantheon, Rome	143

	38.	St. George's Hall, Liverpool          

	39.	Temple of Trexor, Egypt	70

	40.	Parthenon, Athens	66



Mr. Henry Simpson, architect, has announced himself a candidate for the Board of Education of that city.

The carpenters' strike in Pretoria is over, and the men's demand for a standard wage of £6 19S per week of forty-eight hours has been agreed to.

CORRESPON DENCE

FOREIGN RECOGNITION OF CANADIAN SKILL.

<article title=" FOREIGN RECOGNITION OF CANADIAN SKILL " author="">

DEC. 11 TH, 1903.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—In your issue of November under the heading of "Foreign Recognition of Canadian Skill" you refer to a Canadian artist receiving several commissions for memorial windows from the United States—and express astonishment at the fact that "an order amounting to about $10,000.00 for memorial windows to be placed in a church in Montreal was given to a U.S. firm" and that the duty of 3000001C53aid on these windows was afterwards refunded by the Government; and your article suggested that "an explanation should be demanded of the Canadian Minister of Customs.

Apropos of this the writer wishes to say that very little blame can be attached to the Minister of Customs, (the I-Ion. Mr. Patter-soil,) although the facts are as you state. The Minister was interviewed and the facts as he gave them are, that for many years back, previous to the present Liberal administrator, this custom had been followed, and by special Order-in-Council the duty was refunded, and it was difficult to draw the line without apparent discrimination to the particular ecclesiastical body that made the application. And further that the application for the refund of duty required had always been accompanied by a sworn declaration that it was impossible to execute this work in Canada. Let us hope that the ecelesiastics, on the supporters of religion, sinned in ignorance.

Thc Minister promised, and we believe he has carried out his promise, that this should cease. No fault can be found it the work should happen to have been that of a professional artist, such as Mr. holiday, Frank Brangyn, Mr. Richardson, and others,—but these refunds were asked for and given on purely "commercial work," that is to say—work where the identity of the artist was sunk in the firm carrying out the order. Productions executed by artists of the "status" of these gentlemen would only benefit the taste for good productions in stained glass, and rightly so, might be admitted free, but all of the work carried Out by "commercial stained glass firms" either in the United States, England, the Continent—the price being equally good, could be executed here.

Before concluding the writer would like to add that a prominent protectionist in Montreal, a gentleman who is about to seek the suffrage of the "electorate" with the purpose of imposing upon the people of Canada a high protective tariff was largely instrumental in placing the above order referred to in the United States.

This, I think, Mr. Editor should illustrate the insincerity of the "protectionists' who are "free-traders" for themselves, but "protectionists" when "others" are the purchasers.

Trusting this explanation will clear the present Minister of the blame your article imposes upon him.

I beg to remain,

Yours very truly,

"VERITAS."

<article title=" VENTILATING SYSTEMS " author="">

VENTILATING SYSTEMS.

TORONTO, December 4, 3903.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—I note a letter in your November issue, calling attention to thc ventilation of the McIntyre Building at Winnipeg. The writer of the letter invites criticism and states that a discussion on the subject might be interesting and instructive. I quite agree with him on that point, but believe that the discussion should be on the ventilation of this building in particular, rather than on the system in general.

In order to discuss it intelligently it would be necessary for us to know the size of the building, its sub-divisions, the nature of business carried on, apartments and the number of occupants, the size of the vent shafts and the openings into thc different apartments, together with their location. What provision is made for the admission of fresh air and have we to depend on gravity alone for the draft in the flues, or is artificial means provided?

We would also have to agree on a definition of ventilation which I understand to be the admission of fresh air in sufficient quantities to diffuse, dispel or drive out all vitiated air, or air containing more than from two to four parts of carbonic acid, in 10,000 parts, the air to be taken from a reliable source and to be distributed in desired quantities throughout the different apart-

