<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="Intercommunication" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.





[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance,]





A SUBSCRIBER :—What in your opinion is the best way to secure 1 1/4 inch bolts in the solid rock for a heavy foundation?

ANS. —One of the best methods of securing an iron bolt in rock is to split the end of the bolt and insert a wedge which will expand the bolt on either side when it is driven into the hole. This might be supplemented by tamping into the space around the bolt Portland cement, after the bolt is driven home.



A young country contractor writes:—(t.) "I am figuring on a plan got up by a city architect, and it is the first I ever met with. The specification reads: Lay a rough floor under first floor to he laid folding hollow back with splayed heading joints and blind nailed. I understand ''blind nailed'' but I do not understand "folding hollow back." (2.) 1 am going to build a new dry kiln, and as I have but little experience, you would much oblige if you could enlighten me as to the best system to adopt. My power is steam, and size of kiln is 20x40 or thereabouts?



ANSWER:—(1) The meaning of the specification to which your letter refers is by no means clear. We think, however, that the architect meant that there should be two floors laid over joists— the first a rough one, the next a dressed and matched one, and that the "butt" or ''head" joints should be "bevelled" or "splayed" and lap over each other, and the matched floor blind nailed. This is all we can make out of it. Perhaps the Specification has not been properly read. (2.) With regard to the dry kiln, you can heat it with coils of steam piping, either under the floor or against the side walls. We would suggest a two-pipe system, so that condensed water- would return to boilers by a separate set of pipes, The best way would be to consult a good heating plumber or heating engineer, or communicate with some of the manufacturers of dry kilns, as, for instance, the McEachern Heating & Ventilating Co., of Gait, Out., the Standard Dry Kiln Co., Indianapolis, and the American Blower Co., Detroit. Catalogues of these companies would probably give you useful informal ion.



From "Small Contractor": I have a business in a western city, which consists chiefly of jobbing and repair work, and I wish to keep the cost of each item. Which is the simplest method of doing this? The men I employ use time sheets, but are, as a rule, very pool' scholars



ANS.—Evidently you desire to keep the cost of each trade in each item of repair. Unless you have plenty of time and plenty of patience, it is better to make as few separate items as possible. Workmen seldom realize the necessity of keeping strict account of time and material, and generally resent having anything to do with what they call "watch-work." Unless there is in each, or any, job some one or more items which stand out quite distinct and separate from other work, no really useful purpose is served by microscopic dissection. The simplest method that can be recommended (this is, of course, without knowing any of the querist's special requirements) is to have a general order book; each job is entered, being provided with a number. Official order slips (printed ones soon save the cost of printing) bearing the number should be issued to the leading tradesmen on the job, an(l it should be his business to see that each man on the job books his time to that number. To take care of distinct sub-items in jobs, a sub-order 1)00k should be provided-—one for each trade if the magnitude of the business requires it—and, as an illustration, each job set out by carpenter or joiner might he the subject of a separate sub-order. When the job is complete, the workman holding the order slip should return it to the office, bearing on the hack an account of materials used, or, where several trades are engaged, each leading man in his trade might be required to render the account of materials on the back (or face) of his time sheet. Use of scaffolding, unless on a job of some extent, is best charged up as a percentage on the cost of the job, or upon the cost of time, the latter being the preferable though not the most usual method. If you have not a copy of "The Canadian Contractor's Hand Book and Estimator," you had better get one as it contains some useful advice regarding builders' book-keeping, and much other useful matter.

From a '' Layman " : I am a constant reader of your paper and have found in it many things that have repaid me tenfold more than the cost of subscription. I wish to make some changes in my house next summer, such as putting wood ceilings in main hall, parlor and dining room, and I would like to know if such changes would be desirable. I wish to show beams and panels in the ceilings. These rooms arc finished in polished oak, and are wainscoted in same material. The stairs are all polished, and a tier of art tiles, from the top panel of the wainscot?

ANS. '—There is nothing which gives an impression of richness and durability to an apartment in greater degree than natural finished wood ceilings. They are not, of course, appropriate to every room unless the house is built at all events upon a scale of magnificence not often realized in this country. Unfortunately this method of finishing the ceiling is very expensive and beyond the means of ordinary house owners. Attempts have been made from time to time to obtain the effect of wood ceilings by various imitations in paper, but without other success than to make the whole thing ridiculous and vulgar. Veneers are, of course, more or less imitative, and are sometimes intended to convey an impression of wealth not sustained by their surroundings. Wood veneer in natural finish is an exceedingly handsome material. It may be used upon mural surfaces without any attempt to convey anything more than its own beauty to the eye of the beholder. A just recognition of this fact has increased the popularity of wood veneers for walls and ceilings among many who are most exacting in their rejection of every-thing that is in tile least simulative in character. There can be no doubt that this distinction is well drawn. It is one thing to imitate wooden panels by graining or the use of grained papers, but essentially different to use the wood itself as an ornament, leaving it only to the beholder to determine whether the wood is but the fraction of an inch or a foot in thickness. A new veneer now upon the market consists of a thin piece of natural wood backed up by paper and cemented to the wall, first prepared with a thin layer of muslin. This process permits the use of great varieties of wood without corresponding expense. It is finished, of course, in such manner as to heighten the natural grain. This material is adjusted almost as easily as wall paper, and a much smaller degree of skill is necessary to make smooth joints than it) inlaid work. If you write Elliott & Son Co., 79 King Street West, Toronto, they will send you prices of parquet work, which would answer your purpose nicely.



From "Bricklayer":-—I am a new hand at contracting and would like to get a few pointers as to the proper method of estimating for work, and form of tender to send in?

ANS. :-—-For manner of estimating look into your Canadian Contractors' Hand-Book and Estimator, if you have one, and you will find on page 110, and in the appendix, rules for getting the number of bricks, etc., etc., and the amount of mortar you will require for any given work. See that you get the prices all right and exact. Then to the total cost add a percentage—say from 10 to 20 per cent.—to every profit, book-keeping and contingencies, etc., etc. The tender may be written in the following lines 36 Broad Street, Winnipeg, Man., (date), to Mr. Blank. I hereby tender for the carrying out of the whole of the brickwork in connection with the erection of , including the supply of materials, labor, scaffolding, and water, for the sum of $ ; and I undertake to maintain the work in good condition for a period of three months after completion. Payment is to be made monthly to the amount of 75 per cent. on the value of the work (lone, to per cent, on completion, and the remaining 15 per cent. to he paid at the end of three months, provided that tile work is satisfactory. Yours truly, W. M. Bricklayer." If the labor only is to be tendered for, the description should read as follows :—"The whole of the labor in connection with the brickwork of you to provide materials, scaffolding, mortar and water."



From a "Journeyman": I am employed in a city and have a lot of "jobbing" to do in carpenter work, and make use of a wheel to go to and from to work, and would like to make some sort of a box or chest to "hang" on the wheel carry tools in.

in.	Is there anything of the kind ?



ANS. -- We have seen a kind of leather case used for the purpose, but suppose that is expensive. A rough sketch of a box is shown at Fig. t, which is made of white pine sides, inch thick, with teak ends hollowed out to fit the tubing of the

