<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



odor of sewage gas in the place. Can it be that the gas finds its way into the room from the outside through the closet window? What remedy would you suggest? I have thought of covering the soil pipe with mortar, and casing the whole in with wood would that be of any use?

ANS. :—The better plan will be to apply a smoke test to the drain and note whether the smoke escapes from any defective places in the outside soil-pipe, or from the joint inside the house connecting the soil-pipe to the trap or from the joint of the air-pipe. If any defective joints are found they should be made good with Portland cement. The water closet trap is presumed to be earthenware. But if the pipes are cracked, or otherwise se defective, they should be replaced with new pipes. The in. air pipe is much too small and is entirely useless for either ventilating the soil pipe or preventing a syphonic action on the water in the trap when a pailful of slops is thrown down the water-closet. A ventilation pipe not less than 4 in. in diameter should be fixed from the top of the soil pipe, and the top end should be as far as possible above the closet or any other window and above the eaves of the roof. To cover the soil pipe with mortar and encase it with woodwork would not be satisfactory and the cost would probably be equal to that of an entirely new pipe. In using the smoke test the drain is filled with dense smoke, and all the known vents stopped up and kept closed, as long as is necessary to discover defective places. Possibly a larger air-pipe may be an effectual remedy.



From " Contractor":—About what is the average cost of the following buildings per cubic foot, including foundations, cellars, roofs and additions?

1.	Factories, asylums and similar buildings.

2.	Large workshops and factories.

3.	Stables.

4.	Ordinary cottages.

5.	Six-roomed houses.

6.	Town houses.

7.	Churches.

8.	Halls and public libraries.

9.	Large hotels.

10.	Town halls and similar buildings.

ANS.—There are questions to which answers can be only approximately given, as much depends on the kind of materials employed, and the locality on which the work is done. The prices we submit while not accurate, are as nearly so as can be obtained, and are

tended for buildings of brick.

1. from 10 to i6 cents per cubic foot.

	6.	''	'' 30 ''

	7.	12	'' 35	''	''	''

	8.	'' 12	'' 24	''	''

	9.	'' 36	'' 48	''

	10.	20	'' 34	''	''	'' ''





The estimator must exercise judgment in using these figures and consider the quality of materials, styles of finish, and richness of trimmings.



From ''Contractor ": I have quite a lot of excavating to do this coming summer in ground that is formed largely of live sand; both for laying down drain tiles

and for stone foundations and concrete work. In some places I will have to go down twelve feet, hut most of the excavating will not be more than six feet deep. 'What arc the best methods of preventing the sides from caving in on the workmen 

ANS.—There are several methods by which the sand may he prevented from caving in, each more or less effective. The best method for the six feet cuttings, is shown at Fig 7, where the sides of the cuttings are made on an incline. The trench may be cut to depth, and then held as cut by planking and struts as shown, where pipes or foundations are laid, the whole of woodwork may be removed. For the deeper cuttings, the method shown at Fig.8 will perhaps be the better way. This consists of sheet-piling pointed, and driven down as the work proceeds; then a second lot driven below as shown.

It is sometimes impossible to withdraw all the timber used in an excavation, and allowance must be made in the contract for such contingency.



C.	W. S.," Toronto Junction, asks What would be the proper thickness for a wall 10 feet high (inside walls), and also the best kind of a wall to fix marble to, and what method is used to fix it in place, also the cost per square foot when erected of white or cream colored marble.

ANS.—Marble veneering may be of almost any thickness, but the thinner it is the more expense in preparing backing for it. The best thickness is from 34 inch to

inch. This has proved the most satisfactory. Of course, something depends upon what it is used for. Marble slabs can be fixed to wood, brick or stone. Brick makes the best backing if it is not too new. Brickwork should stand a month or two after being put up before the marble is attached. There are several ways of fastening marble slabs or veneer to a wall. The best is by the use of hot mastic. This, however, is apt to cause trouble in the setting, as the slabs must be heated before being placed and may break. The slabs may be attached by brass or nickelplated clasps and dowels against a good plastered or cemented wall, slabs to be soaked in water before being laid against the wall. The usual way is to set the slabs against the wall with plaster of Paris, slabs to be well wetted before setting. This method is apt to twist and warp the slabs as the plaster expands as it sets and distorts the slab, and sometimes causes breakage. The cost is variable, depending on local conditions. The average, however, may be set down at about $1.25 per foot super. This may vary for best Italian marble from $1.75 to $2. to for American grey or creamy marble. Something will depend also on the size of slabs.



<article title="How to Make a Venetian Blind" author="">HOW TO MAKE A VENETIAN BLIND.

Senator Platt, of Connecticut, was building a house. He had occasion to hire a carpenter, who was a plain, unvarnished son of New England.

''You all know about carpenter work ?" asked Senator Platt.

"Yes, sir," was the reply.

"You can make windows, doors and blinds ?"

''Oh, yes, sir."

"How would you make a Venetian blind?

The man thought steadily for several minutes. "I think," he remarked finally, "that I would punch him in the eye."

