<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



A City Improvement Society has been organized at London, Ont., with the object of improving the appearance of the streets.



A charter has been granted by the Ontario Legislature to the Belleville Portland Cement Company, Limited, capital $2,500,000, to manufacture and deal in Portland cement, bricks, lime, drain tiles, stone and gravel, artificial Stone, etc.



Mr. Harry McIntosh, of Point Edward, Ont., has recently invented and patented a machine which is said to be capable of producing the finest quality of pressed brick at the rate of 2,000 per hour. The machine is said to be in operation at Point Edward and Wiarton, Ont.



The new Metropolitan Bank building at corner of Dundas and Arthur streets, Toronto, is attracting attention. The stone used is that manufactured by the Roman Stone Co., Marlborough Avenue, under their patented process, and is certainly all that the company claim for their material.



An artistically gotten up brochure treating of the history, manufacture and characteristics of stained glass, and containing twenty plates showing examples of important works in this line, has been published by Thomas William Camm, The Studio, near Manchester, England. The author is in the front rank of designers and manufacturers of stained glass in England.

A shipment of Canadian clay was recently made from Toronto to England to determine its suitability for the manufacture of pottery. The experiments made with brown clay by experts in the pottery district in England are said to have demonstrated its peculiar value for sanitary ware, owing to the extreme closeness of the grain and its non-absorbent qualities. From another variety of clay vitrified bricks were produced of a durability superior to those made from English clay.



Canadian manufacturers of heating apparatus are finding in the Northwest a profitable market for a large amount of apparatus in this line. The climate is such that more than ordinary attention must be given to heating methods and appliances, while the rapid increase in population is widening the market every year. The prosperous conditions which have prevailed in the Northwest, as well as in every part of Canada, for several years past, have put the people in possession of means with which to make themselves comfortable, and large expenditures are being made for this object. The manufacturers of heating apparatus clam that better prices are obtainable in the Northwest than in Eastern Canada. They also state that, notwithstanding the mildness of the climate in British Columbia, there is a considerable demand for heating appliances in that province. In view of the rapidly widening market, several manufacturing firms are increasing their facilities for the production of this line of goods.





The Sun Portland Company Limited Owen Sound



Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto

