<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER PLUMBERS, STEAM AND HOT WATER FITTERS OF CANADA." author="">

THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MASTER PLUMBERS, STEAM AND HOT WATER FITTERS OF CANADA.

The eighth annual convention of the above Association opened in Forester's Hall, 505 Craig Street, Montreal, on the 2nd of July, The President, Mr. F. Powers, presiding. The president in his annual address stated that the relations of the master plumbers with the manufacturers and supply firms were of a friendly, and on the whole, satisfactory character. The membership of the Provincial Associations was steadily increasing. New associations have been organized during the year at Sydney, and on the Island of Cape Breton. Attention was called to the necessity for the appointment of a permanent secretary and organizer to be paid a salary sufficient to enable him to devote his whole time to organizing and association business. Owing to the shortening of credits to 30 days by the manufacturing and supply firms, it was recommended that the plumbers also curtail credits to thirty days.

The report of Mr. Peter C. Ogilvie, vice-president, contained the following suggestion 'I think that in the interest of every one, no contractor should make a contract with any labor union, until such time as they become incorporated bodies. As it is now, a contract is only kept until such time as it suits them best to break it ; I sincerely hope that we will be able to get some practical suggestions from some of those present at this convention."

Mr. W. LI. Meredith, vice-president for Ontario, urged the importance of organizing associations for every province, and as a proof of the advantage of so doing, referred to the fact that all the principal towns and cities in Ontario now had local associations, and that in Toronto 95 per cent. of the master plumbers are members of the local association.

Mr. James Farquhar, vice-president for Nova Scotia, referred to the fact that the Board of Health at Halifax is very strict in the enforcement of sanitary regulations, and that there is co-operation between the Board and the local plumbers' association in behalf of the enforcement of sanitary laws.

The President of the Montreal Association, Mr. 1. O'Connell, referred in his report to the good feeling existing between the Master Plumbers' Association of

a

Montreal, and the local Journeymen's Union. Reference was also made to the fact that the city plumbing by-law has been amended in several important particulars, one of which was that journeymen have now to undergo examination.

George A. Perrier, secretary, in his report also referred to the necessity for the appointment of a paid secretary who should reside at a central point, and be in a position to have at all times a thorough grasp of the affairs of the Association.

The President called attention to an Act passed by the Legislature of the State of New York and which is now in operation, having reference to government and municipal contracts. This Act had been revised with a view to its presentation to the Dominion government for adoption, and is as follows

The people of the Dominion of Canada represented, do enact as follows

Section 1. All specifications or contracts hereafter made or awarded by the Dominion, or by any public department or official thereof, for the erection and construction of buildings, shalt be understood to embrace stone and mason work, carpenter work, painting and decorating work, plumbing, heating, electrical work, structural iron work, and roofing.

Section 2. The officer, hoard or commission charged with the duty of drawing specifications and contracts for the erection and construction of buildings for the Dominion, or any political or other sub-division of the Dominion, must draw separate specifications and contracts to cover the separate kinds of work referred to in Section 1 of this act, and they must be so drawn as to permit of unfettered bidding for and upon the separate branches of work to he performed.

Section 3. All contracts hereafter made or awarded by the Dominion, or public department or official thereof, for the erection and construction of buildings, are to be awarded separately upon the separate branches of work, as referred to in Section of this act, to responsible and reliable individuals, firms and corporations engaged in the business of the kind to which the work to he performed belongs.

Section 4. No bid shall be received or accepted by the Dominion or any public department or official thereof, unless the party making the bid shows by affidavit that he is a citizen of the Dominion of Canada, and as a test of his fitness to properly

perform the work bid for, that he has served an apprenticeship of at Last three years at the line of work specified in his bid, or that he is a contractor in the particular line, and has had at feast five years' practical experience.

Section 5. If any person, firm or corporation, to whom any contract is hereafter let, granted or awarded, by the Dominion or by any public department or official thereof, shall, without the previous written consent specified in Section of this act, assign, transfer, sublet or otherwise dispose of the same, or any right, title or interest therein, to any other person, firm or corporation, the Dominion, public department or official thereof, as the case may be, shall be relieved and discharged from any and all liability and obligations growing out of said contract, and to the persons, firm, or corporation to whom he shall assign, transfer or sublet, or otherwise dispose of any right, title or interest in the same, and said contractor, and his assignee, transferee, or sub-lessee shall forfeit and lose all moneys theretofore earned under said contract, except so much as may be required, to pay his employes, provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to hinder, prevent or affect an assignment by such contractor for the benefit of his creditors, made pursuant to the Statutes of the Dominion.

Section 6. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed.

Section 7. This act shall take effect immediately.

The proposed measure met with general approval, and a committee consisting of the President, past-president McKinley and the treasurer, Mr. Lamarche, was appointed to interview the Minister of Public Works

