<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ure of inspiration will follow for the greatest enjoyment of the practical and social features of our organization.



<article title="Useful Hints" author="">USEFUL HINTS.



The following useful hints are given by The Western Painter:

To Keep Brushes From Freezing.— A little glycerine added to the water in which paint brushes are suspended will prevent freezing in winter. and will not harm the brushes.

To Apply Black Japan—Black japan is usually applied with a panel brush, and laid oil the same as rubbing varnish.

To Preserve Brushes.—Many brushes are ruined by being carelessly left standing in a tub of water. They should be suspended so that the bristles cannot touch the bottom.

''Sandpaper'' Putty.——--To make a putty that will sandpaper easily and vet remain where it is

placed take dry white lead and mix it in ordinary brown japan, and add a little lampblack. and a few drops of rubbing varnish. If the putty is desired to sandpaper very easily, a little turpentine may be added with advantage. The more varnish added, the tougher the putty will become and the more difficult it will he to sandpaper it.

To Prevent Pumice From Being Rubbed into varnish —To prevent pumice powder from being rubbed into the varnish, simply let your varnish coat become sufficiently hard before you attempt to rub it; and do not allow your pumice powder

to dry on the varnish, but wash it oft clean be Fore it has any opportunity to stick.

How to Use Glue.—-For glue to be properly effective it requires to penetrate the pores of the wood; and the more a body of the glue penetrates the wood, the more substantial a job will re main. Glues that take the longest to dry are to he preferred to those that dry quickly, the slow drying being always the strongest. other things being equal. For general use no method gives such good results as the Following: Break the glue tip small, put it into an iron kettle, cover the glue with water, and allow it to soak twelve hours. After soaking, boil it until done. Then pour into an airtight box, leave the cover off until cold, then cover up tight. As glue is required, cut out a portion and melt in the usual way. Expose no more of the made glue to the atmosphere for any length of time than is necessary, as the atmosphere is very destructive to made glue. Never heat made glue in a pot that is subject to the direct heat of a fire or of a lamp. All such methods of heating glue cannot be condemned in terms too severe. Do not use thick glue for joints or veneering. Iii all cases work it well into the wood, in a similar manner to what painters do with paint. Glue both surfaces of your work, except in cases of veneering. Never glue hot wood, as the hot wood will absorb the glue.

To Remove a Run of Varnish—To remove a run of varnish on a panel easily and without tearing it, use fine pumice, water, and castile soap. Rub lightly, and attend well to work, or you may rub through into time color.

<article title="Selection and Care of Wire Rope" author="Conover, A.B.">SELECTION AND CARE OF WIRE ROPE.



The following extracts from a recent article by <person>A. B. Conover </person>in The Mining Reporter should interest and prove valuable to quarrymen amid contractors:

In buying ropes the purchaser should explain the conditions under which the rope is to work. One essential thing is to keep the rope well oiled so that the hemp centre is thoroughly saturated

to prevent the inner wires from becoming rusty. I have seen ropes whose outer surface showed kit little or no wear, and the general appearance of time rope would indicate it would wear for months, yet that same rope Ii as broken without any indication of weakness. 0n examination the wires inside showed they were eaten up with Ii rust, the hemp centre was gone and the weight of the toad on the rope Ii ad drawn the strands together, thus wearing omit inside, where the in an examining the rope could not notice it. I know of serious accidents chargeable only to careless ness in not taking proper care of I he ropes . The proper fact or of safety should be not less than one to seven, i.e. , one—seventh of the strength of the rope to represent the load to be lifted.

For general hoisting purposes I recommend a rope composed of six strands of nineteen wires each on account of its flexibility; for inclines where the rope has rough usage. such as dragging over the ground , I would recommend one made of six strands of seven wires each, as the wires are coarser they resist the friction better.





<article title="Painting and Decorating" author="">PAINTING AND DECORATING.



In the introduction to his excellent work on the above subject Mr. <person>Walter Pearce </person>says that the practical operations involved in painting and decorating must he based upon sound theoretical knowledge, otherwise they are invariably unsuccessful. One of the main factors in the decadence of good craftsmanship in the trade has been the lack of time perception of what is requisite, and the adoption of a striving for superficial, and often unnatural, effect, embodied under the phrase

what looks well." The wholesale provision of manufactured decorations, designed and coloured for anywhere in general and nowhere in particular, has fostered this spirit of lazy acceptance, and dwarfed the faculty of critical perception of what is suitable for given positions and use. It is not enough that time general sty le and scale of a Frieze or a ceiling shall accord with its associated decoration, but the repeats, the angles and time whole setting out of the ornament, ought to he determined upon the spot. The habit of working to a ready-made specification, drawn up by persons devoid of a knowledge of the chemicals and  technical aspects of the craft, has also done lunch to discourage time practical interest of time craftsman in his operations. This has removed from him any responsibility for technical failures, and set up that destructive standard of comparison, cheapness, which is another foe to thorough and good workmanship. Nothing, on time other hand, is more helpful than an intelligently-drawn specification from a man who understands the capabilities and peculiarities of time materials and the craft.

A compliance with the hard, matter-of-fact laws of

