<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Intercommunication" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to nil queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]



''H. R.," Fullarton, Ont., writes: You will greatly oblige me by answering the following questions through your paper. (1) Is cement a good thing to put with mortar used for plastering a smoke flue? I have heard cement will not stand fire; is this a fact? (2) What is good to mix with mortar (to be used for plastering a smoke flue), to give a glossy face? (3) Will mortar stain act as a good colouring for cement work?

In answer to the forgoing it may be said, (1) That putting cement in mortar for paving or plastering the inside of a flue, has no special advantages over plastering with well made lime mortar. (2) Cement, under ordinary circumstances will stand heat as well as, all lime mortar. (3) A flue can be made smooth inside by using good lime mortar, and then ''trowelling" it well, or floating it until it is quite smooth. Our old fashioned method—and a good one—was to mix cow dung with the mortar and working the whole up into a thick paste and parving the flue with the maise. Flues treated in this manner keep a smooth surface inside for many years. Where fire clay is abundant it is a good plan to coat the flues with it, as it stands heat and remains smooth. One of the best flues is formed by using common glazed drain tiles for the smoke duct, which are built in the chimney. The brick flue, is of course left square inside, and the tiles are cemented at the joints as the work progresses. The angles or voids left, may be used with effect for ventilation purposes. Mortar colors will answer fairly well for the coloring of cements. Any of the mineral colors will answer the purpose, but, in all cases, the introduction of coloring matter, depreciates the strength and durability of the finished cement work.



From "Draftsman" In answering my "query" in the October (1902) number of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, you say " Scale drawings can be reduced by the use of a pantograph." Will you please describe a "pantograph," and tell how to use the instrument ?

ANS :—The following, which is taken from " Hodson's Universal Carpenter and Joiner," gives the best description of a pantograph, and the manner of using it, that we can lay hands on at this moment " By reference to the engraving, Fig. 1, it will be seen that the instrument consists of four parts, resembling rulers jointed together at their extremities, and two sliding carriages, having provision on their under sides for holding a pencil, while they are provided with clamping screws to hold them in their places.

The pieces AB and AC are each two feet four inches long, from the centre of the screw at A, to the extreme end, one-inch wide and one-quarter inch thick. The distances centre AD, AE, FD, FE, are equal, being twelve and a half inches. All the joints of the instrument are made with one-inch screws, and small blocks of hardwood, one-inch by one-inch, by half-inch thick, are glued under each joint to form a good hold for the screws. It is scarcely necessary to say that all these screws should be filed or turned perfectly smooth and

round, the ordinary wood-screws being too rough and irregular. The fulcrum B is a leaden weight four inches in diameter, and about one-inch thick, having a wooden stem in it, so that it measures two and a quarter inches from the underside of the lead to the top of the wooden stem. A stout needle or short piece of wire, is driven into the top of the stem for the instrument to turn on. The holes in the piece AB at B, are about half an inch apart, and of such a size as to slip over the wire on the fulcrum easily. The pencil used must be rather a hard one and must be nicely pointed by a file or a piece of sand-paper.

The sliding carriages G and C are made of two pieces of black-walnut or other suitable wood, 2"x

x1/8" thick, and two pieces 1/2"x1/4"x11/4" long; the small pieces are glued between the ends of the large pieces so as to make a block, with a hole 1"x1/4" (the size of the rulers) running through it. The pieces AC and DF must now be slightly reduced so as to slide easily, but not too freely, through the holes in the carriages. Two ordinary thread spools with one end of each sawed off square, just where the level ends and the straight part on which the thread is wound, commences. One o



FIG. r —PANTAGRAPH.



these spools must now be glued to the centre of one of the thin sides of each carriage, and the opposite side must be cut through one of the joints where it is glued to the 1/2"x1/4"x 1/4 piece, with a thin saw, so that when that end is pinched together it will bind on the ruler, where before it slid easily. The clamping screw is made of a common 1-inch wood-screw, inserted from the side on which the spool is glued, and the head countersunk, in the centre of the width of the carriage, and 1/4 inch from the end, thus passing through the middle of the joint that was cut. To prevent the screw from turning and also from dropping out a small wire staple similar to a double-pointed carpet tack, is driven across the head of the screw so as to lie in the groove, and a nut is made from a piece of hardwood one inch long by half an inch wide and three-eights thick, cut to an oval shape and slightly rounded on the underside, so as to hind only on the bottom as shown at A. In order to get a good clean thread in the nut, a tap may be made by taking a common screw of the size you are using, and with a saw-file making three or four grooves lengthwise of the thread deepest at the point. To reduce a drawing to one-half of the original, set the instrument so that a hole at B, which is in line with the points of the

