<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



apt as being spoken by a man of culture and deep thinking and learning, I refer to Switft ; he said

''I have often wished that I had clear for life £600 a year;

A handsome house to lodge a friend,

A river at the garden's end,

A terraced walk, and half a rood of land, saved out to plant a wood."

There is a client after all our hearts. The wish for 600 a year was a modest one. He realized that about that sum would be necessary to live in a handsome house, and wants the means to suit the mansion that is all. A dignified conception, worth considering by people whose means are fixed but whose ideas of the sort of house they would like are expansive. Our poet's handsome house is what? Not a very great house ; not an elaborate mansion full of carving and display ; he describes it as a house in which to lodge a friend. He does not want his friend to see magnificent ornaments, but to he comfortable and to have pleasure in spending a time with him. Then he thinks of the surroundings of the house, and, as <person>Prof. Shortt</person> told us yesterday, he makes it fit in with nature. He has the terraced walk and ground for the wood, for he thinks of recreation and wants to get it, as in England, by having a cover for partridges and that sort of thing. That is a man we should like to deal with. Mr. Price would have a happy time with him We should not need to lead him ; he could go with us and we should be favored in going with hint When we get a client who has ideas at all that is what we should do. I recently came across some other lines which are peculiarly applicable to the man who wants the display and magnificence that Mr. Price tells us we have got to give him in order to teach him—it is a sort of homeopathic treatment that perhaps in the end will be effective. Pope had evidently been listening to a long oration of the man who had built the mansion in question and, as he was expected to say nothing, he said

It is very fine,

But where do you sleep, and where do you dine?

It is clear, from what you are telling,

It is a house but not a dwelling."

What we have got to provide, I think, for our clients is not exactly what they want most but what they need most, and, if they are vulgar people themselves, that will be what will help them to bring their children up, probably without knowing it, in surroundings of refinement and culture. Mr. Price did not touch on the value of travel in this respect, but I think that that is the key note of the whole thing. He said that during the last ten or fifteen years the architects of Philadelphia have developed on splendid lines and had improved very much, but I think, it we go to the bottom of the matter, e shall find that, while it is the architects that are the cause of the development, it is the fact that architects have had the opportunity of travel and study amongst the best works of the old lands ; that they have come back with ideas broadened and filled out, and have seen the reasons for things that are so hard to see in theory. That I think is the secret of the wonderful advancement that has been made in the art of architecture in the United States, as well as in sculpture and the sister arts. I have seen it written somewhere that during the Continental wars, at. the end of the 18th century, or the beginning of the 19th century there was a stationary period in the architecture of England; that there was no advancement but rather deterioration. That was attributed to the fact that. continental travel was entirely cut off and the younger generations were not able to go abroad and see the good work that was there. And I think that. anything that we, as an Association, can do to send our students abroad, as our cousins on the other side of the line have been doing, by offering scholarships for that purpose, will foster in the surest way the rapid development of design. (Applause).

<person>Mr. Wickson </person>It gives me much pleasure to second that motion. I am afraid that any remarks that I

make will be dreadfully prosaic. I simply wanted to ask Mr. Price a very practical question. We have in our neighborhood some very fine bricks manufactured of a dark color, a very beautiful, dark, varying color, which many of our clients wish to put into their buildings. Following the line that you have suggested, that we try to get texture in our brick work and that the bricks should not be too smooth and that sort of thing, we would rather lay bricks in honest mortar but from my own personal experience I find that these dark bricks which are so much admired, and which are good serviceable bricks as well as good looking bricks ; if laid in ordinary mortar do not give a satisfactory effect. It seems almost impossible to get anything like a clear joint—I do not mean a small joint but one which is not ragged—are we justified in coloring the mortar to make it look well ?

Mr. Price I should judge you were justified in doing anything you pleased about coloring the mortar, although it might be possible that you would lose the sense of surface, which you would readily do. I should say that if you must color the mortar, it would be well to do it in such a manner as not to disguise the joints simply as a question of preserving- the texture of the brickwork. Of course much of that effect can he accomplished by slightly raking the joint so that you get a natural shadow on the joint itself, thereby modifying its color.

<person>Mr. Reid </person>(<assoc>Ontario Society of Artists</assoc>) I should like to ask Mr. Price if he would color plaster on the outside of a building, since color in the plaster seems to be a way to arrive at an effect.

Mr. Price I can see no reason at all why we should not color a plastic material of that kind. We color them with us in various ways ; some that we call natural and some artificial. The natural way is to color them by using sands of various colors ; and that is the best way, because that color is an integral part of the mortar itself and if chipped off or broken can be patched again without disadvantage. Whereas the using of ground colors has this disadvantage that patching is almost impossible. I can see no reason why you should not color mortar just as much as any other surface, any other plastic material on which you wish to get color and texture. I should think however that that color should always be mixed in, not applied, because the tendency of applied color is to destroy the texture.

Mr. Simpson There was one thing that struck me in Mr. Price's paper. I cannot remember in detail all that interested me, I hope to read the paper and refer to it often in our Proceedings I should like to have it indelibly impressed on my mind. There is one thing that I should like to draw attention to now. When Mr. Price was speaking of building according to what our owner's requirements are, it occurred to me how architects allow themselves sometimes to be influenced by the owner's whims that are not really requirements and are not in accordance with good taste. I have noticed that architects have sometimes been afraid of their clients and afraid to speak their minds out. We must distinguish between this and the sympathy with their ideas of which Mr. Price speaks. I am sure we all feel very much indebted to Mr. Price and will he greatly benefited by his remarks.

Mr. <person>J. P. Hynes</person>, (<assoc>Architectural Eighteen Club</assoc>) I should like to express my appreciation of Mr. Pricey s paper or lecture ; I feel that it is the most complete thing I ever ran across. In speaking of the texture of materials Philadelphia has been somewhat of an experimental ground I think for that and I would like to hear what Mr. Price would have to say in regard to the way in which, in the Museum of Natural History of Pennsylvania, they have experimented not only with the color of brick but the size of the joints and mortar Many of us have seen it, some have not. I considered it one of the most interesting pieces of brick work I had ever seen. But I doubt if it is an experiment I should try.

Mr. Price: There is no criticism to make of the brick

