<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NOTES.



A great deal of the furniture and interior wood work now being finished is not varnished, but given a dull effect; this can be obtained by giving the work after filling an application of the Old Dutch Finish made by The Bridgeport Wood Finishing Co., New Milford, Ct., New York, Chicago and Philadelphia, This firm also has the latest stains in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Forest Green, Mahogany &c., and would he pleased to give full inform at ion.



Mr. E. G. Acheson has recently been conducing some interesting work with clay earth, and has obtained a product called "Egyptianized Clay." This is obtained by a very simple treatment with tannins or similar extracts of vegetable matter whereby the clay is rendered very much higher in tensile strength, more dense, and the shrinkage is materially reduced. To obtain this same effect was probably the real object of the use of straw by the Egyptians. This having occured to Mr. Acheson, he extracted the soluble matters from the straw, throwing away the fibre, and by treating the clay with these soluble constituents obtained the above mentioned results. The tensile strength was increased as much as 350 per cent. in thc sun-dried article.



PERSONAL.



Mr. Kivas Tully, the veteran civil engineer and architect of the Ontario Public Works Department, has had conferred on him by the British Government the Imperial Service Order.

The death is announced of Mr. Bruce Price of New York, the well known architect, who was the designer of the Windsor Street Passenger Depot of the C. P. R. in Montreal and the Chateau Frontenac Hotel, Quebec.

Mr. Henry F. Duck, civil engineer and architect, of Toronto, has been appointed general manager for great Britain for Milliken Bros., civil engineers and contractors, of New York. Mr. Duck is now en route to Great Britain to assume his duties. He carries with him the best wishes for success of numerous

professional and other friends in Canada.

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Ont. Montreal Halifax Ottawa Winnipeg Vancouver Victoria Rossland

Patent Store Fronts J.W. Coulson Columbus Ohio