<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

fireproof. The floors were of steel beams and Lena cotta arches, the flanges protected and the space above the arches filled in with concrete. It had a tile roof. But., one of the elevator shafts was unprotected, the columns supporting the different floors were of cast iron, unprotected, and there were numerous partitions glazed in the upper portion with ordinary glass. These caused the destruction of the building. The fire shot up the elevator shaft, the unprotected cast iron columns and glass partitions cracked and gave way, letting down the roof and upper floors, which in falling broke through the lower floors. Fireproofing done in this manner is riot only a waste of money but the destruction of the buildings thus carelessly constructed has weakened the confidence of the underwriters and the public in the possibility of making buildings fireproof.

<article title=" Strikes In the Building Trades " author="">



The Engineering Review hits the

Strikes In the Building Trades nail on the head when it says

.

"The building trades seem to have rooted objection to work. At least, history shows that whenever there seems to be an excellent chance for them and their employers to make some money they, more than any other class of working men, make demands which tend to restrict building- operations and throw themselves, or many of themselves, out of work." The truth of this statement was never more forcibly illustrated than this year, when the prospects for an unusually prosperous season have been to a large extent blighted by strikes. It is a pity that the wisdom of the axiom "make hay while the sun shines," is so foolishly disregarded by the workman of to-day. When the summer is ended and the coal bin needs replenishing it will perhaps begin to dawn upon the strikers that they would have been better off had they worked steadily all the year at a few cents an hour below what they demanded and were refused. Labor, unlike many other commodities, cannot be stored away and sold, perhaps at a greater profit, at a later date. The workman who refuses to sell his labor to-day is out of pocket for all time the money he might have obtained for it.



<article title=" Peculiarities of Bricks Composing the Campanile " author="Shaw and Bodley">

Peculiarities of Bricks Composing the Campanile. Some interesting data, gathered from careful examination of the bricks used in the construction of



the fallen Campanile at Venice, is said to have been presented in a recent lecture by Commendatore Boni to the history Congress at Rome. The lecture was illustrated by drawings. Thc bricks are said to have been manufactured in the first century, not from kneaded and compressed clay, as at the present day, but from slices of the natural clay. On this account each individual brick is believed to have a supporting strength four times as great as the bricks of to-day. The lecturer exhibited specimens of bricks which he had had made out of Roman clay in the same manner as the ancient ones, with the object of showing that the new Campanile might be built of the same enduring material as the old. Some of the ancient bricks are curiously marked with figures, numbers, private marks and letters. Signor Boni infers from their shape. texture arid general appearance that they were made not by the Venetians, but by the Romans, and prior to being built into the Campanile had been used in fortifications and other forms of construction.

Messrs. G. F. Bodley, R. A., and R. Norman Shaw, R.A.,

The Duty of Committees of Award.<article title=" The Duty of Committees of Award " author="">

assessors in the Liverpool Cathedral Competition, have presented their report. They give first position to the design by Mr. Gilbert Scott, grandson of Sir Gilbert Scott. The Builder states that Mr. Scott's design entirely ignored an important condition set forth in the instructions to the competitors, viz., that the plan of the cathedral should provide for a wide open space for a large congregation within hearing of the preacher. It is probably for this reason that the Committee have expressed their intention not to accept any of the designs. We were surprised not long since to hear several architects engaged in conversation about competitions, state that it was their practice when preparing plans for a competition to ignore the limit of costs set for the proposed building. It is manifestly unjust to the competitor who honestly strives to strictly conform to all the conditions laid down, and who perhaps is hampered because of his conscientiousness in this regard, that his design should be passed over in favor of the man who sets himself to produce something which will catch the fancy of the assessors, regardless of the conditions.







ERRATA.



Through oversight the name of Mr. Frank Darling does not appear on the illustration sheets in this number showing views of the interior of the Canada Permanent and Western Mortgage Company's Offices and Board Room, Toronto. Mr. Edwards writes that Mr. Darling and himself were joint architects in the planning of these improvements.



<article title=" EMPLOYMENT WANTED BY BRITISH BUILDING MECHANICS " author="Baker, Robert">

EMPLOYMENT WANTED BY BRITISH BUILDING MECHANICS.



538 Oxford St., London, XX'., England.

May 31st, T903.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Sir, --—Hearing that men are wanted in the building trades in Canada, may I suggest to you the formation of a similar society to the " Canadian Farmers Help Society." There are many men of good experience with references as to their workmanship and rehability who are quite unable to get good permanent work here in London. The work that is offered is so desultory and has no permanence except in a minority of cases. Taking myself as an example, I have had three and a half months work this year, and although I have worked to my employers' satisfaction and have good references, I am quite dependant on taking my chance with two or three hundred other applicants for thc very few berths on offer here in England. Should you consider this any further or care to throw your columns open to a few advertisements from men in London wanting work in Canada, I feel sure that there would be many hundreds of men to avail themselves of your kindness. Thanking you in anticipation.



I am Sirs

Yours sincerely,

ROBERT H. BAKER.





[There is at present a brisk demand in Canada for building mechanics, as well as mechanics of all kinds, but the trade unions arc demanding higher wages and shorter hours, and are strongly objecting to mechanics being brought in from Great Britain. There is no doubt, however, that competent workmen coming here at the present time would be certain to find employment at air wages. We hope that some of the workmen who find it difficult to obtain regular employment in London, may find their way to Canada. If they are competent and sober, they can

rely upon getting employment.—EDITOR, C. A. & B.]

