<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



some kind and a row of trees. In one case at any rate, this plan is carried through the whole length of the street and makes a handsome street of it.



This is nothing more than the ordinary spacing of town lots, so common in Canada ; where each lot, whether the houses are detached or in rows, is too narrow to admit of a carriage entrance from the street up to the front door ; and where the building line is set back so far from the street that, without a carriage entrance, any one arriving or departing in a carriage must cross some fifty feet of pathway, exposed to possibilities of rain or snow. In the case of the London house, the kitchen department is in the basement and the garden is on the interior side of the house, so that the only use of the set back on the exterior side is as a set back—to remove the house from the public way. That the space should he occupied by a private driveway is no loss but a gain. In our cities, as the rear is usually occupied by the service department and a yard, the set back in front becomes the garden and an airing place for the family ; but there are occasional variations in which the London plan would be the thing to aim at.



In order to have the best effect of privacy and to keep the street well marked, a wall is necessary, or at least a railing. A plain, low wall is better than anything that can be made of wood, and even better than iron for purposes requiring clear distinction ; but the most beautiful form of street wall—which is something that should define without concealing, and that, while serving its purpose, should also serve for adornment— is a low wall with a railing on top.





There is great beauty in the

<article title=" Winter Foliage " author="">

Winter Foliage.	mere trunk and branches of a well-shaped tree ; and to have

this before the eye in winter, especially when, seen through a window, the ramifications form, as it ere,

decorative pattern, running through the panes of glass and crossed by the sash bars, would be sufficient. reason for having trees in a garden if there were no such thing as foliage. But when the time comes for the foliage to break out, it always seems to be a little better than we expected, and we look forward with regret to the time when it will fail again. As a matter of fact, the thing which particularly surprises us always is the abundance of the foliage. It is only by noting in one spring the extent to which the full sized leafage surpassed our expectations that we can be prepared for what to expect when summer comes again. This should be the cure for the discontent of winter for the green gloom which we enjoy in summer would be an uncomfortable surrounding to a house in winter. But a green object that casts no gloom is as good in winter as in summer. What is wanted is an evergreen tree of some sort that does not grow too large and is not too funereal.



Japanese trees of this sort seem to answer every requirement except proof that they will stand our climate. They grow well in the north of England where it is very cold at times ; yet it is not so much cold according to the thermometer as just beastly cold; and it is only thermometer cold that vegetation seems

to mind, on the other hand, however, there is no protecting snow ; but the sort of open winter that a few years ago decimated our hedges and climbers. Japanese ivy failed in that year when it was planted against a south wall ; no doubt because its roots, when not protected by the cool covering of the snow, were beguiled by the sun to send up sap, only to have it frozen when the sun had passed. Ordinarily, Japanese ivy succeeds and the presumption is in favor of Japanese fir.



The peculiarity is, like other Japanese plants, a variegated foliage which relieves the gloom that is so unpleasant in other evergreens. A variety called Retinospora Aurea makes an excellent garden tree, in summer or winter. It does not grow too tall, has a fine close foliage, which makes good masses, but of a delicate texture. The tips of the leaves are nearly yellow for an inch or so, which brightens up the tree and gives its light and shade the chic effect of a piece of colored modelling which has had the tint wiped off the highest surfaces.



There is another Retinospora in which the foliage on the hack part of a bough is of a very dark green, while the tips are of a very light, almost silvery, tea green. The effect of this is even more delicately beautiful than in the golden variety.



The following is a convenient

Table of Architectural table of architectural periods<article title=" table of architectural periods " author="">

Periods.

drawn up by an English architect:



A.D.



1

1200





1250 





1	. .Edward I 1272

	1300 I	J V ·~. Edward II	1307

 Edward III			1327

1350}

	-	Richard II	1377

	—	Henry IV	1399

	1	Henry V	1413

	1400	Henry VI 	1422

		Edward IV	1461

 Edward V			1483

1450 

 Richard III			1483

	1500	Henry VII	1485

		.....Henry VIII	1509

	J	Edward VI	1547

	1550	     Mary	1553

		     Elizabeth

	1600	     James I	1603

		      Charles 1	1625

	1650	Commonwealth 1649

		.Charles II	1660

1700





The steel work in Chicago's new post office has been given three or tour coats of graphite. one at foundry, one at building and two coats after erection.



It is reported that the deposits of silica and gypsum near Truro,



N.	S., will be developed by a New York company. The ores will be shipped to the United States by water from either Bedford or Richmond, and from 100,000 to 150,000 tons a year will be mined and disposed of. Messrs. King, of New York, are said



to be developing their plaster property at Hillsboro', Albert County, New Brunswick, which they have owned for a number of years. If the quarry turns out right it is expected that a large business will be done and their plaster mill in New York will be supplied directly from the quarry.

