<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



THE TORONTO ISOLATION HOSPITAL.

<article title=" THE TORONTO ISOLATION HOSPITAL " author="">

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—I would respectfully call your attention to the new addition to Isolation Hospital now being erected. The addition is placed between the jail wall and south wing of old hospital—to feet from latter and about 15 feet from former. The shed and yard where prisoners work is just under the hospital windows, while the women's work rooms are only a few yards farther away. The jail hospital and ward windows are n close proximity to the new addition, which is to be provided with a cold air fan to remove all contaminated air—blowing it out on a level with jail windows, so that it may not linger on the way and may be received fresh.

It is surely a disgrace to civilization to have this sort of return to the historical ghettos of ancient history, and will if possible make the hospital more of a contagious imparting center than it has been—where so many have come in with one disease and got another before they left—owing to interference with original plans of architect arid want of realizing that an hospital for contagious diseases ought to be worked on different plans from those for the treatment of non-contagious diseases.

The law requires an hospital of this kind to be placed 150 yards from any dwelling, and the old hospital was burned down because it was only 140 yards from one dwelling. The new one is not 100 feet from hundreds of people, and guards and prisoners have to work and pass within a few feet of its windows. We have heard it proclaimed that 9 miles of still water in our deep lake is not enough to purify it. Now here is a case where as many feet of air is supposed to purify it. What is the given data for each?

I have said nothing of the blanketing of windows between new and old, with exclusion of light and air. and consequent harbouring of bacteria. I have said enough to show how careless some authorities can be.

Yours respectfully,

PLUMB RULE.





[EDITOR'S NOTE—We have investigated the statements made by the writer of the above letter, and find that at least some of them are incorrect, and that there are special circumstances which ought to be stated. While the Ontario Health Act provides that a hospital for contagious diseases must be situated 150 yards from any dwelling, the Ontario Legislature granted a special Act permitting the placing of the original Toronto Isolation Hospital, as well as the new building now being erected, on the site which they occupy. As the Provincial Government are the owners of the jail property, it must be concluded that they did not consider that the inmates or officials of the jail would be likely to be affected by the proximity of the hospital buildings. The jail yards proper are sufficiently far away to almost prevent the possibility of infection reaching them through the open air space intervening. It is learned that it is the intention of the hospital authorities to ventilate the new building entirely by means of fans, and to keep closed at all times the windows facing the jail yards. The statement that the foul air from the hospital will be blown out on a level with the windows of the jail is hardly correct. The air will be drawn by suction fans into a ventilator and by fans will be driven vertically out of the ventilator at the top of the building at a height of 50 feet. This ventilator is sufficiently distant from the jail building to make it certain that the air thus discharged under pressure will be dissipated into the atmosphere instead of finding its way into the jail windows.]





The report of the Building Inspector of St. John, N.B., shows that thus far sixty seven building permits have been issued this year, and that in quality as well as quantity building improvements have surpassed those of any recent year.



Bids were opened for a school house in Indianapolis the other day, and the cost was $14,000 more than there was money to build with. Buildings in neighboring towns have overrun the estimates from 30 per cent. to 100 per cent. This is owing to two causes: First, an absolute increase in the cost of material and labor; second, an uncertainty as to the course of the market for material and labor. Strikes and rumors of strikes leave us at sea as to the future. The builder is not really disposed to take the short end of it.—The Clay Worker.



The Eiffel Tower in Paris, the removal of which at an early date was referred to in a previous issue, is 986 ft. high. In its construction were used 7,000 tons of iron, 2,500,000 rivets, weighing 450 tons, and 12,000 working drawings. The legs measure about 250 ft. at the base, while the platform at the top is 53 ft. square. The total thrust on the foundations is 565 tons, not including wind-pressure; under a maximum wind-pressure the thrust is 875 tons. The structure cost $1,000,000, of which sum the State contributed 6o per cent, the remainder being supplied by Mr. Eiffel, who has received for twenty years the profits from valuable concessions.





NOT ES



The legislature of Oregon has passed a bill requiring the appointment of a board of examiners of plumbers in every incorporated city of 4,000 population.



A public subscription is about to be opened in Toronto for the purpose of erecting a monument to the memory of Toronto soldiers who fell in the South African war.

Mr. E. J. Lennox, architect of the new municipal buildings in Toronto, announces that the total extras on the buildings will  not exceed $15,000. This must be considered a very satisfactory showing when it is remembered that the buildings cost upwards of $2,000,000, involving eighty separate contracts.

Aid. Curry, who is an architect is urging the City Council of Toronto to adopt a number of amendments to the present method of assessment for local improvements. One is that suggested by



this journal last year, viz., the placing of a special tax on the owners of vehicles. The owners of delivery wagons are chiefly responsible for the wearing Out of the pavements and are most benefited by good pavements, by means of which the cost of renewal of both vehicles and horses is greatly lessened. These are the people therefore, who should contribute most largely to the cost of good pavements.



Victor shelf ladder, coburn trolley tracks, door hangers The Vokes Hardware Company Limited Toronto