<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="The Decoration of Ceilings" author="">THE DECORATION OF CEILINGS.



An authority upon the subject of interior decoration has expressed the opinion that if only one part of a room be decorated, that part should be the ceiling. He says :—" Nothing appears to me more strange than that our ceilings, which can bc properly seen, are often white, while the walls, which are always in part hidden, and even the floor on which we tread, should have color and pattern applied to them ; and of this I am certain, that, considered from a decorative point of view, our ordinary treatment is wrong.

A ceiling may be an object of great beauty, and it can be seen as a whole, therefore in many public buildings the decoration of the ceiling might be very advantageous.

If a ceiling be quite flat and without raised mouldings or ornaments, all decorations placed upon it must be fiat also, and must not represent fictitious relief, for no shaded ornament can be satisfactory when placed as the decoration of a flat architectural surface.

Many circumstances tend to deter mine the nature of the decoration to he applied to a ceiling; thus, if a ceiling be structurally divided into square panels, the character of the ornament is thereby restricted, and should these panels be large it would probably he desirable that each be tilled with similar ornamentation ; while if they are small, three or four different patterns may be employed, if arranged in some orderly or regular manner.

On the Continent, and to some extent in this country, ceilings have been painted with large pictures, covering the whole or a portion of the surface; but this is quite a wrong method, for a picture of such a kind could only be seen the right way up, from one point in the room ; from all others it would be viewed upside down, or from one side or corner.

But apart from this, a ceiling being flat surface, all decoration upon it should be flat also. In many of the French ceilings the picture is painted in such a position as to be seen properly only by a person standing with his back to the fire.



The Egyptians decorated their ceilings, so did the Greeks, the Byzantines, the Moors, and the peoples of the Middle Ages, and the ceilings were by no means always of a light colour. It is remarkable that so few of our public buildings contain rooms with well decorated ceilings, but there have been more executed during the last few years, and there appears to be a tendency for their adoption in connection with modern buildings.



Architects and building owners should be interested in the announcement on page 1 of this issue of the <firm>Smith-Warren Co., of New York</firm>. The company manufacture the "Smith" system of metal window frames and sashes for holding wired glass. These windows have proved to be an efficient protection against fire and are accepted by the Underwriters in lieu of fire shatters. All moveable sashes, whether sliding or swinging close automatically at 155 degrees of heat. The sliding sashes arc also made for cleaning from inside of building. As a means of reducing the tire risk and thereby lowering cost of insurance these windows are worthy of consideration and trial.

Shingle tint, <firm>Berry Brothers Limited Varnish Manufacturers</firm>, New York Philadelphia Chicago St. Louis Boston Baltimore Cincinnati San Francisco Detroit



The <firm>Canadian Bridge Co. Limited, Walkerville, Ont.</firm>



Porous Terra Cotta Fireproofing, The <firm>Montreal Terra Cotta Lumber Co., Limited</firm> Montreal



