<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



piece tight in the form. This diagram also shows a three-eighth inch piece, which is fastened to the form by screws. This three-eighth inch is cut out Just enough to let the head cutters come through in the center, and it is secured to the table of machine by iron hand screws. Fig. 4 shows a plan or top view of the wooden form. It will be seen that one of the V-shaped pieces is secured to the three-eighth inch piece by wood screws, and is stationary, while the other V-shaped piece is adjustable and is held in place by a spring, which is secured to the outside square piece and also to the V-shaped piece. The arrangement for twisting the stock through the form is the same as Mr. Pendell's. The whole arrangement is very perfect, producing first class work, and even cypress can be turned out finished without sandpapering. The arrangement of this form is such that it can be easily



























































<article title=" FOR MAKING SPECIAL MOULDINGS " author="">

FOR MAKING SPECIAL MOULDINGS.





adjusted it the idea is understood and a little patience exhibited until satisfactory results are obtained. A crank handle about 8 inches long, with a thumb-screw to tighten the crank on the stock, is shown in Fig. 3, and is a great help in twisting. There is nothing neater or prettier in appearance than a small rope moulding placed in the corners of panels and other ornamental cabinet work and the general run of joiner's work ; and the cheap and simple manner in which these mouldings can be made, after the plan here described, commends them for a great many purposes. Fig. 1.—Block bored out right size to receive stock. Fig. 2.—Piece of wood showing slotted ends for adjusting screws Dotted lines are saw kerfs to receive pieces of steel for feeding stock. Fig. 3.—Fixture complete, with work in place. Figs. 4 and 5. A table of machine ; B, base piece, three eighth inch thick ; C, the holding down piece, in which are inserted the two

pieces of steel on the under side, for feeding the stock along; D, stationary V-piece; E, movable V-piece F, spring ; G, spring support piece ; K, driving pulley on spindle ; L, spindle-box.



From "Contractor" What materials can I use for coloring cement? I wish to lay a floor of cement blocks in alternate colors ?

ANS.—Cement metallic colors should be made from the best metallic oxides, free from sulphur. Never use venetian red or lamp black, as they run and fade and weaken the mortar. Excelsoir carbon black is the strongest black known. Mix the following colors with either lime, flour or stainless Portland cement to obtain the best results

For	black — 2 per cent. Excelsior carbon black.

red 10 per cent. Best raw iron oxide.

brown---- 6 per cent. Best roasted iron oxide. " huff —10 per cent. Best ochre.

blue 6 per cent. Ultramarine.

" white — Marble dust or white silica sand.



<article title=" CHIMNEYS " author="Wakeman, W. H.">

CHIMNEYS.

By W. H. WAKEMAN.



The following rules concerning the construction of chimneys are very suggestive, and it appears as if they might be safely followed in practice

The foundation of a chimney may be composed of concrete, brick or stone, according to which is the most convenient. Concrete is preferred, as it secures a better bearing than large stones, because they only rest on the soil in spots until a great weight is put upon them, when there is a chance for them to settle unevenly. On the other hand, concrete rests evenly upon the soil when first laid, and, as it hardens, it becomes one solid mass, forming a superior foundation.

Concrete should be laid about one month before the chimney is to be built upon it, in order to give it a chance to firmly set before it is required to support the great weight that is to follow. If it rests upon clay or loam, it should be large enough to reduce the weight resting upon it to two tons per square foot, but if there is a thick bed of gravel to build on the load may be increased to four tons per square foot. If the soil is spongy it must be excavated down to something more solid, but if this is not practical, piles must be driven down until they reach soil that supports them firmly.

The external diameter at the base should not be less than one-tenth of the height, and the outside batter may be from one-sixteenth to one-quarter inch per foot, according to the judgment of the designing engineer. The location of it will assist about deciding this point, for if it is to he exposed to fierce gales it will need to be broader at the base, hence will naturally have the greater batter, but if it is surrounded by high buildings the batter may be less for obvious reasons.

For chimneys from two and a half to say five feet in diameter the upper part for eight or ten feet need be only one brick, or eight inches thick. For those exceeding five feet, a wall twelve inches thick is right. The whole should be so planned that the walls shall decrease in thickness (as the superstructure increases in height) at the rate of four inches for each twenty or twenty-five feet.

The cap should either be made in one piece, or, if composed of several, they ought to be firmly bound together, but wrought iron bands should never be used

