<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT 11/ND BUILDER

August 8. On each occasion, besides other injuries a chimney stack was damaged, the brickwork being split up and the capping-stones dislodged and hurled about in all directions. The lightning-rods on the damaged chimneys were torn from their supports and much bent. Careful study will be given by the Committee of all the cases reported, and an effort will be made to suggest better methods of protection than those at present employed.



The losses arising from over-

<article title=" Over-Production of Cement " author="">.

		production in the manufacture of

		Portland cement in Great Britain and Germany have already been alluded to. From data recently published it appears that in Russia from the same cause the industry has also become unprofitable. Until 1896 there was only one cement factory in Russia, the Black Sea Company, a German concern, at Novorossik, with a yearly output of 30,000 barrels. Two years later owing to increased demand, there were eight factories. In spite of the fact that the consumption of cement rose from 409,000 barrels in 1896 to a million and a half barrels in 1901, the rapid increase in manufacturing capacity forced prices down in 1900 to a point where the older factories paid no dividends and the newer ones suffered heavy losses, and in some instances were obliged to go out of business. Efforts are now being made to put the industry on a paying basis by forming an association of the manufacturers to control prices and by manufacturing at home the cement casks which heretofore have been imported from Poland. There is a lesson in all this for the present manufacturers of cement in Canada and more especially for persons who contemplate engaging in the business. '[he manufacturing capacity in this line has increased very rapidly in Canada within the last five years, and has almost it not quite reached the safe limit. Notwithstanding the greatly increased demand of late for cement for construction work in which other materials were formerly employed as well as for new uses, manufacturers of cement should take warning by the experience of the countries we have mentioned, and be careful not to let the supply outrun the normal demand.



There is a growing disposition

Defensive Methods of Employers,	<article title=" Defensive Methods of Employers " author="">among employers of skilled

		labor to co-operate with each



other in resisting the ever growing and intolerant demands of organized labor. It is beginning to be understood that if employers are to have any rights whatever or any control over the businesses to the building up of which their capital and best efforts have been devoted, they must stand together and support one another in a more determined manner than they have done in the past. The benefits of such co-operation received illustration recently in one of the smaller cities of Western Ontario. The union workmen in the employ of a contractor struck work because some fault had been found with them. They were aware that building mechanics were being advertised for by some of the other local contractors who were expected to welcome them. Their former employer, however, advised his fellow contractors by telephone of the circumstances of the case, and when the strikers applied for employment they were invariably met with the reply that no help was required.

This had the effect of reducing their arrogance and they returned to work. Another case was that of the Penberthy Injector Co., of Detroit, to whom the alternative was presented by the Brass Workers' Union of discharging a non-union workman or contending with a strike. The Penberthy Co. brought the facts to the attention of the principal manufacturing firms of the city, forty-seven of which met and passed a resolution asserting the equal right of every man to employment, and pledging their support to the Penberthy Co. in resisting the unjust demands made upon them. It is understood that a movement is now on foot having for its object the organization of employers of labor throughout the province of Ontario.



A strong protest has recently

No Outside Interference,	<article title=" No Outside Interference " author="">been entered in several quarters

		against interference with and control of Canadian labor organizations by the leaders of the International Unions of the United States. Archbishop Bruchesi recently caused to be read a pastoral letter in all the Roman Catholic churches of Montreal, urging Catholic workmen to keep clear of entangling alliances which would make them subservient to the mandates of foreign organizations having little knowledge or sympathy with the conditions existing between employers and employees in this country. The letter goes on to say " Calmness and reflection will make you realize that there are just limits to your demands. You cannot reasonably expect that the workingman '5 wages will be ever on the increase, and that at the same time the hours of labor will decrease proportionately. " In the Senate at Ottawa a discussion recently took place on this subject in connection with a Bill to amend the Criminal Code respecting offences connected with trade and breaches of contract. Hon. William Gibson was not opposed to labor unions per se, but objected to foreign dictation. He referred to a case in Hastings County where a company was wiped out by a strike ordered from Washington. Almost every labor union was directed from Washington. He advocated prohibiting international unions. They would effect settlements more easily, and have fewer strikes. He hoped the bill would be made so that they could indict the lodges. He read a letter received on May 17 from the Beamsville branch of the Journeymen Stonecutters' Association of North America, demanding $3.50 a day For nine hours. The letter went on " We have been notified by the Niagara Falls branch not to send stone into their jurisdiction. lie was not only told what he was to pay the men, but that he must not cut stone to be used in another jurisdiction. lie hoped the bill would be enlarged, so as to make the men amenable to the law, and strike at the root of the matter. Hon. James McMullen said it Canadian labor organizations were to be controlled from the United States, Canadians would be unable to take contracts, because they did not know when a strike might be ordered. If some American institution was desirous of crippling a competitive institution here, all they had to do was to approach the head center, tip them the wink, point out how a service could be rendered. A strike would ensue, and the Canadian owner would be the loser. He was surprised at the attitude of the press. There did not appear to be a paper in Canada that had the courage to come out boldly on this question.

