<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	75

This work has always been done in a quiet way, and it is no doubt from this fact that much of the criticism has arisen, but the Council have always felt it incumbent upon thorn to perform this part of their duty with as little noise as possible, recognizing the fact that this part of the work of our Association, while being a necessity, does not redound to the glory of our profession. It is often said that the Association does little or nothing respecting the taking of legal proceedings against offenders of our Charter, yet in one year alone, eleven actions were entered and no year has passed which has been free from some action or other, but whereas we are a liberal profession and as such should be imbued with the highest ideals, legal proceedings are never entered, and I hope never will be, unless all other means possible fail to bring about the desired result.

Efforts have also been made to safeguard the public interests in other respects. Efforts have been made to establish a precedent, and in fact to make it law, that when any public buildings are to be erected by either Federal, Provincial or Civic Government, that means should be adopted to call forth the best that the profession can produce. It is to be regretted that we have not been more successful, but yet we must not give tip the struggle; we must persevere, and some time, when we least expect. it, our continued knocking may be heard.



THIRD—EDUCATION. One of the duties laid down in the preamble of our charter, states, that it is ''Expedient to insure a standard of perfection in the present practice of our profession in the province of Quebec." We think that considering the age of our Association, this duty has been well recognized. The work has been of the first importance and has taken up a considerable amount of the Association's time. It may not have resulted in all that might be desired, but there is nothing perfect under the sun, yet there is cause for congratulation. The recognition of the necessity for proper architectural education is one of the paramount causes of our being, and while the work must necessarily be arduous and require much painstaking, it must not he shirked.

Being empowered by the charter to make it compulsory fur all students to pass certain examinations before being permitted to



practice, the Association acknowledged it as their duty to place before these students such information as would be necessary for them to acquire before presenting themselves for examination. As a result, our library has been greatly enlarged and now contains many useful and valuable books. These are being added to from time to time and before many months have elapsed, our library will contain all of the books suggested as authorities to be studied, in the pamphlet regarding examinations. Of course our purchases, in this respect, are limited to the amount of money at our disposal and this is very limited indeed, and recognizing this fact, your Association made arrangements with the authorities of McGill University, whereby the Architectural Library of this seat of learning was thrown open to members of our Association. This is a valuable acquisition, and the members should show their appreciation of such liberal consideration by exercising their right of membership on every possible occasion. Our Association has also exercised some influence over architectural education, as taught at McGill, the authorities of which have at all times received our suggestions with kindest consideration and have profited by them on every possible occasion.



In the recognition of our duty to the cause of education, a scheme of scholarship has received the attention of the Council for nearly two years and has now become an accomplished fact, and we trust that by the time the term of scholarship has ended that means will have been provided for following it up with a travelling scholarship.

We might also point out the connection that has been established with the R.I.B.A. of England, that well known pioneer of collective effort, and as a result of the efforts of some of our members, it is now made possible for anyone to present himself for their examination in our city.

Still, in spite of all that has been done regarding education, I will admit, that if we are to live tip to our ideals and to our duty we have to go much further. As the -Association is dependent upon the ranks of our students and draughtsmen for its coming practitioners, we should endeavor to inculcate in their minds such feelings of self-interest and good fellowship as will make them aspire to the ranks of our membership. As a parent body, we must take an interest in their educational welfare and we should therefore endeavor to bring them together in our rooms, to bind them together by some junior Association and to undertake courses of systematic lectures. The Association should

also he jealous of their right and opportunities given them to educate the public in the art of Architecture.

Courses of public lectures should he given at stated intervals and thus interest the public in he possibilities of our art with a view to a higher appreciation in their own particular case, and eventually bring a stronger force of public opinion to hear on the

problem of the architectural improvement of our own city.

FOURTH - MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT. The duty of the Association to its own members has tint been overlooked and I expect that it is tinder this title that we will encounter the greatest criticism. The success or otherwise of the Association in this respect, depends entirely upon the point of view of t he critic. Some criticise as if the question of our Professional Tariff was of the first and vital interest. Others are ready to judge the value of the Association by the number of legal proceedings that have been taken against offenders, while a few believe that our first duty is to the public. They may all be right in their way, yet it is my humble opinion that we are formed into an Association, first, for the public good, and second, for the good of the profession—and the majority of the profession at that—and judging by the work of the past Councils, I am not alone in my belief. After several attempts our tariff was at last amended and passed by the Lieutenant-Governor in Council. You are thoroughly familiar with the facts of the case and it is useless now to repeat them True, it was not the tariff that was passed by the Association, but I for one will frankly admit that I would rather have it than none at all, for at least we have the principle accepted and established that architects have a right to a Tariff that will he accepted at law. To my mind, the tariff as amended is a standing lesson to architects to he more business-like in their methods. Who among us, would give out work amounting t to any considerable amount, unless the contractor is tied hard and fast by a written contract, In the manic of common sense therefore, why should not all architects he compelled to enter into a written contract with their clients so that all possible future difficulties would he removed at thee outset. It may be that the neglect arises from the feeling that it might he awkward to place the question of commission before the client at the outset, amid hope that lie will take this for granted and that matters, in this respect, will run along their own smooth course. No one is compelled to work for three or four per cent., even although such amount he stipulated in the tariff. Suppose you are offered work at 3 per cent would you accept it ? (Let us hope not ) Then on what different basis are you when the legal tariff places the coin— mission at 3 per cent. In merely amounts to this, that it is your duty to yourself amid to the profession, to inform your client, that where such a clause becomes operative, that you require a written agreement for the full professional charge. Surely you are not going to allow the law to dictate the value of your services. You are the best judge as to what your services are worth, amid tariff or no tariff, your self respect should be the best judge as to what commission would remunerate you for the services tendered. Do not suppose for a moment that even if the legal tariff was satisfactory that the problem would he solved. There is nothing to hinder an architect working for less; it is purely a matter of conscience; you cannot make men honorable by law and you cannot lay down by statute that no man shall he allowed to work for less than the stipulated amount. It is purely a question of labour and hire. On the other hand, it is the duty of everyone in the profession to get a higher remuneration wherever possible and if the services justify it, and no stumbling block whatever will be put in the way of an architect who desires to obtain a higher remuneration for his work.

The tariff as passed by the Lieutenant-Governor-in-Council is the minimum where into written agreement has been entered into. Every servant is worthy of his hire, and if law places the minimum out any particular services, there must lie some higher rate. It is therefore the ditty of those who feel themselves capable of giving more than the average return, to endeavor to get a higher remuneration.

We hear much of the desired amendments to our legal tariff along certain hues, but I go further and say, that it is the duty of our Association to raise the minimum wherever possible and wherever justifiable, especially when we consider the extraordinary complexity and the knowledge required in our professional work in these later days; the tariff which was formed years ago when architectural work was of a simpler nature, is at preset entirely inadequate.

A careful watch has always been kept over the interests of members in the legislature amid elsewhere, and occasions have arisen when, without the help of an Association such as this, all efforts to safeguard our interests would he abortive.

Attempts have been made to reduce the period of responsibility of contractors to tour years and to leave the responsibility upon architects according to the original ten year term. This was successfully frustrated.

In a case that has recently been decided in the Count of Appeals, our profession has been put under an undoubted disadvantage, and efforts are now being made with a view to having the Civil Code amended hot hi in regard to the term of prescription for any accident t hat may occur within ten years and also wit hi a view to separating the responsibility attached to a architects from that of the contractors.

Efforts have also been made to foster and encourage mutual

