<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	187



artistically is more expensive than otherwise. There can be no doubt that the influence of communities such as these must eventually have a great effect on the taste of the public. But unless this question of the extension of London suburbs is dealt with on some such lines, we shall be surrounded by a belt of appalling monotony and ugliness, as every suburban extension makes the existing suburbs less desirable.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN " author="">ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN.



Gentlemen, all these are broad questions not unworthy of your careful consideration, and though they may appear to our younger members as dry and uninteresting, it is essential that they should he conversant with such matters, which in after years will force themselves on their attention. But do not believe that architecture has vanished as the pessimists say, for at least we are not satisfied with its substitute, and though houses and costumes perhaps fall short of mediaeval grace and color, yet both are tending to become more seemly and convenient than those our forefathers knew. Slowly. but surely, we are striving for, and I think arriving at, that combination of beauty and utility wherein lies the truest, perhaps the only true art, and we have to-day an ever-increasing body of able and thoughtful men, who are doing work that is worthy of our highest admiration, and which is awakening the interest of the public in an art which for years past has been regarded with comparative indifference. In architecture, decoration, and the plastic arts, there is a strong and virile movement permeating the country, not only to treat material sensibly, but with freedom from the fetters of bygone schools of design. It lies in your power to forward this movement, to train your hand and eye, to study and labour in the profession you have chosen, remembering always that as the coming generation of architects with you rests a great responsibility. I would have you think of architecture from a national standpoint as a great power, and make up your mind from the day you enter the profession to devote yourselves to the uplifting of the noblest of all the arts. Your work will be your greatest recompense, and if you throw your heart into it you will find it a never-ending pleasure and engrossing pursuit to the en d.

Look at things largely and try to think in the mass, and do not design your buildings as separate elevations, but picture them in the round, as imaginary buildings, that you can feel and handle, and plan out the surroundings, and the environment, so that the whole is complete in every way. If YOU accustom yourselves to this habit of thinking of your designs as a whole, you will he surprised at the grasp of idea it will give you and the increased pleasure you will get out of your work. Study the work of our best living men whenever you have the opportunity, as well as of those long since dead, and do not neglect the prosaic present for the picturesque past.

Whenever you see a beautiful building or work of art, either one just completed or an old one coloured by the mellowing hand of time, one that instinctively impresses you by its sense of proportion and fitness, try and analyse it and find out what it is in its conception and construction that produces this effect. The cultivation of this habit of analysing everything you see, of dealing with actual existent facts, will help you to design and plan far more than studying books and illustrations.

The reason we admire old work so much is, I think, partly sentiment and partly because it is, as a rule, thoughtful and honest—there is a feeling of reposefulness, of satisfaction and charm that so much modern work misses, and it is this spirit, this intangible something that one feels but cannot express in words, that you should strive to attain and which will give character and beauty to your work. It is the spirit and the thought behind the design that makes a beautiful building, and the more thought you put into your work the better and nobler will it he.



<article title=" SKETCHING AND MEASURING " author="">SKETCHING AND MEASURING.



In these days, when travelling is so easy, you should take every opportunity of studying and comparing in each country you go to the different ways in which similar problems are treated, and the materials and workmanship with which they are carried out ; this will broaden and enlarge your mind, and you will gain many valuable lessons in design and construction. But do not sketch or measure with the object of copying old forms and features, for mere servile imitation is a sure sign of decadence and lack of creative force. At the same time avoid going to the other extreme, and in your efforts after so-called originality becoming

banal and grotesque. Guard against being carried away by the love of the pretty and picturesque, the passing fashion of the hour, and recollect that eccentricity is not synonymous with genius. Do not worry over trifling details, trivial mouldings, and such things; the greatest and noblest buildings and those that impress us with their breadth and dignity, as a rule, are very simply treated. You know that ornament must follow good construction, and that this again must be based on the proper use of material, and, though the tendency of the day is to try to he original to produce something fresh and striking, yet I venture to think, and indeed hope, that much of what we see around us is only ephemeral and will not hold its place in years to come, as representative of our architecture to-day.

Beauty in architecture does not result from richness of material and profusion of ornament, but from elegance of form and proportion, harmony of colour, and perfection of execution ; and in a large measure from the intelligent application of material to its proper purpose. Many do not sufficiently remember this, and forget that all materials have their limitations and uses; so consider well the suitability of your designs to the materials you would build them in. Details arid features that are right in one are wrong and out of place in another. It is unnecessary to urge you again to err on the side of simplicity and restraint in your work. Everyone can crowd his design with meaningless ornaments and detail, but few have the power of being able to know exactly what to use and what to omit. This can only be gained by careful study, by thought and experience, and though at times you may get discouraged and feel that your work is at a standstill and you are not improving, yet this very dissatisfaction may be the means of benefitting your work in the future.



<article title=" THE FUNCTION OF AN ARCHITECT " author="">THE FUNCTION OF AN ARCHITECT.



I cannot help feeling that if a man means to be an architect all his time and thought must he concentrated on his work and in that direction alone, and to attempt to make himself master of any of the subsidiary crafts, to work with his own hands on buildings of his own is a mistake. I have never been able to ascertain that

