<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

VOL. XVII.—No. 198.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Plaster Decoration.- R. S. Lorimer, A.R.S.A., Architect.

Main Corridor, City Hall, Toronto.—E. J. Lennox, Architect.

A Corner at McGill University, Montreal—Sketch by Gargoyle.

Old Building, Montreal. Sketch by Gargoyle.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

A Passage in the Falkland Palace, Scotland. —John Knecross, R.S.G., Architect.

House in Crescent Road, Toronto.—Sproatt & Rolph, Architets.





ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Views of Houses in Montreal accompanying Montreal Letter.

JUNE, 1904.

CONTENTS

Editorial	Inventor of Portland Cement	-	- -	-	105

Montreal Letter	-	-	-	- 98-99	By the Way	-	-	-	-	- -	-	-	105

Wren's Churches	-	-	-	-	- -	100 The Architect Before the Law	-	- - 106-107-108-109

Building Material Affected by the New Tariff	— —	101	An Explanation	—	—	—	— —	—	112

Radiation of Pipe Surface	-	-	- -	101	Sources of Heat	-	- -	-	- 

Northwest Notes	-	-	-	-	- -	102	Personal	-	-	-	-	ix

Warehouse Construction	—	—	— 103-104	Method and lost of Heating from Central Stations	— — x

The Meaning of Art	-	-	-	-	-	105 Publications	-	-	-	-	-	- xi



SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

		EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

	"	S. H. TOWNSEND	"

" Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

	W.	H. ELLIOTT,	Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





<article title=" OUR WINNIPEG OFFICE " author="">OUR WINNIPEG OFFICE.



The publishers of this Journal have recently opened a branch office at No. 310 McIntyre Block, Winnipeg. A resident representative has been appointed who will be exclusively employed in advancing the circulation of this Journal and in keeping our readers informed regarding the latest developments throughout the west. The kind co-operation of our friends in the west is solicited in behalf of the success of this enterprise.

A	New Building Regulation,

order has been issued by the superintendent of Buildings for

Brooklyn which in future will compel the filing of duplicate sets of plans of all new buildings with the Building Department. The duplicate of the plans on file in the office of the Building Superintendent will be kept on the job for examination by the Inspector.



<article title=" Window Glass " author="">Window Glass

For a year past the window glass factories of the United States have been closed down, pending

an agreement as to prices and wages The supply of' window glass has run very low, the scarcity being enhanced by the recent great fires. '[he present situation will probably lead to extensive importations from Belgium.



The building season opened in

New York this year without a strike, a most unusual circumstance. Among the causes which are believed to have brought about this condition are the serious defeat and loss of time sustained by the union workmen last year, the change of date of building agreements from the first of May to the first of January, and the less prosperous commercial conditions now prevailing in the United States.

<article title=" Building Conditions In the United States " author="">Building Conditions In the United States

<article title=" A Suggestion to Manufacturers." author="">A Suggestion to Manufacturers.

Manufacturers of building materials in sending catalogues to architects would do well to enclose prices. As a rule this is not done, and architects are put to the trouble of writing for prices. We have lately received complaints on this head from some architects who could not understand the wisdom of sending out expensive literature which in the absence of prices is comparatively worthless and frequently finds its way to the waste basket.



A grand stand with a seating capacity of 9000, built entirely of reinforced concrete, has recently been completed for Washington University. The area of the land is 450 x 750 feet. The seats and front and rear walls are reinforced with steel bars embedded in the concrete. The seats are supported by

<article title=" A New Employment of Concrete " author="">A New Employment of Concrete

