<doctype type="text">4	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PLASTER DECORATION—MODELLED AND

 HANDWROUGHT.

" author="Nobbs, Percy E.">PLASTER DECORATION—MODELLED AND

 HANDWROUGHT.

Before considering a special method for the artistic treatment of a material it is as well to come to some definite conclusion as to what may be called its "genius." By the "genius of the material" we mean the characteristic kind of beauty which it possesses per se, without taking into account even the technique

—the treatment which is least calculated to diminish



































No. 1.



this beauty is the best. In the case of a mantlepiece of highly veined marble every member of moulding added is so much waste labour and in bad taste, for the flat or gently waved surface is alone compatible with a full realization of the beauties of the material. In white marble, on the other hand, the most delicate moulded surface will tell, and the texture of the material, too, suggests clean-cut decisive forms—the semi-transparency and light absorbing quality of white marble requires a definition of actual form which when cast in plaster appears coarse as compared with the original.

Plaster is as white as marble, but, lacking transparency, we find lights reflected into shadows and vice versa in a way no other material can rival. The most delicate or rather the softest (for delicate is apt to suggest smallness of scale) modelling will therefore produce considerable emphasis, while extreme sharpness or undercutting will show violent contrasts wholly destructive of this tender genius of white plaster. Mr.

<person>E.	S. Prior </person>has said "Plaster is the most impressionable of all materials which give architectural surface. Its response to the hand of the craftsman is sympathetic and immediate. It has not to be chiselled like stone or wood or have ideas hammered out of it like iron: a touch of the finger gives it life." Thus both the material and the technique suggest a tender treatment. We are here impelled to lodge a word of protest against the practice of painting plasterwork any colour but white and preferably lime white. To paint a cornice chocolate and pick out enrichments in gold is at once to stultify the purpose of plaster and ruin all the beauty of texture with which it is naturally so highly endowed— Where are the lights and shadows fled?

Now, considering the beginning of plaster work in England under "bluff King Hal," it was we find to Italian craftsmen that the earlier works must be attributed, but a characteristically English school soon developed. It is worth noting that much of this XVI Century work is far more plastery than what came

later, though it is only within the last century that this trade has really fallen from its high place among the arts. And realizing this, there is a considerable movement among architects at home to lead the plasterer once more above the commonplaces of enriched stucco mouldings with mutules, consoles, dentils, egg and dart and all the rest of the sharp edged truck with which many a modern classic building is besmeared.

The type of these earlier ceilings is shown in our illustration from Wintoun House—the rib with moulded edges and enriched soffit divides the ceiling into geometrical panels in which occur a collection of ornamental motives of all sorts— heraldic devices, masks of mythical kings, conventional floral designs, initials, etc.

This type gradually gave place to the more formal corniced and coffered arrangements with the great circular garlands in which Inigo Jones and Wren delighted, In the earlier work the mouldings are more true to the ''genius of the material," while in the later efforts the modelling reaches a very high standard though over inclined to naturalism.

In your Elizabethan ceiling the rib enrichment is usually cast, some running pattern of vine '' with bunch and berry and flower through and through," while as often as not the panel motives are modelled ''in situ." In the Georgian work also the great garlands are very often hand wrought ''in situ." It is in the intervening debased period (and there is a world of inspiration in the work of debased periods) that we find a technique in vogue which combines the cast with















































No. 2.



the hand wrought methods and which has this to commend it to a commercial age, that no other kind of ceiling decoration will give so fine an effect for a given outlay of skill and labor.

Before considering the mixed process which is our subject, a few words on the relative advantages of hand wrought and cast work may be of use.

It is the great advantage of hand wrought work that it can be done ''in situ." Lighting is an all important question in plaster modelling, while the only way to

