<doctype type="text">130	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



as those already mentioned, were in many cases found to be faulty, and the users suffered heavy loss. The principal causes of failure were found to lie in cheaply constructed doors, lack of proper connection between doors and masonry, and vault doors and walls having been so tied to the walls of the building that when the latter fell the vaults went with them. This is a subject of such importance that it should receive the most careful attention at the hands of architects and building owners.

<article title=" City Schools " author="">City Schools.





restriction is placed playgrounds. In playgrounds outside Whatever provision contained in the base tion to this rule has stances where a room the roof, by carrying wire netting over the surface of the roof top storey into a In the former case pipes are placed below snow which might conditions as these to attain their highest We in Canada should generations of children in our cities for school

Fortunately the price of land in Canadian cities has not yet reached the point where serious  on the size of school sites and New York no space is provided for the area of the school buildings.  made for recreation is as a rule ment of the building. An exception been made in one or two infor play has been provided on up the exterior walls, stretching entire top and making the flat waterproof, or converting the entire playroom opening on to the roof.

receptacles containing steam w the roof level for melting the lodge upon the roof. Under such school children cannot be expected physical or mental development.  assure the welfare of future  by making ample provision now  and public playgrounds.

It is gratifying to learn from a recently published Government report that for some years past

in England disputes between employers and employees have been steadily decreasing. The average number of such disputes during the five years 1893 to 1897, was 816, and for the five years 1898-1902, 632. The number last year was only 387, affecting about one per cent. of the industrial population, loss of time amounting to less than one-fourth of a day per head. The majority of disputes arose over the question of wages. About one fifth were due to demands for the recognition of the unions. A large number of the disputes of last year were settled by the parties interested and through the agency of the Boards of Conciliation and Arbitration. This is a hopeful sign of the times, indicating the use in the future of more reasonable methods of adjusting differences of this character and consequently more harmonious and satisfactory relationships between employers aid employees, such as formerly existed. It is to be hoped that Canada will not he found to be behind the motherland in this important reform.



We regret to note that the Canadian Building at the St. Louis Exhibition is as conspicuously

common place and uninteresting as were those at previous exhibitions of the kind. It belongs to the jig- saw class of architecture and as such is perhaps representative of country architecture in Canada twenty years ago, but certainly does not in any degree whatever represent either Canada or Canadian archi

<article title=" Decrease of Trade Disputes in England.

Canadian Building

" author="">Decrease of Trade Disputes in England.

Canadian Building

<article title=" New Union Depot for Toronto " author="">New Union Depot for Toronto

tecture of the present day. The occasion warranted the erection of a creditable building, the design for which the government might have secured by competition among Canadian architects. It is both humiliating and annoying that the development of our country and architecture should be so misrepresented before the world. Surely the Dominion Government, which boasts of having a surplus this year of more than $16, -000,000 could afford to expend a few thousand dollars on the construction of a well designed building which would compare favorably with those of other countries, and of which Canadians would have no cause to feel ashamed. If as a people we are too poor to do this, let us not advertise our poverty by putting up any more poverty-stricken buildings at International Exhibitions.



With commendable promptness the railway authorities and representatives of the City of Toronto presented to the Railway Commission at Ottawa their arguments as to the terms which should govern the transfer to the railways of a site for a new union station on the south side of Front street With equal promptness the Railway Commission fixed the terms which have been declared to he satisfactory to all parties concerned. There remains therefore no obstacle in the way of the immediate carrying out. of the enterprise, the early completion of which will materially advantage both the railway and the city. The present terminal facilities are not sufficiently modern or convenient in arrangement and are entirely inadequate even for the rapidly growing passenger and freight traffic of the G.T.R. and C.P.R. The desired entrance into the city of the Canadian Northern Railway brought the project for improved accommodation to the point where action upon it could no longer be deferred. The decision arrived at should ensure the construction of an imposing building in/he heart of the burned district and the immediate removal of the unsightly debris now covering the site, which might otherwise have remained for months or years. It will no doubt also tend to encourage the early construction of a good class of buildings on the surrounding property and greatly improve the approach to the city whether by rail or water, The importance of securing the best possible plan for so important a structure is obvious. The best result would probably be attained by a limited competition among a number of leading Canadian architects. '[his would bring to bear upon the problem the best thought of a number of trained and experienced men, from whose combined efforts a thoroughly satisfactory solution might be expected. For the success of this plan two things are necessary (x) the appointment of competent arbitrators in whom the competitors would place confidence to draw up equitable conditions to govern the competition. and judge the plans ; and (2) a sufficient sum in premiums to compensate for the time and expense involved in the elaboration of so important a scheme, together with the assurance that the author of the design awarded first place would be given charge of the work. While the majority of Canadian architects are unusually busy at the present time, the season is now well advanced, and no doubt many would be found willing to enter a competition which would offer them opportunity to distinguish themselves, provided the conditions were fair and the prizes attractive.

