<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS EXCHANGE author="">TORONTO BUILDERS EXCHANGE.



The annual dinner will take place at McConkey's restaurant, on the evening of the 23rd inst. Preceding the dinner there will be held a reception from 7.30 to 8.15. Representatives of Builders' Exchanges in a number of other Canadian cities are expected to be present, and the occasion promises to be unusually interesting and enjoyable.

The Master Plasterers' Section have signed an agreement with the Plasterers' Union for the year ending May 1st, 1905. The rate of wages to be paid is to be the same as last year.



<article title=" THE TURIN EXHIBITION " author="">THE TURIN EXHIBITION.

The report of Louis Roversi. secretary of the United States commission to the International Exposition of Modern Decorative Art, held in Turin from May to November, 1902, has just been received by the Metropolitan Museum of Art, whose trustees largely made up the commission that undertook to secure exhibits by Amer icans.

The exposition was a novel one, as its purpose was to show the progress of decorative art from a point of view absolutely modern. Imitation of old styles was altogether barred, the aim being to award prizes for originality of conception of new styles. In this the Americans won great honors.

The report of the international jury' on the American section described it as "magnificent in its exterior appearence and excellent in substance."

"Thanks to the American section and its exhibits," says the report, "American art and American industry showed themselves in a new light and acquired fresh laurels."

An important feature of the Exposition was that or Tapestrolea burlaps and canvases made by the Richter Manufacturing Company of Tenafly, N. J., which has supplied the United States government at most of its important exhibitions at home and abroad.



The civic authorities of St. John, N. B., have instructed the Chief of Police, the Chief of the Fire Department and the Director of Safety in that city to make a report on the condition of the St. John play-houses, churches and other buildings were people congregate. It is expected that extensive changes will be found necessary and recommended in many buildings, including some of the largest churches.

<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES." author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



Samuel Cabot of Boston is mailing out to architects a copy of a useful litho-watercolor chart of color combinations.

The Dominion Construction Co., of Guelph, now in process of reorganization intend putting on the market shortly a special roofing material.

An attractive little celluloid monthly calendar is being used by the Bridgeport Wood Finishing Co. to advertise Breinig's Lithogen Silicate Paint.

The Guelph Foundry Co., of which Mr. W. Doherty is the manager, are building an addition 104x68 feet in size to their works, and are about to build a new four storey factory for the manufacture of furnaces and stoves.

In the perfecting of modern buildings, many problems have been solved by the Frink system of lighting, well known in lighting churches and public buildings. The new Amsterdam Theatre, probably the handsomest in New York, offers an excellent example of illumination by lights concealed in Frink cove reflectors. Full information may be had by addressing the inventor, patentee and sole manufacturer, I. P. Frink, No. 551 Pearl St., New York City.

The Canadian Bank of Commerce are building branches at Orangeville, Medicine Hat and Portage La Prairie, The stone to he used in these buildings will he furnished by the Roman Stone Co. Ltd., of Toronto. This Company is working into a large business. Among other buildings in which their stone has been used are buildings for the same Bank at Dundas and Dunville, the Metropolitan Bank, corner Dundas and Arthur streets, Toronto, the John D. Ivey Co. warehouse, Wellington street, the Carnegie Libraries at St. Catharines and Guelph, and the Trinity College entrance.

The James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, Limited, of Toronto, Ont., who for years have made one of the most representative lines of gas and electric lighting fixtures in Canada, have recently perfected a new light which they call the Morrison gas are light for which they are making strong claims which are being sustained by the lamps themselves. Combining a fight capacity of the electric arc lights with a consumption of gas that makes the cost of' light extremely cheap, this lamp also has the desirable feature of being extremely durable and simple so that it requires little or no attention.

The Milton Pressed Brick company limited Milton Ontario Architectural Terra Cotta

Sheldon and Sheldon Galt Ontario Hot Blast Heating Systems

