<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder





VOL. XVII. No. 204.

DECEMBER, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS. House in Roxborough Street, Toronto—Messrs. Sproatt & Rolph, Architects.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Santa Croce, Florence—Looking East.

House in New Hampshire.





CONTENTS

Editorial -	-	-						193

Canadian Pavilion, Liege, Belgium			-		—		—	194

For Thirty Dwellings	- -			-		-		19.4

Practical Lessons from the Baltimore			Fire 	- 		- 	 195-196

Our Illustrations —	-	—	-		-		—	197

Review	-	- -	- -	- -	198

Correspondence	-	-	- - - 

An Engineering Family	-	- - - 

Affairs in Toronto	-	-	-	200

Montreal - - -	-	-	-	201

The New Peace Palace at the Hague	  -		-	201

A Plumbing Exhibit	—	—		201

Two Papers on Reinforced Concrete Construction - 202-203

Ontario Has Marble	-	-	-	-	-	204

Mr. Joseph Connolly	-	-	-	_ -	205

Moving and Erecting Large Granite Columns -	205-206

Legal	-	-	-	-	-	- -	207

Rapid Construction of An Office Building	- -	ix

Rational Labor Views	—	- -	- -	x

Moving a Brick Office While in Use	-	- -	x

Prismatic Glass	- -	- -	- -	xi

Strikes in Canada	-	-	-	-	-	xi

Publicity for Manufacturers of Building Material and Supplies xii

Plate Glass Combine	-	- -	- -	xiii

Winnipeg Builders Exchange	-	-	-	-	xiv

A New Kind of Chimney		- -	- -	xiv

In Memory of Soldiers	-	-	-	-	-	xv

A New Ventilator	-	-	-	Xv





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE,	Toronto.

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal 

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





<article title=" Sir Aston Webb " author="">Sir Aston Webb.





















<article title=" A Skyline of Tanks " author="">A Skyline of Tanks.

Honours bestowed on the occasion of the King's birthday, last month, included knighthood for

Mr. Aston Webb, R. A., the late President of the Royal Institute of British Architects. He makes the fifth Knight in the profession in England. There is also a Baronet.



Toronto, since the fire, has come to the conclusion that there is nothing so satisfactory for the

business part of a city as a general use of sprinklers. That is agreed. But how about the tanks which crown the buildings thus equipped. The cooper's art is one of our few surviving handicrafts, and it is right we should exalt it—but abstractly. This elevation of a monstrous vat to roost on every building is grotesque fine in its way, but not in the way in which the town aims at being fine. If we had mill design as well as mill construction the ensemble would be perfect, but we are in the grip of the Renaissance and must be Renaissance all through. Fortunately, though a Renaissance tank would tax the resources of Vignola, a Renaissance tower is easy, and, if clients require precedent for a tower on their buildings, there is one at home in the Canada Life Building. The low tower which is the making of that building has for its reSon d'etre the elevation of a water tank to supply pressure to hydraulic elevators. The Canada Life tower was carried out on a scale beyond absolute requirement,

<article title=" Engineers for Fire Chiefs." author="">Engineers for Fire Chiefs.

but it suggests, on whatever scale, the architectonic solution, for, though, a sky line of tanks is absurd, a sky line of towers would be quite another thing.





One more department of modern life is about to get into the hands of the engineers. The

case of the Flett-Lowndes' building in Toronto, where, after the fire which started the sprinklers was extinguished, 20,000 gallons of water were sprinkled on the goods, because the firemen could not find the valves which controlled the service, points to new conditions that have to be met. In the first place the headmen of every district must be (and in fact are) informed of the position of the valves of ever)' automatic service in their district. But they must remember where the valves are, or have a note of it in such form that they can refresh their memory in a moment ; and, as the simplest form of note and the most quickly read is a plan, there should be a plan of every automatic system in a given district filed at the district fire-station. And the station-boss should take the plans with him to every call in his own district, to guide not only himself but the chief. Secondly the firemen must he familiar with the mechanism of all such contrivances. At the Flett-Lowndes fire they appear to have wasted time in experiments from want of a clear understanding of the functions of the pipes connected with the sprinkler system. And an insurance man declares that, when h

