<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PERSONAL." author="">PERSONAL.

Mr. H. C. Stone, architect, has recently established a branch office in Winnipeg.

Mr. W. J. Symons, ex-President of the Ontario Association of Architects is making a visit to Cuba for the benefit of his health.

Mr. R. L. Lessel, architect, has recently opened an office in the Roy Building, Halifax, Nova Scotia, and would bc pleased to receive manufacturers' catalogues.

It is understood that Mr. A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., has decided to remove from Montreal and take up his residence in England. The announcement will he received with regret by Canadian architects, among whom Mr. Taylor was one of the recognized leaders. A thoroughly trained architect himself, he cherished high ideals, and constantly strove for their realization by seeking to provide improved educational facilities for students and advocating measures calculated to elevate the status of the profession. lie did much valuable work in connection with the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, of which he is an ex-President. His ability as an architect is attested by the many public buildings of an educational and financial character erected from his designs and tinder his supervision in Montreal, Winnipeg and other Canadian cities.



<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.

The number of disputes recorded in the building trades in Canada in 1901 was 14, in 1902, 28, and in 1903, 44.

"Builders, Architectural Drawing Self-Taught' is the title of a new book of 260 pages, illustrated with numerous engravings, published by F. J. Drake & Co., of Chicago. Mr. Fred T. Hodgson, is the author.

The death is announced at Yonkers, N. Y., of Robert Ellin, who was regarded as the founder of the artistic stone-carving business in the United States. He came to America from England in 1867. His talent at once attracted attention.





<article title=" PLASTER AND STONE " author="">PLASTER AND STONE.



He would go so far as to say that plaster work outside houses might he introduced into towns and cities. It was only in the last hundred years that the art of plastering had become degraded to its present level—so much so, that when t hey mentioned plaster and stucco to people they were met with contempt. In Austria there were towns in which all t lie houses were done in painted and coloured plaster, and the effect was most charming. The difference between that work and our work of the last hundred years was that in Austria plaster had been treated as a plastic material, whereas we endeavoured tot re-u it to look like stone, which rightly enough brought it into contempt with both architects and the public.—Mr. Guy Dawber.







The Municipality' of Paris have arranged a garden mainly for the use of artists near the Porte d'Anteuil. It is near many atehers, hut for ordinary designers the position is less convenient than the old gardens adjoining the Rue Cuvier. Several artists have resolved to aid the new institution by giving courses of lectures, whiclt will be gratuitous, on the utilization of



plants for various purposes of art. A de signer who wishes to utilize plants is soon able to know where those he needs are to be found, for a large share of the ground is specially laid out to meet his aims. Loss of time in exploring is thus obviated.



Mr. Gaswell, who had come recently into the possession of a considerable fortune, had decided to erect a large office building, and was discussing the plans with an architect.

"As to the floors, now," said the architect, "you would want them in mosaic

patterns, I presume ?"

'I don't know about that," responded Mr. Gaswell, dubiously scratching his jaw. "I haint got any prejudice against Moses as a man, and he certainly knowed a good deal about law; but when it comes to laying floors, it kind o' seems to me I'd rather have 'em unsectarian like. Don't it strike you that way?"--—Youth's Companion.

A recent press depatch states that the English building trades say that if Canada is given a preference on timber, which she will likely demand, besides that on corn, a crushing blow will be given to British trade, and the occupation of a million persons imperilled.

Three years ago the union men at Lord Penrhyn's state works in North Wales went out on a strike which only terminated on the 7th of last November, when the strikers surrendered unconditionally. Many of the men were forced to emigrate to the United States and quite a number are employed in the slate quarries in Newfound land.

The Bureau of Building Inspection of Montreal, which was under the jurisdiction of the Fire and Light Committee of the City Council has been transferred to the new Works and Shops Committee and Mr. Alcide Chausse, the Inspector of Buildings, has been appointed City Architect and Chief of the Bureau of Building Inspection.

Work which had been treated with creosote is often specified to he painted in contract work. In order to overcome this difficulty says a contemporary, the woodwork should be first given a coat of naphtha varnish, after which a coat of priming should be applied, consisting of zinc white mixed in equal parts of boiled oil and naphtha varnish. The work may then be accomplished in the usual manner without fear of the creosote reappearing. This method is also effectual for tarred work, and is far more reliable than the knotting pot.

"What is it, son ?" said the dealer in paints and oils to the little boy standing hesitatingly near the counter.

"Have you got any crocodile paint ?" asked the boy.

"Crocodile paint? What's that ?"

"That ain't what mamma told me to get, but it's as near as I can come to it. I've clean forgot the name, but it's something to do with crocodiles."

The dealer reflected.

"You don't mean Nile green, do you ?" he asked.

"That's it !" responded the boy with a delighted grin. "Gimmy a quart of it."—Pittsburg Dispatch.

The Metallic Roofing Company Limited Toronto Fireproof Glass Windows