<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	55



J, K, C, D, GH, DG, H, J, fig. 16, and the length of DG and HJ will give the magnitude of the unknown forces.

The vector diagrams for the points MJHN, NHGFV,



















and DEFG are given in figs. 17, 18 and 19 respectively. Adding these four vector diagrams completes the

combined diagram as in fig. 20.

<article title="="">SOME COMMENTS ON THE BALTIMORE

FIRE.

" author="">SOME COMMENTS ON THE BALTIMORE

FIRE.

By A VISITOR TO THE SCENE.



Huge heaps of debris, entire streets of them, and amidst this desolate vista of broken brick or stone an occasional steel-frame structure, standing sentinel-like, over the scene of the disaster. Such is the scene left by Baltimore's recent fire and giving to Engineer and Architect the injunction. "look here upon this picture and on this." The brick rubbish is all that remains of the acres of non-fireproof buildings.

One good service was done by the wholesale conflagration in supplying owners and designers with the strongest sort of proof that modern fire-resisting practice was based on true theory. The fire-proofed building, about which many professed scepticism, has fully vindicated itself.

Suppose the loads AB, BC, CD, DE and ET are unequal, that their total is equal to the load on the

















right hand principal and that the lengths of the members BL, CK, DG, and EF are unequal as in fig. 21.









Proceed as in the above problem and construct the vector diagram fig. 22.



The work of excavating the Roman remains at Silchester. in Hampshire, (England), has been productive of valuable results. A number of tesselated floors have been unearthed, while a magnificent section of mosaic pavement, with a figure representing a dolphin, in a remarkable state of preservation, and over 1,000 pots and vessels, of varying sizes and shapes, have been brought to light.

THE FIDELITY & BONN BUILDING, BALTIMORE.





The intensity of the heat at Baltimore is indicated by the thoroughness with which everything combustible was licked up—hardwood flooring, door and window trim, and interior fittings. While this was the case, the efforts to protect the structural steel framing are seen to have been mainly successful, and most of the steel work is as good as ever and the walls only need superficial repairs.

The buildings with concrete fire-proofing, without exception, have passed through the fiery ordeal showing a wonderful state of preservation, under the most severe conditions.

A striking case is that of the Commercial & Farmers' National Bank, where the upper floors of the building were of mill construction and the floor over the bank was the only one fireproofed. It was a concrete floor and all the debris of falling walls, safes, etc., landed on it, but according to "Iron Age" it was absolute-

