<doctype type="text">58	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PHOTOGRAPHY FOR ARCH ITECTS.*

" author="Taylor, Francis R.">PHOTOGRAPHY FOR ARCH ITECTS.*

By FRANCIS R. TAYLOR.



Photography should not be considered as antagonistic to sketching. It has a utility in the education of the architect by producing an accurate delineation of old buildings unattainable by a sketch. It must not be forgotten that however valuable a sketch or measured drawing may be to the individual student who prepared it, there is the personal error to bear in mind when this method of delineation is applied for general study.

Photographs in conjunction with measured drawings undoubtedly form the best means for architectural study and research. It may be mentioned that in the Architectural Association Sketch-Book there are examples of measured drawings together with a photograph of the work. This method of illustration might he employed with advantage to a much larger extent. Whenever any old building of interest is to he pulled down to make way for modern improvements, or for other reasons, a set of measured drawings with a series of photographs form the best record of the old work.

Another use of photography as a means of illustration occurs in classes of instruction for architects when latern slides are available ; these enable all present to see, whereas diagrams and plates on the walls are only visible from certain parts of the room.

Lantern slides for architectural lectures should be made with a view to suitability of purpose. Photographs of buildings, both externally and internally, would be useful to illustrate the grouping and general effect, and then should follow photographs of towers and spires. of piers and arches, of caps and bases, of doors and windows, of vaulting, etc., to illustrate the treatment of the parts, and, lastly, of mouldings and ornament.

In illustrating constructive subjects the same principles should be adhered to—explanatory lantern slides to illustrate the manufacture and uses of the various materials, and then slides showing the different methods of construction.

The use of telephotography in the study of architecture is one which should receive careful consideration. In many instances parts of a building well worth studying are inaccessible for measuring ; in these cases an ordinary photograph gives a general idea of the composition and a telephotograph the details.

REPRODUCTION OF DRAWINGS.



The utility of photography in the practice of architecture might receive far more attention than it does. In many instances the only use to which photography is put in architectural practice is in the reproduction of drawings by the ferro-gallic process. In this process the reproduced drawings are either on a thin paper or a paper similar to Whatman's, and a black or brown line is obtained on a white ground. The advantage of the process is that the reproduced copies can be colored similarly to an original drawing. A great saving of time is effected, because from one complete set of tracings any number of reproductions can be obtained. If the reproductions are to be kept for a considerable time as in the case of copies for the authorities, care must be taken in the selection of the paper owing to its tendency to fall to pieces after a time. For this reason the authorities will only accept photographic reproduc

*Summary of paper presented before the Architectural Association in London,

tions on linen. The makers of the paper might consider the best means of surmounting this difficulty. It may be mentioned here that some of the papers shrink slightly in the process of obtaining the reproduction this emphasizes the necessity for fully dimensioning all drawings.

The ferro-prussiate process with a white line on a blue ground is sometimes used, but as colouring is then out of the question it is not so suitable for general architectural work. Its use is limited to drawings where colouring is not essential, as, for instance, in details of steel construction.

Besides this special application, the use of photography in architectural practice is generally limited to what may he termed the legal phase of our profession, although a wider application would be a distinct gain. No one will deny that photographs of buildings about to he pulled down are valuable records, and in ancient light, easement, party structure and such like cases would always be useful on one side or the other.

If the building happens to be one of considerable architectural interest, then the value of the record cannot be overrated.

Photographs of a building at its various stages of erection, with the dates and in some instances the time noted thereon, would be a valuable record of this class of work, and, in addition, would be very serviceable in the valuation of certificates. Engineers often adopt this method, with the best results, and there is no reason why architects should not do so.

Photographs of the finished building should in all cases be obtained, and a comparison made by showing the photograph side by side with the perspective drawing. Photographs should be taken by oneself.

It is impossible for a professional photographer to know exactly what is wanted unless he happens to have made a thorough study of architecture, and we know that in the majority of cases he has simply a mere smattering of the requirements.

It might, of course, be urged that the professional photographer could do the work under our guidance, but it will he found that this method is expensive, arid is, in reality, only applicable in those instances where selection of subject is not required to any great extent.

The architect who decides to use photography as an aid in his study and practice should understand certain of the technicalities. The questions which present themselves are What is the best camera for architectural work ? What lenses should be used? What photographic plates and papers should be employed?

Before anything can be done, the size of the camera

must be decided upon. '[he ordinary sizes are: 

by 3¼in. (quarter-plate); 6½in. by 4 3/4in. (half-plate);

8½ in. by 6½ in., (whole plate); 10 in. by 8in.; and

12 in. by 10 in.



It is generally agreed that the larger sizes are the best for architectural work. But the larger the size the more expensive it will be. Besides this, the weight of the camera is a serious matter, especially as in the majority of cases the work would be done at a distance from home. For these reasons it may be conceded that the half-plate is the most serviceable. When lantern-slide work is contemplated, the quarter-plate is generally selected, as that is the most suitable size for the purpose.

If a good lens is employed, the quarter-plate size

