<doctype type="text">162	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Building Regulations." author="">Building Regulations.

manufacturers of so-called "fire-proof" wood. The term "fire-proof" they claim to be a misnomer as applied to wood. Experience is said to have demonstrated that its fire-proof qualities are dead within three years at the longest. We have seen samples of wood impregnated with chemicals, which could not be burned, hut cannot say anything regarding the durability of the process. If not durable, the use of such material, involving as it does considerable extra cost, would be of little value, and must prove a hindrance to building and an added burden in the form of higher rentals to the public. On the other hand the great losses caused by fire renders necessary building laws that will insure as far as practicable the use of non-inflammable materials.





A clause of the new building bylaw of Toronto provides that walls of new buildings exceeding

35 feet in height shall be built in cement mortar. In the case of the first church building to be erected since this by-law came into operation, the walls are 28 feet in height, but the gables exceed 35 feet in height. The city architect has ruled that the entire walls must he laid in cement mortar. This will entail an extra expenditure of $500 in the construction of the building. The architect offered to increase the width of the foundation walls by 4 inches above the thickness required by the by-law for ordinary lime mortar construction, but the city architect insisted that. cement mortar must be used throughout the entire construction. This would seem to be a doubtful interpretation of the provision of the by-law and one that does not appear to agree with common sense. The gables of the building in question do not support any weight and constitute hut a very small percentage of the total wall area. This case emphasizes the fact that not only must building by-laws he very carefully framed in order that they may be equitable, but also that they should be interpreted in the light of common sense if hardship and injustice is not to result from their operation.



Mr. Leroy S. Buffingten, an architect of Minneapolis, has brought suit in the United States

Circuit Court of Appeals at Chicago against the National Safe Deposit Co., owners of the first National Bank building now under construction in that city to recover damages for alleged infringement of a patent granted to him covering a method of employing a steel skeleton in building construction. Mr. Buffington's attorneys claim that his patent, which was granted on May 22nd, 1888, is a valid one, and broad enough in its claims to cover all the buildings of the steel skeleton type erected throughout the United States in recent years. The claim for infringement is specially based upon the use of essential features of the patent, viz., a shelf or projection on each story to carry the outer walls for the succeeding story, whereby expansion and contraction due to changes of temperature cannot endanger or seriously affect the structure, and a continuous post consisting of a plurality of plates, placed side by side and diminishing in number towards the top another feature is the employment of non-conducting packing between the veneer and the steel skeleton. Mr. Buffington proposes to institute other suits for

<article title=" Patents on Skyscrapers.

Sand Bricks.

" author="">Patents on Skyscrapers.

Sand Bricks.































































<article title=" The Winnipeg Exhibition " author="">The Winnipeg Exhibition

a similar purpose. The outcome will be watched with much interest by building owners, architects, contractors and all others in any way identified with the erection of buildings.



At several points in Canada experiments are being made with the manufacture of sand bricks

What advantages are claimed for these bricks above those manufactured by the ordinary method has not been learned. A recent test in Europe of ordinary lime-sand bricks of good quality and clay made bricks of similar quality demonstrated that the latter were less absorbent. The present would appear to be an opportune time to make known the advantages of sand bricks and to place them on the market, in view of the exceeding scarcity and high price of ordinary bricks. In Toronto at the present time best quality common bricks are reported to he selling as high as $14 per thousand. This fact is causing owners of property and especially speculative builders to hesitate about starting the erection of new buildings this autumn. It is estimated that by reason of the enhanced prices for materials and labor, the cost of building this year has exceeded that of 1903 by 10 to 20 per cent.





Financially the Dominion Exhibition held recently in Winnipeg must be counted a success, the

management having in hand a cash surplus of $6,482. The attendance was also measurably satisfactory, totalling 200,000 persons. Viewed from the exhibitors' standpoint, and as the precursor of successful Exhibitions in the future, our information is that it left much to he desired. The arrangement by which the exhibits were placed in the rear and the side shows in front, worked out badly for the exhibitors. We have been told that a large percentage of visitors never got beyond the side shows and left the grounds without seeing the exhibits at all. Consequently the thousands of dollars expended by eastern manufacturing firms desirous of bringing their products prominently before the notice of the people of the west, were to a large extent wasted. The exorbitant charges for accommodation demanded by hotels and boarding houses militated against the success of the enterprise and is calculated to have an even more serious result in deterring persons who did attend from visiting future Exhibitions in the same city. The lack of interest shown in the exhibits, combined with the excessive charges for accommodation decided a number of the eastern exhibitors to quit the Exhibition before the closing day, while visitors living within reasonable distance of Winnipeg made a point of spending only a part of one day in the city, and of returning home in the evening. Before the people of Winnipeg can hope to induce either residents of the west or outsiders to attend in large numbers any future enterprise of this character they must give assurance that care will he taken to remove the causes that that have occasioned dissatisfaction this year.



The Lac du Bonnet Mining and Brick Company, of Lac du Bonnel, Man., reports an increasing demand for bricks. Their output this year has been over five million and a million of these have been fine pressed brick for face and finishing purposes They are now engaged on an order for 1,000,000 brick for the new power house of the Winnipeg General Power Company, and another order for 100,000 for the new immigration sheds at Winnipeg.

