<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	37



The  Lennox Manufacturing Company also showed a furnace, the main features of which were a steel dome, particularly sensitive as a heat holder, and an interchangeable fire pot it was claimed that the consumption of fuel in these stoves was considerably minimized. The Western agents are Merrick Anderson & Co., Winnipeg.

The Christie Bros., Limited, 238 King street, Winnipeg, agents for the Canada Heating & Ventilating Co., Owen Sound, had on view a range of cooking stoves of unique construction. These stoves arc so arranged that the heat encircles the oven twice, making it a perfect baker and cooker. They also showed the Empire King heating furnace, for either coal or wood, and with some special features covered by Patent rights for the whole Dominion.

The Moffatt Stove Co., of Weston Ontario, who have offices and warehouse at 214 Princess street, exhibited a complete range of stoves and heaters.

The Doherty Mfg. Co., of Ontario, also showed their well known Decarbon steel stoves and heaters.

The Western Foundry Co., of Wingham, Out., the western agent for whom is Mr. W. S. Black, 404 McIntyre Block, Winnipeg, had on exhibition samples of their furnaces and stoves especially adapted for the use of hotels and restaurants.

The Pease-Waldon. Co., of 111 Lomhard street, Winnipeg, had on view a good range of their goods, with a special display of heating furnaces. This company has just opened up in Winnipeg, and is carrying a full stock for the western trade.

The Enterprise Foundry Co., of Sackville, N.B., W. J. Copp, Son & Co. of Fort William, Ont., the James Smart Co., of Winnipeg, were also showing full lines of cooking and heating stoves.

The Amherst Foundry Co., Amherst, N. S., in addition to showing a range of furnaces adapted to all classes of buildings from the smaller house to the larger institution, had also on exhibition a fine selection of enameled ware for bath room and lavatory use, for which they have just completed a large and perfectly equipped factory.

The Canada Radiator Co., Limited, of Port Hopem Ont., showed a range of their positive circulating radiators, of which they claim they are the only makers, stating that no other maker has the positive circulation and the consequent absence of air accumulation which is the main feature in this make. It is also claimed to save at least 15 per cent. in consumption of fuel.

The Dominion Radiator Co., Limited of Toronto, had a very fine and attractive exhibit of highly finished radiators, which drew a good deal of comment from the visitors.

An interesting exhibit was that of the Fairbanks Co., who in addition to the large display of their scales and other fittings showed bath room and lavatory fittings.

The Siche Gas Co., who hive an office at 483 Main street, had on view a range of generators in the centre of which was displayed a large generator with a capacity of sonic 250 lights.

<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



The city of Winnipeg owes a valuable quarry of mottled limestone situated at Little Stony Mountain about five miles from tile city. A deposit of clay suitable for the manufacture of fine pottery has been discovered on the Winnipeg river about 60 miles from Winnipeg. Clay suitable for the manufacture of a good quality of brick is abundant in the neighborhood of the city. Unfortunately this clay is nut adapted to the manufacture of red brick.

The Board of Works of Winnipeg have recommended that the city enter into contract with an insurance company to insure its employees against accident. About $7011 a year has been the average expenditure for wages to employees incapacitated through accident, and it is felt that this sum is likely to he increased by the fact that the city is constantly enlarging the scope of its operations. The cost of insurance would be about 90 cents per $ too, or about $ on an annual pay roll of half a million dollars. About half of this amount is pro. posed to he deducted from the workmen's wages.



The surtax levied by Canada on	importations from Germany has cut seriously into that country's Canadian trade, hut has considerably helped that of the British West Indies. For the nine months ending March 3tst, 1903, Canadian importations from Germany amounted to one hundred and fifty million pounds, while doing the nine months ending March 31st. 1901, they amounted to but five hundred and thirty thousand pounds. fri direct contrast to this reduction we find that the quantity of raw sugar imported from Guana arid the British West Indies increased from forty million pounds to one hundred and sixty-two million pounds in the same periods as mentioned above. A big decline has been noticeable in all other lines the durable goods entering for the nine months ending March 31st, 1904, being $7,776,205, while at the termination of the similar period on March 31st, 1904, they have fallen to $5,076,383 a decrease of

$2,699,822.

<article title=" MONTREAL CITY	AND DISTRICT SAVINGS BANK " author="">MONTREAL CITY	AND DISTRICT SAVINGS BANK. 

The building illustrated is the branch bank for which the foundations are now being excavated at the south-west corner of St. Catherine Street East and St. Timothy Street, Montreal.

The material of the facades is Deschambeau limestone upon a plinth of granite from the Stanstead Quarries. The building is fireproof the floors being of steel cased with terra cotta. The bank will occupy the ground floor and basement and will be entered by the doorway in the centre of the St. Catherine street front. The banking room occupies nearly the whole extent of the ground floor being 72 feet long and 43 feet wide. The space for public is in the middle with the counter in horseshoe form around it. A portion of the upper floors is occupied by the manager's house the rest will be let as offices. The cost when completed will be about $70,000. The architect is Mr. A. H. Lapierre, Montreal. The builder is Mr. M. Huberdean of Montreal, the carpenter work being in the hands of Messrs. Labrecque & Mercure.



<article title=" PARTICULARS OF THE SCHOLARSHIP ESTABLISHED BY THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC

ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">PARTICULARS OF THE SCHOLARSHIP ESTABLISHED BY THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC

ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

The Province of Quebec Association of Architects have had under consideration for the past two years, the establishment of a scholarship in the Architectural department of McGill University. At the last annual meeting, held in Quebec, the scheme for same was submitted, and by resolution of the general meeting, was adopted. By this resolution, the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, undertakes to pay the University expenses of a student, the beneficiary being selected after a thorough course of examination. The examination or competition will take place in the rooms of the Association (5 Beaver Hall on the 14th and 15th day of September next.)

The conditions laid down by the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, are to the effect that (a) Competitors must he bona fide members in the office of an Architect, a qualified member of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects and who is also a resident in the Province of Quebec, (b) lie is also required to pass the preliminary examination of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

(c)	He is also required to have passed the matriculation examination of McGill University in the Arts course.

The successful competitor shall receive tuition free of charge, in the complete course for the Bachelor of Architecture degree at McGill University, this course lasting four years.

All particulars regarding the competition can he obtained from members of the profession, the Authorities of McGill, or the Secretary of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, R. Lacroix, No. Beaver Hall Square.



<article title=" A NEW METIIOD OF EXCAVATING " author="">A NEW METIIOD OF EXCAVATING.

A Chicago contractor has hit upon a method of saving the employment of several teams of horses to haul earth out of a deep excavation. The empty wagon is driven onto a platform at the street level, the horses unhitched and the wagon lowered into the excavation by a jib crane. Then loaded it is again hoisted to the platform, the horses hitched to it, and it is drawn away. The loops of the chains by which the wagon is lowered and raised are passed through the spokes and over the hubs of the wheels to present slipping. By this method an excavation from 15 to 23 feet deep and it



by 200 feet in extent, was completed in sixty days.

