<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



There is a possibility of a new industry for the manufacture of cement stone being started in Victoria B. C.

A new company has been organized in Toronto under the title of the Woodruff-Robins Company, For the purpose of engaging in the work of constructing engineers and builders. The directors are Messrs. S. H. Woodruff, F. B. Robins, C. W. Winyard, John Payne, and William Gilchrist, of Toronto.



Referring to the fact that the Dominion Exposition is being held at Winnipeg this year, and that last year Toronto was the point chosen the Maritime Merchant points Out that next year's Exhibition should justly be held in the Maritime Provinces. It is absolutely essential that the people of the different provinces should become acquainted with the possibilities of each province and as a means to this end a Dominion Exhibition should be held

in the Maritime Provinces.



A company has been organized in the city of Mexico under the title of the Mexican Permanent Exposition Company For the purpose of maintaining a permanent exhibit in that city of such products of other countries as are best adapted to Mexican cultivaion and uses. They have already secured a Government concession, and are erecting extensive buildings which are to be opened in the latter part of October. 1. Landero V. Cos is president and E. Hegwisch secretary.



The contract price for the new buildings to be put up in St. Johns, Que., for the Singer Sewing Machine Company by James Stewart & Company is over $1,000,000. The structural iron will cost $250,000, the successful contractors for this portion of the work being the Dominion Bridge Company, of Lachine. There will be twenty-two buildings which will extend over an area of 37 acres, presented to the company by the town. Two of the shops are to be 760x60 4-stories.



The Building Trades Employers Association, of New York, as a result of an alleged violation of an agreement entered into by the unions and the association to submit all questions to arbitration ordered a general lock-out of all employees. The order went into effect on Monday, August the 8th, between 5o,ooo and 100,

000 men being affected. The Building Trades Alliance, which comprises all the unions affected by the order, at a meeting held on Monday, the 8th, adopted a resolution providing for the repudiation of the general arbitration plan which was signed about twelve months ago.

Building operations in Toronto thus far this year, exceed in value and extent all previous records. It is true that the year 1891 showed a somewhat larger total, this, however, being due to the large sums spent on the city hall, and the land boom. Up to July 3oth the value of buildings For which permits have been issued this year was $3,470,483; for same period in 1903 it was $2,488,330 ; and for same period in 1902 it was  $2,304,614. 



The Committee of Belgian glass manufacturers appointed to investigate the question of forming a glass trust, has reported that such an organization is urgently required for the purpose of successfully opposing the demands of the labor unions and to secure more profitable prices in foreign markets. Steps are accordingly being taken to bring about an organization, and a Committee has been appointed to fix the value of the different factories. This Committee recommends the raising of the working capital by issuing 2,000,000 of new stock. It is proposed hat the trust shall remain in force for thirty years.



Harry Hems, the noted carver and sculptor of Exeter, Eng., has just published a report on the impressions gained while on a recent visit to the United States. Speaking of the cabinet making industry he states " that if quality is to be considered as well as quantity Britain can undoubtedly still more than hold her own, but on the other hand he was convinced that the home plants were not nearly as well equipped as those of the States, he being specially eugolistic in his remarks on the perfect plants to be found in Grand Rapids, Mich. He strongly criticized the American employers in the sub-division of the labor involved in the manufacturing of the different products, as he was convinced that the awful monotony of constantly performing some part in say the making of a door or cabinet, not only destroyed the skill of the workman, but eventually led to lack of interest and a general mental and physical degeneration.

Canada Foundry Company , Limited Toronto Bank and Office Railing