<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



The Amherst Foundry Company, of Amherst, N.S., have recently installed an enamelling department, and will manufacture



baths, sinks and similar goods.



T. William Bunney, architect, formerly of Newmarket and more recently connected with tire W. C. Edwards Company, of Ottawa, has recently accepted the position of superintendent of the New Century Refrigerator and Interior Hard wood Manufacturing Company, Dundas, Out.

Everyone interested in wood finishing and wood finishing materials should write for the new edition of the catalogue of The Bridgeport Wood Finishing Co. This will be sent free to anyone writing tire company for same at either New Milford, Ot. 55 Fulton street, New York 231 Dock street, Philadelphia, er 70 W. Lake street, Chicago, mentioning The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.





The plans for my new house are definitely setteled at last.'

So you're satisfied now, eh?"



'' No. But my wife and tire architect are. '----Philadelphia

Press.



The earth excavated for tire foundations of several large buildings in tire center of Chicago will be dumped through shutes into steel cars on the underground railway, and conveyed to the lake front.



The one hundredth anniversary of St. James Cathedral, To-

onto, has recently been celebrated. This church was established in 1803, the congregation meeting in a small wooden building on the edge of the woods. In 1818 an extension was made to this building, which in 1829 was taken down and a new building, 140 feet long by 40 feet wide, erected on the site. This was destroyed by fire in 1839 and was rebuilt of stone with a wooden steeple. On April 7th. 1849, this building was also destroyed. The plans for the present building were then prepared, and, with the exception of tire transepts and steeple, the structure was completed four years later. In 1874 the trancepts, spires and pinnacles were added. The church authorities propose to publish, at an early date, a complete history of the church.



Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of varnish and Japan

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto Marble Mosaic floors