<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="="">C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR A

PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR A SMALL TOWN.

" author="">C. A. & B. STUDENTS' COMPETITION FOR A

PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR A SMALL TOWN.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE OF AWARD.



The Committee in presenting their award and criticisms, wish to express their appreciation of the generally high character of the designs submitted. They consider, however, that the majority of the competitors might have made themselves more familiar with the requirements of a library and particularly of the working requirements of a library of the small size described in the conditions. As regards the criticisms appended, it might said that the designs other than the first four are not placed in the order of merit.

The committee award the first place to the design by ''Ionic," second place to the design by "Mic," third place to the design by "Napsugar," and honorable mention to the design by "L'Avenier."

A.	F. WLCKSON



WILLIAM RAE



J.	P. HYNES

J.	C. B. HORWOOD

A.	H. GREGG

Committee.

[The names of the successful competitors in this competition are: "Ionic," Mr. Edgar Guy, 8 McMaster Avenue, Toronto; "Mic," Mr. Louis Labelle, 136 Parc Lafontaine, Montreal ; "Napsugar," Mr. Clarence Thetford, 237 Dufferin street, Toronto ; honorable mention, Mr. L. Van Egmond, 508 McKinnon Building, Toronto.]

Below will be found individual criticisms by the members of the Committee of Award of a number of the drawings submitted in the competition:



''IONIC."—(1st prize)—In this design the author has shown an understanding of the character of a building called for in the competition. The elevations, broadly considered, express the purposes of the building by their effect of scholarliness, simplicity and repose, developed from a plan in which the same qualities are to be found.

Criticising in detail the plan is laid out on simple lines, and apart from the technical requirements of the building, is excellent. There is a thoroughly monumental feeling in the treatment, the axes are well considered, while every room is well proportioned, and asserts its purpose unmistakably.

The entrance steps are a good preparation to the vestibule, which is of suitable size and proportion. The rotunda as the author names it, forms a useful and interesting centre to the main portion of the building.

Considered from the standpoint of the Librarian, however, the plan is open to severe criticism. The element of administration and supervision has been almost entirely ignored; in fact each reading room forms an independent unit, and is not related distinctly enough to the main sources of inspection and supervision. This might be overcome to some extent by placing doors into the catalogue and librarian's rooms, or by arching between one or more of the bays in the walls between the rotunda and the reading rooms.

The reading rooms are properly lighted as also is the stack room.

The elevations are well handled, the general proportions being good, and the features carefully treated. The entrance is well marked, and the detail in connection with it is appropriate.

The wash work of the elevations is rather undecided,

but the line work is excellent. firm and authoritative, and the detail is indicated with wonderful clearness and accuracy.



" MIC "—(2nd prize)—In this design the plan and elevation both lend themselves to the unrestricted building boundaries of a small park, such as would be found in a small town.

The plan is simple and is good for these reasons, viz:— liabrarian is in close touch with stacks, is easy of access and commands an almost unrestricted view of reading room. The defects in the plan are: 1st, the ladies' toilet room is too prominent and the men's not sufficiently so, being beyond the control of librarian. A sine qua non in small library building is that everything must be under the supervision of the one attenddant. 2nd, the stairs should be from stack room so that books may be brought up direct: there should also be an entrance to the stairs so that books received in cases may be taken down to the "work" room which should be in the basement under the stack room. The grouping of external features is somewhat marred by the competition between the gable and the tower. Instead of two separate windows with a mullion under the arch of each a mullion window extending the length of both of these openings would possibly have been an improvement. The choice of rubble walling was good. The rendering is exceptionally good.



"NAPSUGAR. "—(3rd prize)—This is a fairly well conceived plan with the exception of the Committee Room appearing to be inserted more to fill a vacant space than a requirement of the library. The attendant has fair supervision of the reading rooms from the desk, but not as much as would be desired. The entrance is very effective and proportionate. The elevation is well conceived and well rendered. it's weakness is the rather wide spacing of the columns to main entrance and the poorly proportioned windows with their rather cramped arches which form the principal features either side of the entrance.



"L'AVENIER. "—(Honorable Mention)—This design in the French Chateau style shows careful study and much merit in rendering as well as design. The ink drawing of the side elevation is particularly effective. As regards the plan, a great improvement could be made for the general convenience of the building had the delivery desk been moved forward to line with the rear wall of the main building and the vestibule projected forward to correspond ; in this way the view of the reading and news room from the delivery desk, which has evidently been considered, would have been much more effective. As to the exterior, it would seem as if there are rather too many features in the front for a building of this size. The general effect of this drawing would have been much improved had the lettering been less obtrusive.



"TACKS."—The author has apparently not given very thorough study to the problem in regard to the plan—the accessories of Lady's Room, Magazine Room as also Board Room, for which the Librarian's office would adequately answer, being added more for their external effect than for their necessity to a library of such small requirements. The one attendant who is all that such a small library could be counted on having, is not given a good oversight over the reading rooms by reason of their entire separation from the counter.

