<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	103



<article title=" WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION " author="">WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION.



If a furniture storage house, a prominent situation on an important street and if possible, where the passing thousands see it, is of great advantage. This need not be in an expensive neighborhood or a retail block and may even he surrounded by cheap stores or residences. But if it is a noticeable building and has substantial signs and is on a car line, or where it is sure to be seen by a great many of your city's inhabitants, you will get ten times as many personal and telephone calls for rates and information as if on a back street, and can save considerable in advertising. It is well, also, if it can be on a business street in the edge of the business district, so that a good portion of the ground floor front can be used as a sales room for second hand and new furniture, or rented out as stores to tenants. But in this connection it is essential to consider whether the patronage of the great. middle and poorer classes is expected, or mainly that of the well-to-do and "tony ' set, because the latter are repelled and very reluctant to trust their goods under such circumstances, and willingly pay higher rates where the building is held strictly for storage purposes, especially if it says "fire proof," and has formidable iron gates and its front is built with castillated walls and other evidences of physical and financial solidity.

If a heavy merchandise or "dry" storage house, it is not important that it be in a prominent location, or even have a street facing, but it is, of course, desirable that it have a good railroad side track and easy delivery platforms to customer's teams, and the nearer it is to the centre of the wholesale district, the better. If the city is on navigable water, it ought to have both dock and railroad platforms—but it is probably more desirable that the building be within reasonably easy reach of the wholesale customers and freight shipping depots than that it have either of these very desirable conveniences, because goods usually go out in smaller quantities than they come in and by expensive horse and truck, so that a saving of time when goods are wanted, and a long haul, is an economy to your customers which they will appreciate. This does not apply to an exclusive transfer and forwarding business where the warehouse can be located at the transfer yards in the outskirts of town so long as ample shipping facilities and equal freight rates are had. I venture to suggest if it will not be better, if on railway trackage, that it be on some large railway system not already well supplied with storage warehouses in your city, especially. if such a line has equal facilities and advantages on in and out freight—because of the help you will naturally secure from the railroad directing their enquiring customers to you.

It is also wise, before announcing a settlement upon a location, to consult the officials of, say the railway company on whose line you intend building, learning what obstacles, if any, there may be in the way of good switching service to the location—and you can also sometimes secure a specially advantageous switching rate from them, which they would not make you later after you had started to build. You are also more apt to learn from them than from any other source what rearranging or large changes in tracks or railroad facilities which may effect you, are planned for the distant future.

The same general observations apply as to the lo

cating of a cold storage warehouse. Where a considerable share of its merchandise will come from and go to the local wholesale produce commission merchants by team, it is obvious that to be within convenient reach of them is most desirable.

It would seem preferable, in all cities except of the largest class, that a storage plant embrace several lines of warehousing, as say, dry merchandise, U.S. bonded and cold storage, and I would also favor including household goods, for to some extent the advertising of one will help the other, and it is certain it will involve but a small increase in crew to perform the labor in several branches, under competent management. But these branches of storage should not be conducted in the same building, unless it be the dry storage and U.S. bonded, and then it is essential to comply with the government regulations requiring an independent street frontage with separate doors and a tight partition with locked doors separating the bonded from the free storage space.

For a practical and economical plant, I suggest an ideal arrangement would be two non-fire-proof sections, divided by a fire-proof section, and I would, in view of the only slight additional cost, even carry it as far as to make fire-proof the unloading- platforms opposite the fire-proof section, and any other communicating parts. If cold storage in connection with heavy merchandise storage is to be conducted, and if it is desired to store fish, oranges, lemons and other malodorous or penetrating commodities, as well as sensitive butter and eggs, it would be well to place the merchandise section between two separate and (except for the refrigerating piping, etc.,) entirely independent cold houses. This will involve some additional cost of insulation but will avoid chance of damage by communication of the odors, and of course the division of the risks by heavy fire walls will always work to your advantage in fire insurance rate.

In a climate where a fairly cheap ice supply can be secured in mid-winter, it would seem highly economical to build your cold storage house with continuous, indirect circulation air chamber between the main insulation and the wall, through which to circulate the air from a stored body of ice, as is in successful operation now in several houses. This is found to secure at the very small expense of a fan power and without labor or handling of the ice, a temperature of about 40 degrees near the outside of the insulation, so the ammonia or ice-salt-and-chloride-of-calcium or anhidrous dioxid, or whatever system is used for the sharper refrigerating, will only have to reduce from a uniform temperature of about 40 degrees F.

There may be another important good served by this indirect circulation in the outer space of the insulation in that it would catch up any leaks of warm air from outside and carry them along back to the ice body, but in fact under reasonably still weather conditions there would probably be, if anything, a slight surplus pressure in this circulating air chamber, so that any openings through the wall would simply serve as slight out-leaks of the inexpensive ice chamber air.

In connection with an ideal arrangement, it would seem an advantage if the railway track can be at an elevation, and come at the back of the buildings on a level with the second or third floor of our, say six story building. This would save something in elevator

