<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	41



Mr. Prentice in a few dots to get the very life and soul of St. Mary's, Oxford. Mr. Mallows indicates his brick and tile texture with that sympathy born of knowledge of the thing as it is as well as power to render it as

long and arduous practice to give him a felicity of expression which I can only describe as eloquence in drawing. An unfortunate result of his dexterity has been that in a thousand offices his every trick and mannerism is being imitated. It looks so easy to leave all the setting up lines in a perspective where they are and swim some vagrant washes of mellow colour upon a sheet of ochre tinted paper and thereby produce the solemn joyfulness of one of Messrs. Bodley and Garner's great church

PEN AND INK SKETCH.—C. E. MALLOWES.









HIGH STREET, OXFORD.

Pen and Ink Drawing by A. N. Prentice.

































































PEN AND INK SKETCH.—REGINALD BLOOMFIELD.





it looks, while Mr. Bloomfield's dashing line might be envied by any pictorial artist to whom drawing is more than an incidental professional requirement. Perhaps the most brilliant English draughtsman is Mr. Joass who links the last generation to our own. An immense appreciation of details as they are. have combined with

A DESIGN BY MESSRS. BODLEY & GARNER.

Drawing by T. Joass.





interiors with its stately dossal and diapered altar frontal glowing in the amber light which percolates the the stained and traceried windows. As to free sketching however, to the architectural student I would say "beware how you sketch." The more the ego with the skillful hand is suppressed and the more the building with its peculiar qualities is felt, the better. We sketch to understand not to sell. I doubt if any man whose sketches have attained to any character and intrinsic beauty modelled his work on that of others. If a sketch is begun as it often happens with the preconceived intention of making it look like something we have seen elsewhere, the texture quality and colour of the materials to be represented will have a poor chance.

Peter de Hooch was in many ways the greatest of architectural renderers and though his technique is quite out of the question for practical purposes his spirit is wholly worthy of imitation. How he revels in the beauty that is in brick walls and tiled roofs and paved courtyards. Behind his painting of things as he saw them in golden evening light there is the knowledge of the thing as it is.

Before leaving this question of architectural sketching I should like to say that it is rather an ornamental accomplishment. Just the other day I was talking over some sketches at the R. I. B. A. exhibition with Mr. Prentice, and he rather surprised me by saying his Spanish sketches which are so justly famous were a waste of time and regretting that he had not measured more and sketched less while in Spain. It is after all by measuring existing work and by no other means that the student can get the real relation between the thing on paper and the thing in stone or brick.

I think I have now said and shown enough to make it clear that there is a distinctly English school of architectural drawing with characteristics of its own very different from the Academic or Beaux Art practice which has been adopted almost everywhere else. The besetting sin of the English draughtsman an is affectation, but really fine originality is occasionally met with. The Ecole des Beaux Arts men on the other hand all draw so nearly alike that individual character has no chance. On the other hand their average work is far better than the average in England.

What I have said of French and English draughtsmanship holds equally of French and English architec

