<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" A CORRECTION " author="">A CORRECTION.

A statement which appeared in the July number of the " Fireproof Magazine " to the effect that J. E. Vanier, engineer of Montreal, had advocated the use of armored concrete trusses for the purpose of supporting the reinforced concrete floors of the Maternity Hospital, Montreal, which unfortunately had begun to sag, proves entirely erroneous.

Mr. Vanier who was seen by a member of our staff stated most emphatically that he was not consulted at all with reference to any alterations or improvements to the building in which these trusses now exist. '' What I was consulted on," said he, "was in connection with some armored concrete floors which had sagged in an adjoining building, owing to the ignorance of the parties constructing, who had failed to put in enough of steel work to take care of the tension of the stress."

Furthermore," continued Mr. Vanier, " the Fireproof Magazine" is entirely in error in its state-

ment that the building they refer to possessed reinforced concrete floors, and that the trusses were installed for the purpose of supporting these floors, as nothing but wooden floors are to be found in the building, while the trusses were required for the purpose of holding in suspension the floors over the chapel, which had somewhat sagged, this means of support being chosen in preference to the erecting of pillars, which it was thought would tend to obstruct the view of the congregation."



<article title=" PERSONAL.

" author="">PERSONAL.



Rev. Cannon Bouillon, architect of the Roman Catholic diocese of Ottawa, h s retired after an active service of 30 years.



Mr. H. B. Gordon, of the firm of Gordon & Helliwell, architects, Toronto, has just returned from Korea, where he spent more than two years, being engaged in designing and superintending mission buildings.



Mr. S. G. Beckett, of the firm of Chadwick & Beckett, architects, Toronto, has been receiving the congratulations of many friends upon his recent marriage to Miss Florence Ethel Fletcher, of Barrie, Ont. The ceremony took place at Barrie, on August 16th.

The Canadian Bridge Company., Limited Walkerville Ontario Steel Buildings Roof Trusses

Dunlop Tire company limited Toronto Rubber Matting

The O'Keefe Mantel and Tile Company Toronto Mantels

The Vokes Hardware Company, Limited Toronto Fire place furniture