<doctype type="text">42	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ture. in France there is a school of work and a very high average of attainment, while in England there is no body of tradition. Every man works with such traditions as please him and he is not taught to make his selection. The result is a deplorably low general average redeemed, however, by a few really great men whose names will go down to posterity with the great roll of "those who fought and sailed and loved and made our world."

In closing, I should like to remind my hearers of the peculiarly subordinate importance of this question of architectural drawing. Once on a day men built far better than they drew. Now it is the other way. Few buildings ever look so well as the drawings promised and I would go the length of saying that what looks well on paper will certainly not do in execution. Alas that the converse of this proposition should not hold good, else the secret of how to design were easy of solution.

DISCUSSION.



Mr. Burke I am very sorry that the time will not permit any extended remarks in connection with Prof. Nobbs' paper; Prof. Nobbs has given us, I think, one of the most interesting papers that we ever had at any convention. It has been of absorbing interest; and he has brought us face to face you might say with the best men in England in matters of drawing. We owe him a great debt for his kindness in giving us this paper. I beg to move a vote of thanks to him for his paper.

Mr. Gouinlock I have much pleasure in seconding that vote of thanks.

Mr. Baker: I think this paper should not be passed over without some discussion even if we have to sacrifice a few minutes. Prof. Nobbs comes to us and tells us that if the drawings do not suit us and do not look nice we needn't despair because probably they are better than we think they are. One point in his paper struck me, when he referred to the beauty of the drawings and the work of the Ecole students. I do not think he made clear to the gentlemen here that these drawings are measured drawings and are really better than the work they are intended to represent. I think he should have pointed out that in drawing architects' scales cannot be too good so that the workmen in carrying out the work would be able to follow the lines laid down. I was glad to hear him speak of Mr. A. M. Prentice, a man well known to me. I had the privilege of being closely associated with him in London and I know he is an excellent draughtsman. I hope Prof. Nobbs will return to us and give us a paper later on, and that his stay in Canada will be of long duration.

The President I know this is a mere formality, but we cannot so very well express what we all feel; the most pleasant thing to me about the lecture is the lecturer; to think we have a man like yourself upon Canadian soil. I congratulate the Quebec Association, with whom you will work most immediately and I congratulate ourselves in at least being your neighbors. It affords me much pleasure to tender you the vote of thanks of the Association (applause).



<article title=" VISIT OF ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS TO THE SCHOOL OF PRACTICAL SCIENCE.

" author="">VISIT OF ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS TO THE SCHOOL OF PRACTICAL SCIENCE.

On the afternoon of Saturday, February 13th, the Engineering Laboratory of the School of Practical Science was opened to the senior class students of the Ontario Association of Architects. Facilities were placed at their disposal for a series of tests on the strength of materials. A pleasant and profitable couple of hours was spent at the machines in the laboratory making experiments, illustrating the characteristic behaviour of material when subjected to stress. Tension tests were made on steel, compression tests on long and short parts, and transverse tests on cast iron and on long and short wooden beams. After the tests were completed a short time was spent in examining other testing machines, and a large number of specimens of material that had been tested. Thanks are due to Prof.

Wright for affording the students the opportunity of visiting the school.



<article title=" THE NEW PRESIDENT OF THE P.Q.A.A.

" author="">THE NEW PRESIDENT OF THE P.Q.A.A.

Mr. Jos. P. Ouellet, President of the Province at Quebec Association of Architects, was born at St. Fidele, Charlevoix County, Que., on the 22nd of October, 1871. He is the son of Cyrias Ouellet, now mayor of Kamouraska, Que.

The son of a contractor, from his early years he has shown a marked disposition for the art of building,

He entered Levis College in 1884, and after a brilliant course of classical studies, studied science at Laval University.

In 1889, he began to study Architecture with Messrs. Tanguay & Vallee, and in January 1893, graduated as an Architect, after having attained the mention "Summa cum laude." He worked in his patrons' office for two years, and in 1895 opened an architect's office at Quebec, where, after eight years of hard work and perseverance, he has secured a large clientele,





























































MR. Jos. P. OUELLET,

President of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects.



He always took an active part in the management of the

P.Q.A.A.	For six years past he has been Secretary of the Quebec Section, and for three years a member of the Council of the Association. the last of which, as 1st Vice-President. He is now at the head of his profession at the age of thirty two.

Mr. Jos. P. Ouellet has spent the whole of his life at the study of his profession, and as a pastime, has taken an active part in military matters in Quebec. He is one of the best qualified officers of the Canadian Militia, having a long course infantry certificate, and passed the Royal Military College staff course at Kingston. He is very popular in Quebec, as Major in the 9th regiment. "Voltigeurs de Quebec," as well as brigade Major of the Xth brigade of infantry.

Major Ouellet counts a good many friends in Toronto, where he spent three months at Stanley Barracks, attached for a course in the Royal Canadian Dragoons. It may be added that he is a bachelor in arts as well as in private life.



<article title=" MASTER PAINTERS AND DECORATORS." author="">MASTER PAINTERS AND DECORATORS.

The convention of Master Painters and Decorators of the United States and Canada held in Toronto a fortnight ago was a most successful one. There was a large attendance, especially of delegates from the United States. A number of interesting questions and papers affecting the trade were discussed as per the programme printed in January number. The attractively arranged exhibits by manufacturers of materials, gave added interest to the meeting. The proceedings terminated with a ball at the King Edward Hotel. An outcome of this convention has been the organization of a Canadian Master Painters' Association, of which Mr. J. M. Faircloth, of Toronto is the president.



<article title=" THE BALTIMORE FIRE.

" author="">THE BALTIMORE FIRE.

Mr. Theodore Starrett, of New York, whose firm have made a specialty of building sky scrapers, as the result of an investigation on the scene of the Baltimore fire states: That steel frames stood the test well that practically no harm was done a steel structure where it was adequately protected by bricks. cement, or "hollow blocks" ; that of the building materials, stone, brick, terra cotta, and "hollow blocks", brick endured far and away the most satisfactorily that plate glass did not impede the fire at all, melting and exposing the interior early that every web in "hollow blocks" is an additional protection ; that concrete stands the test best of all fire-proofing materials; that terra cotta is easily destroyed.





The death is announced of Mr. King McC. Arnoldi, architect, of Ottawa.

