<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	15



wall, which may be of service to the querest. The lintel is in one piece of stone, so also is the sill, and the quoins forming the jambs, are of equal thickness, though this is not absolutely necessary in this style of work, providing they correspond in thickness and length on both sides of the window, and the height between the lintel and sill being divided so that the joints on each side will be parallel and opposite each other.



From "Decorator".—I have a number of letters on a granite tombstone to gild. These letters will average about one inch in height, and I would like to know of the best method of doing the work, and the price I should charge for same

Ans.—If the granite is polished you may rub in the "filling" and the goldsize with a stencil brush and wipe off the smeared surface with a clean cloth slightly moistened with turpentine. But if the whole surface is of unpolished granite then both filling and goldsize must be applied with a short hog hair pitch, and no surplus allowed to smear the surrounding surface.















































A "filling" of white lead mixed with (two parts) japanner's goldsize and (1 part) turps to the consistency of cream must he first applied and allowed to dry for three or four hours or longer, then apply any slow-drying oil goldsize that you are accustomed to, and gild in he ordinary way when "ready". A fair price to charge would be about 3 cents per letter if on a "polished" stone and 4 cents if upon an unpolished granite surface.



From "Young Workman"—How is the steel square employed in laying out pitches of roofs and obtaining scales?

Ans.—Nearly everything pertaining to the steel-square and what it can he applied to, are contained in a work recently prepared by Mr. <person>Fred. T. Hodgson</person>, which is in two volumes, and which may he obtained at this office. In reply to "Young Workman ", we offer the following which is partly taken from the work named. The diagram Fig. 2, shows the manner in which the figures on the square are used for getting pitches and scales. "The full pitch, (12 and 24) regulates the scales in proportion to the full scale, (for a one-foot run) for any pitch, as its rise is to

24. For illustration we take the pitch. The full scale for this pitch is 12 to 9. Why ? Because 9 is 3/8 of 24. To find the scale for the above pitch, take

6 on the blade and follow the horizontal line to the left till it intersects the one pitch, then vertically down to the 3/8 pitch and it will be found that this intersection is at 2¼ inches above 3 on the run, and it will be seen that these figures are ¼ that of 9 and 2. For the

2 scale, proceed in like manner, starting from 10 on the blade. The intersection on the pitch line will be 334 inches above on the run. Thus it will be seen that every inch of the blade's length represents a distinct scale, and these are subject to many more scales. If the square he divided in twelfths, each division will represent a scale, making in all 12 multiplied by 24 equals 288 different scales ; but these divisions run into intricate fractions for the rise, and only one-half of the runs will end in twelfths of an inch. The other half will end in twenty-fourths, but all of these scales will be in the same ratio as that given for the full scale, and consequently give the same result as far as the angles are concerned. However, it is better to use the full

scale when same can he done, as it is handier and insures more accuracy in the work."



From "London, Ont."—! am making an aquarium. Can you please give me a recipe for a good cement suitable for using on this work?

Ans.—Take equal parts of litharge, of fine dry sand, and of plaster of paris, add only one-third of a similar part of pulverized resin. Mix thoroughly, and make into paste with boiled linseed oil and Japan (driers). Let it stand four or live hours before using. It loses strength if it stands a day. Give plenty of time for drying.



From "Contractor"—I am in want of a pitched root truss having a span of 45 feet, for a barn that is to he over 100 ft. long. I want as little iron work in it as possible, as I am in a country where wood is plentiful and iron workers scarce. Will you kindly publish a sketch or diagram of a truss, and oblige an old Subscriber?

ANS.—We submit the sketch shown at Fig. 3, which we think covers the requirements of ''Contractor".



From "Finisher"—Can you give me a good stain for walnut on a basswood base?

Ans.—Mix dragon's blood and lampblack in methylated spirits till you get the color reqnired, and rub it well into the grain of the wood.



2.	How can I color glue size like walnut stain? The stain I buy in cans won't mix with the size.

Ans.—Take one gallon very thin sized shellac, add 1 pound dry burnt umber, 1 pound dry burnt sienna, and ¼ pound lamphiack. Put these articles into a jug, and shake frequently until they are mixed. Apply one coat with a brush. When the work is dry, rub down with fine paper, and apply one coat of shellac or cheap varn

ish.





3.	How can I give pine a beautiful mahogany

lively reddish color ?	or

ANS—Boil ½ pound madder and 2 ounces logwood chips in 1 gallon water, and brush well over while hot. When dry, go over with pearl ash solution) 2 drachms to the quart. By using it strong or weak, the color can be varied at pleasure.

