<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PERSONAL.

" author="">PERSONAL.



Mr. W. W. Stewart and Mr. W. P. Witton, architects, of Hamilton have recently formed a partnership.



It is a subject of regret to many friends of Mr. Win. Stewart, of Hamilton, to learn that he has been compelled by ill health to abandon practice. Mr. Stewart is one of the ablest and most highly respected architects in Ontario.





<article title=" NOTES." author="">NOTES.



By experiment it will be found that the heat on the surface of clear glass and that of the same surface painted black on the back side, subjected to the same sun rays, will give off a much different thermal register. This accounts for the frequent cracking of glass, a part of which has been painted black to give greater prominence to signs lettered on the face.



The using of electric light in bathrooms, either public or private, so it is asserted by an English engineer, is dangerous in many cases. He says that "the electric light, switches most usually employed have brass covers and brass knobs, and it is quite possible that this metal work may be in unsuspected contact

with the electric supply wires. In such a case a person standing on a dry wooden floor, and using the switch, would not notice any detect, but any one in the act of taking a bath, or standing with hare feet on a wet or metallic floor, and attempting to turn on the light, would recieve very severe shock which would probably prove fatal even at the comparatively low pressure of 220 volts."



An unusual piece of repairing is being done on an old fashioned brown stone building in Warren street, New York, according to Carpentry and Building. Workmen began to tear out some of the masonry recently, removing the stone from the ground upward instead of the roof down. When the front of the first floor had been laid open workmen began to remove the old wooden beams. As fast as a beam was taken out an iron girder was put in its place. All the beams in the first floor have been replaced by steel, bolted together just as any other steel structure would be. When the five floors are done, the remarkable change will have been effected with little difference in the building, yet the structure will be a modern steel frame office building instead of an old fashioned wooden one.

The Milton Pressed Brick company limited Milton Ontario

C. Chancellor and company London Velure