<doctype type="text">50	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" The Building Outlook " author="">The Building Outlook.

and ought to be provided regardless of cost. A great mistake was made when a year or two ago the charge to consumers for water was cut in half. In consequence of this cut the revenues of the water department have since fallen short of the expenditures by more than $75,000 per year. This deficit has to he made up by the property owners, who were therefore not as favorably disposed to vote the money now required for improvements as they would have been had the department remained on a self-sustaining basis. In view of the urgency of the case, however, it is gratifying to note that a broad view of the question was taken, and the authorities put in position to carry out the improvements.



It is perhaps too early to speak with certainty regarding building enterprises likely to be undertaken during the season now opening. The information at hand, however, would indicate that taking into consideration all sections of the country, a fairly brisk season is in prospect. So far as can be learned it would appear that the numerous and serious labor difficulties which were a marked feature of last season and which reduced so materially the income of both contractors and workmen, are not likely to be repeated this year. Agreements have already been reached in some trades and it is to be hoped that soon after the first of April, all possible causes for disagreement will have been adjusted and removed out the way. In New York the plan has been introduced of dating wages agreements from the first of January instead of as heretofore from the first of May. A sufficient number of unions have already given their assent to the change of date to insure the success of the movement. The change is a most desirable one and must work to the advantage of all whose interests are in any way dependent on the prosperity of the building industry. The builders and building workmen of Canada should lose no time in adopting similar action, thereby getting rid of the uncertainty which in the past has usually prevailed at the opening of every building season. This uncertainty and the recollection of last year's experience may have something to do with the fact that so far contractors in Toronto have been asked to do but little tendering.

The tightness of the money market may to some extent have a retarding influence upon building this year, but speaking generally, the prospects point to a fairly active season in Toronto. In Hamilton a repition of last year's activity seems certain, the leading architects' offices being crowded with work much earlier in the year than usual. The erection of the immense new factories of the Deering and Westinghouse Companies giving employment to thousands of skilled workmen, has created a large and immediate demand for moderate cost dwellings. Throughout western Ontario much building is said to be also in prospect. In Winnipeg and the West as well as in the Maritime Provinces all indications point to a record year for builders.

In the United States lower prices are expected to prevail. Mr. J. Knox Taylor, Supervising Architect, is quoted as saying that during the past few months there has been a drop in tenders amounting to upwards of 20 per cent. and he looks for still lower figures. He further states that there is now keen competition.

<article title=" The Baltimore Fire." author="">The Baltimore Fire.

for government work, while a year or so ago bids were comparatively few. In Canada prices for labor and materials are likely to correspond closely with those of last year. While the output of lumber will he considerably reduced, the slackening of demand from Great Britain and also from the United States, due to the disturbance to trade caused by the approaching Presidential election, will likely prove an effective offset to any advance in prices.



Since the recent great fire Baltimore has been crowded with visitors, principally architects,

contractors and experts. The architects have been looking for information, and many of them for commissions. The contractors are on the look-out for contracts, while the building experts, including many city architects and building inspectors, have visited the scene with the object of observing the effects of the conflagration upon the various kinds of building materials and methods of construction. One fact stands out prominently as the result of this fire, namely, that steel buildings when properly protected by fire-proof materials, such as porous cotta and reinforced concrete are able to withstand a severe fire. But for the fact that several steel structures stood in the way and blocked the progress of the fire, the public buildings and a large section of the residential district of I3alti-more would have been destroyed. This fire has further emphasized the necessity of protecting by means of iron shutters, wired glass, or other equally effective methods, the windows of large buildings in the business centres of cities.



The Mayor of Baltimore has appointed a committee of citizens to advise concerning the reconstruction and improvement of the burned district. The existing building by-laws of the city will be carefully revised and remodelled before any new buildings are allowed to be erected. It is proposed that all new buildings over 100 feet in height shall be fire-proof throughout ; that stores and warehouses more than two storeys high be equipped with fire-proof shutters on all windows not opening on a principal thoroughfare ; that all outside walls shall he build of stone, brick, iron, or other non-combustible material, and that the roof sheathing shall not extend across front, rear, side, end or division walls. It is proposed to establish a municipal experimental testing department for the investigation of materials by the department and by builders and contractors.



<article title=" BANK OF MONTREAL, SYDNEY, C.B." author="">BANK OF MONTREAL, SYDNEY, C.B.

The position of this building, illustrated in the present number, is in the centre portion of the town. It is built of freestone from the "Wallace" quarry in New Brunswick. The interior is cruciform, with piers carrying arches supporting the central dome, and is very spacious, lofty and light. The finishings and fittings are in oak, with old brass railings. The floors are marble mosaic in ornamental patterns. The general contractor was Mr. Reid, of Windsor, N. S., and the contractors for fittings were The Rhodes Curry Co., of Amherst, N.S., who all did their work very well. Mr. Andrew T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., of Montreal, was the architect, and Mr. Hopson, of Sydney, superintended the construction.

