<doctype type="text">

<article title=" WINNIPEG BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">WINNIPEG BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

At various times during the last fifteen years organization has been attempted by contractors in the building trades at Winnipeg, but none of these was ultimately successful. The Winnipeg Builders' Exchange, organized last month, is founded on a broader basis, and we believe is destined to endure, and to serve a useful and important purpose. The Exchange has already a membership of nearly one hundred of the leading contractors and supply firms in all lines. Convenient and commodious quarters have been secured in the Rialto Block, 482½ Main St., where a number of important







































MR. E. Cass,

President Winnipeg Builders' Exchange.





meetings have already been held. The success of an organization of this kind depends very largely upon the Secretary. In Mr. W. W. Daly the Exchange have secured a most painstaking, obliging and efficient officer, who may be depended upon to do everything possible for the success of the organization The other officers, directors and members of the Committees are







































MR. G. W. MURRAY,



1st Vice-President Winnipeg Builders' Exchange.





as follows :—President, E. Cass ; First Vice-President, G. W. Murray; Second Vice-President, Joseph Bourgeault; Treasurer, T. D. Robinson; Sergeant-at-Arms, Alexander Irwin. Directors, E. S. Harrison, Angus Browne, W. A. Irish, D. Cameron, John Douglas, J.

W. Morley, Thomas Cotter, J. A. Girvin, R. Watson,

Victor Bouche, William Alsip, and C. H. Simpson.

Legislative Committee, Mayor Sharpe, Chairman

William Garson, T. D. Robinson, William Irish and

Win. McFarlane. Finance Committee, A. T. Davidson, Chairman ; Duncan Sinclair and Angus Browne.





































MR. JOS. BOURGEAULT,



2nd Vice-President Winnipeg Builders' Exchange.



Resolution Committee, A. J. Hammond, Chairman

C. N. Sharp, W. H. Fraser, W. Malcolm and A. N. McCutcheon. Membership Committee, Philip Burnett, Chairman ; A. B. Anderson, W. Wilson, J. W. Wright and William Hanbury. Labor and Grievance Commitee, George Mitchell, Chairman ; F. Powell, C. Gate, A. J. McMartin, C. A. Bell, S. B. Ritchie, John







































Mr. W. W. DALY,



Secretary Winnipeg Builders' Exchange.



Douglas and J. H. Neil. We have the privilege of presenting herewith the portraits of the chief Executive Officers of the Exchange.

The objects of the Winnipeg Builders' Exchange, as set forth in the Constitution, are as follows :—1. To join in one Association all contractors, manufacturers and dealers of good repute doing business in the city aforesaid, whose vocation connects them, wholly or generally, with the industry of building, either as employing contractors in any branch of the building business or as manufacturers of or dealers in material

