<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	83



<article title=" ANCIENT LIGHTS." author="Langton, W. A.">ANCIENT LIGHTS.



The House of Lords has delivered an important judgment, on the question of ancient lights, which definitely settles the basis of equitable adjustment of the opposing interests, in this respect, of the owners of old buildings, and the promoters of new ones ; not only in England but throughout the Empire, where the House of Lords is the final Court of Appeal.

The case was one of injury done to a tenement on one side of a street by adding to the height of the tenement opposite. The complaint was that a room on he ground floor of the complainant's (or plaintiff's) tenement was perceptibly darkened by the height added to the tenement of the defendant.

The darkening was a matter of fact which does not appear to have been disputable. On the other hand there were qualifying circumstances which excite sympathy with the defendant :—That the room which was darkened ran through to the back of the building and had no window at the back ; so that it was dark in any case, arid for many purposes would have always required artificial light at. the back :—that the defendant's building, even when added to, was lower than that of the plaintiff. These circumstances, which to an ordinary onlooker seem to exhibit the plaintiff rather than the defendant as the oppressor, serve to show as the case, before coming to the Lords, had gone against the defendant in the Court of Appeal—how decidedly the Statute has been interpreted on the side of the non-disturbance of existing rights.

The Statute, commonly called the Prescription Act, gave a prescriptive right to light which had been enjoyed for a period of 20 years. The interpretation put upon this by the Courts has apparently been, that, if a building has received a certain amount of light for 20 years, the owner is entitled to claim that same amount of light for ever. According to the Times, this stiff interpretation has given rise to an attitude on the part of building owners that has grown from the merely self-defensive to the extortionate. The moment a building is pulled down, to make way for a larger one, the neighboring owners placard their windows as ''ancient lights'' ; in most cases with no other intention than to extort payment under threat of a lawsuit. They no doubt believe that they have a proprietary right to their light, which must be bought if it is to be interfered with. The effect, at any rate, has been an embarrassment of building improvement about which there has been much complaint by architects.

The history of the present case was that in its first trial (Dec. 20, 1900) the Judge found that the action failed because the plaintiffs premises would still, in his opinion. ''be well and sufficiently lighted for all ordinary purposes of occupancy as a place of business." The Court of Appeal, (Dec. 20, 1901) reversed this decision on the ground that, according to the law of England. the owner of the ancient light is entitled to the whole amount of light which has ever reached his windows. The appeal was twice argued before the House of Lords—in May and in December of 1903, judgment was delivered on May 2 last.

The Lord Chane . He pointed out, in his judgment that, it the principle laid down by the Court of Appeal were to be applied consistently, towns would not grow; because any dweller on the edge of a town, who had for 20 years enjoyed free access of air without

buildings near him, would be in a position to restrain any interruption of this enjoyment by the extension of buildings beyond him. Indeed under this principle, no vacant piece of ground could be built on in the city

and the rights of people to utilize their own land would be formidably restricted. The right of access to light not being a proprietary right in the light itself but only a right to its enjoyment which is common to alt, he concludes that the test of the right is whether 1 he obstruction complained of is a nuisance. That is to say, a dweller in towns cannot expect to enjoy absolute daylight any more than he enjoys as pure air, as much freedom from smoke and smell, or as little disturbance from noise, as if he lived in the country vet as an excess of smoke, smell or noise may give a cause of action so it is in the quest ion of deprivation of

light -the question is one of degree.		And the

test of right must further have some elasticity that it may fit the surroundings and circumstances of each case, since these affect the amount of' light required.

	The Lord Chancellor having thus, by the	 investiga

tion of elementary principles, endeavoured to get over what he calls ''the danger of attempting to put a principle of law into the iron framework of a statute," the four other judges gave judgments to the same effect, with such further considerations as show the conclusion of the whole matter to he that a 20 year user of light acquires no prescriptive right beyond such consideration as one would think would be given by common law without the intervention of a statute for the owner of a building of any age is declared to have no more than an equal right with the owner of the newest building near him to an amount of light, ''sufficient according to the ordinary notions of mankind, for the comfortable use and enjoyment of that house as a dwelling house, or for the beneficial use and occupation of the house if it were warehouse, shop or other place of business." The owner of a new building, built on a lot previously vacant can of course only get a share of what light is going, but he is entitled to that ; and nobody else seems to be entitled to any more. If there is less light going after the advent of the new building, the owner of a 20 years old building opposite must be content with the change so long as his building "retains its substantial identity." It seems therefore that an exceptional need for light in an old building cannot claim full consideration. This would be to uphold the right to an average MAXIMUM of the light that had been shed on the windows in the past and this view, which was that of the Court of Appeal, the Lords reject. It is unfortunate for definiteness of decision in the matter that Lord Davey, who alone considers this aspect of the question in a concrete way, gives, in illustration, suppositional cases of one class only, viz., of' premises converted from a purpose requiring less light to one requiring more; and he says that a man, in thus calling upon his neighbor to leave him a supply of light which is rendered necessary only by such alterations, imposes an increased burden upon his neighbor, which no man can do by any act of his own. This seems to limit indefensible claims for extraordinary amount of light to those which are made on behalf of a building which has altered its substantial identity so as to require more light. But he can hardly intend this limitation for he introduces his illustrations in the middle of an argument which, accepting

