<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	201



<article title=" MONTREAL.

THE YEARS CHANGES IN THE CITY.

" author="">MONTREAL.

THE YEARS CHANGES IN THE CITY.



Of city buildings which are likely permanently to enhance or detract from the beauty of the town, the greatest number during the past year has been erected in St. James street. There the banks congregate and it is these institutions which have easily held the lead in building operations not only by the number and extent but also by the costly and substantial character of their enterprises. As a rule too they have set excellent examples in erecting buildings of good fireproof character—the system of cased steel work with flat terra cotta arching for the floors being adhered to in almost every instance.

The 'armed cement' construction usually adopted for the roof of this class of buildings suggests the favorite French method of fireproofing; but though now being advertised here we do not know of any examples where a 'beton arme" system has been thoroughly applied in Canada. Apart from banks, we still see too many commercial buildings being built with little or no attempt at fireproofing. That this should be done by private firms is not, perhaps, very suprising, but it is wholly so to find the new wing of thc law courts setting the example of wooden joisted  floors at this time of day.

We have formerly spoken at some length about the head office of the Bank of Montreal—easily the first in architectural merit of all the buildings in the city. The works which have been in  progress there are now nearing completion and the 87111 annual meeting of the bank was held in its new chambers on the 5th December.

Of the other banks in St. James Street, the Batik of Ottawa building nearly completed and that of the Sovereign Bank, now hastening to get its steel skeleton clothed in more comfortable materials, both have soared to the full height permissible by the city bye-laws. Both belong to a type of design derived from the light buildings of American cities. That is to say, they endeavor to present a building of extremely high narrow proportion and to preserve unity of effect by strongly emphasing a storey or two at the bottom to provide an architectural base, again strongly modelling the top as a crowning member, leaving the intermediate storeys plain as a contrasting body. These are from the designs of Mr. H. C. Stone.

On the opposite side of the street the Metropolitan Bank designed by Messrs. Finley & Spence shows on a smaller scale a similar general treatment and it is here very palpable that the smaller bulk bringing the whole building more within the compass of the eye is more suited to carry a scale of detail which can be refined without losing strength and interest.

For the Imperial Bank, the large building at the south end of Victoria Square, which was gutted by fire a couple of years ago,  has been remodelled under the direction of Mr. A. T. Taylor, whose departure for England makes art important change in the rinks of the Architects of Montreal.

The Royal Bank of Canada's new building in St. Catharine Street and also the small branch of the Bank of Montreal in Greece Avenue close by were referred to last month. Farther  east in St. Catharine Street, Mr. A. H. Lapierre has erected a three storey building of Quebec limestone for the City and District Savings Bank, the exterior of which is new completed.

Outside of St. James Street, the "down town' streets present few important changes. A new building is now being erected at the corner of Notre Dame Street and Cote St. Lambert—the result of expropriation changes. The principal improvement in Craig Street has been the recent thinning of the forest of telegraph poles, which helps to make that locality so picturesque. Some of the finest giants have lately been felled in pursuance, we understand, of the intention to have the wires generally placed underground.

As regards stores nothing of first-class importance has been carried out during Perhaps the greatest number of new works of this class is in St. Catharine Street. W. H. Scroggie Limited have completed the structural work of an addition to their store which, if not rising to architectural magnificence, at least completes the block from street to street in a uniform and tidy manner. The Renouf building, almost opposite, was completed early in the year, and in Union Avenue, not many yards away, a new store built and elaborately finished for a fashionable tailor exhibits much careful ingenuity of design.

In some of these buildings one may observe a rather pleasant introduction of delicately modelled broad metal frames around the store windows. If this treatment does not compensate for

the architectural defect inherent in the slenderness of support that shopkeepers demand, it has, at any rate, the merit of giving interest and emphasizing the metallic nature of the supports.

In St. Denis street, not far front the corner of St. Catherine street, the Polytechnic School has recently been completed. This excellent building, from the office of Mt. E. Vanier, is one that has an agreeable air of appropriateness to its purpose. Designed without undue ambition its well understood and wholesome detail raises it well above the commonplace.

The building for the McGill Young Men's Christian Association in Sherbrooke street has now almost attained its full height and the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association premises in Peel street, referred to in a previous issue, are being completed internally. At a similar stage, or rather less advanced, is the new Maternity hospital at the corner of St. Urbain and Prince Arthur streets.



Of dwellings large numbers have been built during the year, mostly of a humble class in the poorer outskirts. A striking feature in the better localities is the number of apartment houses which have appeared some of them new, but many the result of a transformation of private dwellings which have been swelled out in all their dimensions to contain as many apartments as possible. In these it need hardly be said the money making purpose is more obvious than the architectural excellence. They are, however, eloquent witnesses to a particular feature in the life of the citizens. Montreal becomes more and more markedly a city where one half of the population makes its living by keeping house for the other half, and the people with a private home life of their own are becoming a smaller and smaller proportion of the whole.

For next seasons operations they are now getting in the foundations for a large hardware store in Bleury street, near Craig street, Mr. H. C. Stone being the architect, and a new sevenstorey fireproof store is advertised as about to take the place of some of the older buildings on the south side of St. Catherine street, a little west of Peel street. The McGill Students' Union building and the new club house of the Mount Royal Club, both in Sherbrooke street, give signs of being prepared to spring up with the coming of spring. Next year should also see substantial progress made with the new Notre Dame hospital and the Fever hospital at Point St. Charles. The erection of the latter has been delayed, we understand, owing to certain preliminary financial difficulties.

CONCORDIA SALUS.'







<article title=" THE NEW PEACE PALACE AT THE HAGUE." author="">THE NEW PEACE PALACE AT THE HAGUE.

Every one who has visited Brussels, the beautiful capital of Belgium, will remember the splendid pile of the Palace of Justice which forms such a striking feature in the modern architecture of that city. That building has beet decided upon as the model for the new Peace Palace at The Hague, which is to he erected through the gift of Mr. Andrew Carnegie, and which, on a smaller scale, will be exactly similar to it. The new palace will cost $1,640,000, and will be a superbly beautiful building. The main audience-room, where the sessions of the Court of Arbitration will be held, will be 270 feet long by 120 feet wide, and will cover no less than 12,000 square feet in area. In addition, there will be a committee room, and on the second floor two spacious rooms, one for the president and the other for the secretary of the permanent Court of Arbitration. The dome surmounting the palace wilt be supported by two galleries, the lower square shaped, the upper, round, flanked by great bronze statues of Clemency, Justice, Law and Strength,





<article title=" A PLUMBING EXHIBIT.

" author="">A PLUMBING EXHIBIT.

PROVINCIAL BOARD OF HEALTH PLANS	UNIQUE DEMONSTRATION



The Provincial Board of Health is providing space for an exhibition of specimens of plumbing work and fixtures, ancient and modern, to demonstrate in a practical way the great advance which has been made in the manufacture and installation of the same. Mr. M. J. Quinn, for twenty years mechanical superintendent of the Public Works department, is making the collection for the board. The specimens will not only be exhibited, but lectures and practical talks will be given to all interested, with a view to implanting and cultivating a correct idea of the intimate relations between proper hygienic conditions and sanitary plumbing.

