<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" WREN'S CHURCHES " author="Langton, W. A.">WREN'S CHURCHES.



Having fallen in love with Wren's churches, I should like to give an account of some of the reasons why they are attractive and also to give an example which seems to comprise in itself the principal practical needs of a church and to do it in a manner of design that is well suited to our conditions of building and our feeling about architecture.

In the first place, as to the style. It is impossible perhaps to enter into this question without becoming a party to a controversy which one would like to avoid, chiefly because it is difficult to know where the truth lies. Whatever may be the truth, on the side of the Gothic school, its application has not been illustrated in churches of that type, which are seldom true in design and seldom seem to be true to our own period. Wren, on the other hand, does not sham ; and his style in general is in accordance with the feeling of our times, which is for an architecture of expression rather than for one of construction. In other words to follow in the school of Wren (not, that is to say, to imitate in detail) is to design churches in the same style in which we design our other monumental buildings and even our important houses, and that is at the bottom of the attraction one feels for his churches. If the mediaevalist in religion points on the other side to the unchanged character of the Church of England, it is not necessary to enter into that controversy ; for the Church of Rome, as to the unchanging character of which there is no controversy, has distinctly abandoned the mediaeval style of building without apparently bestowing a thought upon the matter. At any rate one charm that Wren's churches have for the writer of this article is that they are of his own time, and after their adaptation to modern usage in the Church of England, are so nearly of our's that they are both satisfactory in themselves and suggest the possibility of building churches that will not make us feel, when we enter their doors, that we have entered upon another century and a dead one.















































To say that Wren did not sham may require the support of illustration. One is given in Fig. 1. If the drawing had been labelled "ceiling" instead of "roof," it would give no handle for doubt. It s in reality a ceiling, an obvious plaster ceiling, made in barrel form

and lightened (greatly to the advantage of its beauty) by penetrations for attic windows. The columns are of stone and the beams on them, which carry nothing but a wooden roof and wooden windows, are of wood. This is not only a reasonable construction but looks so. Sir Gilbert Scott in his great London church, St. Mary Abbotts at Kensington, has also a barrel shaped ceiling. It is of wood, but, if we concede that this is a more honorable material, we must stop there ; it is not penetrated and is very dull ; it springs from a cornice which is some distance above pointed windows, which look foolish in consequence.

If we approach the study of Wren's plans with an open mind, they are full of suggestion, being indeed full of variety. Wren's method appears to have been to include within the walls of a church all or nearly all of its available building area. As the lots were of all shapes the resulting form was often extremely irregular. To reduce these to practicable form there were three principal agencies—tower, vestibule and aisle. By the varied disposition of these Wren produced a series of plans extraordinarily varied, but for the most consisting in the main of a square or oblong area not recessed at the east end. This suited the manner of conducting the church services that remained through the Restoration period and beyond, as a legacy from the Presbyterianism of the Commonwealth. The "three-decker"

pulpit rose from among the pews, with seats for the three performers of the service :—the minister who read the service in the middle ; below him the clerk who led the responses of the congregation ; and above, high up so as to rake the galleries, the preacher abided his time in a black gown and binds. These functionaries remained immovable throughout the service ; there was no separate gangway needed for their movements, to keep them apart from the congregation. They did not enter the communion railing except upon the infrequent occasions when the sacrament was administered ; and its administration was done with studied simplicity. There was therefore no attempt at what is now-a-days called "an east end". Wren always dignified his communion table with a handsome oak reredos ; but the space occupied by the railing was small ; it was on the floor level and surrounded by pews, making thus rather an incident in the east end than a motive in its plan. The church was regarded as a chamber in which the central point was the pulpit. The sacraments had a space reserved for them at opposite ends of the church; the font near the entrance, the communion table at the other end. The ceiling follo wed the floor plan and consists usually of a cornice returning along the east and west walls and a central panel or a series of panels symmetrically arranged over the whole church. This is the first thing that meets the eye now, as one enters the church, and the first impression is usually of a chamber rather than of a church. It is extraordinary how subsequent perception of the floor arrangement dissipates this first idea and how impossible it is to return to it in spite of the ceiling. It would be perhaps well to give an example here of one of the churches, plainest in plan, and reserve for a future occasion an illustration more full of attractive suggestions.



Fig. 2 is a plan of St. Nicholas Cole Abbey taken from an old plan. The pulpit as drawn is all that was shown on the plan, but the seats no doubt, as in other examples which remain unchanged, ran to the east

