	<doctype type="text;ad">August, 1904	THE CANADIAN ELECTRICAL NEWS	iX.



<article title=" NOTES." author="">NOTES.

Padua lies twenty miles inland from Venice and is crowded with architectural monuments. Seen from the train it presents an extraordinary mass of towers and cupolas rising over the great alluvial plain of the Bacchiglione.

Sheet rubber has been laid over the stones beneath the principal archway leading to Buckingham Palace, in preparation for the coming season's Court functions. On past occasions the noise of many carriages has made it practically impossible to occupy the apartments overhead for the time being.

The report for July of the Montreal building inspector is that 79 permits to erect buildings were given in that month, value

$392,800; and 58 permits for alterations, to cost $87,598; total value $480,398. The expenditure for proposed structures for the corresponding month of the previous year was $553,000.

The following definition of Portland cement has been adopted by " The Association of German Portland Cement Manufac A hydraulic cementing material with specific gravity of not less than 3.10 in the calcined condition, and containing not less than 1,7 parts by weight of lime to each separate part of silicate, alumina, and ferric oxide, the material being prepared by intimately grinding the raw ingredients; calcining them to not less than clinkering temperature and then reducing to proper fineness.

The Indian room at Osborne House, Isle of Wight, England, is considered the finest piece of Oriental work in the world. It was designed by Sam Singh, a famous carver and native of Pun-jab. Much of the woodwork is teak, carved and pierced in the Indian fashion; the colors in the room are scarlet, gold and indigo blue. The pomegranate and lotus are used largely in the decorative scheme, and a large white peacock is spread above the teak wood mantel. Electric lights, shining forth from quaintly shaped lamps of silver, beaten metal and vases of Oriental form, give just the subdued light which sets off the beauty of the room.

A stock company, financed chiefly in Great Britain is to conduct a Cape Town Exhibition, to be held at Cape Town, South Africa, commencing November the 1st, 1904, and continuing for three months. The site chosen is about one mile from the centre of Cape Town, with which it is connected by tramway and a light railway and freight. Agents have been appointed in the United Kingdom, Australasia, Canada India, etc., and exhibits are invited from all parts of the world, the countries so far giving promise of a collection of produce and manufactures the like of which is seldom seen gathered together in one place. Canadians, in view of the enactment of the late preferential tariff with South Africa, should seize this grand opportunity of laying the foundation of a large trade in this speedily developing market.

In view of the oft repeated statement by the trades unions of the United States that the cost of living has increased out of all proportion to the corresponding increase of wages, the researches of the United States Department of Labour on this subject, which comes to us in the form of a report, proves very interesting reading. The Department compiled its figures from 2,567 families with an average yearly income of $827. 19, and an average annual expenditure of $768.54, with the result that they came to the conclusion that the cost of living had increased 16.1 per cent. from 1896, when it was at its lowest, to 1902. In the same period they concluded that the average wage had increased by just that 16 point one per cent., in some cases by more. It is to be noted, however, that the instances from which these figures were calculated, were all taken from the artizan classes and cannot be justly said to at all represent the situation of the great army of salaried men and women who work in counting houses as clerks, bookkeepers, etc. From information we have to hand, we are convinced that their average increase of income would figure out to be nearer 5 per cent, than 16, an increase which, in comparison with the increased expenditure in living, makes their present position an unenviable one.



<article title=" CONTRACTORS RULES " author="">CONTRACTORS RULES.



The constitution of the Building Contractors' League of Milwaukee contains

the following clauses



i.	That there shall be no limitation as to the amount of work a man shall perform during his working day.

2.	That there shall be no restriction of the use of machinery or tools.

3.	That there shall be no restriction of the use of any manufactured material,

except prison made.

4.	That no person shall have the right to interfere with the workman during

working hours.

5.	That the use of apprentices shall not be prohibited.

6.	That the forman shall be the agent of the employer.

7.	That all workmen are at liberty to work for whomsoever they see fit.

8.	That all employers are at liberty to employ and discharge whomsoever they

see fit.

To make skill and efficiency a standard in the employment of workman rather than any affiliation with labor organizations, but there is no intention nor shall there be any action on the part of this association to control or in any way deal with prices or restrict competition.

The association is also to work to -

minate abuses which have crept into the

wholesale trade.





Miss Utaplace—Allow me to introduce

you to my perspective husband.

Miss Parcavenue—You mean your 'prospective husband, don't you?

Miss Utaplace—I mean exactly what I

say; he's a draftsman.



The Metallic Roofing Company limited Toronto Fire-proof Glass Windows