<doctype type="text">190	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the concrete pillars and platforms to carry the strains from the arches. The concrete pillars have steel and iron trusses running through perpendicularly. They are built on cement and concrete piles. Cover, foundation and all the arches and pillars are held by a network of steel and iron bars. The sewer pipes, etc., in the street were all removed from the centre and re-laid on either side and the platforms and subway are thoroughly drained. Pipes carry the drainage into the Point Douglas sewer and this sewer is again drained through under the hotel into the higher sewer on Fonseca street, so that there is no danger of water backing up in the spring. The subway in the daytime is lighted by twelve sky-lights in the arches, fitted with prism glass at night, by electric lights at the intersection of each arch. There will be 38 lights, controlled by a time-switch arranged to light up at any desired time and to run one week without being attended to. The street car track has 18 inches of concrete beneath it, and the balance of the road about six inches, surmounted with cedar block pavement.

The Bell Telephone Company's new addition on Portage ave. east has been roofed in and inside work will be done as soon as possible. When the present alterations and additions are completed the Winnipeg Telephone Exchange will have a Capacity of 10,000 customers. New switchboards are to be put in as soon as the building is ready to receive them.

Quite a large number of fine residences have been built in Winnipeg this season ; some costing $50,000, and quite a number ranging from $15,000 to $30,000. From time to time we hope to be able to print illustrations of a number of these houses.

The J. H. Ashdown Company, Limited, have commenced to rebuild now they have got the rubbish cleared away after the fire of last month. They intend putting up a fine retail store, but all the plans are not completed yet.

Bullman Bros., whose new block was destroyed by fire last month, have already got into their new premises—a large frame building, 100 X 120 feet, on McDermott ave. Mr. J. Bullman undertook the planning and rebuilding and everything was done by day-labor. They intend making their own power for electric light and will run all their machinery by electricity.

The Portland Cement Company, of Manitoba, have received letters patent to manufacture Portland cement. The company is capitalized at $1,000,000. Head offices will be in Winnipeg and works at Springfield. They will have two units of machinery in operation in 1905 and will install another four units later, making a 1,000 barrel mill. The cement marl is said to be of a very high quality, and as this material is now being used for so many purposes in the building line, no doubt the company will find a large market for it through the West and will be able to put it upon the market at a reasonable figure as it is being manufactured right at the door of Winnipeg and the West, as it were.

Herbert H. New, architect, has removed his office from Main street to 928 Union Bank.

G. H. Archibald, CE., has removed from the Merchants Bank to 820 Union Bank

Herbert R. Rugh has removed his office from 367 Main street to 927 Union Bank.





<article title=" BUILT ALL IN A DAY " author="">BUILT ALL IN A DAY.

The unusual feat of building a five-room cottage, including foundation, plastering and putting on one coat of paint, in a day of 10 hours, with a cost to the owner of nothing more than a chicken dinner for the workmen, outside of the material, was performed in the little hamlet of Maple Grove, near Evansville, Ind The man for whom the cottage was built is Homer Rose, and the men who did him the kindness were fellow-employes. The work was superintended by Dee Bacher, a contracting carpenter.

Mr. Rose had had lumber and other material on the ground for months. After these were bought he discovered that he could not go on with his house for lack of means. Mr. Bacher called his' men around him one evening and asked for volunteers for one day to build the Rose cottage. Many thought it would be impossible to build it in one workday, but the contractor declared that he could accomplish the feat if the men in his employ would do the work. Twenty-six carpenters, masons and painters agreed to give one day if Mr. Rose would furnish a chicken dinner, and a time was fixed when all should report at the site of the proposed building.

Every man appeared on time. The brick-masons went to work laying the foundation, while the carpenters busied them-

selves in cutting the joists, studding and sills. Every man was assigned to a particular part of the work, and the house began to go up in a rush. Hundreds of persons gathered about and watched the workmen. Each of the latter urged his fellows on, and when noon came the frame work was all up and the chimney had been started.

Then came the dinner. Mrs. Rose, assisted by some of her neighbors, had fried two dozen chickens. There were 10 loaves of bread, four dozen ears of boiled corn, nearly a bushel of mashed potatoes and bowl after bowl of gravy. The dessert consisted of peach cobbler and various kinds of pies. The contractor had to call off his men for fear that they would eat so much that they would not be able to finish the job.

As soon as the frames were set for the windows and doors the sashes were fitted and the lights put in. By this time, however, the laths had been put on inside, and the sheeting and weather boarding were being placed on the outside, and the chimney was being run up by the masons, all at the same time. Before the roof was on the plasterers were at work, and exactly at 6 o'clock the cottage was finished, all but the second coat of paint and the skim coat of plaster, neither of which could be put on before the first coat had dried.

Mr. Bacher complimented his men when the job was complete. He said that while he had done some "hurry" work in his time, he had never known a house to be begun and completed in a day. The cottage contains five well-lighted rooms and a large attic. Everything, even to putting on the hinges and locks, was done before the men were called off at 6 o'clock, and Mr. Bacher declares that he could have completed the work an hour earlier had not the men eaten so freely at dinner.—Architects

Builders Journal.





<article title=" DYNAMITE IN GREAT FIRES " author="">DYNAMITE IN GREAT FIRES.

When all other means have failed to check the progress of an extensive and destructive fire it has always been the custom to demolish buildings in its path, in order to deprive it of fuel. Of late dynamite has been used for this purpose, but we are now told by an editorial writer in Engineering News that, as a result of experience in the Baltimore and Toronto fires, this means of checking the spread of conflagrations will probably occupy a less prominent position in the future, as it is apparently not only ussless, but positively dangerous. Says the writer: 

"In both cities the effect at the explosions on the ruined buildings was simply to produce a heap of wreckage which could not be mounted by the firemen, and which was scarcely less combustible than the original building, while the gap placed in the path of the flames was so narrow that it was easily leaped by the fire. The effect on the surrounding buildings, which it was the purpose of the explosion to protect, was to smash in the win dows and thus destroy the only barrier that existed against the immediate penetration of the flames to the interior combustible finish and contents. In the case of some of the fireproof buildings at Baltimore there seems reason to believe that '4 considerable part of the damages to the walls and to the structural fireproofing was caused by the violent shocks produced in dynamiting adjacent structures. However this may be, it is certain that in many cases the dynamiting was delayed until the 'mined' building was ablaze, with the very natural result that burning brands and debris were actually hurled through broken window openings into neighboring buildings. Such happenings as this are, of course, chargeable solely to unwise direction of the work, but they are certain to occur in the excitement and panic of a losing battle against a conflagration. At best, dynamiting is a dangerous and uncertain means of fighting fire unless it. has been much maligned by the experience at Baltimore and Toronto, and heads of fire departments will act wisely if they strike it off their lists of fire-fighting methods. '—Architects & Builders Journal.





A Croydon builder was recently fined £2 and costs for using bats instead of bricks for the walls of two houses. In one case there were eleven whole bricks where there should have been sixty, and in another piece of work there were forty-eight bats to one stretcher.

The great man is the man who can see how things are going. How far he is also a successful man in his own generation depends upon how far he sees how things are going in his own generation. To know what will happen is no doubt great, but it is sometimes even greater to know what is happening.

