<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PERSONAL.

" author="">PERSONAL.



On March 16th Mr. Stewart Percival McMordie, of the firm of Barry & McMordie, Niagara Falls Ont., was married to Miss Edith Mabel Stephens.

Mr. William Graham, a once prominent contractor, died at his house in Gait, Ont., on March 16th, at the advanced age of 86. He was a second cousin of Thomas Car lyle.

Messrs. Robert McCallum, City Architect of Toronto, and A. Chausse, Building Inspector of Montreal, attended the recent convention of the National Building Commissioners and Inspectors' Association at Washington, and were elected vice-presidents of that organization.



<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



The attention of architects and contractors is directed to the card of the Hagersville Quarry appearing for the first time this month in our Stone Dealers' Directory.

The Cement, Stone and Building Co., Toronto, has been incorporated with a capital of $50,000, to manufacture building materials, builders' supplies, etc. The provisional directors include W. D. McVey, H. H. Thompson and Robt. Taggart, Toronto.

The Manitoba Builders' Supply Co., Winnipeg, Man , has been incorporated with a capital of $450,000, 10 manufacture builders and contractors' supplies, etc. The provisional direct ors include Win. J. Hodgins, Robt. Watson and H. J. Macdonald, Winnipeg.

The Montreal Silicate Brick Co., Limited, chartered in the summer of 1902, with an authorized capital of $100,000, to take over the brickyard and plant of C. Sheppard & Sons, and engage in making bricks by a new patent process, have themselves applied for an order in liquidation.

The Canadian Coral Marble Co., Limited, of Toronto, whose advertisement appears in this number, have issued a handsome brochure explaining the various uses to which their materials are adapted in building construction, such as flooring, panneling, tiling, etc. A number of excellent reproductions of photographs are given showing the materials in situ in the King Edward Hotel, City Hall, and other prominent buildings in Toronto.

<article title=" NOTES." author="">NOTES.



The following are the officers elect of the Ottawa Master Plumbers Association for the ensuing year: President, Gil Julien; 1st Vice-President, D. O'Connor; 2nd Vice-President, A. Langelier; Treasurer, Win. Northwood; Secretary, T. Blyth; Sanitary Committee, J. Livock, J. R. McLennan, J. McKinley, Mr. Martel, Mr. Normand; Auditors, C. Watt, H. A. Knox; Tyler, P. I. Bois.

The electric wiring of the Tooting Bec asylum for aged imbeciles in London, England, is carried through brass conduits which are made to act as the return conductor as well as a protecting channel. One insulated conductor is run within each lube (or two where the three-wire system is employed) and the tubes are 5/16 to 7/16 inch in diameter. The conduits are, of course, grounded to prevent shocks.

There is reported to be a movement of foot among the owners, of lumber yards and wood working factories in Vancouver to sell through one central office at agreed prices and apportion the sales among the different firms. As a result the builders are anticipating an all round advance in prices of lumber and wood finishings. They threaten to import their materials from Puget Sound if the combine should squeeze them too hard.

The following gentlemen have been elected as officers of the

Montreal Master Painters' Association President, C. T. Charlebois; First Vice-President, W. P. Scott; Second Vice-President,

T.	A. Gauthier; Joint Recording Secretaries, L. Z. Mathieu,



Chris. Sonne; Corresponding Secretary, S. N. Arcand; Treasurer,

A.	Girard; Executive Committee, Win. Young, convenor; R. E.



Jones, P. Houle, Wm. T. Castle; Arbitration Committee, the

President, W. P. Scott, lohi Murphy, W. T. Castle, J. N.

Arcand.

The effect of low temperature on iron has recently been investigated by Professor Dewar and Mr. Hadfield, using a bar containing 99.89 per cent, of iron, which is practically pure. Tests at ordinary temperatures showed a tensile strength of 21 tons and an elongation of 25 per cent. in 2 inches. At a temperature of — 180 degrees Cent. the tensile strength was increased to 54 tons, but the elongation was nil, The part of the bar that had been subjected to extremely low temperature bent double cold after it had returned to the normal temperature.

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Structural Steel work