<doctype type="text">206	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the bight of a steel cable, one end of which was attached to the center of each axle, thus distributing the traction stress equally on both axles. The forward block in the tackle was attached to a 1½-in. wire rope anchored in front and the fall line was operated by the drum of a Lidgerwood hoisting engine. The hoisting engine was chained to a pair of bent hooks with their points turned vertically downwards in holes about 6 ft. apart which were made by the removal of single Belgian blocks from the pavements. The shanks of the hooks lay horizontal on the surface of the undisturbed pavement underneath a heavy transverse beam on which a traction engine was seated and furnished steam to operate the hoisting engine. This provided a very strong and simple anchorage which was shifted with ease and rapidity and involved no excavating or counterweights. The 1½-in. wire cable was made with several 50-ft. lengths each corresponding to the extended length of the tackle. When the tackle was pulled up so that the blocks nearly jammed, it was disengaged from the cable and a whip line attached to the forward block was received through a sheave hooked into the next joint of the cable and the free end was brought back to the capstan of the hoisting engine and would up there so as to rapidly overhaul the tackle. The last length of the cable was disengaged, the tackle hooked on in its place and the cycle of operations repeated and so on, thus moving the column with very little loss of time. When the wagon was hauled up

considered that the eccentric stress in revolving the column from the horizontal to the vertical position would be dangerous for lewis bolts, and a special device was adopted for attaching the tackles to the upper ends of the columns during this part of the operation.

The 90-ton bottom sections of the columns were turned and polished up to a distance of i8 in. from the end, where a rough shoulder of a diameter of about 10 in. greater than the shaft was left to form a collar. On the under side of this collar a pair of concaved yoke pieces were bolted to and took bearing against it. Through each side was set a 234 in. U-bolt to which a sling was attached to receive the tackles. The lower end of the column was lifted and placed on rollers, tackles were attached to the upper end and operated to drag the column forward and lift it into a vertical position, when it was seated on the permanent base. The yokes were then removed and the enlarged upper end of the column was scabbed off by hand and the surface was dressed perfectly horizontal to a line marked by a diamond on the polished surface of the shaft.

The 40-ton upper sections of the columns were handled by a different method. No collar was left on the end of the shaft which was dressed to the exact dimensions. Two clamps made with pairs of solid oak yokes connected by two 1 3/4 in. and two 2-in. screw rods at each end were fitted to the top of the column about i6 in. apart and screwed up as tight as



























Timber Truck for Columns.





close to the hoisting engine, the latter was pulled forward the full length of the cable by means of the traction engine and these operations were repeated until the columns arrived at the site.

The system worked satisfactorily and the wagon did not cause any injury to the pavement. The progress was absolutely steady and smooth on an up grade, but on a level or down grade it was noticed that the irregularities of the pavement caused slight deflections in he progress of the wagon, due to the twisting of the forward axle. The first column-section was drawn from the pier to the site in nineteen days. Some of the others were drawn in seven days each. The eight columns were transported in about six months with a force of four men and a superintendent.

At the site the column sections were revolved into vertical positions and hoisted by three tackles forming a thirty-part system suspended from a shear legs or breast derrick made with two Oregon pine timbers 98 ft. long hewed 2 ft. square for the lower 50 ft. and tapered thence to a diameter of 20 in. at the top, where they are capped with an oak timber. From this timber were suspended a pair of ten-part tackles and a single six-part tackle in the center, all of them reeved with 3/4-in. steel rope. The center tackle was an independent one operated by a separate hoisting engine, The two side tackles were reeved with a single line common to both so as to equalize the stress between them and carry through single top and bottom sheaves so as to make up the thirty parts and lead each end to a separate Lidgerwood hoisting engine. By this arrangement equilibrium was maintained between all parts of the tackles and the stresses were equalized no matter whether the engines were working uniformly or simultaneously or not. It was

Friction Clamps for Top of Column Sections





possible so as to develop a large amount of friction. A U-bolt of 2-in, iron was attached to one side of the upper yoke and a similar one was attached to the other side of the lower yoke, passing freely through a slot in the upper yoke. The hoisting sling was connected to these U-bolts and thus developed balanced eccentric stresses in both yokes, tending to cramp each one against the column and increase the friction, but maintaining equilibrium between themselves. This connection sufficed to revolve the column into a vertical position and it was temporily seated on the lower end, the yokes removed and a lewis bolt inserted in the top. The tackles were connected to the lewis bolt and lifted the column and seated it on the top of the lower section in its permanent position.

It required about one month to set up both sections of the column and prepare for the setting of the next column, but when everything was in readiness, the actual hoisting of the column occupied a very few minutes. Five of the columns have been erected and it is expected that two more will be erected this fall and the remaining one next spring. The total cost of the eight columns is about $155,000. Two years were required to quarry and cut them and about two years more will have been required to transport and set them. Messrs. Hems & La Farge are the architects of the cathedral and the columns have been made, transported and erected by Mr. John Peirce, contractor ; Mr. Emil Diebitsch, chief engineer.





<article title=" SANITARY REPORT ISSUED " author="">SANITARY REPORT ISSUED.

Dr. Louis Laberge, health officer for the City of Montreal, has just issued his thirty-first report, which contains some very interesting statistics on the sanitary condition of Montreal city.

