<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	37



<article title=" THE DELINEATION OF ARCHITECTURE.*

" author="Nobbs, Percy E.">"THE DELINEATION OF ARCHITECTURE.*

BY PROF. PERCY E. NOBBS.



Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen :—Although I have always held that the practice of opening a paper with an exercise in apologetics brings those who employ this artifice for breaking the ice peculiarly under the ban of the old adage " Qui s'excuse s'accuse" I am constrained to take this occasion to apologize once for all to the Profession in Canada, to my future students and to any of the outside public who may find themselves obliged out of politeness to give me a hearing, for the assumption of a University Chair by one so wholly lacking in dialectic and oratorical skill as I. A ray of consolation comes to me however on reflecting how rarely the natural and artistic instincts are combined in one individual and it is to the latter that I pretend. '[he best of our profession in England at least are silent folk ; in this I find comfort on such occasions as the present.

From this circumstance I would almost argue that architectural matters are not fit subject for conversation. I doubt if by spoken words any piece of work has been satisfactorily described by one man to another who had not seen the thing. No written description has ever conveyed the remotest resemblance of an architectural idea to me and I rejoice that when you did me the great honour of inviting me here we were able to select a subject which would not call for an effort at describing what must be seen to be felt, and this brings me to my first point, which is that a good drawing of an architectural subject is more eloquent of the beauties that be in wrought stone than all the poets and orators, and our business just now is to enquire that constitutes excellence in an architectural drawing—a question by the way of no possible interest to the lay mind.

It is almost unnecessary to remind a professional audience that architectural draughtsmanship is a new thing. So recently in the history of our art as the building of the Parthenon in 438 B.C. a set of contract drawings was a thing unknown, far less a set of client drawings and a perspective—the Gothic men drew badly, and when they did not just go ahead and build they used models by way of preliminary studies. The renaissance architects made moderately good drawings of old Roman remains but did not rely greatly on drawing for proposed works. Models were found far more satisfactory than drawings and it is only the cost that prevents their more frequent use to-day.

In the separation of the functions of the builder and the architect we have the real reason for designing by the indirect paper process to the extent we do ; and this being a condition past remedy we do well to accept it and consider the draughtsman and his work.

Nothing has contributed more to the development of draughtsmanship than the recent revivals which have taken place of by-gone styles which have led to the study of old work by means of measured drawings--the only way old work can be studied. A secondary motive for good drawing may be found in the system of selecting an architect by competition which rages in England greatly I think to the detriment of our art and the debasement of the profession, but that is a matter beyond the scope of these notes. Sufficient but to point out how much competitions do to stimulate the skillful delineation of architecture if not the art itself.

We have then three main classes of architectural drawings (a) Working drawings necessitated by our

* Paper read at the annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, January, 1904.

professional conditions and the unskilled and inartistic state of the labour market. (b) Competition and clients' drawings no less intimately connected with our professional systems than the working drawing and (c) Measured drawings and sketches which are pre-eminently works of study.

Owing to the way in which picture painting has monopolized the title of art even some architects have false ideas as to what a drawing should be. There are two ways of drawing a thing. From the painter's point of view it is not the thing that is beautiful but the appearance of it, as Mr. Ruskin and others have pointed out. Moreover his drawing of it is meant to be an end in itself, a thing imbued with some kind of beauty, and it is unnecessary here to analyze the many elements of beauty in painting. How different is the draughtsman's purpose! Who outside the profession cares for the finest elevation that ever was draughted? In the matter of labour and even in technique it may rival any painter's work but when the competition is lost or the building completed it has served its turn and to do this it is essential that attention be not wasted on an aspect of the building but upon the facts of the case. An architect may imagine his building in pale pink frosty sunshine or midday glare or silhouetted against an evening sky but as far as drawing the thing goes it is of no use to him or anyone else to represent it otherwise than as it is—so many masses related by proportions, contrasts, textures, colors. The style of drawing which most easily attains the object of representing a thing AS IT is as opposed to as it may happen to appear is the best. Having thus made clear the object of the draughts-man, let us consider his materials and technique.

This we can do in a word. India Ink is, and I think will always be, the chief medium for the expression of architectural ideas. Fads for pencil, wash, or brown ink come and go but the preeminence of the great hexagon stick bound tip in string is never seriously challenged. In the use of ink a great change has come about in late years. The thin fine line of the last generation has become a lost art, which is a pity, but not wholly to be deplored, for with it has gone the horrid practice of back lining by way of showing the shaded side of things. To-day the English architects draw with a stout line—often far too stout —sometimes a silly affectation, and the reason is a practical one as we all know. Tracers' eyes are not to be ruthlessly sacrificed. If the ink goes on strong and juicy one can get a sunprint through "Medium What man" while if reduced photo lithographs of our drawings are to grace the sympathetic professional papers what time we are " branded with the infamy of a second premium " as a sporting competition architect has styled it, then a thick clean and unrubbered ink line will stand us in good stead. Of course thick line drawing to small scales leads to all kinds of impressionisms on the draughtsman's part,— so much has to be omitted—a single line in the right place must tell that a three membered architrave is here proposed, while sculpture can only be indicated by dots, also in the right place. To draw well with a thick line even ½-inch scale is very difficult, and the mannerisms of the skillful are often attempted by the would—be smart draughtsman with deplorable result. A rather wholesome reaction in favour of more refined methods is setting in but the thick line has come to stay and the student should learn from the outset to use it, for by

