<doctype type="text">20	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



factories scattered about the country until now it is almost impossible to find a city of any considerable size without its cement stone factory. Some cities have a plant to every 40,000 inhabitants and judging by the present rate of increase cement stone factories will soon be as plentiful as brick yards.

All of the larger Canadian cities have artificial stone factories of some kind, but undoubtedly the largest and































<building>CARNEGIE PUBLIC LIBRARY</building>, GUELPH, ONT.---BUILT

ENTIRELY OF ROMAN STONE.





best equipped is that of the <firm>Roman Stone Co., of Toronto</firm>. This plant has been in operation for a little more than a year and has in that time turned out a considerable quantity of very creditable work. Their plant is a model of its kind being equipped with pattern shop machinery, stone crushers, grinders, and screens, dryer, mixer, traveling cranes, and hot air blast heating.

The company is manufacturing under the patents granted to <person>C. W. Stevens</person> for the cement stone known as Litholite. The patents are broad and cover the manufacture of cement stone by casting concrete in a sad or other absorbent mould. The patent is about five years old. The process while very simple gives the ideal conditions for making cement stone. The concrete mixture made of Portland cement and ground stone of many different sizes is poured in a semi-liquid condition into a sand mould exactly as melted iron is cast in a foundry. The patterns are made the exact shape, size, and finish of the stone required and moulded in the sand, no allowance for shrinkage being required. As soon as the concrete material comes in contact with the sand the water filters off, leaving the cement stone in plastic condition with just enough water to produce perfect crystallization. The process is quite similar to the method of preventing settlement in loose earth fills by puddling with excessive water. No amount of pressure or tamping by hand or machine can make a stone as compact and homogeneous. Proof of its great density is shown by its specific gravity which is about 9000 of the- stone of which it is made, the loss of 10being in all probability due to the difference in weight of the cement and stone. The process bears a marked resemblance to the method by which nature has produced our best building stones, i.e. by the depositing of sand in water. Nature has cemented her stone by the action of heat and great pressure, but Portland cement accomplishes in a short time what requires ages by nature's method.

The great feature of the process is the absorption of the water by the sand which surrounds the cost. This sand retains the moisture and acts as a wet blanket to

nourish and feed the cement with just sufficient water to produce perfect crystallization. The process produces a stone absolutely uniform in color where heretofore cement stones have always had the drawback of having a dark and spotted appearance of the surface when made in rigid moulds. Most cement stone has to be painted or coated to give it a suitable color for decorative purposes in high class work. The question of methods for obtaining presentable surfaces to concrete work has baffled the engineering profession for years—all cement washes or paints having long since been discarded as only temporary improvements. Stevens' process has solved the mystery and produces a stone so closely resembling nature's product as to deceive the experienced eye upon the closest examination. It enables one to reproduce any desired finish that can be obtained in fine cut stone and at considerable less expense. It has a much finer appearance than terra cotta, and unlike it or any other cement stone admits of fine hand carving; being of so uniform a texture and without cleavage it is impossible to distinguish the hand worked from the cast faces.

The stone used by the Toronto company is nothing but the best selected building stone. For white stone Niagara lime-stone and pure white marble are used; for gray, brown, red, and olive similar colored sand stones are used, thus avoiding the difficulty heretofore found in the fading of the colors used in making cement stone.

The stone upon the arrival at the plant is carefully inspected and all unsound material rejected ; if found to be dirty it is thoroughly washed and then dried in a large rotary drier. It then passes through the crusher



















































EXAMPLES OF ORNAMENT.





and grinder from which it is carried by the conveyor and elevator to the rotary screen on the second floor. This screen is provided with three different sizes of mesh which separates the crushed stone into three different sizes, each of which is deposited into an individual bin; these bins together with a cement bin are located on the first floor directly over the mixer. When making a

