<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

VoL. XV11.——No. 200.

AUGUST, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Montreal City and District Savings Bank, Branch Office, St. Catharine Street, Montreal.—A. H. Lapierre, Architect.

Examples of Colonial Domestic Architecture and Elms at Fredericton, N. B.

Methodist Church, Port Arthur, Ont. —Langley & Langley, Architects.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Branch of Batik of Toronto, King Street West, Toronto.—Chadwick & Becketi, Architects.





ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Plans Accompanying Article I I on Wren's Churches.





CONTENTS

Editorial	- 129-130

Wren's Churches	-	-	-	-	-	-	131

By-Products in the Portland Cement Industry			132

Remarks on Ornament	-	-	- -	133

Montreal Letter	-	-	-	- '34

Port Arthur and Fort William	-	- - 135

Canadian Master Painters' and Decorators' Association	£35

Northwest Notes	-	_ -	- 

Montreal City and District Savings Bank	-	-	137

Particulars of the Scholarship Established by the Province

	of Quebec Association of Architects	-	-	-	137

A New Method of Excavating	-	- -	-	137

Notes on the Supervision of Buildings	- -	138-1 39-140

Strength of Wooden Pillars	-	-	-	- 

List of British Firms Wanting Canadian Agents	- 

Beauforts Scale of Wind	-	- -	- -	143

By the Way	-	- -	-	- -	- 144

Building Strike in Toronto	- -	- -	144

Legal	-	-	- -	-	- -	'44

Contractors' Rules	- -	- -	- ix.

Notes	-	-	-	-	-	-	ix-x-xii.





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	EDMUND BURKE,		Toronto.

	S.	H. Townsend,

Prof. Percy F. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP R.C.A., Architect, Montreal. " FRED. T. HODGSON Architect, Collingwood, Ont.





<article title=" Timber

Specifications

" author="">Timber

<article title=" Specifications

" author="">Specifications

Great changes have taken place during the last decade in quality and varieties of timber for construction purposes. White pine, which was the standard material twenty years ago, is year by year becoming scarcer and higher in price. This has caused the introduction and compelled the use of other kinds of timber, such as British Columbia fir and cedar, hemlock, southern pine, etc. For many purposes these substitutes are quite as good as the high grade white pine so largely used in the past. The Engineering Record states that architects and engineers have neglected to keep themselves fully informed regarding the changed conditions, and are still using forms of specifications employed when white pine was the universal material. If this be the fact, our contemporary is quite right in its contention that timber specifications should be revised and adapted to the conditions now existing.



The Toronto City Council have

adopted the new building by-law

drafted by the City Architect, Mr. McCallum. Objection was taken by the local architects to a number of provisions in the by-law, and the Council appointed a committee on which the architects were represented to consider it in detail. The City Architect was unfortunately taken ill before the

<article title=" Toronto Building

By-Law.

" author="">Toronto Building

By-Law.

committee had got far advanced with its work, and the Council not deeming it wise to delay action ,adopted the by-law. It is understood, however, that the Council have requested the architects to formulate their objections and have promised to give due consideration to any suggested amendments to the law. Action in this direction will be taken by the architects as soon as the rush consequent upon an unusually busy building season shall have subsided. While the by-law appears to require amendment in some particulars, it places the regulation of buildings on a basis altogether more satisfactory than formerly, and praise is due both the City Architect and the Council for prompt action.



The recent great fires in Toronto, Baltimore and elsewhere have called attention to methods of

vault construction in buildings, and the extent to which vaults may he depended on to fulfil their purpose of protecting valuable documents deposited in them. Investigation of this question following the Baltimore fire showed the contents of twenty two bank and trust company vaults to be uninjured. The walls of these vaults were built up solidly of hard brick laid in cement 16 inches thick without iron supports, and were supported on brick foundations extending to the foundations of the buildings. Mercantile vaults, which owing to their greater number, are quite as important

<article title=" Vaults." author="">Vaults.

