<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	45

<article title=" TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE DINNER " author="">

TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE DINNER



A very successful dinner under the auspices of the Toronto Builders' Exchange took place in McConkey's restaurant, in Toronto, on the evening of the 23rd inst. An innovation was made this year by inviting ladies, the wives and friends of the members, whose presence added attractiveness and interest to the occasion.

The newly organized Brantford Exchange was represented by Mr. Whittam. It was a subject of regret that the Exchanges in London and other cities were not also represented.

Mr. R. G. Kirby, the newly elected President of the

Toronto Exchange, presided, having on his right the

Mayor and on his left Mr. Thos. Crowford, M.P.P.

The vice-chairs were occupied by Messrs. J. R. Hoidge,

Henry Martin, Geo. Duthie, Thos. Christie and James

Munroe.

The excellent menu was prefaced by the following specification

Trust not too much in new friends and old houses"

Specifications of materials to

be supplied and labor to be furnished

at the Annual Banquet of the

	Builders' Exchange,	February 23rd, 1904

GENERAL CONDITIONS

Parties estimating on this work to pay for Bill of quantities before they will he allowed to tender. Members of Board of Control, Aldermen or Civic Employees will not be allowed to compete.

TIME

Time will be the essence of this contract. The whole works must be complete in every particular and handed over to the proprietor on or before 930 on February 2 rd, 1904, in order to make way for decorative artists of Oratory and Music.



CONTRACT

The form of Contract will be the Revised Builders' Contract No. 2.

Section 2 of this contract provides that the contractor must give this work his personal attention and must not sub-let any part of the work.

Section 4. Should the proprietor or architect require any alterations of, or deviation from this specification they shall pay for same at time of change and avoid disputes later on.



Section 4. Should the work not proceed fast enough the contractors will not he allowed to quote the street Railway as a precedent for further delay.

Section 5. All disputes to be settled by arbitration

Section 6. Re—insurance; the proprietor shall insure the contractor against any damage or loss of time through this contract.



CUTTING

Each department of trade to do their own cutting.



MATERIAL

To he the best of their respective kinds and any material delivered on the job to be the property of the proprietor. No material such as spoons, forks, etc., to be removed without the order of the superintendent in charge.



FOUNDATION

Great care must be taken to prevent frost interfering with this work for at least three days previous to commencement of operations.

"He that buys a house ready wrought,

Buys many a plank and nail for naught."

"What, do we meet together?

Ay, and I think one business dot n command us all."





The National Anthem having been heartily sung in response to the toast to The King, the Mayor responded to the next toast,, Our City," proposed by the chairman. He dealt with the importance of civic affairs affecting as they did the pocket as well as the health and happiness of every citizen. As showing the growing importance of the city, he stated that the revenue of the Toronto post office this year reached a million dollars, being 30 per cent greater than that of Montreal and that the city's proportion of street railway receipts had increased nearly three times in ten years.

"Our Country," proposed by Mr. j. R. Hoidge was replied to by Mr. Crawford, M.P.P.

In proposing "The Architectural Associations," Mr. Henry Martin urged that the relation between architects and builders should be more intimate and sympathetic than in the past. He referred also to the desirability of architects adopting a uniform contract. At present every architect has his own form, and in many cases the builder signs it without knowing its provisions, only to find later on that he has bound himself to do more than he had any idea of.

Mr. Sproatt, replying on behalf of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club, said that builders should refuse to sign a contract the terms of which were not satisfactory. They should also demand a fair price for their work in order to maintain a proper standard of workmanship. Speaking from the architects' point of view, he believed modern domestic architecture in Toronto was equal to that of any other city on the continent.

Mr. Siddall, representing the Ontario Association of Architects, in the unavoidable absence of Mr. Gemmell, the President, corroborated Mr. Sproatt's estimate of the quality of domestic architecture in Toronto. He sympathized also with Mr. Martin's plea for more friendly relations between the architects and the builders ; the latter, in the present day at least, were endeavoring to do honest work, and cases of sins of willful commission were rare. He regretted the great waste occasioned by labor disputes, and hoped that the legislature, which was understood to have the subject under consideration at the present session, would he successful in devising a remedy.

Mr. George Duthie, in humorous terms, proposed " Sister Organizations." Mr. Whittam, of Brantford, on behalf of the Exchange of that city, thanked the Toronto Exchange for assistance given the younger organization which he represented, and remarked that their aim was to elevate the standard of workmanship so that their work might express to future generations the integrity and skill of the builders of to-day.

Mr. Locke responded on behalf of the Toronto Master

Painters' Association, referring to the benefits accruing

from the recent convention in Toronto of the Master

Painters and Decorators of the United States and

Canada.

Mr. Thos. Christie proposed "The Press," and Mr. James Munro "The Ladies."

In addition to Glionna's Italian Orchestra, the following well-known artists contributed to the evening's enjoyment Miss Mildred Stewart, contralto ; Mr. Owen A. Smile)', entertainer ; Mr. Arthur Blight, baritone ; Mr. W. F. Tasker, accompanyist.

To the following gentlemen composing the Dinner

Committee the success of the occasion is largely due

Henry Martin, chairman, J. B. Thompson, R. G. Kirby,

Geo. Duthie, James Crang, Walter Davidson, Alex.

Marshall, Jos. Russell, J. R. Hoidge, secretary.



<article title=" AN IMPROVED DIRECTORY FOR BUILDINGS " author="">AN IMPROVED DIRECTORY FOR BUILDINGS.

The question of a Directory or Bulletin in front of large office buildings, is one of the utmost importance. Some of the finest buildings are spoiled by the unsightly wooden, glass and brass bulletins, which always look incomplete, as in most cases unless the building is fully occupied, there are a few spaces missing.

The signs are usually made by several painters, and brought from other buildings, arid are always thrown together any old way, making anything but a neat entrance.

Most of the large buildings put up the last few years however, have had the advantage of the changeable directory, arranged alphabetically, which is put on the market by The Martel-Stewart Co., of Montreal. '[here are some beautiful examples of this directory in the Grand Trunk Railway, Montreal, Liverpool, London & Globe Building, Guardian Assurance Building, Canada Life Building, and in fact in the majority of the large buildings in Montreal and other Canadian cities, as well as in the United States and Europe.

The cut here shows what one would suppose would be a finished directory, and although it is, there still could be over 100 names put on without crowding same, and twenty-five names could be taken out, and still the directory would look complete.

The result is obtained by the use of a grooved background covered with a dark cloth, in which white celluloid letters with a V spring on the back are placed in the proper positions, forming the names. When it is necessary to change the names, it can be

