<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" SCULPTURE AND ITS RELATION TO

 ARCHITECTURE.* " author="">SCULPTURE AND ITS RELATION TO

 ARCHITECTURE.* *

From the very earliest time sculpture has been employed in architecture, and it was from the Egyptians that the Greeks first learned the art. The chief charac MR. HENRY STRATFOLD,

President London Builders' Exchange.





teristics of Egyptian sculpture were massive grandeur and solidity. It was indeed difficult to separate modelling from sculpture in its broadest and highest sense. Sculpture might be separated into four periods. After alluding to the changes which took place in those four periods, the lecturer said many of the works overstepped the bounds of sculpture and treated of subjects which could only be represented by painting. The Romans were not, strictly speaking, an artistic people, but they were able to appreciate the works of others. It was in the monuments erected to the emperors that the Roman sculptors attained their highest results. Passing over the early Christian work, he said the fifteenth century was the golden age of sculpture. In the early part of the fifteenth century a preference was shown for nature, and in the latter part a desire to combine grandeur with nature. One of the characteristics of that period was the flatness of relief. That principle, if only used more in architecture, would have more effect and would be more artistic.

It seems the subject of pedestals, canopies for statues in the open air and such like, is for the sculptor to conceive and the architect to carry out. This is understood in France, where the sculptor's name is given first ; on the other hand, in the case of a canopy in a church, the architect should obviously lead, as well as where sculpture is an adjunct or an embellishment to a structure. In that case the architect must indicate the sculptural treatment to which the sculptor is to give expression, and the latter has no right to feel hampered when his art is called in to decorate.

Perhaps one of the great difficulties of carvers of architectural sculpture and ornament is the many styles they are called upon to produce and know intimately,

*Extract from an address by Mr. Frederick Thomas, modeling master of the Belfast School of Art, before the Ulster Arts Club, Belfast, Ireland

resulting in knowing many superficially but none thoroughly. A carver may be called upon in Britain to carve any period of the Gothic, Classic, or Renaissance, thus dividing his power of mind, and falls below or is rather severely handicapped in this way, compared to a French and Italian carver. The French have their own particular ornaments—Louis XIV., XV., and

XVI. These they know well. The Italians also have their "modern Italian" after Frullini and others in wood and stone carving. These are then their national styles of ornament, consequently they have a distinct advantage over the English in arriving at excellence, as regards ornament.

In Britain in most other branches of art, such as wallpapers, fabrics, and book illustrations, there is a distinct advance in developing a national style based on nature, and Walter Crane has done much to bring this about ; but in architecture, being of slower growth in production, possessing that stubborn solidity which it suggests, will be many years before the acanthus is wiped out and disused, in its many variations its historical test of over 2,000 years. and is still used almost as freely as ever.

From 1881 sculpture and remodelling of all kinds has revived in a remarkable way. Instead of the cold and polished look of the past, there is a quality of technique, a flesh which is unmistakably living and full of nervous impulse. A school of sculpture is now being formed in England which has never existed in it before. The names of Alfred Stevens, Thornycroft, Alfred Gilbert, Brock, Harry Bates, Onslow, Ford, Lord Leighton. and others have raised modelling and















































MR. JAMES S. LUNEY,

2nd Vice-President London Builders' Exchange.





sculpture in England to a state not surpassed by the Greeks or any nation. No one was more surprised than Sir John Millais, who exclaimed ; "So fine is some of the work our modern sculptors have given us, that I firmly believe that were it dug up from under the oyster shells of Rome, or out of Athenian sands, with the cachet of partial dismemberment about it, all Europe would fall straightway into ecstasy, and give forth the plaintive wail, "We can do nothing like that now

The Canadian Bridge Company limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of steel buildings roof trusses