<doctype type="text">60	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and strikes the eye as a dirty drab. Apart from quality and colour, the modern stained glass window is bad and vulgar in design. The human figures are certainly not of any race that inhabits this earth in any know period of history. But even given correct drawing, the effects of light and shade are always wrong they are impossible with light always falling on the picture from behind.

Another important branch of church decoration, continued the reverend critic, is sculpture. To judge by the Irish churches it is a lost art. Here again the foreigner holds the field. Go into our churches and you will find that the more pretentious of the statues come from Italy and Munich. If you venture to say you don't like the work the good priest looks you all over with a smile of superior pity, and reduces you to your proper level by the clinching remark, "Why, this statue was made at Carrara." Of course there are marble quarries at Carrara and stone-cutters of very great technical skill, but art, with an idea behind it, especially on religious art—no Take a statue of St. Joseph, admitting that it is modelled correctly, which it very often is not, does it convey any religious idea to the mind ? Only for the label it might just as well have stood for Marcus Aurelius or any other character that you like to think of. Church painting is at just as low an ebb. All our church-painting, with such few exceptions as are hardly worth noticing, comes from abroad. Rome, Germany, Belgium, France, are the principal markets. We may dismiss this branch of church art in a few words. The paintings are either attempts at religious art not above the level of daubs, or fairly good pictures—not religion. For some time past the country has been flooded by good and bad copies, generally made in Germany, of paintings entitled Madonnas, Magdalens, &c. The originals were painted by men who had no religious belief and are (rankly naturalistic in treatment. Yet those pictures, often the grossest portrayal of human passion, are hung up in convents and other religious buildings, even in churches, to inspire the reverence and devotion of the faithful. There are other branches of church decoration—brass, gold and silver work and woodwork generally made in Birmingham or in Belgium.

We have first an immense consumption of decorative work that shows no sign of decreasing. We have most of this produced aboard, and done almost as badly— considered artistically——as one could possibly conceive. This work, if it could be done in Ireland, would be an immense industrial gain, and would provide work for thousands of hands. But it has behind it far higher possibilities. It may make Ireland a great centre of art production. Ireland once was remarkable for its art products. ''The barbarians by the Western Sea" knew the exquisite art of enamelling on various metal when it was unknown to the Greeks and Romans. The country that produced the Tara brooch and the cross of Cong and the Ardagh chalice had surely a highly-developed art sense. In architecture our fathers did work of wonderful beauty. The Romanesque ornament at Cong, at Dysart O'Dea, the whole design of that imperishable memorial to Irish genius on the Rock of Cashel—Cormac's chapel—indicate what Irish art might have come to had it not been arrested by foreign influence. The revival, if there is to be a revival, will rest with the Church, which has at all times been the centre of art production.

<article title=" LOMBARDIC COLUMNS " author="">LOMBARDIC COLUMNS.

Among the characteristic peculiarities of the Loinbardic style, the following may be enumerated as the most obvious and the most general Columns with cylindrical shafts, and varying greatly in their proportions, some being of the average height of the Roman Orders, others extremely short, either in proportion to their diameter or their capitals, or else excedingly tall, and when attached to walls elongated into a mere rod, or vertical convex moulding, surmounted by a capital. Instances of fancifully shaped or decorated shafts are by no means unfrequent, some being zigzaged horizontally, or polygonal in plan, or embossed with sculpture, or either twisted or cut into spiral grooves or mouldings. Equal diversity—not to call it extravagance—prevails in the capitals, which, as far as general mass and outline go, bear some analogy to the Corinthian. If, however, some capitals are much decorated, others are nearly plain, and these are frequently in the form of an inverted cone, but in such manner as to present four flat sides or faces which again are occasionally mote or less ornamented. In bases there is much less variety, they being for the most part only a series of mouldings in rude imitation of the common attic base. But one very great singularity in this style connected with columns is that of placing them upon the backs of couchant animals or other figures, which serve as pedestals to them. Whimsical as it appears to us, it may very probably have originated, not altogether in caprice, but have been occasioned by employing materials and fragments taken from ruined edifices, where columns, being found too short for their intended situation, were raised or stilted up by being set on other fragments for which purpose remains of sculpture may have been adopted, either because they chanced to he at hand or because considered more ornamental and as adding richness to the column itself. Upon the same supposition we may easily account for the great variety of columns and capitals in the same building, namely, that they were ornaments collected at random from the remains of other structures, and that the irregularities thus occasioned in the first instance grew by degrees to he a matter of taste, and was adopted as a matter of choice. Columns of the kind just specified were, however, by no means very, usual, and are chiefly to be met with in those forming porches or decorating the chief entrance to a church, as in that of St. Ciriaco at Ancona, and in San Zeno at Verona.

Although not invariably so, columns are to he understood as accompaniments to arches which spring from them, and arches applied in different ways are very predominant features of the style. Besides giving the form to doorways and windows, they were employed for decorating the faces of walls in very nearly the same manner as in the kindred Norman style. —The Architect



Mr. Herbert the well-known French Canadian sculptor, has been commissioned to prepare a statue to the late Joseph Howe to be erected in Parliament House Square, Halifax, on the 100th anniversary of Howe's birth in December next.



The members of the 0. A. A. and others who had the pleasure of meeting Professor Nobbs of McGill University, on the occasion of the recent 0. A. A. Convention in Toronto, will regret to learn that, immediately following his return to Montreal, he was compelled to enter the hospital and undergo an operation. It is gratifying to learn, however, that he is now on the way to convalescence.



Of the half million dollars expended in sculptural decoration for the St. Louis Exposition, women have secured a considerable part. Six are included in the distinguished corollary of artists selected to embellish the buildings. In the Art Palace the work of feminine painters compares favorably with that of men. In rug weaving, working in metal, book binding and decorative work, woman has made great progress.

