<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	163



<article title=" OPENING LECTURE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE, McGILL UNIVERSITY.

" author="Nobbs, Percy E.">OPENING LECTURE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE, McGILL UNIVERSITY.

By PROF. PERCY E. NOBBS.

 Strictly

speaking this lecture belongs to the third year of the course for the new degree of Bachelor of Architecture and as its theme is one of very general application and paramount importance to designers, I have ventured to invite the presence of others besides my third year students.

In naming the course The Building Trades the intention has been to avoid the use of the word Crafts, which is perhaps more applicable to the subject matter about to be covered because that word has during the last twenty years come to be associated with a certain amateurishness in the field of art which the ancient craftsmen would have been the last to approve. Also, because during the last decade the " Arts and Crafts Movement " it has been called, has tended more and more to countenance certain eccentricities in design which its loadest and most strident supporters have dubbed originality ". Having set up a brazen calf in the wilderness so to speak, the cult of the new art (or L'Art Nouveau has resulted, and the word ''craft" is never out of the mouth of those who follow that way.

I do not propose at the present juncture to set Forth my views on the training of designers further than to name to you the mental elements which I think are combined to form the mental mage of an unmade and rightly designed possible object. This high function of conceiving an unmade thing is the nearest to actual creation that man can attain to.

It is this line of thought that Mr. Kipling has made articulate in his verses To the True Romance" :-

"What is thine of fair design in thought and craft and deed.



Each stroke aright of toil and fight that was and that shall be, And hope too high, wherefore we die, had birth and worth in thee."



And again in L'Envoi "—a celebration of an accomplished work with all the imagery of building operations, beginning

My	new cut ashlar takes the light where crimson blank the windows flare;



By	my new work before the night, Great Overseer I make my prayer.



If there was good in that I wrought, Thy hand compelled it Master thne



And	where I failed to meet Thy thought, I know through Thee the fault was mine."



That is the way to regard the function of design—as a thing with a right and wrong about it ; not a mere matter of taste and whim. Why the very phrase the "Architect of the Universe " makes the paltryness of the vast majority of the architectural performances of the last century appear as sheer blasphemy by contrast.

Well, to return to these same elements, they are

Firstly, That sympathy born of knowledge, or knowledge born of sympathy, I know not which it is, that enables the designer of a tea spoon or a town hall to realize the full uses of the object he is to conceive. This element is made up of all experience.

Secondly, and of equal importance is a knowledge and sympathy concerning the material and technique (for these things are interdependent) by which the designer's idea will gain tangible concrete existence.

Thirdly, we have scholarships in art which constitutes our heirship to the vast heritage of past traditions, past masterpieces, past failures.

And fourthly, there is the sense of proportion which some men have and most men lack,—this is not a matter of rule or teaching, and the schools of architecture which have professed an exact science of proportion as a thing which can be taught have failed absolutely to leave behind them monuments of any human interest. Cold stones at the best. I refer particularly to the influence of Vitruvius.

It is not to speak of the attainment of knowledge of ''what is wanted," nor of scholarship, nor of proportion, that I venture to intrude upon your time, but to discuss very briefly a few examples of the influence of material and technical process on design. In the Ruskinite literature truth is made out to be the touchstone of good architecture, and "Gothic honesty is held up as a moral precept for our architectural regeneration." Now a great deal of the Ruskinite literature, especially with regard to architecture, can only be regarded as charming prose but in thus claiming for truth a place in design from which it had been systematically kept out for a matter of a hundred years, Mr. Ruskin and his followers may be said to have lit the torch which resulted in the revival of sane design in England and which despite the temporary aberrations of the "Art Nouveau movement is making steady progress all over Europe and in the States.

Now the great quality of truthfulness can only be obtained by having due regard for the natural limitations of materials themselves and the techniques to which they are subjected.

Of course one of the most fertile sources of change and evolution in style has been the translation of forms originated in one material to a second, and a subsequent amelioration of these forms in adapting them to the new material and the changed technique. Not to dwell upon the wooden origin of the Greek orders a few examples from Gothic work will make the point clear.

We have in the 13th and 14th centuries, the evolution of window tracery by gradual stages from groups of detached lights to a highly organized system of window design—and all evolved in stone

In the 14th century we have the miniature reproduction of stone tracery in wood panelling and screen work with certain changes in the forms due to the wood and the joiner's tools being substituted for the stone and the mason's chisel, and a system of framed panelling dominating the design of the whole. Then, later in the 15th century, this system of framed panelling is transferred back to stone wall surfaces and ceiling vaults in the perpendicular style of Gothic. This phenomenon, Mr. Prior in his history of Gothic Art in England refers to as " the discovery of the principle of panelling by which was got a scheme of surface distribution that employed partition horizontally and vertically as a reasonable exposition of space.

Then again the diverse ways man has found to deal with metals or even the same metal have afforded fruitful sources of artistic inspiration. Let us for a moment compare wrought iron and cast iron. We all know that these two things attain different kinds of strength and are formed in different ways. We all also know that wrought iron is continually being copied in cast iron. (See any trade catalogue).—We are also aware of the reason,—cheapness ; and the result is a highly fragile and unreliable kind of a railing from the

