<doctype type="text">140	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to get lately, and unless you early bestir yourself you may be driven to accept inferior slates. Of course you will understand that with materials which have to be obtained some time before they are used in the building there is sometimes a likelihood of the builder using them for other jobs before yours is ready for them, and this may prove awkward. if the slates are to be to sample, it is as well to make sure that they are so ; this, of course, applies to all other materials to sample, especially the bricks and the joiner's ironmongery.

As the slating is only a small trade I propose to consider it more completely than the others, as a type of the supervision required for all trades. The first thing to look to is the quality of the slates; they should be both hard and tough, they should have a metallic ring- when struck with the knuckles, and should not fracture easily when lightly struck against wood; it water poured on the slate is soon absorbed, the slate is of course porous; slates with friable and splintered edges are generally bad ; slates with green blotches in them (though the blotches do not effect the weathering qualities) are about £1 per ton cheaper than plain slates ; slates get shaken on their railway journey, and if not properly packed a jolt in shunting may sometimes crack them from end to end of the truck. The slater should test every slate for soundness before holeing it, which he does by striking it on a bar in front of him or by sharply tapping it with a hammer; cracked slates, however slight the cracks are, should not be put on, as frost is sure to crack them complete

ly.	The holeing of the slates determines the lap, and this is one of those matters where a squeeze of in. will put something in the contractor's pocket. The nail-holes should not be so large that the slate will draw over the nailhead. In holeing, the slate sometimes breaks around the holes, and it not stopped the slater may turn and hole again ; no slates which are broken or much chipped should be allowed. The laborer may so hole the broken slates that the broken end is hidden, when laid, by the upper slate, and there is then only one thickness of slate covering the roof at that point. The laths should he free from sap and nailed to every spar. The roofs should be lined over before lathing, and any spars which are down, or appear likely to sag, should be attended to. The slates should of course be slightly tilted towards the root at a gable unprotected by a coping and the spars firred out before laying ; the slates if in the least uneven should be sorted into thicknesses so as not to be laid at random, and any which are twisted should be rejected, as they certainly ride, although the 'dater sometimes says, " Oh, they'll be all right, we put the flat side downwards." Of course the heavier slates should be laid at the bottom. The double eaves-course is sometimes slipped, and if it is not the two bottom courses are sometimes nailed to a single lath Nails, if expensive, (such as copper nails), are another matter in regard to which the slater may try to save something. Sometimes you will find nails of two Weights on a job, one as specified and the other lighter. I confess that I offer no explanation of this, and fear that you will not obtain a satisfactory answer from the slaters. The nails should bulge out somewhat in the middle to get a firm hold on the lath. The joints of' the slates should be virtually over each other for the sake of appearance. Occasionally there is a tendency on the part of the slater to delay the pointing of the slates until after the ceilings are plastered, on the principle I suppose that what is of sight is Out of mind.

The pointing mortar should be haired or it will not stick to the underside of the laths, and some slaters do not put the hair unless supervized ; it is also a trouble to point the verges, and ordinary cement-mortar specially to point the verges, and ordinary limemortar will be used if you are not careful. The ridgeniles should be set and pointed in cement-mortar, and, if flanged, the flanges should be away from the south and west in order to avoid giving a purchase to the gales from those quarters. The angle inside the ridge should

be less than the rake of the roof, so as to grip it more firmly.

I have already advised you to keep your eyes on the mixing of the plaster and need riot say more on the subject, except that you should satisfy yourself that the lime is well slaked. Sometimes the plasterer finds it easier to fill up a space by laths in a different direction to the rest ; the plaster at such points will possibly crack, so that you should not allow him to do this. Plaster on laths should be well " keyed"; that is, squeezed between and behind the laths. I have had it explained to me by a plasterer where the key on some stoothing was absent that a key on lathed upright partitions was as unnecessary as on walls, there being no pull from the plaster, as on ceilings ; but that plasterer did not make a convert, and I name the incident as an example of the numerous good reasons for doing bad work which are constantly being brought forward. It is surprising how monotonously sap and other defects in laths are declared to be "only a little stain." Of course in some cases what at first looks like sap proves to be only surface dirt.

You will find a source of considerable trouble and annoyance in the independence of some trades and the ignorance of some workmen. I refer to such matter as the cutting of bearing timbers by plumbers and gas-fitters and their kind, who, unless you warn them beforehand, will chop right through your bearing timbers without compunction' if it suits them to run their pipes in such ways.

The plumber is such a monster in the popular imagination that you will be pleased to find him, on the whole, neither better nor worse than his fellow-tradesmen. However, should he be so inclined his opportunities for taking advantage of you are many, especially in the lead in gutters flashings, ect., which should of course always be tested for size, lap weight and fall, as all of these are liable to be skimped. Also, the plumber is able when cutting the lead to give a twist with his knife which thickens the edge, so that it is better not to rely on the lead gauge but to weigh a bit of the lead and to calculate the weigh therefrom. The eaves-gutters and down-pipes should also be inspected for correct and even thickness.

The painter's trade is one of the most difficult for the architect to exercise supervision over the materials. I recommend you to make a study of these. It is well to have each coat of paint of a different shade ; of course the variation need only he slight, but it you see each shade on everywhere you know that all the coats are

on.	This refers more especially to the constructional steel-work, where a coat is often slipped.

We have all heard of people who could not open a single window when they went into their new building and could not get the architect to attend to it for three days. Therefore, before the client occupies your building I advise you to go round and see that the sashes are not stuck with paint, that the window-fasteners work properly, that none of the keys are missing, that any damage slates are repaired, that the eaves-gutters are clear of rubbish, and (not least in importance) that the w.c. cisterns are in working order. These little things, if left imperfect, make a new building unpleasant for its occupiers and may lead to accusations of neglect on the part of the architect.

My notes must here end. But I must not conclude without saying that they do not apply to the better class of builders, with whom 1 hope that you will only have to deal. And as a final word of advise let me say, do not fall off the scaffold.



Colour is not merely necessary for our pleasure, but is an actual physical necessity. Absence of colour would mean the gradual deterioration of the eyes and eventual blindness.



One day the great architect Richardson was approached by a man who had only $1,500 to spend on a house. The difficulties of the problem appealed to Richardson so strongly that he took hold with zest. It put him on his mettle to produce an artistic result from purely structural conditions. But when the client announced that lie could afford $3,000 he was dismissed with a wave of the band. The great man's interest was gone.

Country Life in America.

