<doctype type="text">66	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" The Collapse of a New York Steel Building " author="">The Collapse of a New York Steel Building

where the winters are usually much more severe than in Toronto, the rule is to place all water and other pipes at least seven feet below ground.



On March 2nd the Darlington hotel building, an eleven storey steel frame structure in course of

erection at 59 West 46th street, New York, suddenly collapsed and twenty-one persons were killed. There was an outer casing of brickwork covering the steel framework. The floors were supported by cast-iron columns seated on separate off-set brick piers with concrete footings and granite caps and placed 13 feet apart. These columns carried I. beam girders and floor beams about 12 and 8 inches depth, the average spacing of the floor beams being feet. Beam, column and girder connections and splices were, according to the specifications, to be bolted, no rivets being used. There were no knee or other braces. The building was designed to carry a floor load of 130 lbs. per square foot. Beams and girders were proportioned for working loads of one quarter of this load and columns for one-fifth. The architects who prepared the plans and specifications were not employed to superintend the construction, but this duty was largely entrusted to one of their draftsmen who left their employ for the purpose. The original plans were submitted to the Building Department and approved. Afterwards these plans were changed and a new set of plans submitted which were rejected; then a third set was prepared which were also rejected. The contractors then proceeded with the erection of the building in violation of a notice from the Building Department that operations must cease until the building laws were complied with. Objection was made by the Department to the improper method of bolting beam, girder and column connections, and to the relative rate of construction of walls and steel work. The Building Department found itself powerless, however, to enforce the building regulations, and the contractors taking advantage of this fact, proceeded with the construction of the building.



When the collapse came a number of arrests were made and an investigation was instituted by a Coroner's Jury to ascertain the cause. The jury reported finding the owner and steel work contractors "grossly criminally negligent in the methods adopted and followed by them in the erection of the building". The jury further made the following recommendation: We recommend that the practice of the erection of buildings without the superintendence of the original architect or a competent builder of at least five years' experience be prohibited by law. We further recommend that the Building Department of the City of New York have a corps of competent engineers to inspect the erection of all buildings requiring engineering skill, and that a copy of the approved plans of each building be kept on the premises during construction." The building regulations at present in use in New York were formulated only three or four years ago by a Commission appointed for the purpose, and were thought to be very carefully and skilfully prepared to cover all possible contingencies. The occurrence to which we have referred, however, shows them to be faulty in at least one most important particular, and should lead the authorities of New York and other cities to carefully revise and make as effective as possible their regulations governing the construction of important buildings.

<article title=" THE TORONTO FIRE.

" author="">THE TORONTO FIRE.

Two things have specially impressed us in connection with the disastrous fire in Toronto—one that the insurance companies required only two days to decide to advance insurance rates from 50 to 75 per cent.; the other, that the City Council of Toronto have had under consideration for two or three years the framing of an up-to-date building by-law, and no decision has yet been reached. This is a fair example of the relative speed with which private corporations work in comCORNER OF BAY AND WELLINGTON STREETS, NEAR

WHICH THE FIRE ORIGINATED.





parison with public bodies. Perhaps the thing that most requires prompt action at the present time is the adoption and putting into force of proper building regulations. There is now an opportunity such as will probably never occur again of improving the character of buildings for business purposes. The opportunity should not be lost. It would be unreasonable to compel firms who have been burned out to defer the rebuilding of their warehouses, therefore the Mayor should insist upon immediate action being taken in the direction of



































WAREHOUSES ON SOUTH SIDE OF WELLINGTON STREET,

WEST OF BAY STREET.





the consideration and adoption of regulations which will insure that none but substantial buildings will be erected in the place of those destroyed.



This fire, as well as those in Baltimore, Rochester, and elsewhere has clearly demonstrated the fact that no better check can be put in the way of a conflagration such as Toronto has experienced than solid brick walls. Unfortunately, many of the warehouses which stood in the path of this fire were so flimsily constructed that the walls were not strong enough to stand

