<doctype type="colophon;">The Canadian Architect and Builder

VOL. XVII. No. 199.

JULY, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

	Residence of W. D. Lummis, Bedford Road,	Toronto. J. W. Siddall, Architect.

Interior New Bank of Montreal Building, Montreal. McKim, Meade & White and Taylor, Hogle & Davis, Architects.









ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Tower Room, Colchester Town Hall, Colchester, England.

Proposed New Building for the Central Canada Loan & Savings Company, Toronto,—Sproatt & Rolph, Architects.









CONTENTS

Editorial	—	—	—	—	-	— 113-114

The Architectural Association and its Work	-	15

By the Way	-	-	-	-	-	- 

The Selection of Colors	-	-	-	-	-

Northwest Notes	-	-	- -	- 117-118 

Montreal Letter	-	- -	- 119

The Architect and the Garden	—	—	— 120—121

Plumbers' Work, Past and Present	-	-	122-123-124

Causes of a New York Building Failure	-	- 125

List of British Firms Wanting Canadian Agents	-	127

Plasterer's Prices	-	-	-	-	- 127-128

Brickwork and Stone Facing	-	-	-	-	ix

The Use of Steel in American Lofty Building Construction - x

Plaster Surfaces	-	-	-	-	-	-	xi

Business Notes	-	-	-	-	xii





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. XV. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

" EDMUND BURKE,	Toronto.

" S. H. TOWNSEND,

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

" XV. H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal. FRED, T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood. Ont.





A	Hint About Planning.



























<article title=" Compulsory Ventilation." author="">Compulsory Ventilation.

A weak point in the planning of perhaps the majority of modern houses will he found to be the

arrangement of the top or " attic" storey. These upper storey rooms might he made both comfortable and attractive, if they were given due consideration by the architect. As a rule they either do not seem to receive the attention to which they are entitled, or are sacrificed for the sake of exterior effect.



The Legislature of the state of New York at its last session passed a bill providing for the

ventilation of public buildings and having particular application to school buildings. This is the first comprehensive measure for the purpose yet adopted in the United States. In seventeen States, however, laws have been passed which require expert examinations of plans for projected school buildings and provide for fire scapes and other means of protection from tire.



The production of a satisfactory building requires the best efforts of both architect and contractor.

The architect needs the sympathetic co-operation of the contractor, and to this end should seek to maintain harmonious relations. The honest, intelligent contractor—and there are thousands such—is, in his

<article title=" The Architect and the Contractor." author="">The Architect and the Contractor.

field of effort, as important a man as is the architect in his. He is therefore entitled to be treated by the architect with courtesy and respect. Unfortunately some architects, possessed of an undue sense of their own importance, are in the habit of treating contractors in a most arbitrary and discourteous manner, In the west, where the democratic feeling is strong, an eastern architect who assumed this offensive manner was promptly taken to task by a prominent contractor and in unmistakeable language told that such treatment would not be tolerated. Where contractors show a disposition to evade the strict terms of their agreements, the architect is justified in being severe, and indeed will show wisdom by refusing to have any further dealings with a contractor who has forfeited his confidence. But with the honest contractor the ''high and mighty'' air is unjustifiable, besides being calculated to bring the architect and his authority into disrespect and stand in the way of the successful working out of

his designs.



In proposing that all buildings erected by union labor should he labelled, the National Building

Trades Council submit as a reason the following

The union label on a building will be a testimonial that the men who erected the building are thorough mechanics earning fair wages, and thus enabled to benefit the community as consumers. It will be the

<article title=" The Union Label on Buildings." author="">The Union Label on Buildings.

