<doctype type="text">40	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



outright once and for all with a single hatching is that so much transparency can be got into the shaded surfaces and with practice any degree of delicacy or violence in modelling can be distinctly set down.

I have here two interesting drawings by an old and successful rival for R.I.B.A. honours, Mr. Bennet.



























































































CHARTRE DOORWAY.

Wash Drawing by Mr. Bennet.

































































CHARTRE DOORWAY.

Little Drawing by Mr. Bennet.





In the pencil drawing we have things as they are, in the wash drawing things as they look. Suppose the thing were not in existence except in an architect's

mind. There is no doubt about which of the drawings would lead to the better execution. The line drawing not only tells far more, but it required greater skill to produce. Blinded as we are by all pervading ideals of the picture painter, we are possibly more attracted by the wash drawing, but looked at closely, a photograph would give us as much, while no photograph could give what the less imposing line drawing conveys of how the effect is got to those who know. I am bound to say that in my opinion the wash drawing should never have been made. In technique it is far better than most of the wash work we see in water colour exhibitions and it is gratifying to possess a copy of it. Faithfully and lovingly it was done, but why should time and skill superior to that of the very carvers who did the original be lavished upon what any photographer could turn Out. Mr. Bennet was a student both of the R.I.B.A. and the Beaux Arts and the happy circumstance of the two drawings in the two styles has suggested to me this comparison which I hope will lead to a discussion. As the Beaux Arts methods of draughtsmanship obtain in all the other Architectural Schools on this side the question is of great interest to me.

And here lest I be for a moment misunderstood let me say that my admiration for French draughtmanship is unbounded. These Prix de Rome drawings by students of the Beaux Arts speak for themselves. The delicacy, insight, knowledge and skill of the French draughtsman is something on an altogether different level from our rough English work and I can only envy him his clever fingers. There is much that the English draughtsman would do well to copy from his French brother, especially in the matter of showing nearer and further portions of a building in different strengths of drawing, though I think that scientific sciography is a mixed blessing in an architectural drawing. The French as a nation do draw better than we do, it is born in them more or less, and if our English architectural student were to be trained to the same standard of draughtsmanship I fear he would never learn very much architecture. Moreover when an Englishman draws at all well he is apt to let all other architectural accomplishments take care of themselves.

Putting questions of time and money aside, I am bound to state my own preference for the Omission of cast shadows even on competition drawings, although I seldom leave a drawing raw from the inking in without putting in thin washes to emphasize or reduce the values of various parts. This conventional as opposed to scientific sciography is apt to tempt the draughts-man to make things look as he would like them to, not as they really would, but on the other hand the over scientific methods seem to spoil the scale of the drawing. The most important thing to realize from a drawing about a building is its size. The profusely shaded French drawing is apt to look so real on the paper as to suggest a drawing of a little mode!, not a flat drawing of a very big thing (for even a small house is a very big thing).

In a detail for Mr. Tapper's design for Liverpool Cathedral an attempt was made to render the plans of various parts by tones of color and without any sciography. The drawing was 7 feet long to ½-inch scale and I think a better idea was given of Mr. Tapper's huge conception than if the great masses had been broken up by cast shadows. Even in sketching the architect must ever pay more attention to the thing as it is than the thing as it looks, and I am often amused by the attempts of picture painters to render architectural subjects without searching into the real nature of such things as crockets and double ordered tracery and bed moulds of cornices. Many otherwise fine etchings and engravings fail adequately to get the spirit of architectural subjects simply for want of scholarship.

1 have here three beautiful pen and ink sketches by C. E. Mallows, A. N. Prentice and Reginald Bloomfield. In all there is evidence of tremendous skill in epitomising things they know. It is only an intimate knowledge of English crocketed pinnacles that makes it possible for

