<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	14!



<article title=" STRENGTH OF WOODEN PILLARS " author="">STRENGTH OF WOODEN PILLARS.



The Building By-law for the regulation of the construction of buildings for Toronto, as prepared by the city architect, Mr. McCallum, contains a number of formulae for t lie strength of pilars and beams, which we find have been worked out in tabulated form by Mr. John S. Fielding, C. E. M.E, of this city, who

pillar; column 3, thc breaking load in tons of 2240 lbs. each, and the breaking load in pounds column 4 gives safe load at the factor of safety of 4 recommended by Kidder for yellow pine or oak column 5 gives safe load at factor of 6 recommended by Kidder for white pine column 6 gives safe loads allowed by the city architect for yellow pine.















































































































has been consulted by same of the loading architects in regard to this matter.



The tables cover the formulae on pages 43, 44 and 45 of the building by-law No. 4408, as passed July 6th, 1904, and on this page we present table 13 which gives the breaking loads and safe loads in squire wooden pillars as allowed by Kidder, Trautwine and C. Shaler Smith, for white pine, long leaf yellow pine and oak, and compares same with the safe loads allowed by the city architect in pillars of long leaf yellow pine.



Column 1 gives the size of pillar ; column 2 gives length of

These rabies should prove very convenient for all architects and builders and should save a good deal of calculation.



The full set may be seen at this office, and Mr. Fielding is willing to supply them to any architect who may be interested.





According to the figures of the labor bureau at Washington, there have been in the last 20 years more than 22,000 strikes, involving a loss to employees and employers of over $400,000,000. The loss to the workmen themselves has been mare than twice that of their employers.

