<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



sign, to be useful in an office and to learn from office work. There is also a chance that, without spending more than a year over it, he will discover that he is not fitted for such work at all Unless this discovery is made, he is supposed, on the conclusion of the first year of the Day School, to enter into articles with an architect for an apprenticeship of five years. This is usually done at once ; and in the autumn he resumes work in the Day School, which in this year is limited to two days a week.

The work of the second year consists entirely of working out problems in design from specified conditions. There are no lectures ; instruction is given by criticism. The distinction between the work done by this class and that of the studios and Sketch Clubs for more advanced students, with which we have some acquaintance in Canada, lies in the motive. It is a first principle of the training for an art that the mind should not be led beyond the hand, and there is no attempt made in this class to develop individual invention ; the intention is rather to make the design merely a vehicle for working into form what the students have learned in their previous year's study of the History of Architecture. It is one thing to be familiar with detached features of historical design, or even to draw them in place, and another to understand or remember their characteristics well enough to apply them in work of one's own composition ; and the problems worked out in this class serve to clinch the student's knowledge of style by giving them experience of its practical application. The library of the Association furnishes them with the means of accurate study so that there is no reason why they should not, between study and criticism, build up a design which is scholarly and yet original in the sense that they have made the knowledge which it represents their own. The great divisions of style receive equal attention so that no bias is acquired in the school towards one more than another. Construction is represented by a domestic problem or two of a simple nature for which drawings and specifications sufficient for contract are made.

This ends the work of the Day School. 'to carry his learning farther the student must attend the Evening School intended for pupils who have passed their first year and have to spend all their time during the day in an office.

It will he necessary to take the space of a second article to give an account of this and the other proceedings of the Association.

W.	A. LANGTON.







<article title=" THE SELECTION OF COLORS " author="">THE SELECTION OF COLORS.



The following table will be found useful in choosing the various tints, inasmuch as by examining them in the order here given the eye will at once detect the slightest difference of shade. To refresh the eye

Look at Greens before choosing Reds.

	"	Blues	''	''	Oranges.

		Violets	''	''	Yellows.

		Reds	"	"	Greens.

		Oranges	"	"	Blues.

		Yellows	''	''	Violets.

		Tints	''	"	Browns.

		Browns	''	''	Tints.





Steel tapes are graduated in feet and tenths, and pocket tapes to hundredths of a foot.

<article title=" BY THE WAY." author="">BY THE WAY.



In the tower of the Central Methodist church on Bloor street east, Toronto, now in process of demolition, hung for half a century or more the town bell of Yorkville, now included in that part of Toronto lying north of Bloor street. The bell has been temporarily taken down hut will again he mounted in 1 he new tower of' the reconstructed church.

x xx



It is reported that the Treasury Department at Washington is about to issue an order prohibiting draughtsmen in the employ of the Government from making drawing for outside firms. It is estimated that fully one-half of the 150 draughtsmen employed in the office of the supervising architect of the Treasury give their services after hours to outside employment, and this it is held interferes with their efficiency in the Government service. This practice has also prevailed in Canada, and has been the cause of protest from architects in private practice who felt that they were being subjected to unfair competition.

xxx



A Japanese house is the simplest thing in the world, says a writer in the Western Architect, consisting as it does of a post at each corner and a roof. One may say it is all on one floor. And in the daytime it is all one room, if it is a small house. The number of bedrooms in it depends on the number of bedrooms the owner requires. They are divided by night by paper shutters fixed in grooves like the divisions of an old-fashioned workbox. There are no doors or pass ages. Your bedroom acts as a passage, and when you want a door you slide back the nearest panel. Two sets of shutters go around the outside. These outside shutters cannot he slid in the same promiscuous fashion as the other. Each is held in its place by the next and the last one is secured with a bolt of wood. There are plenty of Japanese houses which when secured for the night would hardly stand a drunken man leaning against them. An Englishman's house may be his castle—a Japanese house is his bedroom, and his bedroom a passage.

x x X

'[here died at Philadelphia recently a wealthy stone merchant, William Gray, who was at one time well known in Bruce and Huron, In 1871 he came to Canada and settled near Iverhuron, in Bruce Township. There he was known as Boss Gray, and there he carried on extensive operations. On the second concession of this township he bought a farm of two hundred acres, and built a great stone castle. A fine avenue, bordered by spreading trees upon either side, led up to the magnificent residence. The house was richly and elaborately furnished. In each room mirrors ran from floor to ceiling. There were grand stairways. There were broad and spacious halls. There were wide, open fireplaces. In every room the generosity and the luxury of wealth was artistically exhibited. But it was occupied for only two years, and ever since the rats have run riot through its splendid chambers. When the family left the house the rich furnishings were left behind. Nothing was disturbed, nothing removed. The house has seemed to stand through all these years waiting for the family to come home. But lately the bedding and the curtains dropped to pieces and decay was upon all within the mansion. Grass and weeds possessed the wide avenue, the trees were ragged with neglect, and the gate sagged upon its hinges.

