<doctype type="textad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE LIGHTING OF CHURCHES " author="">THE LIGHTING OF CHURCHES



In giving a few suggestions concerning the introduction of artificial light into churches, Mr. H. C. Coilette, in an able paper read some time ago before the Architectural Association, says: By artificial light 1 allude to that which is required to enable a congregation to see clearly. The questions concerning lights do not call for any detailed reference in connection with the decoration of a church. But where it is the practice to use such lights it is certainly necessary to treat them as permanent elements with which any other illumination should not interfere.

In dealing with artificial light several important things must be considered. The positions in which it shall be placed, the nature of the light available, its power, its colour, its height above the heads of the assembled people—these are the principal matters with which we should have to deal. And let us be careful to remember that artificial light may make or mar any decoration that is to be seen by its aid. If the fittings are bad you present a permanent defect to the building seen by daylight. So it is well that they should be carefully designed.

There is a little room for improvement upon the vulgar commonplace stock patterns always available. But the truth is that all these fittings, as well as other furniture, should be expressly designed and made for the building in which they are to serve.

Now the position for several points of light is not easily decided upon. There is, however, one thing upon which no doubt all of us have a very positive feeling. And that is that the lights should never be hung in a

string down the centre of the nave. It ruins the architectural effect, it entirely destroys the dignity of the sanctuary, it blots out the altar and reredos, and it is not practically, the most desirable position. Further than those objections already stated, this method is not the most satisfactory way of equally distributing the rays.

If there is an arcade the happiest position for brackets is on the east side of each pier. This, to a certain extent, will light the building without our being compelled to see where the light comes from, especially if some form of reflector is used to throw the rays forward to wards the centre. But if there are brackets on piers or on side walls it is necessary to keep the width of the nave, that is the distance across from point to point, within certain limits.

Standards are sometimes adopted as a method of securing an equal distribution, but they are objectionable for reasons that will follow in considering the height at which the lights are best fixed.

There is another course that may well be followed, and that is to use pendants. These, whether hung out from the walls or directly from the roof, seem the least objectionable idea. For with them we can distribute the candle-power as we will, and they may be regulated in height from the floor. A useful practical position for pendants is about in a line centreing over the seating space on either side of the middle aisle. Any decoration on the walls or root is little obscured by the glare from them in such a situation.

Of the various kinds of artificial light now available two are most commonly used—these are electric light

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Structural Steel Work