<doctype type="text">136	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER















<article title=" NORTHWEST NOTES " author="">NORTHWEST NOTES





Branch Office of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,

310 McIntyre Block, WINNIPEG, August 12, 190].



Building operations have been somewhat hindered during the past month, the holding of the Dominion Exhibition in Winnipeg since last issue having naturally turned all thoughts in that direction, and for the last few weeks the usual amount of work has not been done. There arc still a great number of building permits being granted, hut chiefly for small houses, the demand for which is still very active. The Winnipeg Street Railway Company are on the eve of starting the erection of some additional sheds and works in the Southern suburb of the City, the result being that property in the vicinity has been materially advanced in price. Work is just about to begin on the new Opera House, a project which has been in contemplation for some time. Excavators, too, have just commenced work on the property of the T. Eaton Company of Toronto, preparatory to the erection of the large departmental store they are proposing to open in this city. The Bell Telephone Company are also contemplating the erection of a new factory alongside of their present one, which will about double their present warehouse space.



<article title=" CEMENT BLOCKS FOR Building " author="">CEMENT BLOCKS FOR Building



An exceedingly interesting feature of the exhibits in the Dominion Exhibition, and one which came at a particularly opportune moment, was that of the various appliances for making cement blocks. In our last issue we pointed out the great difficulty which has been experienced in Winnipeg in obtaining materials for building. Brickmaking has been pushed forward with great energy, but with little apparent rent effect in satisfying the demand. The stone industries are unable to keep work under way and many buildings which would have otherwise been completed are now not likely to be finished before next season opens. To the interested observer, therefore, these exhibits must have been instructive. In the States it seems that cement is fast gaining in favour as material for building. The evolution of machinery in its application to the cement industry, places on the market a '' block 'which appears to be commending itself wherever the subject has been given due consideration. As a fire and weather resister cement stands well to the front, and as regards appearance and durability, it is quite capable of holding its own. The subject is one, therefore, to which architects and builders are giving a good deal of attention. Its cost is materially less than stone and its appearance almost equal. As compared with brick, the labour in laying cement blocks is less costly and can be executed by less experienced workmen, which gives it a set-off against the apparently larger original cost, many claiming that in result it works out less costly than a brick building.



Foremost of these exhibits was that of the North-west Pressed Stone Company, who were showing a "block" for which they hold a special pattern not only as regards the block itself, but also the machinery for its manufacture. A great feature of this block is that it has a double air space and it is impossible to pierce a wall built with these blocks without encountering an air space. The company also carries a complete outfit of machinery to work in conjunction with the block-making machine, so that an outfit can be installed to work with the minimum amount of labour and equal to 400 to 500 blocks per day.



Another	cement block making machine was that shown by Messrs. Gotteridge & McConnell, of Hamiota, Man. This machine was capable of 90 strokes per minute and the actual time taken to produce a perfect block was three quarters of a minute. With this machine it is possible to produce 600 blocks per day'. A special feature of this machine is a device by means of which a block can be made with a colored face of cement some two inches thick, with the remainder of the block in natural colour.



The National Cement Block Machine Co., of Toronto, were showing a machine with a special non-corrosive metal plate, which certainly made a block scarcely discernible from a block of stone. This machine, however, was not adapted for power by hand labour the output would be some 150 blocks per day.

The Cement Building Block Co., Ltd., of Winnipeg, had also on exhibition a sample of their work in the form of a wall with details, such as corners, doorways and windows. It was stated that the machine exhibited, worked by hand, produced some 120 blocks per day.



The Canada Petrified Brick & Stone Co., Ltd., had on show a sample of their products, erected to show the usual mode of construction bout for their special make of brick and also for their hollow cement block. Their chimney blocks attracted special notice as making an exceptionally neat finish. This company have a secret in the manufacture of their goods whereby the cement and sand arc joined together, and get extremely hard by age.



These exhibits are of special interest at the present time when the building question is one of great importance and the hindrance to progress is mainly that of not getting sufficient material.

<article title=" DECORATION AT THE EXHIBITION " author="">DECORATION AT THE EXHIBITION.



There was nothing large or particularly new in this feature of the Exhibition. To those who are aware of the immense strides made in the Eastern Provinces in this direction, it would appear that a good opportunity has been lost in this ommission. The ordinary class house in Winnipeg is usually disposed of in art unfurnished state as regards internal decoration and often remains so in the hands of the occupant for a great while so that there is ample room for stimulating these lutes. The Metallic Roofing Co., of Toronto, the western agent for whom is Mr. T. Black, 130 Bannatyne ave., Winnipeg, made an excellent display. Their stand was a large and prominent one, and extended right across the centre of the building, the walls being arranged in sections, each showing a different decorative treatment in artistic colors. This company also showed embossed metal shingles and sidings. Their designs of roofing tiles known as '' Spanish Diamond ' and

Gothic '' attracted much attention and comment.

The Winnipeg Ceiling and Roofing Co., of Winnipeg, also exhibited a fine ceiling arrangement of Imperial design, mounted in a massive gilt frame, which showed to advantage. This company, we understand, are the only actual producers of this line of goods in Winnipeg.

Mr. E. S. Holston, of 937 Logan ave., Winnipeg, had on show a selection of high grade front doors made in special patterns, and of fine quality and finish. This flint aim to keep on the market goods of the highest grade and to supply only wholesalers.

The Winnipeg Paint and Glass Co., Limited, had an attractive exhibit, prominent in which were three samples of cut and ornamental glass. They also exhibited an attractive array of glass doors, built and tunnel newels and internal fittings generally. An attraction at this stand was their exhibit of model cottages shown in tire interests of Ramseys' paints, and which presented a very gay appearance.

Thc Winnipeg Mantel Company had on show a fine range of mantels, grates and things.

The Canada Plate & Window Glass Company of Toronto, were exhibitors of fireplaces and fireplace fittings They showed an unique range of these goods, arranged with good effect and also had on show samples of their ornamental and plate glass.



<article title=" STOVES AND FURNACE EXHIBITS " author="">STOVES AND FURNACE EXHIBITS.



The industry more largely represented than any other, and which commended almost universal interest, was that of the stoves and furnaces. Probably the largest and finest exhibit in this department was hat of the Gurney Foundry Company, who besides having an exceptionally flute position. had also laid it out in a most attractive manner, with a full line of their cooking and heating stoves, furnaces and radiators, decorated in pleasing colors

The Record Foundry & Macitine Co., of Montreal, Moncton, Toronto and Winnipeg, also showed a fine range of stoves and ranges, and although they have recently increased their capacity, are still finding it difficult to meet the demands of their trade. This company showed a specially constructed comitined furnace adapted for either small houses or large buildings, and which commended itself as particularly adapted to this district.

