<doctype type="text">166	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



In consequence of the destruction wrought by recent fires the Norwegian government propose to make compulsory the use of brick in building. Hitherto the decision as regards materials to be employed has rested with the municipal authorities, and wood being plentiful and cheap, has been largely used.

	x	x	x



As a rule the streets of Chinese cities are badly paved, but one of the coast cities is an exception in this regard. The streets of this city have been paved with grind-stones, i. e., stones originally employed for the grinding of meal, but which, when partially worn out and defective, have been put to this new and useful purpose. They number many thousands and must therefore have been collected throughout a wide district.

	x	x	x



The plan adopted in Toronto and other Canadian cities of placing a band of brass having an inverted edge round the trunks of shade trees to prevent the tussock moth from climbing to the top and destroying the tree, is in tropical countries applied to the cups of the small iron supporting columns of buildings to prevent destructive insects such as the white ant and all sorts of vermin from climbing beyond them. The flight of steps leading up to buildings in these countries either stand in pans of water or are painted with grease to render them vermin proof.

	x	x	x

That well-known and usually well-informed journal the English Builder is considerably astray in some of its recently published remarks on cement construction in Canada. It is not the fact that cement columns are largely in use in Canada, indeed so far as we know they are not manufactured here, nor is the statement that concrete steel construction appears to have made little headway in Canada, much nearer the mark. Contrary to the impression which the editor of the Builder seems to have gained—building methods and materials in Canada are quite as modern as those of the United States.

	x	x x

It is very galling at times to have to follow one's own advice or to swallow the medicine prepared for another patient, so no good American can wonder that our newspaper writers are writhing in indignation at the audacity of the Canadian Government in ordering the deportation of certain civil engineers holding important positions in the work of constructing the new Canadian transcontinental railroad, the Grand Trunk Pacific. What right has Canada, or any other country, to protect its citizens by enacting an "alien contract labor law ?" Is not that one of our own most precious inventions, and can't we do something to prevent an infringment of our rights in it ? One is sometimes tempted to believe that Americans nowadays are a bit too strenuous to be wholly satisfactory occupants of this world. —American Architect.

	x	x	x

Mr. Robert Williams, F.R.I.B.A., of London, has been commissioned by an Egyptian Pasha to prepare plans for a Mosque to he erected for the benefit of the Mohammedans residing in the great metropolis. The plans which are to be submitted at Constantinople for the approval of the Sultan, show a facade 120 feet in length and a longitudinal measurement of 150 feet.

The style is Saracenic, or the mediaeval architecture of the Arabs. The building will have a base of polished red granite probably from the old Assouan quarries. The walls will be of red Mansfield stone, relieved with Doubting and Portland stone. The details of the interior will be richly done in marble and Welsh jasper. That part of the floor where the people prostrate themselves will be of teak, and the furniture of oak and teak. The whole building will be surmounted by a beautiful minaret, with balconies and galleries, about 200 feet high. Groups of turrets will also surmount other corners of the mosque, and these will be ornamented with golden spires and crescents.



<article title=" CEMENT FOR THE NORTHWEST." author="">CEMENT FOR THE NORTHWEST.

In view of the certainty that cement must enter largely into the construction of buildings in the Canadian Northwest, enquiry was recently made of a number of the cement manufacturing companies and wholesale dealers in Eastern Canada regarding the possibility of successfully manufacturing cement in the Northwest. They were asked it they had made any investigation to determine whether the necessary materials for the purpose were available, and if it should be found impracticable to manufacture the material in the west, from what quarter the supply would be likely to come. To these enquiries have come the following replies

Marl and clay—the two raw materials used in the manufacture of artificial (the best) Portland Cements, are to be found in every province of Canada. Lime stone takes the place of marl where the latter is not found, but is deficient in quantity of carbonate of lime compared with marl or chalk. There is no reason why in the Northwest Portland Cement should not be made profitably. The Canadian Pacific Railway started a factory near Vancouver some years ago on a small scale for their own requirements and ran it successfully as far as thc quality of the material turned out was concerned.

D.	MCNALLY & Co., Montreal.



DEAR SIRS,—Replying to your circular letter of the 22nd inst., would say that at present we consider it ridiculous for anyone to think of promoting any more cement factories in Canada. Even with the North-West market and without the several factories now under construction in Ontario, the Canadian factories have been selling at a loss in order to get rid of their output. After the factories that are now being built are completed in Ontario, we will require the whole of the Dominion as our market if it is to be made a paying industry. We would rather see cement factories in the west than to have foreign cement go there but under existing circumstances, consider it unwise and unprofitable for anyone to build another cement factory in Canada.

THE HANOVER PORTLAND CEMENT Co.. LIMITED. HANOVER, ONT., Sept. 24, 1904.



DEAR SIRS,—Replying to your inquiry we understand from reports that thc materials for making Portland Cement exist in some localities in Manitoba, but as to their extent and accessibility, we arc not aware. Our own impression is that reports of the political surveys of the several districts would give more accurate information. In the meantime it appears to us that the supply of Portland Cement for the North-West Territories and New Ontario, must come from Ontario and other outside points.

THE COLONIAL PORTLAND CEMENT Co., LIMITED. WIARTON, ONT., September 24, 1904.



DEAR SIRS,—Replying to your inquiry of the 22nd, I have not heard that the necessary material is available in the North west for the manufacture of a high-grade cement, but I do not pretend to have examined the question closely.

C.	I. DESOLA.

MONTREAL, 23rd September, 1904.



GENTLEMEN, —Replying to your favor of the 22nd would say that we have not given the question you mention sufficient thought to express an opinion.

THE ONTARIO PORTLAND CEMENT Co., LIMITED. BRANTFORD, ONT., Sept. 23rd, 1904.

