<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	107



property, B cannot acquire the mitoyennete of the wall. This' at least, is the opinion of the great majority of the French authors and of the Cour de Cassation in France, although there is a good deal to he said in favor of the contrary view. De minimis non curat lex—and if the strip he very small it might fairly be agreed that it should not be taken into consideration at all.

It goes without saying that the mitoyennete in the wall must first be acquired before the neighbor acquiring it makes any construction upon it. Thus in a case of Joyce vs. Hart, decided in the Supreme Court (I. S. C. R. P. 373), the builder was condemned to demolish his construction built on a wall of which the mitoyennete had not first been acquired. And in a case of Bruchesi vs. Desjardins (R.J.O. 2 C.S. page 436), it was decided that a neighbor can only acquire the mitoyennete of a wall by conforming to Art. 518 C. C. which says, "Every owner of property adjoining a wall has the privilege of making it common in whole or in part by paying to the proprietor of the wall half the value of the part he wishes to render common, and half the value of the ground on which such wall is built," and when the wall in question is not straight and not proper to serve as a mitoyen wall the neighbor cannot without the consent of the owner or legal procedure take possession of the wall and demolish it, with a view to its construction as a mitoyen wall.

The question is sometimes asked as to whether or not a party who is building a wall which is not mitoyen can force his neighbor to allow him to take 9 inches of ground on his side of the line. T1.ere is no doubt that he can, but of course the neighbor will then have the right to acquire mitoyennete in the wall on paying half of its actual value, and will have nothing to pay for land. It would always be prudent to notify the neighbor that you were taking advantage of your right to the 9 inches in order that he might oversee the work, if he so desired. A very interesting point has been raised as to whether one neighbor can take more than 9 inches of the other's ground when such is necessary for a footing course. The Court of Appeals in Keough and Lolin and in Rafter vs. Burland have seemed to deny that right. The Superior Court, however, in the last case upon the subject (Roy vs. Strubbe) has held that he could. This case has gone to appeal and is not yet decided. The reasoning employed in favor of the proposition seems to be irrefutable, but the points must still he considered as unsettled until the Court of Appeals shall have passed upon the last case referred to.

Walls separating two buildings, or two yards, or two gardens or a yard and a garden are presumed to he mitoyen and our courts have held (McKenzie vs.Tetu 12 L.C.R. 257) that mitoyennete is a legal presumption which throws the burden of proof upon the person objecting to it, and the objection can only be maintained by a title or by certain marks or by legal proof. Article 51 T C.C. already cited, indicates what these marks are. Of course these marks must have been placed in the wall at time of its construction or if placed later the consent of the neighbor must be proved.

Legal proof of the non-mitoyennete may always be made, the only question that then arises is, what is legal proof? Apart from documentary proof our law allows verbal evidence to be made in certain specified cases only, and oral testimony will not be admitted to show the consent of a neighbor to the erection or placing of a mitoyen wall (Leduc vs. McShane, 29, L.C.J., p. 56). Nor will it be admitted to show the necessity of the demolition of a wall, which had been torn down without its insuffiency having been determined upon a hearing of both parties. This point was recently decided in a case of Tait vs. Lamothe in the Court of Queen's Bench, and shows the necessity of never touching a mitoyen wall without proceeding regularly and in order.

Those who own a mitoyen wall are charged with its repair and reconstruction, and only by abandoning all interest in the wall can they rid themselves of this obligation. If, however, the co-proprietor, wishing to abandon, have placed a building against the mitoyen wall lie can only abandon by tearing down that part of his building which rests upon the mitoyen wall. Certain authors are of opinion that in order to he rid of the obligation to repair and reconstruct a fence wall it would be necessary to abandon the whole of the property in question because this obligation is a legal servitude upon the property, and only by giving up all the property can one get rid of it.

The co-proprietor of a mitoyen wall is authorized to execute certain works and is forbidden to execute others.

1.	He may build against the common wall.

2.	Place beams in it to within 4 inches of its thickness.

3.	Raise the common wall, upon paying an indemnity of /6 of the value of the superstructure.

In case the wall is not in a condition to support the superstructure, then he who wishes to raise it may demolish it and rebuild at his own cost, and if any additional thickness is required he must take the land on his own side. In this case, he will, of course, have no indemnity to pay for the superstructure. On the other hand the neighbor cannot complain of the inconvenience and sometimes serious loss and damage to which lie may be put. Thus, for example, A may keep a restaurant, B his neighbor, wishes to raise the common wall, and for that purpose take it down and rebuild it more solidly. A cannot complain even though his restaurant is almost deserted on account of the dust, dirt and noise caused by B, so long as B proceeds with diligence and does what he reasonably can to mitigate the nuisance. This doctrine was laid down by the Court of Queen's Bench in a case of Lyman vs. Peck. (6 L.C.J., p. 214).

Art 517 C.C. provides for the acquisition of the joint ownership in the superstructure by paying half its cost.

Art 518 C.C. provides that a proprietor who wishes to acquire the joint ownership of the whole wall only pays half its value. He is thus in a better position than the man who was already joint owner of part of the wall. Most of the French authors, however, consider that when the superstructure is already old mitoyennete in it may be acquired by paying half its value.

It has sometimes been debated whether or not Art. 514 and  gave a right which could be exercised upon simple notice to the neighbour or whether these eases did not fall into the general rule established by Art. 5t9, which says " One neighbour cannot make any recess in the body of a common wall, nor can he apply or rest arty work there without the consent of the other, or on his refusal, without having caused to be settled by experts the necessary means to prevent the new work from being injurious to the rights of the other."

There does not seem to me to be any room to doubt that Art. 519 should be followed. The neighbour's consent must he obtained, or experts must be called in to settle the necessary means to prevent the new work from being injurious to the rights of the other.

In the. case of Stephens v Walker 6 L. N. p. 286, the court of appeals condemned a proprietor to restore to its former state a wall which lie had partly pierced without the consent of the neighbour, and without following the procedure indicated in our article.

On the other hand neither of the neighbours can make any opening in the common wall of any sort whatever, without the consent of the other, and this consent is absolutely necessary, and no judicial decree can be obtained dispensing with it.

Articles 521 et Segg. deal with the question of different stories of a house, common ditches, hedges, trees growing on or near the line.

Article 532 deals with the distance or intermediate works required for certain structures.

Articles 533 et Segg. deal with the question of view on the property of a neighbour. One neighbour cannot, without the consent of the other, make in any common wall any window or opening whatever, even if it be made with fixed glass.

Article 534 provides what windows may be placed in a wall, not common, immediately adjoining the neighbour's property. In the case of Cadorette vs. St. Germain (R. J. Q. 4 c.s. 136), our courts held that windows, placed in a wall that was not common, immediately adjoining a neighbour's property, had to be furnished with window sashes (Scelles), and that it was nut sufficient that they were simply nailed down. Direct views are only permitted at left from the line, while oblique views must he

placed at 2 ft. This distance is measured from the outside stir-face of the wall, and if there is a balcony, from its outside line.

Oblique views are those obtained by openings in a wall which is perpendicular, or nearly so, to the line separating the two properties. While the question of view on a neighbour's property is a very simple one in theory, at the same time questions of a good deal of difficulty have presented themselves in practice. If, for example, there exist a mitoyen wall between the building which has windows overlooking the neighbour's property, what is the point from which the required distance should be calculated? Evidently it should be from the centre of the wall, hut if the wall should not be mitoyen, the distance will be calculated from its outside edge. But what, if later on, the neighbour, exercising his right, acquires the common ownership in the wall ? Must the proprietor then close his windows

