<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



here. Would it not he well to adjourn this discussion and put it ill SOllie tinie to-morrow morning?

The President: I think that is quite in order. You must remember that Messrs. Baker's and Sidall's motion is before us, namely, "That the fund known as the Architects' Guild money be increased to $400.'' We have with us this afternoon Professor Carpenter of Cornell University, ithaca, whose name is a household wor(l to us in Canada. 'rhe professor may not l)e aware of that, but if he knew how we, as practical architects, value his works, which are in our Library here, I think he would feel that his life work had not been in vain. Without further preliminaries I will introduce to you Professor Carpenter of Cornell university. (Applause.) I want you particularly to take note of Professor Carpenter's lecture, as Mr. Wright, who was 10 have led the discussion, is ill, and we shall have to depend for the discussion on the various members and friends present.

At the evening session, at winch many persons outside the profession were present by inivation, Mr. Challoner presented a paper on "Mural Decoration," an abstract of which will he printed in a future number.

At the close of Mr. Challoner's address, Mr. Gouinlock said: I am sure we have all listened with a great deal of pleasure to the very able and instructive paper on mural decoration given to us by Mr. Challoner, and I have a great deal of pleasure in moving that lie be tendered a hearty vote ol thanks.

Air. P. W. Ellis: I have much pleasure in seconding the motion.

Ilie motion was put and carried unanimously and tendered by the President to Mr. Challoner.



<article title=" SECOND DAY.

MORNING SESSION.

" author="">SECOND DAY.

MORNING SESSION.

Wednesday, 13th January, 1904, II o'clock a.m., the President, Mr. Symons, took the chair and called the meeting to order.

The President: There were two items of unfinished business yesterday that I should like to dispose of this morning. One of these is particularly interesting to outside members, who are perhaps better represented to-day than they were yesterday; but there is still room for better representation. The motlon was iiiade by Mr. Geminell, seconded by Mr. Siddall.

Mr. Siddall: Mr. GEMMELL, who moved tile resolution that I had the pleasure of seconding, is absent. As tar as I understand the motion, it was that a sufficient amount should be contributed to make up the necessary fund to pay the scholarships for which there is part in the funds coming from the old Guild. That is the gist of the motion, although it may not be in identical terms.

the President: In regard to that question, it may not be out of place to make a few remarks. Tile Guild money, as most of you are aware, was not handed over to us until recently. The conditions have been agreed to and a document has been drawn tip giving tile Association control of these moneys; one of the conditions is that it shall not be used until it reaches the sum of $400. The suni is about $320, and this motion is that we increase this sum to $400 to make it available for the use of the students at once. The idea is that the interest derivable from this shall be competed for annually by the students of the Architectural Association, and the award be made in accordance with the wishes of the Council, such as a medal, or a ticket of leave or it may take such a shape as is thought best. I would likc to

hear it well discussed, because it xviii depend on what you do this morning whether it.can be used for many years to come, probably six or seven.

Mr. Belcher: How do yoti hope to accumulate $400, even depending on the interest?

Tiie President: We have $320, which will probably ilow be raised to $360, by another dividend which I understand will be paid by the Farmers' Loan Coin-pan)', in which institution it was unfortunately placed. It seems to me that we llave no xvay of increasing- this to the limit, $400, unless from the funds of the Association or by compounding the interest. We are anxious to have this operative. There is nothing like a scholarship even if it is only the sum that we can command now, it is in order to give a little snap to our educational work, that the Educational Cominittee, who are really at the bottom of this proposition, wish you to consent to this this morning.

1\I r. Baker: I am heartily in accord xvith the motion, arid will stipport it strongly; but it strikes me it (loes not go far enough. I would like to see a little more done if we can, In the past I think we have erred in doino these things in too small a way. I will throw out a suggestion that it be raised to a sum that xxiii produce at least $25 a year. I should think that might he arranged in some stock which pays an interest of six per cent., some solid company, an insurance company or something of that. sort. That sum we might raise. I do not know how it would be controlled by the deed of transfer, but 1 hope the meeting will see fit to go a little further than providing a few dollars to make up the $400 which we ilave received in such a generous xvay irom the Guild.

W.	R. Gregg: This money that is given to us by the Toronto Guild was voted in tile lifetime 01 the  Toronto Guild; it has been arranged that the prize is always to be known as the Toronto Architectural Guild School prize. This does not prevent any nuillber of other prizes being raised in the future; there might be five thousand dollar investment made for anotiler prize. The Council has a perfect right to change the prize from one thing to another; it may be books or it may be a medal; tlie trouble with the medal is that it would take a good deal of money to buy time die and we would have to keep the young men waiting a few years.

Mr. Simpson: They would die in the meantime. Ihe credit

Mr Gregg:	has to go to the Toronto

Guild. The money was $400, and it should have been $500 or $600, if the imlterest had been at six per cent., as Mr. Baker says. But it has to be invested at a loxv rate of interest, because it is trust money, and we have no more right to put it in stock than we would have to put any other trust moiley. It has to be the satest kind of an investment according to the agreement. I thiiik it would be possible to iimake it up to $500, but the credit goes to tIme Guild. It should be kept in view that tIle old Guild gets the credit 01 the whole thing aimd if we add $150 we must give tile credit to the Guild. The prize may be chaimged from a prize to a medal, but it always remains as the Guild prize or the Guild medal.

the President: Mr. Gemmell (xvho has just entered the room), we are speaking of your motion of yesterday to increase the Guild moIley.

1\Ir. Geniniell: 1 gathered from the few words our treasurer spoke of making it $500 and presenting

it.	I tilought if the interest were put in, making it up to $400, it would be sticim a trifling thing for the Association to do and it xvould make the fund immediately available. Then there xvould be reason in calling it the old Guild fund, because it would he only a matter of $30 or $35 of other funds in the $400. I think I will stick to my original motion to

