<doctype type="text;ad">xii.	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" FURNISHINGS OF THE BRITISH BUILDING AT THE

WORLD'S FAIR.

" author="">FURNISHINGS OF THE BRITISH BUILDING AT THE

WORLD'S FAIR.

Thc finishings and furnishings of the interior of the British Building at the World's Fair ate in keeping with the grandeur of the royal rooms they represent. The Banqueting Hail is a reproduction of the Orangery at Kensington Palace. The ceiling is enriched with the Royal Arms and festooned mouldings of fruit and flowers. The furniture of this room comprises faithful reproductions of historical examples of the Queen Anne period. The old Console tables were part of the collection at Mertham House. The chairs are reproduced from the originals in the possession of the Earl of Westmoreland. The brass chandeliers are based upon fine old examples. Next to the Banqueting Hall is a fine suite of roams designed in the English styles.

Toe Elizabethan Room has an ornamental ceiling which is copied from the breakfast room in that historical mansion, Holland House, Kensington, in the decoration of which the best artists of the day were employed, and whose many famous occupiers included the Earl of Holland, William Penn, and Vandyke, the celebrated artist. The chimney piece, paneling and plaster frieze are taken from Bremley Palace. The furniture is of the same period, the small cabinet being a copy of one dated 1621, formerly belonging to Archbishop Sharpe and now in the possession of Sir William Sterling Maxwell, Bart. The

old armour was formerly in the collection of the late Earl of Egmont, Cowdray, Sussex.

The Georgian Room, with white enriched paneling and mahogany dour-, is a little specimen of English work reproduced from an old house at Epsom, Surrey.

The Adams Room, with its enriched plaster ceiling, frieze and doorways, is taken from examples designed by the celebrated architects, Robert and James Adams, in t he latter part of t he eighteenth century.

The large room (Queen Anne) is designed in the style of Sir Christopher Wren, the details being taken from Hampton Court Palace, and Belton House, where Grinling Gibbons executed some of his best wood carving under Sir Christopher's direction. The furniture is from old examples. The original chair came from the collection of Viscount Hilton, at Mersth tin [louse. The settee was prepared for Queen Anne's reception at Forde Abbey. The cabinet is an old one, procured from an ancient county family who have handed it down for general ions.





The Ontario Wind and Tornado Mutual Insurance Company will apply to the Ontario Government for incorporation to carry en the business of insurance against loss or damage to property caused by storms, wind and tornadoes.

Sheldon and Sheldon Galt Ontario Hot blast heating systems

C. Chancellor and Company London A new  and perfected Japan paint