<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	59

might be used for all work, as the photographs can enlarged satisfactorily.

A camera for architectural work should have considerable rise and fall at the front, a good swing-back, long extension for long-focus and telephoto lenses, parallel or only slightly conical bellows (which prevent the cutting-off of the edges of the photograph when a short-focus lens is used), arid at least three or, better, six double dark slides.

As to lenses, it is best to have a set of different foci and of a good make. They should be of rectilinear type.

For average work the rapid rectilinear of about 7in. focus is most serviceable on a half-plate. Long. focus lenses are useful in detail work, and wide-angle lenses are essential in confined positions.

The telephoto lens is a most valuable acquisition in the equipment. Some of the best examples o( detail work are at too great a distance from the position available to give a photograph of a satisfactory size, but a telephoto lens enables one to obtain it to a larger scale with the same extension of camera. As this lens is not of a fixed focal length, the scale of the photograph can be altered at will, which is often useful.

Ordinary plates of a good make are the best for architectural work, especially for interiors, although in dark interiors where very long exposures are requisite rapid plates may be used with advantage. Isochromatic plates are useful when the lighting of the interior is yellow. In interiors where the light from windows, etc., would be likely to cause halation it is necessary to use backed plates.

The development of the negative requires care on the part of the operator, but this question cannot be discussed now. It may be mentioned, however, that the architect-photographer should do his own development.

The chief printing processes are silver printing-out, platinotype, carbon and bromide ; the decision as to which should be used depends upon circumstances.

A silver printing-out process, such as the well-known P.O.P. of various makes, produces excellent results, hut if permanent photographs are required, platinotype or carbon processes should be used. For enlargements, bromide papers are most satisfactory.

<article title="" author="">DISCUSSION.



Mr. Arnold Mitchell said a level should always be used on a camera. Mr. George Scarnell advised the placing of a scale on the building, so that it might he reproduced in the photograph; he recommended a paper scale published by the Society of Antiquaries, price 6d. lie always used a whole-plate camera himself. A pendulum level should be fixed on the back to enable the vertical lines to be accurately obtained. A camera for architectural work should have its lens fixed at the top of the front, not in the centre, as in nine cases out of ten this would avoid the front being raised. An ordinary stigmatic lens of three foci saved carrying several lenses. He had largely used Wellington Ward's stipping films, which saved much in weight and had practically no halation. "Ortol" was as good a developer as "pyro" and it did not stain the fingers. Starch paste should only he used for mounting. He thought it better to over-expose rather than underexpose. Mr. Hugh Stannus described a mirror reflector he had made for photographing ceilings, etc.

this consisted of a piece of mechanically-planed glass carefully silvered, and was placed at an angle of 45 degrees with the camera.

<article title=" ECCLESIASTICAL ART IN IRELAND " author="">ECCLESIASTICAL ART IN IRELAND.



It is plainly evident from the address he recently delivered at a meeting of the Maynooth College Union that the Rev. J. O'Donovan, of Loughrea, not only holds strong and sound views on ecclesiastical art, but he knows how to express himself strongly. The talk of a revivial of industries in Ireland led him to urge a revivial of Irish art in church decoration. lie "went for" modern stained glass, sculpture, and painting as seen in the Church of Ireland. Stained glass, he remarked, is one of the most familiar forms of decoration in our churches. There is scarcely a church in Ireland that has not one or more stained glass windows. In some of the large churches the cost of those windows runs up L3,ooo or L,4,ooo. It may seem a rather Sweeping statement to make, but it is a statement upheld by every expert authority on art, that generally—indeed, in almost all cases—this glass is, from an art standpoint, beneath contempt. It is as a rule gaudy in colour, badly drawn, vulgar in design, and where perspective is attempted, false in perspective. It is, moreover, bad glass. There are many varieties of glass known by the very indefinite name of stained glass. There is pot-metal, which alone was used in the best period of stained glass. In this glass the colour runs through and through the texture of the glass, the colour and the glass being fused together in the pot. Then there is enamelled glass in which the colour is enamelled on the glass in soft pigment. When stained glass manufacturers advertise they always profess to supply a window, as the advertisement puts it, "best pot metal antique." When the window is put up it is not unfrequently very poor enamelled stuff.

There is, he went on, a craze for pictured windows, large and elaborate subjects that tell stories. This is a complete misunderstanding of the limitations of stained glass. In the thirteenth century, when the finest glass was produced, there were no elaborate pictures ; the effects were produced by careful leading and a most delicate choice of differently coloured glass. If figures were necessary they were outlined in leads, the feature and other details being worked in with the smallest possible use of brown pigment. The artist craftsmen of these times knew exactly what could be done in glass and what could not. They knew that the first quality of a window is to give light, and next if it is to be coloured its function is to give coloured light of the finest kind. For that reason the thirteenth-century artists always aimed at colour and translucency. Now the modern windows sin in almost every instance against this primary law. The function of the modern window seems to be to shut out light, or where it is let in to pass it through thick dirty brown or other paint with which the glass is thickly plastered. Take some good glass of the best period and compare it with the modern. The best examples 'are to he seen at Chartres Cathedral outside Paris. There are also a few fine examples which somehow escaped the vandalism of Puritanism in some of the English cathedrals—in York Minister, in the east window, in Salisbury, Lincoln, Westminster, and others. These windows, when the sunlight passes through them, are like mosaics of different coloured jewels, they never look gaudy because of the extreme purity of their tones. Sunlight through a modern window is robbed of all its beauty,

