<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	77



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



The selfishness of human nature has been exemplified by many Baltimore property owners who, taking advantage of the demand for accommodation created by the recent fire, have raised rents to double and treble what they were formerly receiving. Short term tenants were given the alternative of paying the exorbitant rates or finding new quarters.

*

* *

The difference between a municipal official who is

alive to his duties and one who looks upon his position as a sinecure, is well illustrated by the results of a recent change of superintendents of buildings for the Borough of Manhattan. The new superintendent reports :—"When I assumed office there were pending, exclusive of fire escapes and unsafe building cases, over 4,000 violations. During the present quarter, 2,167 new cases have been filed, 5,237 cases have been dismissed, and 757 cases sent to the corporation counsel for prosecution, leaving pending in this office 605 violations, 500 fire cases, and 735 unsafe building cases. Cases in which the time by the building

given 

code to the owner to comply with the law has not yet

expired, and they constitute the ordinary current business of this bureau, which is receiving our daily attention.''

	*	*

*



A case was heard before Mr. Justice Gibson recently in which Robert J. Dalzell sued Miss Florence 0'-Mahony to recover 1401. 168 9., balance due for work done and materials supplied to her for building purposes. The plaintiff is a merchant residing at Killorgin, County Kerry, and the defendant resides at Beau-

tort, near Killarney. She by her defence denied liability, and counter claimed for 631., and pleaded that the balance had been fully discharged, but lodged 5il. in court. It appeared that the defendant was her own contractor and clerk of works, and that she had obtained part of the materials for the building of her house from the defendant. He advised her against using a certain description of slate for the roof, but she disregarded his advice and followed her own will, and when it turned out a failure in the hands of slaters not used to it, she shifted the blame on the plaintiff. She had the house reslated, and, then counter claimed for the cost, 631. A large quantity of the correspondence which had passed between the parties was read, among which was a post card which the defendant addressed to the plaintiff, which was in the following terms:

"Deluge recommenced ; mastic cement not had time evidently to harden before the rain came, and the last rain has made it as soft as putty, and is calmly soaking through. I foresee we shall spend the winter in macintoshes, come down to breakfast under umbrellas, and keep a lifeboat attached to the pump instead of a fire hose. I shall expect you to supply all the above gratis."

Mr. Justice Gibson found for the plaintiff for 1241. 17s. 9d., and allowed the defendant 101. on her counter claim—The Architect.



Mr. John Clare, of the firm of Clare Bros. & Co., Preston, Ont., died suddently on the 21st inst. from a stroke of appoplexy. Mr. Clare, who was 56 years of age, was very highly esteemed in the community where he lived.

The Gilmour Door Company, limited Trenton Ontario Veneered Hardwood Doors