<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MEDITATIONS

IN A



CHURCH

" author="">MEDITATIONS

IN A



CHURCH

































A good old church always sets the eye to work measuring possibilities of application to modern conditions. The church I have been seeing for the last month is not at first sight at all suggestive of conditions in Canada. It is in the middle of a little nest of halls, two half timbered and one of Queen Anne brick; which all, beautiful in the first place, are made doubly so by being reflected in a series of fish ponds round which they are grouped. These buildings were the successive

redder stone than that of the body and are obviously additions to it. This evidence of piecemeal work may be encouraging for church builders who build for posterity; but, in addition to the fact that we are posterity and build for ourselves, it is not so very encouraging in view of the fact that, as completed, the ratio of seating accommodation to cost is such that it would cost a congregation somewhere between 8oo and 1000 dollars a head to reproduce it in Canada. Nevertheless there is no repressing the suggestiveness of the plan—a single rectangle. It is both more spacious, more handsome, and more economical than any other form, when it is properly treated and of an area within reasonable limits, and both scale and treatment are so right at Gawsworth that, after admiring it on many occasions, I have thought it desirable to get it down on paper and here is the result

The old body 40'.O"X29'.0" continues to be the body of the church. The chancel, though of the same width, and nearly as long, 33' 8", was built only for honour and glory, partly of God and partly of the family of the Fyttons. Here, nearer heaven by one step than the common people, they used to sit, and here are their tombs, with an inscription on one which proclaims them "Fit on's to wear a heavenly diadem." The Fytton are gone now. The last trace of them disappeared in marriage with Lord Mohun and it was for her inheritance, this very Gawsworth, that Lord Mohun fought with Duke Hamilton, as recorded by Thackeray in Esmond. Their tombs and their sixteen quarterings in painted marble remain, and make one wish that this kind of feature (fig. 2) could be repeated in Canada. Nothing seems to sanctify a church so much as these relics of vanity ; at least when there are recumbent figures upon them, (good recumbent figures,) to make one feel the presence of the dead among the living. And when, as in this case, the monuments remain in all their dignity while the family is gone







































FIG. 1.—PLAN OF GAWSWORTH CHURCH.



residences of the head of the family which built the church. They did not do it all at once, as is evident not only from the appearance of the stone but from the structure of the church. The portion marked off by corner buttresses was built first; it most likely had a small chancel proceeding from the east side, of less width than the body, but it had neither the present chancel nor the present tower which are both built of a

forever, it becomes a case of sermons in stones, of building better than the builders knew ; for the monuments which were ordained to perpetuate family honour point also to its evanescence. There is evidently something to be said for monuments, but most, I think, for life sized figures ; recumbent figures, I should say ; in marble ; in painted marble.

The great thing, however, is to get the church built.

