<doctype type="text">196	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



It is essential that brick facings should be properly bonded to the wall with headers. Metal ties and corner brick bonding (American bond) were proved inefficient. Capt. Sewell says ''face bricks laid up without other bond than metal ties were stripped bodily from the wall in large areas. This is a new and strong argument against a very prevalent pernicious practice, and it is to be hoped it will be the beginning of the end."

ARCHITECTURAL TERRA COTTA.—Captain Sewell says,



"there are records enough of hollow terra-cotta failing under expansion strains when heated. Still, it was thought that architectural terra-cotta was reasonably fire proof when used in external walls. Its behavior in Baltimore is a distinct disappointment, for it can no longer be classed as a fire proof material." It suffered worse than stone, for while all building stones spalled and chipped ''the terra-cotta cracked and fell to pieces, and in some cases its color was changed and the heat seemed to have destroyed its texture so as to render the material soft arid friable," and "highly ornamental terra-cotta suffered notably worse than that which was relatively plain." He suggested that "in the case of ornamental terra-cotta, it is possible that filling all the cavities with concrete might improve its fire-resisting qualities by preventing the exposed parts getting so hot as they do when backed by a dead air space, yet I saw some pieces of the Maryland Trust Building which had been filled with mortar, but which failed  nevertheless."

STONE.—No building stone can he used for protection against fire. It is unsuitable from this point of view, both for construction and finish.

The exterior stone facing of walls was usually badly broken. Marble and granite are especially susceptible to damage. Interior marble finish was practically all destroyed. Marble not only spalls like granite, though not so badly, but calcines tinder long continued heat. Capt. Sewell found that stone with projecting parts of any kind suffered more than similar stones entirely flush with the wall. The reason is similar to that which causes the damage to terra-cotta ; the projection of parts exposes a relatively small mass of the stone to sudden changes in temperature, while the body of the same stone remains relatively cool. This is true not only of mouldings and other ornament which projects beyond the ashlar face, but of variations in the ashlar face itself it is the spalled face of the Custom House which furnished him with the text of this part of his discourse, as he found this damage "aggravated by the fact that most of the ashlar was cut with raised panels in the centre."

PLASTER.—The National Fire Protection Association makes the conclusion that '' plaster blocks and plaster on metal lath are unsatisfactory for use as a fire-protective covering for columns or other structural metal work."

Plaster blocks, used to protect the columns in the Equitable Building, crumbled away from the columns and fell on the floor.

Plaster on metal lath had been previotisly found to be unreliable. It is especially susceptible to damage by hose streams. In this fire, Capt. Sewell says, '' metal lath and plaster failed everywhere." Yet, though plaster is not sufficient in itself for a fireproof covering it is not without value in a fire. ''Applied to other fireproof coverings " Capt. Sewell says, "it will in itself resist fire a long time and thus lessen the severity of the test for the material behind it."

Concrete. --All the reports speak well of concrete, though it does not appear in the conclusions of the National Fire Protection Association. Mr. Sachis wants concrete or composite metal and concrete floors in all business premises of the shop, warehouse, and factory class. He will admit terra-cotta for iron protection if nowhere thinner than two inches, and brick for partitions, but mentions concrete first.

Capt. Sewell's opinion is—" Concrete undergoes more or less molecular change in fire ; subject to some spalling. Molecular change very slow. Calcined material does not spall off badly except at exposed square corners. Efficiency, on the whole, is high.

Preferable to commercial hollow tiles for both floor arches or slabs, and column and girder coverings. In form of reinforced concrete columns, beams, girders, and floor slabs, at least as desirable as steelwork protected with the best commercial hollow tiles. Stone concrete spalls worse than any other kind, because the pieces of stone contain air and moisture cavities, and the contents of these rupture the stone when hot. Gravel is stone that has had most of these cavities eliminated by splitting through them during bug ages of exposure to the weather. It is therefore better for fire-resisting concrete than stone. Broken bricks, broken slag, ashes and clinker all make good fire-resisting concrete. Cinders containing much partly burned coal are unsafe, because these particles actually burn out and weaken the concrete. Locomotive cinders kill the cement, besides being combustible. On the whole, cinder concrete is safe only when subject to the most rigid and intelligent supervision ; when made properly, of proper materials, however, it is doubtful whether even brickwork is much superior to it in fire-resisting qualities, and nothing is superior to it in lightness, other things being equal."

One building in the Baltimore fire, No. I II E. German Street, which was constructed throughout— columns, beams and floor arches of reinforced concrete on the Hennebique system, had a severe test, as it was surrounded by non-fireproof buildings. Capt. Sewell reports of this building that in the lower storeys the concrete was absolutely unimpaired, though the contents of the building were all burned out. In the upper storeys where the heat was intense, (Prof. Norton found evidences of temperatures tip to the softening point of iron) the concrete was calcined to a depth of 1/4 to 34 in., but it showed no tendency to spall except at exposed corners. The exposed corners of columns and girders were cracked and spalled, showing a tendency to round off to a curve of about 3 in. radius. Capt. Sewell takes from this a hint to round such corners to a radius of 3 in, in the first place, as a preventive of cracking and spalling, saying it would " add much to the resistance " not only of concrete, but '' of all materials used in masonry, whether bricks, stone, concrete or terra-cotta—if they are exposed to fire." On wide flat surfaces the calcined material—which was here at the minimum of inch.—showed no tendency to come off, and Prof. Norton finds in this an additional protection against fire. He says :—" When brick or terra-cotta are heated no chemical action occurs, but when concrete is carried up to about moo degrees Fahrenheit its surface becomes decomposed, dehydration occurs and water is driven off. This process takes a relatively great amount of heat. It would take about as much heat to drive the water out of this other quarter-inch of the concrete partition as it would to raise that quarter-inch to 1000 degrees Fahrenheit. Now a second action begins. After dehydration the concrete is much improved as a non-conductor, and yet through this layer of non-conducting material must pass all the heat to dehydrate and raise the temperature of the layers below, a process which cannot proceed with great speed."

Prof. Norton could find little difference in the action of the tire on stone concrete and on cinder concrete. He considers that the burning of bits of coal in poor cinder concrete is often balanced by the splitting of the stones in the stone concrete. He notes, however, that, owing to its density, stone concrete takes longer to heat through.

(A second article	upon this subject will deal with lessons relating to planning and construction.)



A French architect, M. Penin, who has recently been building on the site of the Hotel Mascarni of Paris, an old mansion dated 1678, has nothing good to say of its construction. The floors, he says, sank by their own weight. In general there was little where there ought to he much, and much where there ought to he little. To this decline, from the perfection of French construction in the Gothic centuries, some ctue is given by M. Penin's account of a flue which was carried of small—and presumably of reduced—girth through the middle of the floor beams. An architectural conception thrust upon the plan instead of proceeding from it falsified construction alt through.

