	<doctype type="text;ad">80	THE CANADIAN ELECTRICAL NEWS



laid parallel with the under border of the beam, and the other four are bent upward into the form of a knot at the ends in order to strengthen their holding power. The proportion of cement with coarse sand is 1 to 4. Though the beams are made hollow, they have the same supporting power as though they were solid, with a great reduction of weight. This is an important factor where freight charges are to be considered. The beams, being hollow, offer also more favorable conditions for heating. The sides are ridged, so that the cement for joining them together can enter into the vacant spaces and thus form a solid mass. The laying together of the beams is done exactly as with wooden beams.

The beams are supplied in different lengths. In Lucerne they are made up to 5.5 meters (18 feet) long; in Italy and Germany, up to 6.5 meters (21.3 feet) long; and in Russia, up to 7.5 meters (24.6 feet) long. They can be used, in addition to floors, for terraces, roofs, staircase supports, and for walls where there is side pressure, as, for instance, in coal bunkers, warehouses, etc. It has been demonstrated that with a load from four to five times as great as the normal the beams have only bent to the extent of 1 or 2 milimeters (0.0394 and 0.0788 inch). The chief advantages claimed for these beams are: Great supporting power and security from fire; they come dry and hard from the factory and can, therefore, be used at once as floors for working on; greater facility and speed in building is secured by their use; freedom from excess of heat and cold by reason of their being hollow; thickness of completed floors is reduced by their use; the beams can be used as a heating floor by sending warm air through them.

The manufacture of the beams as practiced in the Siegwart Beam Factory in Lucerne, Switzerland, and in other European countries is very simple. They are

manufactured in layers of 2.5 meters (8 feet) breadth and not singly. The hollow spaces are formed by means of iron molds, around which the cement is laid and the iron rods placed in position. These iron molds are constructed so that they can be reduced in size by the turning of a screw and withdrawn when the cement has become hard. The beams are cut, before the cement has set, by means of a patent cutting machine, which can he placed in any position. Six to eight hours after laying the beams the iron molds can be withdrawn, but they are generally left to harden for four to six days before they are separated. After two to three weeks they are ready for delivery.

There are already a large number of buildings, both public and private, in Switzerland in which the Seigwart beams have been employed, and in all the buildings now in course of construction in Lucerne they are being used. At present there are three factories in Germany, three in Russia and one in Italy occupied in manufacturing beams under the Siegwart patent.



<article title=" MECHANICS' LIEN LAW " author="">MECHANICS' LIEN LAW.

At the recent session of the Legislature of British Columbia the addition of a number of sections relating to costs was made to the Mechanics' Lien Act of that province. The limit of fees in money or stamps payable to any judge or officer in any action brought to realize a lien is placed at $1 on every $100 of the claim up to $1,000, and this is only payable by persons other than wage-earners. The costs to the plaintiff in any action must not exceed 25 per cent, of the amount of judgment, besides actual disbursements. Where the costs are awarded against the plaintiff such costs must not exceed 25 per cent, of the claim of the plaintiff besides actual disbursements. Where the less expensive course is not taken by a plaintiff the costs allowed to the solicitor must in no case exceed what would have been incurred had the least expensive course been taken. To the costs of discharging or vacating a lien a reasonable amount of costs for drawing and registering a lien may be allowed, in addition to the costs of an action. Costs not otherwise provided for are left to the discretion of the judge or officer to whom application is made.



<article title=" PERSONAL.

" author="">PERSONAL.

Mr. J. A. Pearson, architect, of Toronto,

has recently returned from a visit to

Europe.

Mr. A. J. Rattray has recently commenced architectural practice in Toronto, his office being in the Canada Permanent Building.





<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



A Striking feature of the new cathedral at Liverpool, England, will be the height of the vaulting of the nave and choir. Measured in the barrel vaulting it will bc

116 feet, and in the high transepts 140 feet. No cathedral in the country approaches its height. The nearest is Westminister, the nave of which has a height of 102 feet, while York measures 99 feet then Salisbury 84 and Lincoln 82. Chester reaches only 78. The "whispering gallery' of St Paul's Cathedral is 100 feet from the floor.

Incombustible paint for woodwork is prepared by mixing together in a fine powder 20 per cent. pulverized glass, 20 per cent. porcelain, 20 per cent. stone (silicious), 20 per cent, calcium lime. Then mix these compounds with 30 per cent. of silicate of soda. The lime gives uncluosity to the mixture, and by partially combining with the soluble glass, makes a more intimate mixture. Other proportions of the several ingredients can be used, but the percentage of silicate of soda and lime

should remain as above. The mixture is applied to the surface in the same manner as ordinary paint. The first coat sets immediately, and the second may be given from six to twelve hours afterwards. Two coats are usually sufficient.





T.A. Morrison and company Montreal Pressed Bricks Stone Terra Cotta

Metallic Roofing company Toronto Fire-proof Glass Windows