<doctype type="text">198	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



house as much extension as possible on the south. The smaller size and different disposition of the drawing room make a change which relieves the interior— and also the front—from monotony. The dining room and kitchen arrangement is naturally made as compact as possible. The kitchen is all the better for retreating from the sun behind the front part of the house. In the case of the dining room this retirement is a concession to shade on the verandah ; but the dining room is in close and open connection with the living room, where there will be plenty of sun. It is interesting to see a return to the old fashioned vestibule, with external doors which, when not in use, fold back as panelled sides to the recess. The projection of the vestibule into the hall is made to tell on the inside as a pair of recessed windows on the long side of the hall.





<article title=" REVIEW

" author="">REVIEW

W

E have received a handbook for architects, on Locks and Hardware,* by Henry R. Towne (President of the Vale & Towne Manufacturing Co.), which contains definite information, such as an architect wants, about Jocks and other interior fittings, usually called '' Builders Hardware " in the United States. It is a general treatise with special illustrations, drawn for the most part from the products of the works under the management of the author. This though a distinct lead in the direction of Vale has less of the nature of a justification of the goods than of that direction to their use and guidance in using them with which we are familiar in the handbooks of the manufacturers of steel beams. The Yale productions are well known and anyone who chooses to take suggestions from this handbook will do so from choice, knowing beforehand the standard of quality and looking only for information as to what will suit his requirements. The information he will find is as follows, divided into ten Parts

Part I. History, the development of lock making and " Art Metal Working" in America ; chiefly a reprint of articles published at different times ; one by Montgomery Schuyler on Artistic Hardware.

Part II. The Mechanics of Hardware. A valuable section, explaining, by the help of illustrations, the construction and mechanical characteristics of locks and other articles. A knowledge of this is essential for a proper selection and application of hardware finish.

Part III. Art Metal Work & Ornament. This consists chiefly of historical studies of all the Schools of Ornament (thirty four of them, beginning with the Cave Dwellers and ending with the Colonial School), by W. W. Kent. There are a great many illustrations showing characteristic examples of the Schools and, when the Yale & Towne Co. have produced hardware in one of these styles, illustrations are appended, with page numbers for their identification in the classified lists given later in the volume. This part concludes with a section on metals and their finishes and one on the obscure subject of the momencloature of the finishes.

Parts IV. to VIII. give Classified Lists of Yale hardware Locks and Latches, Locks in Sets, Plain Hardware, Hardware Groups and Cabinet Hardware.



*Locks and Builders' Hardware, by Henry R. Towne. Profusely illustrated. John Wiley & Sons, 43 to 45 E. Nineteenth Street, New York.

$3.00.

All articles illustrated from photographs, all priced on a system which gives the relative value of different sets, materials, finishes, etc., and their absolute value near enough for the purpose of a preliminary estimate.

Part IX. Specifications and Forms of Contract.

Part N. Miscellaneous Information ; among other things a useful hint about drawing for hardware and some illustrations of different types of casement window construction. There is a glossory of terms, at the beginning of the book, with the motto at the top— "Accuracy in Language promotes Accuracy in Business. The promotion of accuracy is the purpose of the book and constitutes its value.



<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE " author="">CORRESPONDENCE

QUEBEC, December 3, 1904.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER:



Sir, —Among the usual number of pertinent articles in your last issue, I find "Suggestions from New Zealand as to escape from theatres in case of tire or panic."

The suggestions are all excellent; but would prove to be useless after a very short season of probation, as no theatre lessee could ever be made to carry them out on account of the curtailing of his profits by as much as it would cost nightly and yearly to pay men to attend to so many entrances and exits and especially in a climate like this, where, if emergency issues were provided with doors opening outward on to iron landings and stairs thc same would have to be attended to night and day after every fall of snow or because of ice and sleet offering an obstacle to the outward opening of the doors.

We have had a terrible example of this in the case of the Paris Charity Bazaar, where, though seven emergency doors had been provided, and were at hand to do the needful the wealthy promoters of the bazaar would not incur thc expense of as many men as doors, with instructions not to leave their posts on any pretence and to throw open the doors immedlately on the very Or mere suspicion of a fire or panic of any kind.

 Had this been done, not a single life would have been lost, though of course the inmates would have been the worse of a singed head and burnt shoulders from the burning and falling draperies from above, but all of which would have been restored, hair regrown, scars have disappeared within a few months after the occurrence.



The most instructive lesson in the way of escape from danger in the case of the burning of a theatre, was admittedly that of the latest Chicago horror, where during the conflagration of a new theatre, more than 700 persons lost their lives.

The commissioners named to report on the cause of the catastrophe, arrived at he conclusions which, had they been arrived at and carried out before the fire occurred, would likely have reduced the fire to one without loss of life and have saved half the edifice, the auditorium side, from destruction.



In this case there was on the auditorium side of the building a large ventilator or opening extending from the auditorium ceiling to and through the root of the building. This, as its name implies, was for the purpose of ventilation-—while over the stage end of the theatre there was no ventilator or opening of any kind. Now, say the commissioners, it is especially on the stage side of the edifice that such an opening should have been provided, extending from the stage ceiling to and through the roof.



The tendency of heated air and gases is, as must be well known, to rise vertically and seek an issue into the atmosphere. The hot air and smoke would thus have no tendency to rush, as it did, towards and into the auditorium through the proscenium arch to gain an exit by the auditorium ventilator.



The proscenium was provided with a fire-proof curtain or screen of asbestos. This curtain was not a rolling one but slid or moved up and down bodily, its ends being armed with slides which were confined by vertical guides for the purpose.

An attempt was of course made to lower this curtain or screen down to the stage floor, which would have effectually cut off the flames from reaching the auditorium side of the building but all attempts were unavailable to move the screen further down than to within fourteen feet of the floor of the stage due to the pressure which the current of heated gases from the stage end, where the fire occurred (and always does occur), pressing the curtain slides so tightly against the outer side or auditorium of the

