<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	171



each. If he can express his intentions artistically in brick or stogie, we may excuse his faulty details in materials like iron or wood or plaster. The result is that in building the power or ability to design is much more rare ; it requires more extended study of materials and trades than the designer in wood or metal, or any other single material. The artist in one material soon acquires a manipulative power over it he knows its structure and physical peculiarities, and he soon acquires the skill to handle it and to bring out its technical and artistic qualities. Thus in modelled design, in metal or repoussee-work, in tilework and pottery, the results are more satisfactory a shorter study is necessary in mastering the technical methods, and the designer, in short, is able to express his ideas more directly in the material. So the designer and worker in modelled work or metalwork or carving ought to be the same individual ; in the old days they were always so, and it is almost impossible to imagine a designer of sculpture or carving who was not also the sculptor or carver. So in other art-crafts where only one material is employed, like those of wood, or metal or plaster. The most satisfactory results are derived when the two functions of designer and handicraftsman are united. The students' work done in the London County Council Central School of Arts and Crafts is an effort in this direction, the aim being to supply those engaged in artistic handicrafts, training in design and manipulation which is now impossible owing to the subdivision of labour and modern mechanical processes. The modern workshop has not yet assisted in this direction, though to it we must look for new spirit and energy. In architecture the relations between design and craftmanship are more complex. Several materials have to produce the result, requiring a band of trained craftsmen under one head. And the more composite the building is, the greater is the effort required for a satisfactory result. Thus in buildings in which the effect is largely due to one material, say, stone or brick, more unity and harmony of effect is attainable than in a structure composed of various materials, each having its own limitations and methods of execution. Thus it is that in the designs contributed for buildings there is a larger number of failures than for designs in one material. In this connection the question of the architect being capable of executing his own designs (if possible) comes in. There are many who protest, and of course, the ''professional" architect is chiefly averse to such an idea. It is, of course, nowadays at least, quite impossible to imagine any such a union as architect and craftsman, although it is obvious it is all the better for the designer to have an acquaintance with the conditions and limitations of the work he is designing. But, as we have hinted, he would have to be a craftsman in each of the materials employed in a building —an impossible thing nowadays at least. Imagine a Scott, a Street, or an Aston Webb so engaged. As Mr. Walter Crane has put it, an architect would not be able to pay his rent and taxes if he did so; yet, he observes, with some force, " If a designer does not realize the conditions of his design and the nature of the method, and the materials by which it is to be carried out, he cannot practically design at all." We will not discuss the point now, or how far such a combination as an architect and craftsman is possible; but it will be admitted that designers have imparted some freshness into crafts that had sunk deep into trade ruts. It may be an ideal, but

not a practical mode of working. Designers of buildings and decorators must now intrust a great deal of their work to trained assistants such, for example, as the repetition of a pattern like a scroll or ornament, or the details of woodwork or ironwork. It would be wasteful of his time and energy for an architect to have to execute or even supervise every detail of a building. The workshop system is one way by which the difficulty can be solved— that is, a designer co-operating with assistants or craftsmen whom he can train and inspire, and from which hand of workers others may learn the craft. As one writer says, every designer should be able to take up the craft for which he is best adapted. There are some crafts which depend more on individual expression (as those of one material) than others. These are best in the hands of men who can design as well as execute in them.

Our leading artists and designets now look to the workshop and the studio as the main sources of inspiration. Mr. Ashhee has remarked that art must he carried on in the workshop and not in the studio, and he draws a graphic picture between the workshop and the studio. The latter is described as a " Happily situated nest somewhere in the region of villas and top hats ; it is fitted with all apparatus for the lighting, lifting, and wheeling to and from exhibitions of the large masterpiece, and it is ornamented with all the conventional gusto of the prevalent Queen in - Anne -ity. Within these are scraps of damask silk, bartered from Roman curiosity-shops, divers subjects under way, various Madonnas of the future, suggestions of decorative work sprayed upon the odd moments of panels. There is a cast from studios, a photogramme of Millet, a skeleton, and a lay figure. In the corner a pair of embroidered slippers. . . . The inmate for whom these things have their being works hard, appreciates the solitude and silence of his surroundings, and is comfortably conscious of his Bohemianism, In the afternoon there are lady visitors, and his servant brings in five-o'clock tea." The workshop is almost as light as the studio, though less pleasantly situated, and near the racket of some big thoroughfare. But what matters noise ? There is noise within hammering and sawing and what not. Nor are the internal surroundings as pleasant to look on. Blue whitewash takes the place of damask fragments and movable gas-jets of patent reflectors. The place is in a condition in which no housewife would enter it, and the glue pot is simmering on the stovepipe. As to the fittings, there are benches and racks for the tools and a good deal of grime. To hang up prints would be inadvisable . . . . The inmates of the workshop pursue their avocation with the regularity of clockwork ; a light in their faces, perhaps of an armed resistance to something and the dinner-hour at twelve o'clock is enlivened with the usual and discussion of racy paragraphs from the halfpenny radical prints. These are the two pictures ; but I hold that in the higher sense the proper place of decorative art is the latter." And the same writer goes on to say: "in the first place, the right understanding of forms of ornament elements of design—is only possible in their direct bearing on forms of material-—elements of construction. You need your basis of matter wherein to engender the spirit. You must understand the stone, the wood, the pigments, the clay ; what each can do, what its limitations are ; and this means an understanding—if merely for the sake of conceiving our

