<doctype type="text">182	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the expense of propriety and comfort. The house in which the necessary accommodation has to be " somewhat crowded" in order to admit a hall large enough to be planned as a sitting room is in the category of people who are at the distinguishing marks of those who are in a superior class. To give a small house the style of a large one and a city house the freedom of a country house is at the bottom of the feeling that prompts to made of the hail " a sitting room differing from others by the fact that it has no solid partition between it and the entrance hail." Cold comfort, one would say, and scant seclusion ! The separation of the staircase from the hail is another thing and there are some suggestive illustrations of halls in which the course of the stairs is concealed or partly concealed, sheltering the stairway from draughts and the persons ascending and descending it from observation. The writer in the Record thinks "these are always dangerous to the designer, because the raking lines of the stair are always difficult to manage and produce ungainly spaces, shapes and combinations." The application of this statement is evidently to the partly screened staircase, but the illustration, which shows a good deal of the stairs, does not suggest any danger to the design from their raking lines appearing, and certainly not one would think from their appearing less than usual. Much concealment meets the writer's approval

the more a stair can be built in between walls generally the better thing it is."

The living room brings out no special doctrine except the general assumption of such a room, (when it is not crowded out by a hall sitting room), and its qualification by a smaller room opening off it, which qualification may take either of two directions The small room may be a more intimate room into which to retire for greater privacy, the large room being practically a drawing room ; or the small room may be a less intimate room, intended to hold strangers off so that the large room may be devoted to the family and their more intimate friends.

The illustrations of the living room are however well worth studying ; but one should have a pretty strong reading glass with which to examine them, if one is not to be daunted by their apparent size. In order to receive a true impression from a photograph of a room it is necessary to get the size as nearly as possible in the position of the camera when the photograph was taken ; that is to say as nearly as possible against the surface of the paper. Otherwise the room appears much larger than it is ; being measured in an illusory manner by an instinctive extension of the perspective lines to a vertical plane at thc position of the eye. A good reading glass, giving nearly the true point of sight, enables one to realize the design in small photographic illustrations, and when the half toning process work is not too coarse, adds greatly to the pleasure of looking at them.

The section devoted to the dining room makes one in love with the circular dining table. There is in the first place, if not a saving of space, a better application of it. A table 5 feet in diameter is said to seat eight persons comfortably. That means a little less than two feet for each person at the table's edge. This would not do at a rectangular table, but when one reflects that the governing condition for seating space at a dining table is not plate-room but elbow-room, it is clear that the trapezoidal space occupied by a sitter

at a round table favours this, for the space increases with distance from the table and elbows do not (in the first families) come to the front. Moreover an important factor in chair spacing is room for service, and this is automatically taken care of, when the table is round, by the greater separation of chairs at the back.

So the round table has points in its favour beyond the square, which is also advocated in the Record

hut, as far as the room is concerned the conditions are the same ; "the long room will be found much modified." The oblong room is a fine thing and we may miss it, but not in a small house. There it is a crux, and a room that is square or approaching the square will fall in much better with the rest of the house. The room need not however be square ; there is other furniture, besides the table, to be provided for. The table may be placed at one end, and the attractive proposition is made (for houses in which summer is the chief consideration) to treat this end as a projecting bay which, if its windows are made to open up well, will be "almost the equivalent of a verandah."

Among the illustrations of dining rooms is one in which there is a high wainscot, finishing in line with the top of the door architraves and leaving just enough space between its shelf and the ceiling to place some oil portraits, all of the same square size. This would be fine if it were not that the portraits (no doubt in order to be seen) lean forward a little, and so come in front of the wall beam of a heavily moulded plaster ceiling. This is a pity but affords a suggestion that in rooms of moderate extent, which are finished in this way with pictures or decoration on the wall surface which remains above a high dado, that portion of the wall should lean slightly, as the portraits do in this inn the bed room section the principal point is advocacy of its arrangement so as to serve also as a sitting room, by partitioning off the toilet apparatus and (of bedroom furniture) leaving in view only the bed. The suggestion is made that we should take a hint from the hotels and place the toilet closet and the hanging closet on the inner end, leaving a vestibule to the bedroom between them. Most Canadians will require to be sunk a little deeper in civilization to come to this proposition cheerfully. The closet (with electric light or even with a window on the room side) is all right, but the proposal to light—and ventilate—the toilet room from the hall makes one's heart sink. With a rotunda down stairs in the hall and borrowed lights in the bedroom passages there would be too much hotel about the house. The writer, by the way, speaks of a fanlight over the bedroom door as if it were a recognized necessity ; it is a question whether it is not more generally recognized as a nuisance. In the very plan in The Record, which is supposed to have a fanlight, the proper means of bedroom ventilation is shown, in the shape of a bay window ; and unused, as one side is unlighted though there is no apparent objection to its having a window. We are too apt to stop our bay windows with the living rooms ; whereas in the bed rooms, where they furnish the necessary choice of direction, to avoid much exposure in a window that will remain open while we are asleep, (or in summer to get it,) the bay window is a boon. A circular window of the kind forms an essential part of the plan which is presented to us in The Record as perfect—and perfect it is. Here the toilet compartment has a window

