<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" A SMOKE CONSUMING DEVICE " author="">A SMOKE CONSUMING DEVICE.



A Toronto firm, the Smokeless Fuel Saving System Co., hold patents for what promises to be a practical solution of the smoke consuming problem, smoke, as is generally known, is the unburnt gases, arising from the fuel, which, being very light, are swept away from the heat and up the stack, before they have got hot enough to burn. Many ways have been tried to overcome this amongst others, being the introduction of live steam over the fire, which acts as a blanket holding the gases down close to the fire till they ignite. Extra draft, either by inducing or forcing and also mechanical stokers have been used with this object in view. All these have been more or less successful in eliminating the smoke nuisance, but they are as a rule held to be expensive and wasteful of fuel. The patentees claim for this new invention is that it assists, rather than detracts from the heating power of the fire.

By the use of a little steam and a little oil, introduced into a coil or retort properly placed in the bridge wall of the furnace,— which is of course red hot—large quantities of hydrogen gas are generated. By the use of a baffle wall, all the gases coming from the fuel on the grate, are deflected in such a manner as to thoroughly mix them with the air from the draft and compel them to come in contact with the intensely heating gaseous fuel projected from the bridge wail, where they are completely consumed, this aiding rather than hindering the efficacy of the fire.

The amount of oil and steam used in the retort is very small,

practically not worth considering.

A number of these fuel saving and smoke preventing devices

are in operation in Toronto and are said to be giving satisfactory

results.





<article title=" PERSONAL." author="">PERSONAL.

Messrs. S. Frank Wickson and A. H. Gregg, architects, have

recently entered into partnership. The new firm have opened

offices in the Toronto Trust Company's building, Yonge street.

Mr. L. Anger, having completed a course in the architectural

department of McGill University, has opened an office for the

practice of architecture at No. 64 St. Peter St., Quebec.



Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of every grade of japan and varnish

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto Marble Mosaic Floors

