<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	105



<article title=" THE MEANING OF ART." author="">THE MEANING OF ART.



The word ''art," and its adjective, ''artistic," are greatly misused, says a writer in Building News. The ordinary Englishman regards art as some sort of accomplishment or process of decoration by which an object, no matter what it is, can he made pleasing or artistic ; he thinks it can he applied like a coat or paint or a wallpaper, to any portion of a building or piece or furniture, or anything else, after it is constructed or made, and that the man who can do this is one who can draw pleasing or pretty designs, and can apply his ''art" to anything from a fire-grate or coal-scuttle to the decoration or a room. Such is the view of the modern Philistine in art matters. The true meaning of art or architecture is construction dominated by an idea or order or purpose, and the man who designs a building or a fitting or piece of furniture for a given purpose is the real artist. lie must commence to exercise his art at the very beginning—to shape his stone, wood or iron according to the use it has to fulfil, not to leave it for others to give it an extraneous expression, or by adding to it a few ornaments. If art, as Morriss says, is '' man's expression of joy in his labor," craftsmanship must be actuated by it. Art and craftsmanship must stand or fall together, and it should he our aim to bring them once more together.



<article title=" INVENTOR OF PORTLAND CEMENT " author="">INVENTOR OF PORTLAND CEMENT.



Very few of the thousands who make use of Portland cement, and still fewer of the millions who benefit. by its use, have ever head of Joseph Aspdin, the inventor of a material to which we owe many of the great engineering works of the present day. Aspdin was a Leeds brickmaker who, in 1813, conceived the idea of combining chalk with clay from the river bed, drying and calcining the mixture at a high temperature. In 1824 he patented the invention, and soon afterwards opened a small cement manufactory at Wakefield, and a few years later his son, William Aspdin, established a cement factory near Chatham. The peculiar advantages of the new material were soon recognized by engineers, and Brunel, as the Builder points out, was one of the first to make use of it, employing Aspdin's patent cement in the construction of the Thames Tunnel. It is true that rival claimants have arisen to claim the honor of inventing Portland cement, but it is now recognized by competent authorities, nut only in England, but also in France, Germany and Italy, that the palm belongs by right to Joseph Aspdin. The suggestion is now made that a public memorial should be used in Leeds to the inventor of Portland cement. The movement should meet with support in America, where the Port-and cement industry has shown more rapid progress and has reached greater proportions than anywhere else in the world.



The Royal Institute of British Architects have protested against the new drainage by-laws introduced by the London County Council which require, in duplicate, complete plans, sections and elevations of every floor of a building to be submitted not only in the case of new systems of drainagc but any alteration of an existing system.



Mr. G. Gilbert Scott recently read a paper on his design for Liverpool Cathedral before the Liverpool Architectural Society, in the course of which he said he had dreams of quite another style; but his ideas had not had time to mature. Gothic could not go much further it was nearly at the end of its tether, and before long would (lie out as completely as it did in the sixteenth century.

<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



A house in Nevada is said to have been constructed entirely of beer bottles and cement. I can easily conceive of many houses that might have been built but for the abundance of beer bottles.

x x x

According to tests recently made at Kew and Chelsea by Prof. Oliver, the atmosphere of London after a dense fog contains a deposit of acids and carbon exceeding 6 tons to the square mile.

x x x

Prof. Goldwin Smith asserts that the house in which he resides, known as " The Grange," was built in the year 1817 at a cost of only $4,000. The house is commodious in size and substantially built, in the English manor-house style. The interior is finished in oak and walnut, this material being used in abundance for wall panelling, etc. His old house serves as a concrete illustration of the tremendous advance which has taken place in the cost of building in Toronto during the last seventy-five years.

x x x

The expected contradiction has come to the announcement so widely published in the architectural papers of the alleged discovery that by the use of 2 per cent. of tannin in the moist clay the ancients made bricks which were 350 per cent. stronger than those made by our modern methods. In recent tests by Sege briquettes composed of 2 parts sand and

part raw clay broke when fresh at 0.56 kilogrammes per sq. centimetre, and after having been stored for three weeks, at 0.92; briquettes containing tannin broke at 1.01, those containing starch at 0.7; and those containing dextrin at 1.71 kilogrammes per sq. cm.

x x x

Dr. Warner, of London, is given as authority for the statement that small heads and physical deterioration are caused by living in high buildings. This conclusion is said to have been reached after an examination of 100,000 children. Unfortunately Dr. Warner has no intelligent reasons to advance why people's heads should grow smaller the farther skyward they go. Presumptuous as it may seem, I am disposed to doubt the accuracy of Dr. Warner's theory, so far, at least, as this side of the water is concerned. I have known persons whose heads not only did not grow smaller but actually got " swelled " as the result of living and doing business in a modern sky-scraper.

x x x

At St. Augustine's Church, Elkridge Landing, a suburb of Baltimore, a mortar-eating bug is reported to have been discovered by the parish priest, Rev. Francis P. Doory. The priest noticed that the brickwork and marble facing, back of thc altar, were falling to pieces and that the entire altar seemed to be in danger of collapse. He promptly called in some workmen, who discovered that the cement binding the marble to the brick had been eaten away. With the removal of the first slab a multitude of cobite bugs were disclosed, hundreds of which were captured. Placed in a pail with several pounds of the dried mortar the bugs proceeded to devour what appeared to be their natural food, thus definitely establishing their destructive powers. These bugs are said to he a new thing to the naturalist, and scientific investigation will he awaited with interest.

