<doctype type="text">124	THE CANADIAN ARCHITE T AND BUILDER



because no one would buy a stove out and out when they can hire so cheaply and so frequently exchange them. It is a matter of finance to the company. It pays them to let the stoves out at a nominal charge for the sake of the extra gas consumed. And now we know that the company will fit up a house with pipes and fittings free of charge, with a penny-in-the-slot meter—not from philanthropic motives, hut because it means a greater consumption of gas. All these things, small though they may be in themselves, tend to reduce the work available for plumbers.

Now as to the lighting of premises electrically. Here again we missed our opportunity as a trade, and again I must qualify this general statement. There were a few (but even those were somewhat late in doing so) who endeavored to commandeer this branch, which was at the commencement legitimately ours, whatever it may he now. At that time the electrical fitter was not. He had to be made. There were none at that time, and we as plumbers should have mastered this work, and so prevented it from slipping out of our hands. Whether this branch can be recovered I an very doubtful, because I think the electrical specialists are too firmly established ; but I do not wish to discourage the attempt to do so that is being made by several members of the trade, and I feel assured that the result depends upon individual energy and enterprise. Whether we ought to stand aside and permit the electrician to monopolize the whole of this work is a matter of opinion that can be freely expressed by you in discussion.

Hot water work, or, as generally set out on the shop windows, '' Heating Engineers." Why has this branch become specialized as it has of recent years I know this is the day of specialization, but I do feel that we as a trade have ourselves to blame for some of

it.



Perhaps it is hardly fair to put it that way either, in this case ; because we never heard of hot water engineers until the ironmongers got hold of the trade. In the old days the plumber had to do it all, and he was always ready to tackle any job that presented itself. But when the ironmongers were masters of the plumbers they employed, they had no respect for the success of the trade or the maintenance of its position. They employed anyone they liked to do the work, and so a distinct class of men has been created, now designated as "hot-water fitters," and to the detriment of the plumber.

Another important factor, too, must be considered, and that is the building of greenhouses and conservatories has developed into a special business. Firms undertake the whole of the work, inclusive of the heating work. So this branch has ceased to exist as an admitted branch of the plumber's trade.

It is assuredly worth our while to make every effort to get as much of this work as we can, and in passing permit me to suggest that we might, as a body of men deeply interested, spend more time together than we do in considering what means can be best adopted to regain our lost position, or, to put it another way, to secure as our legitimate work what should in all fairness belong to the plumber.

I think I have cited sufficient to prove a great diminution in the work of the plumber, notwithstanding the fact that the number engaged at the trade doubles itself every five or six years. And after the instances I have pointed out which serve to show a great reduc

tion in the available amount of work, you will ask how we have managed to live through it all?

Well, on the other side of the count we have to put the greatly increased number of houses fitted up with conveniences that would not have been done if the water supply was as it used to be. And again you must remember that we have been building new houses at a very rapid rate, and this new work has helped us. But we know it cannot always be so. Building operations have been severely checked of late years, and will probably be so for some time to come ; and it is when we have reached the limit of our building resources that the pinch will be felt so tar as it relates to the work of the plumber.

It therefore behoves us to carefully examine our position, and to ask ourselves if we are doing all we can to establish an equilibrium, by taking up other work in the same ratio as we have lost it and are losing

it. We can never return to the old order of things. The making of pumps and D-traps has gone, and can be buried as useless ; and in these days of progressive sanitation we would not, if we could, have them back again. 

The advantages of a constant supply of pure wholesome water to a community cannot be represented by a money value. It is one of the essentials of life, and a pleasing feature of the healthy advancement of our national and municipal progress. The abolition of unsanitary fittings and the substitution of those of a sanitary kind are also amongst the blessings of an enlightened age. We must therefore "wake up," and by facing our difficulties we shall know best how to meet them.

Permit me in conclusion to justify myself for the position I have taken up in including what may he called the outside branch of the trade. I have included them because each of these branches have been deemed to be a part of the trade, both during my apprenticeship and in my after life ; and because they are so considered even to-day in the majority of the shops in the provinces.

In large centres like London, Glasgow, and other places, it may be that lead layers stick to that particular branch ; and inside or sanitary work might be done by another set of men. And so with the branches of gasfitting, bellhanging and heating. But in this district I know from experience how very much one branch depends upon another, and while the specialist of our trade might be inclined to smile and think I have made " a mountain out a mole-hill," I feel assured that many of you who are able to see the matter through my spectacles will consider that the peculiar conditions of the trade justify me in so including them.



<article title=" PERSONAL." author="">PERSONAL.



Mr. J. A. L. Waddell, of Kansas City, Mo., has had the degree of Doctor of Laws conferred on him by the Missouri State University. Mr. Waddell is a Canadian.



Mr. Herbert B. Rugh, formerly of' the firm of Guilbert & Rugh, architects, Racine, Wis., has just opened at' office at No. 367 Main street, Winnipeg, and would he pleased to receive catalogues and samples from the trade.





A large number of members of the Institute of Civil Engineers of Great Britain are to visit thc United States and the St. Louis Exhibition in October as the guests of the American Society of Civil Engineers. It is said to be their intention to visit Montreal on September 20th and 21st, Ottawa on the 22nd, and subsequently Quebec, Toronto and Niagara Falls.

