<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	169



overhead track, and all framing should he inside, with flush boarding outside to throw off the wet. A paved approach laid to an easy fall leads to the stone entrance sill, which is on the level of the finished floor surface and about six inches above the level of the surrounding ground (see Fig. 1).

The chief figure which distinguishes the motor house from every other building is thc planning of the floor, and it is in regard to this that great care must be exercised. Whatever the size of car to be housed, a pit must be provided for cleaning and inspection purposes, and it is advisable (though not necessary) in the case of a double motor house to have two pits, one for each car, so as to avoid the frequent changing of position which would otherwise be necessary. I will, however, confine myself to a single pit. This should be not less than 3ft. wide and 4ft. 6in. deep (see Figs. 3 and 4). Length will depend upon the size of car ; but it would he as well to anticipate a little and make it, say, from 9 to 12 feet—the latter size being, in my opinion, the maximum requirement for any make of private car. The pit may be brick built with rendered faces, and with floor finished as the floor of the house, and no care or expense should he spared to render it thoroughly watertight. The drain will discharge outside over a trapped gully, with small inspection pit built up, or an ordinary syphon-pipe with extra inlet carried to ground level (to form inspection eye) may satisfy local requirements. Around the pit is laid a 7in. by 5in. hardwood curb, securely fixed to the brickwork of the walls, the curbs laid in the direction of the length of the pit being rebated to receive the movable covers (see Fig. 2). The curbing should be laid so as to be 4in. above ground level, as otherwise (i.e., with a flush or nearly flush curb) there is a danger of the car mounting the curb and sustaining serious damage by a fall into the pit. Pit-covers are best made in small light sections, so as to he easily moved, and they must be strongly framed (to take the weight of the heaviest car) and provided with flush handles for lifting. Personally, I do not see the need for a cover at all ; but owners seem to like them, and after all it is a matter of small moment. Step irons should be built into the brickwork of the pit for access purposes.

The floor itself may be formed of any non-slippery, impervious and hard-wearing material—asphalt or tiles for preference. Around the pit a 4in. glazed stoneware channel is laid flush with the floor and butting against the woodcurbs (Fig. 2), and the floor is best made to fall in every direction to these channel pipes, which discharge eventually in the open over a trapped gulley. With raised kerb and the channels no trouble can arise from water finding its way into the pit.

Lighting and heating are matters which require more or less special consideration in each case. I have mentioned the importance of plenty of light ; in fact, the simplest way is to "pier" the walls and fill in with solid frames and casements, having small top lights to open for ventilation in addition to the casement sashes themselves, which may all he stayed open in favorable weather The roof-lantern will afford constant ventilation in practically all weathers. Heating is a necessity, whether by hot-water pipes, radiators or open fires

—the selection being left to the judgment of the architect, upon a consideration of the most suitable system. The life of a car (and especially of its working parts) is very much prolonged by housing it in a warm, dry,

equable atmosphere. Artificial lighting is another matter which must be regulated by local facilities ; to discuss it here would be a waste of space.

Lavatory and water-closet should both he provided, together with a wardrobe for motor garments, rugs, etc., and a drying-room—fitted with pegs, battens and slatted shelves—for the reception of the same after a wet run. The drying-room will need to he well ventilated for the escape of moisture, the heating arrangements depending upon those adopted for heating the motor house. A small workshop is a very handy thing to have in connection with the house ; hut where expense precludes the provision of this a bench (fitted with vice, &c.) should be fixed in one corner of the house, and racks provided with tools, spanners, wrenches, &c. Wooden harness pegs are eminently adapted for spare covers, and a row of these should be placed in some convenient position. Water must, of course, be laid on, and it is a wise plan to have the taps fitted with unions for hose connection. Petrol is best stored with other oils in a separate building (of however rough a nature), detached if possible.

As to the size of the motor house itself, this will again naturally depend upon the size of the car, but ample room must be left to get round on all sides. Excluding the space required for bench, cupboard, lavatory, &c., a safe size for a small car is 10ft. by 14ft., and from this one may go, in the case of larger cars, up to 14ft. by 2Oft. It is the biggest mistake in the world to cramp the building, as an extra toot or two by no means entails a proportionate initial cost, whereas structural alterations for the accommodation of a larger car may mean a heavy expenditure. —B. WYAND in London Builders' Journal.



<article title=" CHAINS USED IN BUILDINC CONSTRUCTION " author="">CHAINS USED IN BUILDINC CONSTRUCTION.

St. Paul's Cathedral, with its celebrated dome, higher outside than inside, was completed by Sir Christopher Wren about two hundred years ago,and he put an

iron chain round the base of the cone. The construction of the wooden external dome, the support of the stone lantern by an inner cone of brick-work, quite independent of either the external or internal dome, are wonderful examples of Wren's constructive ingenuity.

In the '' Parentalia," written by Wren's grandson Stephen, partly in his own words, partly in those of his grandfather, is this passage "Although the dome wants not butment, yet for greater caution it is hoped with iron in this manner ; a channel is cut in the bandage of Portland stone, in which is a double chain of iron strongly linked together at every 10 ft., and the whole channel filled up with lead."

