<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



The revival in England of glass painting, which at one period threatened to become a lost art, has, during the past forty years, made such progressive strides as to mark a new epoch in the art work of Great Britain.



"Look here !" cried the victim, "you said that house was just a stone's throw from the station." "Well ?" enquired the real estate agent. "Well, the distance is half a mile at least." "Is that all? Time and again I've seen a blast in a quarry that would throw stones upwards of a mile. '—Philadelphia Press.



"Fire Marks" of fire insurance companies are conspicuous objects in London houses and recall the old days when only such buildings as were so distinguished from those not so "adorned" were entitled to the services of the firemen in case of a fire. These badges consist of embossed leaden plates, which originally were colored gilt, and bore on them the distinctive sign of some particular insurance office, often with the number of' the policy added. Some are very curious, and are being carefully preserved by the London county council to form part of the

contents of a future municipal museum. Quite a number have recently been taken off from the walls of some old houses that have just been removed in the clearance made for the new thoroughfare from Holborn to the Strand.

A short time since, the side wall in a large building in a western city bulged so far Out of line that the authorities intervened and a total collapse of the structure was looked for. The difficulty was remedied by connecting the two opposite walls across the building at short intervals by two-inch rods with nuts and heavy washers on the ends. Alternate rods were heated and the expansion taken up by turning in the nuts. Then \as the wall was drawn in by the contraction of the iron on cooling, the  remaining bolts were heated, and in their turn tightened, and the process repeated until a bulge of sonic eight or ten inches was effectually counteracted. This process is an excellent one when it is carried out intelligently. But we remember one occasion on which the same system was tried, but the strain on the rods was so great hat, though they expanded with the heat, they were simply pulled out again under the contraction, and it was the rods instead of the brickwork which gave way.

The Milton Pressed Brick Company Limited Milton Ontario Bricks

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto Window Mosaic Glass