<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

















<article title=" NORTHWEST NOTES " author="">NORTHWEST NOTES Branch Office of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



720721 Union Bank Building, WINNIPEG, October 14, 1904.



The unchangeable wet weather of the past month has greatly hindered the work of finishing buildings in the city and all classes of work are behind hand in consequence. As the cold weather is approaching, contractors are doing their utmost to complete the many buildings on hand, and evcry endeavor is being made to get all outside work finishcd before the winter sets in.

Last tall quite a number of buildings were continued far into the winter, hot the expense of supplying the necessary heat when bricks and mortar have to be kept hot to prevent them from freezing, and the additional time required for work on account of the intense cold makes it almost a prohibitory proceeding. We understand, however, that rafter than carry some of the buildings under progress over until next spring, that they will he continued through the winter, providing sufficient materials are to hand. This in the winter is very difficult t. provide for. Here again the question of transportation comes in, as freight moves more siowly in winter than in summer.



There are quite a number of interesting structures under construction The new Free Press building on Portage avenue and Garry street is well advanced and about ready for roofing. It is of steel frame construction with concrete floots and consists of four stories and a basement. The frontage is 42 feet on Portage avenue by 150 feet on Garry street. The outside is of Tyndall stone to the ground floor, Lac du-Bonnett pressed brick and stone trimmings for the upper slories, finishing with a copper cornice. The building is to he of the most modern fire-resisting construction, having iron and slate stairs. The interior is finish ed in oak on the ground floor and in ash above. It is equipped with the Wabash system of heating and is supplied with its own electric plant for lighting, operating the presses, etc. It will be the most up-to-date newspaper building in the Dominion, having some 40,000 square feet of area. The cost will be about $175,ooo. Mr. H. Stone, of Montreal and Winnipeg, is the architect. Messrs. H. R. Ives & Co., of Montreal, have the contract for tile iron stairs.

Tile Manitoba Club is anotlter fine building, Oil which work will he continued throughout the winter with the object of reaching completion in the spring. It occupies a very suitable position on the coriler of Broadway and Fort streets. The plans show two wings, hut at present the east wing will he omitted and added in the future. The building is being constructed of red sand ntould brick and Bedford limestone and will have a frontage of 96 feet on Broadway and 82 feet on Foit street. The first and second stories are for club purposes and the attic and hasement for attendants quarters. Separate suites of rooms will be provided in which the ladies can give private parties. For these there will also he a private entrance. There will be a large lawn at the rear of the block on the south side. This again is adjacent to the old Fort Garry Park, where the old fort gate is keep in good repair as a memento of by-gone days so that the Club House will always have a large open space at the rear. The building alone will cost $80,000; it is to he richly finished and decorated. T. F. & W. A. Peters are tile architects.

Another large building that is nearing completion for the present is the warehouse of Messrs. Teese & Peerse. I say "for the present as it is tlie intention to put an addition to it next year. The l)ortion now being finished is Go x 66 ft., five storeys and basement, but when the whole building is completed it will be 240 ft. long by 66 ft. wide. It is of mill construction and designed to carry 6oo lbs. to the square foot, live load. All windows are fire-proof, made of galvanized iron and wire glass. It has a private siding, being built on the C.P.R. track at tile corner of Primicess street. The present work will cost about $25,000 and after tIle addition is built it will cost about $100,000. H. Stone, of Montreal and Winnipeg, is the architect, Plaxton & Co. are doing the heating, Cotter Bros. tile plumbing and J. A. Payne the painting, all of Winnipcg.

J. H. Hough is building a large warehouse on Princcss street which will he occupied by the Alaska Feather and Down Co., Limited. It will be 66 X 117 ft., 3 storeys high with basement, with two additional storeys to be added later, and will cost abotit $25,000. Darling, Pearson & Over, of Toronto atid Winnipeg, are the architects.

Darling, Pearson & Over are also the architects for the new Post-office to be built Oil Portage Avenue next to the Free Press building. It will be one of the finest buildings in tlte city. Ten. ders are to he in by October 17th, but only the foundation will he done this fall.

Several other large blocks will soon he occupied by the tenants. Builman Bros'. seven-storey building omi the corner of Bannatyne Ave. and Albert St. will be occupied as offices.

Another large stone and brick block 130 X 44 ft. is almost completed. It is on Portage Ave., is three storeys and arranged for stores atid offices.

The Macdonald & Wright Block, also on Portage Ave., is about ready for the tenants. It is built of local brick and stone and is three stories ; also intended for stores, offices and residences.

Messrs. A. Carruthers, Bros & Co. are just completing their building on Logan Ave.; it is 125 x 66 ft. amid has three doors.

H. S. Wilson has a large block 105 x 45 ft. on the corner of Mcl)ermott Ave. and Albert St. almost finished. It also is for stores arid offices.

There are numerous other large business blocks that are being finished of which mention may he made later.

The past season has seen considerable progress in tlie direction of providing apartment blocks for Winnipeg, something that was verv much needed. Although quite a number are beimlg built still the demand has not been met as is evident by the large number of applications for suites of rooms, in spite of the tact that rents are very high. A very substantial apartment block built of brick arid stone on Cumberland Ave. will soon he ready for occupation. It is very well arranged in three floors steam heated, electric liglut and every modern convenience. Each floor has two suites complete in every detail. Another block of a similar class is being built on Notre Danle Ave.. also a large one three stories high on Fort St., one out Main St. in the north part of the city, amid another just commenced on Smith St. near Portage Ave.. One would think the demand for offices and apartments would be well supplied by the etid of this year, yet one builder tells nie he has had at least forty applicatiouts for a suite of rooms in his block and it only contains four suites.

Up to the present time there have beemi 1,552 building pertnits issued, covering 2,017 buildings, at an aggregate cost of $8,536,700. This is $3,300,450 above the amount of last year up to the same date. Winnipeg has something to he proud of in the fact that into other city on the continent can reach her in this years building valuation. New York comes sccond and Chicago a poor third while others follow on down the list.

Simuce writing these notes we regret to say that Bullman Bros.' fine new block previously nientioned has been completely burned, also J. H. Ashdown's large retail store, just opposite, which had recently undergone considerable alterations atid improvements, was completely gutted.

We regret to say that Mr. V. W. Horwood, architect, whose plans were accepted for the Public school at Fort William, is in Winnipeg Ilospital very low with typhoid. His brother, E. L. Ilorwood, architect, of Ottawa, is attending to the detail plans.

A large block 132 x 130 feet is being commenced on the south-east cormier of Portage avenue arid Domiald street, just opposite the T. Eaton block. Mr. J. A. M. Aikens is having it built and will fit it up to suit tetiamits. Mr. Woodman is the architect.

Ttue Dominion Express Company's new stables on Alexander avenue east, have just beemi opened. They are of modern fire-resisting construct ion]. TIle present capacity is for 25 horses and rigs. Mr. Woodman is also tlte architect for this building.

Sproats, Rolph & Chrysler are the architects for C. H. Camp- bells new house. The tenders were let for $18,500.

The large additiomm to tIme Winnipeg Electric Street Railway will soon he completed ; further particulars of which will be mentiomled later.

Tile C.P.R. subway will he ready for opening by November tat and next month we may he able to give a description of the work. The new station, offices, Immigration buildings, etc., are making rapid progress amid are being rushed as rapidly as possible, as the present state of things causes great inconvenience to all comicermied.

Thie C;umadian Northern Railway are also building a new station at Carherry. It will he up-to-date and will cost about $6,ooo. Mr. N. H. Fraser, contractor, has the work in band.

Summing up tlte situation iui the buildimig trade we find all the contractors in a fairly satisfactory cotiditiomi regarditig the buildings they Itave on hand. Here amid there a building has beeni delayed for want of material, andl bad weal her has hindered bumildinig. Unusual quantities of rain have in cases caulsed trouble with the excavating and the foundation work, bult on the whole nearly all buildings will be in good shape when winter sets in. Inside finishing work cami thus he done during the winter. The towns throughout the province are in the same condition ; all building is well in hand for the winter.

To say that the contractors have had a busy season is putting it mildly, as most of them have had so much oii hand that they hardly knew what to do first. Architects are very well satisfied and have plenty of work ahead of them to get into shape for next spring.

