<doctype type="text">134	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



marble buildings, are now in a great measure factory made, and delivered ready to he placed upon the walls or whereever they may be needed.

Machine and stuff, so far as architecture is concerned, cannot be said to be a gain in the direction of art, though, from an economic point of view it has its advantages. It has enabled us to build well with a greatly less expenditure of money than building operations, would cost were we dependent upon hand labor alone, and it is also the cause of a great deal of building that would never take place but for its co operation. It is quite certain that much of the building to be witnessed in our great cities is due to the existence of wood manufacturing firms, and were it not for their transactions building operations would have to be greatly curtailed. These advantages, however, are gained at the expense of true art.



<article title=" MONTREAL LETTER " author="">MONTREAL LETTER.



No. V.



Some fairly extensive additions are now being made to the Law Courts and this leads the Gargoyle to make certain reflections with regard to this building as a whole. The characters of individuals are expressed in their dress and conversation and may he readily discerned in the things they make, or do or get made and done for them or even in the objects they select and purchase to surround them in their daily life. Just so the character of the citizens must be discernible in their public buildings. Architects or builders of whatever degree of skill or accomplishment are simply taking the ideas of their clients in verbal instructions and rendering them back to them in stone, lime, wood, or whatever material may be ordained by those who order. It will be just therefore to examine the courts which a city Las built in which to have justice administered and to judge of the city itself thereby. Let Montreal then in this matter pass tinder the architects cross examination.

This building is of no mean dimensions showing that the citizens had a sense of the importance to them of Justice, who, in a city which invites traders and workers from all ends of the earth to the continual friction incident to busy commerce and great material enterprises, must not he huddled in a corner to do as well as straightened circumstances will allow her, hut must have ample space to exercise her rule. Rightly also the Law Courts stand quite in the busy haunts of men, and yet free from actual contact for the hands of Justice must be clear of the strife she is to judge. Though in the lower part of the city the Courts with their neighbour the City Hall crown a small ridge sufficient to make them conspicuous in the city itself and also from all more distant points of vantage.

Approaching from Craig Street, it is with pleasure that one comes into the spaciousness of the Champ de Mars and raises the eye towards the two large buildings which dominate the open space from its farther side. The Parade Ground itself has a painfully arid look, but the young trees which demurely dot its borders give promise of a pleasanter future. The manner in which this ground is terraced high above Craig street affords a noble base for the two chief buildings of the city.

All this is very satisfactory and makes one eager to make acquaintance with the features of this home of Justice so wisely and advantageously placed. The best view is obtainable from Craig street, and the expectant glance meets with a rebuff that sends it staggering in the direction of the City Hall to catch if possible some gleam of hope, but only to recoil once more to find perhaps a little rest and comfort in the simple honest faces of those buildings which from St. Gabriel street have reviewed the manoenvy ring troops for a hundred years.

These buildings actually have their backs turned towards this fine space ! Why, yes, they must have hacks somewhere you know; and Notre Dame street and a superior class of business have their claims on the other side. But why such aggressive backs anywhere? What has Craig Street done? Is it Justice that should wear good cloth in front and shoddy on her back and turn uncompromisingly upon the poor? If through lack of gold her dress cannot all be of finest stuff at least why not of one good web throughout? Last week we spoke of the Batik of Montreal, and taking a cast back along Craig street one may there see a

stately, stalwart, honest back enough, not overlaid with elaborate drapings but having only the simple necessities of the ease wrought into an organic expression it rises straight and simple from footpath to cornice a 'living' wall of stone.

This matter of the back of a building is one in which the Monteregians have a particularly rooted misconception. There is little doubt that this arises from the fact that in Montreal excellent, stone is obtainable at no very great cost but brick is more readily obtainable at a less cost. Hence it has become a habit, and a very irritating one it is, to make buildings with a stone front and brick sides and back. I suppose people who like houses of this sort must be the class which wears one character on Sunday and another the rest of the week. The only presentable one is for Sunday wear and meets with much acceptance from those like minded. The stone front to the brick villa is of a similar value. It is not virtue but it is a homage paid to a virtue too expensive or too troublesome to he actually maintained. There are certainly better ways of meeting the case. Seine models of a very sensible and legitimate method exist among the works of Mr. Norman Shaw, as for example the buildings of Scotland Yard in London and the offices of the White Star Line in Liverpool. Both these grand buildings stand on bases of hewn stone or granite and the upper stories are constructed of brick with the occasional introduction of bands or members of stone in such a manner as to make of this intermarrige of materials a decorative motif of distinct architectural value. The nobler material thus keeps helping out its humbler fellow all along, and together they form a unity and not a motley assemblage of elevations.

But we have wandered from the Law Courts. Let us return and try to feel thankful that the back was not built of brick. Let us suppose that the apparent one sidedness of Justice is not occasioned so much by the poverty of Craig street as by the well known distaste of Lower Canada for an aggressive militarism here only to plainly represented by a drilling ground and a drill hall. Likely enough Justice is only very properly refusing to countenance dragooning operations.

The original law court building has been one of quite considerable quiet dignity and force of character, its from in quiet retirement behind a little grove of trees has still a pleasant expression of dignified calm. This structure has consisted essential y of a basement or ground storey of chamfer jointed masonry stir— mounted by two stories unified in point of design by large Ionic columns extending through both. The main entablature has then formed a crowning member to the whole building, which, though broad and simple, is not without an agreeable variety of features. Unfortunately this has not been considered sufficient for the needs of an increasing city. On the top has therefore been added another storey in the form of a classical "attic." built indeed of stone but crowned with a cornice and balustrade, both apparently of sheet iron. In the centre of all rises a kind of saloon deck in a number of stages surmounted by a dome. All this portion is executed in        well, some Toronto man might read this, so I don't like to mention what t he top of our Law Courts is made of, but the owners are doing their best for it and have just given it a nice new coat of paint which makes it look as like stone as can he expected—that is to say, very unlike it indeed.

Now Montreal who is to blame for this ? Will you put the blame on your architect ? The most inferior architect I ever knew would have preferred to use stone, and the more inferior he might he the more reasons would lie have had for using stone—the superior man could only have one. Moreover the hand that is displayed in this additional work shows a greater sense of refinement than that which controlled the original building, which though honest simple, and robust, inclines to harsh ness. Surely the citizens that have had the seat of Justice in their midst thus stuck with cheap trappings were wanting in respect to Justice and to themselves.

Let us next have a look at the works at present in progress. It would be expecting too much that these should entirely redeem the situation, tacked on as they are in an odd corner facing a narrow street on the opposite side of which are some old buildings between St. James street and Notre Dame street. For the sake of the Law Courts it would he welt if this block of buildings could be removed The new buildings though standing well in view along the eastern and finer part of St. James street, do not occupy any definite relation to that thoroughfare. We have sufficient faith in the architectural soundness of the original building to wish that an effort had been made to bear it out in

