<doctype type="text">76	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



intercourse, and with that end in view monthly meetings have been established, where discussions take place on subjects pertaining to our profession, and it the members would only realize the benefit that would accrue to them by taking part in these meetings, a better attendance would reward our efforts.

These meetings arc bound to establish a friendly spirit of good will and toleration. Such a spirit is a necessity without it our Association would be useless and but for it alone, our existence is justified.

Such is a very superficial resume of the work undertaken and accomplished during the past five and a half years. It is not all that might be desired by any means, but I have endeavored to look at the question from an unbiased point, of view, and, while

pointing out the good work that has been done, I am not in the least backward in acknowledging its imperfections and shortcomings.

We have been criticised on more than one occasion and on several counts. I do not question the right of arty member to criticise the acts of the Association or the Council, fur such criticism carried out along certain lines would result in much good. Constructional criticism is at all times beneficial, for it

not only points out the evil but it comes forward	 with a remedy.

Destructional criticism can he used to advantage, for if it does not point out the way to go, it at least shows up to disadvantage the way travelled, but what I object to is that system of criticism of the negative type that stands aloof and simply says that the Association has done nothing and that no good can be got Out of it. These critics cannot evade their responsibility; they have no right to sit on the fence and arbitrarily say that we have done nothing, for if such be the case then they are as much responsible as any member of Council for it implies that they knew what to do under the circumstances hut refrained from tendering their services. The Association at all times welcomes the member who is willing to take his share of the work, and the pity is, that there are so few who seem to realize their responsibility in the matter. The mere fact of having a Council does not remove this responsibility from the shoulders of the members, and the Council have at all times welcomed suggestions arid well directed criticisms on the work.

To the criticisms that have been applied to the tariff, I have already referred, and to those who question the actions of the Association, with respect to illegal practice, I would remark, that it is not the first duty of the Association to prosecute such offenders. If such was the reason of our existence, I would heartily say "Perish the Association." It is necessary for every city to have its system of police, yet the mere necessity for having this protection is not the cause of its being. Police are necessary for the holding in check of law breakers, hut the duty of the citizen is to keep the law and to foster and conserve its best interests, arid so it is with our Association. Legal proceedings are an unfortunate necessity, but by no means of first importance, and in

our zeal for the welfare of our Association,	we should not let

this phase of the question blind us to our higher duty-to safeguard the public interests as pertaining to our work, to raise the dignity and standard of our profession arid to foster that "Esprit de corps" without which our efforts would be abortive and valueless. Did we obtain the charter in order to prohibit certain individuals from practicing or to obtain a tariff satisfactory to all minds? If such was the idea of the founders, why was it not expressed? It was riot expressed, simply because such matters were recognized as mere incidents. The organizers of the Association had a higher idea of their responsibility and in the fulfilment of that responsibility, they had to sink everything that appeared personal or mercenary. What does the preamble of the charter of the Association say? "Whereas it is deemed expedient for the protection of the public interests in the erection of public arid private buildings—and to insure a standard of efficiency in the persons practicing the profession of Architecture." Analyze this clause and we find that the charter was granted, first, because it was deemed expedient for the protection of public interests secondly, to establish a standard of efficiency, or in other words a recognition of the necessity for professional education; and thirdly, with the object of advancing the art of architecture. And again the Association was incorporated, according to the second clause of the preamble, for the object of the "acquirement and interchange of professional knowledge amongst its members, and more particularity the acquisition of that species of knowledge which shall promote the artistic, scientific and practical efficiency of the profession of architecture." In the face of such high arid dignified ideals, does not the criticism of mere incidents seem trivial, arid the laying of emphasis on such questions as tariff and legal proceedings, appear selfish and mercenary?

Do riot misunderstand me—I do not say that we should not prosecute persons practicing illegally, or that we should not make a serious endeavor to amend our tariff, but I do say that such questions are not of the vital importance some would have us think, and, I am sometimes afraid, that in laying too great stress on these question, we may lose sight of greater opportunities to do good, arid in the effort to catch the shadow, lose hold altogether of the substance.

In my remarks on the work accomplished, I suggested the lines along which the future work lies. We cannot and must riot remain stationary ; we must go forward accepting our sell' imposed responsibilities with feelings of thankfulness arid in the full realization of our duty ; seize hold of the opportunity given us to advance the interests of our profession in this fair Dominion as a whole, and in the section known as the Province of Quebec in But this can only be done by and with the help of every individual member of the Association. But hew can this

be done? By the fostering of that "Esprit de corps" which is a primary necessity, where persons are brought together to act collectively for a given purpose, and I think that you will all grant there is room for improvement in this respect.

This will hardly be disputed by anyone. on the general aspect of the question at any rate, although at the same time it is gratifying to acknowledge instances are by no means uncommon where we have received nothing but the most considerate treatment at the hands of our confreres. Yet we must admit that these instances are far too uncommon, and where it ought to be the rule it is more often the exception. It is not where we have direct intercourse with one another that the want of " Esprit de corps is most felt, for then our self respect compels us to act so that our motives are riot open to question, but it is on occasions where our actions may remain undiscovered ; when nothing but brotherly consideration arid common fairness should determine our course, and when the hope of personal advantage must be weighted in the balance against our dirty to our confrere, it is then t fiat we deplore the dearth of that spirit which ought to imbue the disciples of that world-old profession, which is our's by adoption. The want of brotherly feeling is iii evidence on all hands. We see it in the petty jealousy which questions the public encomiums bestowed upon a confrere. We see it in the refusal to acknowledge any good work done unless it is done by ourselves. We see it in the willingness to accept work at any commission so long as we cart prevent it entering another office, and we see it in tire avidity with which we rush to throw our services at the feet of any one whom rumour credits with the intention to build. How can we expect sincere individual effort for the advancement of our profession and art under such circumstances? We are arrayed one against another instead of working hand in hand. Still I do riot consider the solution a helpless one—far from it.

There are many reasons to which we can ascribe the present condition of affairs arid without going into them all, may I touch on a few.

And the first is, that we are Colonists. Now I do not use this word in any depreciatory manner, but merely to describe the conditions and circumstances under which we undoubtedly labour. I mean by this, that we belong to a country comparatively in its infancy, whose population is composed of people gathered from the four winds of heaven or of descendants of those who only a generation or' two ago, made this the land of their adoption. We have consequently not yet reached the period when our people shall be knit together by the kindly hands of time and when a common tradition shall obliterate our kaledoscopic origin. We may point to our profession in the countries of Europe, and lament the want of a similar Esprit de corps" in our own midst, but that condition was not gained in a year, neither in one hundred and fifty years. The follower of our profession in Europe can pride himself on the fact that he is walking, humbly it may be in the footsteps of the Masters, whose names and works are held in world-wide reverence. He is imbued with that spirit of tradition which deifies the most common-place object; while we may only look back a few years to the time when the Chief's wigwam was the Parthenon of the land, or to more recent times when the standard bearer of our

profession went around with his T-square made plan in one hand amid his kit of tools in the other.

Again, these are the days when the spirit of personal aggrandisement permeates every action. We will never return to the days when the personal gratification, engendered by love of our art, shall he considered full value for the labour expended. Who among us to-day would be willing to give our labour for the mere pittance often grudgingly given to the old masters? It is well to recognize the fact that the world is a very poor respecter of persons, and that the "survival of the fittest" is the gospel proclaimed day after day from the house tops. In this struggle for existence, we must not he surprised therefore, if, in some instances the corners of the finer qualities of mankind become ragged; but, recognizing the force of circumstances, let us stand shoulder to shoulder, giving mutual assistance and presenting a solid front to the varied influences that in many ways threaten the very foundation of our profession.

As a remedy for the present condition of affairs, time alone will he the great antidote.

True, much can he hoped from some of the influences which can be brought into play if we only take advantage of them. One I would mention is, such schools as McGill, where, under the influences of the broadmindedness of its professors, a band of young men is being trained up under the same masters, under the same influences and in the same professional atmosphere, and, it is but. natural to expect that when they take their place in the ranks of practicing architects, that their treatment towards one another and to their profession, shall he governed by that brotherly spirit which at all times is to he found amongst students having a common Alma Mater.

The second, is that power which is lying dormant in our' Association, and it lies dormant purely through the indifference of the individual members.

If this Association will only use its inhierent power to establish a proper "Esprit de corps" among the members, it will have justifed the fact of its being. That it has the power to do so is apparent to those who are accustomed to meet here though solely Oil business matters. But as an Association merely, we will he powerless ; it requires the assistance of every individual member, who should, in the full realization of the noble profession to which he belongs and which contains Oil its roll, names that stand out as beacon lights, illuminating the surrounding darkness of doubt and superstition, sink every feeling that does not redound to the glory arid advancement of our profession.

