<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	7'



cities, but not for the quality used by the contractor. Thus, an architect who specified wood where he should have specified steel, will be liable if thc building he endangered on that account. On the other hand, if lie specify a material commonly believed among architects to he proper material lie will not be so liable.

A very much more important and interesting question presents itself with respect to thc architect's liability for detects in the ground, where lie only furnishes the plan. This point is very much controverted. Some of the French authors and notably Lepage and Guillonard consider that the architect has no responsibility with respect to the soil, inasmuch as he may never see it, but that the contractor who is on the spot must answer alone for this. On the other hand, though this guarantee may seem almost too rigorous, there is the question of public order and safety to he considered, and the sounder eon-elusion would seem to be. that the architect is charged with this responsibility. The proprietor asks for a plan for a certain piece of ground. How then can the architect answer for the soundness of his plan if lie does not examine the ground? How will he be able to tell of what depth his foundation should he without a careful examination of the soil? This, it seems to me, is the very first thing lie should do and besides is a thing which falls specially within the sphere of his particular knowledge. Without such an examination his foundations will be the merest guess work—someone must be liable. Shall it be the contractor alone, who, as a rule, has not so special a knowledge as the architect in that respect, and who, on discovering the fault in the soil will have to conic to the architect to notify bin, that his foundations are insufficient, and that he would do well to visit the ground in order to get some idea of what his foundation should be. Surely not. A defect in the soil is intimately connected with a defect in the plan because the plan must vary according to the soil. An error in this respect would he rather an error of conception than of execution. I am, therefore, of opinion that the architect is liable for defects in the ground even when he only furnishes the plans and specifications. It goes without saying that these defects in soil for which the architect is liable, are only such as a careful man, versed in his profession would discover upon a reasonable examination. The architect's responsibility then, is this: that he must answer for his

plans, for the nature of his materials, and for the soil for which lie has drawn his plans—and, of course, tinder the common law for his own fault which causes damage to the owner, even when the solidity of the building is not in question. If, for example, he were asked to give plans for a school capable of accommodating five hundred pupils, and after construction it was found that 300 would crowd it, lie would he liable in damages for this fault. If, however, as is generally the case, the architect also direct the work, his responsibility is still more weighty. Besides, all of the obligations to which the architect who only furnishes the plans is held, lie must warrant their proper execution, must see that the materials are of the proper quality and are properly used, and, generally speaking, is responsible for everything in connection with the building.

Not only, in this case, is the architect liable for defects in the soil, but he is liable for defects in construction which are only such on account of the peculiar situation of the building. Thus, for example, if the house is to be erected on a high bank exposed to heavy gales, it would be a vice of construction to roof it with slate if experience had shown that that class of roof could not properly resist heavy winds.

With respect to materials furnished by the owner, the architect is not liable unless a reasonable examination would have shown him their defective nature. if, on the other hand, they are furnished by the contractor, there can be no doubt of his liability, saving always his recourse against such contractor.

All defects absolute or negative other than those of soil or material may lie called defects of construction—such, for example as too weak foundations, insufficient dimen

sions of any of the materials, or a lack of proportion between the different parts so as to affect the solidity of the structure.

In addition to all this there is a presumption of defect in construction under the law, when a building threatens ruin within ten years without extraordinary reason.

But not only are the architect and builder jointly and severally liable for their own work, but they are liable where they have gone on with work already commenced by others the architect is liable where the plans are furnished by another architect, and the builder is liable where lie goes on with work commenced by another. The leading ease upon the subject is that of Wardle Bethune, which was carried to the Privy Council, The facts in. that case were as follows ( R.L. 637) —Wardle, a builder, contracted to build Christ Church

Cathedral, in Montreal, according to plans furnished by an architect and upon foundations laid by a previous contractor and approved by an architect having charge of the work. Before the cathedral was finished the tower sank and damaged the building. The cause of the sinking was found to he the insufficiency of the foundation as planned by the original architect and constructed by the former builder. This defect, though not patent, might have been discovered by Wardle. It was proved at the trial that Wardle had no knowledge of, and took no part in the testing (if the soil or in the designing or planning of the building or foundation. Under these facts the Privy Council held that the builder was responsible for such defects amid was not freed from liability either by acting under the direction of his employer's architect, or by reason of the fact that the defective foundations were the work of

previous builder. This judgment was a confirmation of judgments already rendered iii our Superior amid Appeal Courts.

The legal question was very fully gone into on both sides amid a mass of authorities cited. Counsel for Mr. Wardle argued that as the foundations were not contracted for or executed by him lie could riot he liable for any defect in their execution nor for any defect in the soil upon which they were built. He was only bound to put the building on the foundations as they stood, and having done that properly lie hail no further liability. The plans and drawings were made by an architect employed by the Cathedral, and lie, and not the builder, should he held liable. For the Cathedral, the ease of Brown vs. Laurie, the leading case in our Courts, was relied upon and it was contended that both under the old French law and under our law the builder who constructs on insufficient foundation is liable even though lie acts under the orders of his employer's architect. If the obligation to answer for the foundations is a necessary part of the obligation to warrant the stability of the building, how can a distinction he made between a builder, building on his own foundation, and a builder building on a foundation made by another builder. And if a builder is riot relieved by following the directions of the architect, how can lie he relieved, by the fact that the foundations were already laid, from time duty of examining them. In this case, as in all others of this nature, time element of public policy is not to he lost sight of. In rendering judgment in this ease, their Lordships referred to Brown vs. Laurie, and adopted the principles there laid down.

Their Lordships, after a discussion of the case went on to state, that the broad general rule of law—the rule certain for architects amid builders in the execution of the works entrusted to them—is that there is annexed to the contract, by force of law, a warranty of the solidity of the building, that it shall stand for ten years at least

that the approval and directions of a supervising architects, -, or his omission to ascertain the nature of the soil of the foundation, by known amid available tests does not exonerate the builder from the consequences of following sin direction, or of building on the foundation without making himself sure of its sufficiency.

In connection with the same building, Scott, the architect, sued Christ Church Cathedral for commissions due him. The defence was that the Church had suffered dam

