<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	131



<article title=" WREN'S CHURCHES " author="Langton, W. A.">WREN'S CHURCHES.



(SECOND ARTICLE)



In a previous article an example was given of one of Wren's plainest plans, which is nevertheless a pleasing and interesting- church. It would be going too far to say that the plainest plans are the most impressive, but the greatness of the impression compared with the simplicity of the means is striking-and instructive.

There are only three further developments in the members of Wren's church plans, apart, that is to say, from the shape of the plan which was varied in several ways. He added a sacrarium or sanctuary, a single aisle, and a double aisle. It might he added, as additional variations, that the aisles were sometimes galleried and sometimes not.

Of the sacrarium plan, All Hallows, Lombard street, is a good example (Fig. 1). Wren went no further

































1. PLAN OF ALL HALLOWS, LOMBARD STREET.



than this in the development of the East end. There was no thought, in his day, of placing the choir at the east ; the communion table alone had to be provided for, and this recess, which is 20 feet wide (or 18 feet between the pilasters at the angles), is handsome with out being unmanageably large. The great difficulty connected with its insertion lies in the junction of ceil ings ; for the sanctuary should not be a hole in the east wall, But should rise to the fullheight of the church and its ceiling should rut) with the main ceiling Fig. 2.—SECTION OF CEILING OF ALL HALLOWS, LOMBARD

STREET.



Wren's way of managing this was to have a main ceiling with a large cove and to penetrate the cove for the sanctuary. The ceiling:, which is shown by dotted lines

on the plan, has a cove 6" deep and 8' o" in projection, terminating- in a large roll and cornice (Fig. 2) which runs round and makes a central panel 32 0" X 44' O"—a field for decoration in secular work of this period, but never so treated in these churches. The windows in the north and south walls of the church have round heads, springing like the cove from the top line of the cornice ; so the cove is penetrated for the windows, which are so spaced as to break up the cove into continuous penetrations, and these are continued over the blank spaces on the east and west ends, which have round-headed recesses to supply the motive. The central penetration of the east end forms the inlet of the sacrarium ceiling. This penetration is about feet wider than the others. The feet of increase is accomplished by an adjustment of the angle of penetration, which must produce a flatter curve, but the eye cannot discover its difference from those on each side of it.

The extent of opening that can be spanned in this way is limited by the size within which a ceiling cove must he kept ; so that the expedient does not solve the difficulty of reducing the width of a single span body for a choir (which would be wide as compared with a sanctuary) while keeping continuity of roof. It is, however, a question whether this difficulty is not better accepted than solved, for the choir is better of the same width as the body than narrowed to make a sort of cave in the east wall of the body.

It is hard to say, in view of the 156 feet width of the single span of the new Roman Catholic Cathedral of Westminster, that the width of the body of a church can ever be too wide for the choir, if there is length in proportion ; but, though the choir needed for a church 350 feet long will be no more than suitably housed in a choir 156 feet wide, should the church be 156 feet wide and compelled to be about the same in length, it is time, on account of both practical and proportional suitability, to take to columns.

Wren, as a church builder, is usually thought of in connection with his largest churches, with their double colonnade and galleries ; but he used columns in many different ways, to reduce his churches to a convenient form that could he economically roofed. There is not much evidence of any gradual development of his types one from another, but the dates of completion of the churches show that he favoured certain types more atone time than at another ; and in the last ten years of his practice there arc four little churches of one kind which, though their idea appeared earlier, may be taken, by their frequent appearance at that time, to represent ripe judgment. This type is the one-aisled plan. The difference between one aisle and two aisles is greater than the difference of an aisle. In a one-aisled church the appearance may be said to be that of a body with an aisle appended. When there are two aisles the composition is made by the aisles ; it is an aisled church the distinction between body and aisles becomes a mere matter of nomenclature for convenience of reference to locality ; there is no separation in the mind. What makes this difference between one aisle and two aisles is of course the solid wall on one side of the one-aisled church. This limitation is associated in the mind with the other side also, so that the body is felt to be the church and the aisle an appendage.

When first seen in plan, such a church may appear to have an uncomfortable lack of. symmetry, and perhaps it is not for nothing that this type is confined to

