<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	87



used and employed in the erection of buildings or other structures, and who are not members of any Journeymen's Trade or Labor Union.

2.	To establish and maintain among the individuals so associated a just and equitable system of dealing, and a uniformity in commercial usages by rules and





































































IVEY BUILDING—H. C. MCBRIDE, ARCHITECT.







regulations ; to acquire, preserve and disseminate valuable information regarding the business in which they are severally engaged.

3.	To procure (either by lease or purchase), furnish and maintain suitable rooms for the use of its members for meeting rooms, offices and other purposes.

4.	To establish and maintain a system of adjustment of all disputes or controversies which may arise between its members or between its members and their employees and other persons, and for that purpose to act in concert with similar organizations.

One of the first subjects brought before the Exchange for its consideration was that of a uniform contract drawn up with a view of securing justice and fairness to all the contracting parties. In Winnipeg, as elsewhere, the want of such a form of contract has been keenly felt. In its absence, contractors have been obliged to consult and pay for the services of a lawyer to examine every contract which they were called upon to sign. Frequent objection was made by the lawyers to the terms and conditions of the contract, causing trouble and delay. It is the hope of the Builders' Exchange that a form of contract may he adopted which will be satisfactory alike to architects, owners and

contractors, and which will do away with the difficulties which have been experienced in the past. As a united body the Exchange will also be in a position to deal with other difficulties such as inadequate transportation, delayed cars and unfair and excessive demurrage charges, labor troubles, etc. The Exchange will furnish a list of its members with their names and addresses to the architects of the city, and request will be made of the architects to furnish the Exchange with a copy of all plans and specifications for its members only. It is expected and hoped that next winter lectures and papers on subjects of interest to the members may be obtained and presented at the meetings.

Taken altogether the Winnipeg Builders Exchange will be, as in other large and growing cities, a source of great benefit to all identified with the various building interests, and if loyally supported by the members will become, as elsewhere, indispensable.



<article title=" THE TORONTO FIRE " author="">THE TORONTO FIRE.

The accompanying photographs illustrate the class of buildings that met their fate in the recent conflagation.





































































EFFECT OF THE FIRE ON WAREHOUSES IMMEDIATELY EAST OF



THE IVEY BUILDING.



Part of a Copyrighted Photograph by Galbraith Photo Co.





Some idea of the intense heat can be had when stone fronts like this are fairly melted.

The IVEY building was saved only on account of the fire wall at the side. It is one of Toronto's modern warehouses—the front above the ground floor windows being built of New York pressed brick and trimmed with Roman Stone which is in itself a fireproof material.

