<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	29

<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ANNUAL CONVENTION.





The President: Mr. <person>W. L. Symons </person>opened the Convention by calling on the Registrar to read the minutes of the last Annual meeting. The Registrar explained that as the published proceeding gave a detailed report of all that transpired the minutes had been shortened as much as possible.

Mr. Gregg then read the minutes which were adopted.

The President's address followed.

PRESIDENT'S ADDRESSS.



Members of the Ontario Association of Architects

in your 16th annual convention assembled:

In my address to you to—Day I shall not dwell on the growth and work of our Association during the past year, as you will have evidence of these in the various reports to he presented to you this afternoon, the discussion of which will fully bring into view our years progress. Truly our own affairs are of the greatest importance to us as an Association; but there are matters that concern us, taking issue in the world about. of which as architects we should take a much closer view than we are inclined to, tinder the strain of our ordinary business responsibilities.

A succession of prosperous years has probably reached the climax in 1903. This year has been of unexcelled prosperity in our Province and throughout our Dominion. Every branch of trade without exception, has enjoyed a measure of expansion beyond expectancy. New industries have sprung into being older ones have greatly developed, and oil every side the results of good times are seen. The trades and manufactures with which we most closely come in touch, have probably never had such demands for their products, and in some instances contracts that almost to go a-begging.

Yet all this abundance and prosperity has left unanswered some questions at issue for years, which we promised that when the good times came, and with them ease, and time to think some of these grim intruders to our feasts would be dealt with.

The most unsettled question which concerns the interest of Ontario to-day is undoubtedly the labor question. All remember the strike'; last spring between t he painters, carpenters builders' laborers, marble cutters, steel erecters, and their respective employers. In fact, almost every branch of the trades with which we as Architects come in contact in a business way, was severely disturbed.

It is not necessary for me to dwell on the value of the work unproduced, or figure to you the loss to the workers or employers, or the loss to the public through the unfortunate disagreements,  but instead to endeavor to propose a remedy, or at least to ascertain what other communities have done under like conditions.

The Legislature of New Zealand, in 1894, passed "The 'Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act.'' That law, which under the administration of the Minister of Labor, enacts that any society consisting of not less than two persons in the case of employers, and seven in the case of workers, lawfully associated for the purpose of protecting the interests of the employers or workers respectively, may register as an ''Industrial Union.''

The Act created Boards of Conciliation as well as a Court of Arbitration, to which Unions be came subject upon registration.

Next Zealand, for the purpose of the Act, is divided into Industrial districts. Each district is given a special Board of Conciliation which

has jurisdiction for the settlement of industrial disputes arising within that (district only.

This Board consists of fixe, or such unequal number of members as the Governor may deter mine, elected for three years, the members being chosen in equal numbers by the respective unions of employers and workers in the district, and they appoint their own chairman. Industrial disputes of any nature may be referred to the Board upon proper application, and the Board is to carefully and expeditiously enquire into such disputes and all matters relating thereto.

The decision arrived at takes the form of an agreement, to which the disputants are made parties, and upon signature, is filed in the office of the Department of Labor.

In case the recommendation is not accepted the whole matter may be referred within one month to the Court of Arbitration for final adjustment; if not so referred, then the Board's

 recommendation		becomes operative	and enforce

able in all respects as if an agreement had actually been made.

The Court of Arbitration is composed of three members appointed by the Governor, one on the recommendation of the employers union, one on the recommendation of the workers' union, the third being a judge of the Supreme Court, who acts as president. Time members of that Court also hold office for three years.

The award of this Court is to be given within one month from the close of the dealing. If any party, on whom the agreement or award (as the case may be) is binding, commits a breach of the agreement or award, the Court has the full amid exclusive jurisdiction to enforce the same, as provided in time Act.

The Act also particularly provides that when an industrial dispute has been referred to the Board of Conciliation neither party to the dis-

pute shall take part in anything of the nature of a strike or lock—out, but time relationship of employers and workers shall continue uninterrupted

by the dispute. Any persons not observing these provisions of the Act can be treated as offenders.

That Act seems to have been generally accepted, as we find that time number of disputes adjusted under it during time first six years of its operation amounts to 205, of which 44, or over 20 per cent., relate to building trades.

In the year 1901, 103 awards were made, of which 16 dealt with building trades; in the year 1902 the number increased to 225, of which 30 were in the building trades. The returns for 1903 will show a still greater increase of references, thus showing the popularity of time measure.

In 1901 the New South Wales Legislature appointed a Royal Commission to examine into time labor dispute question generally, and Judge Backhouse, who was made one of the Commission in his report says:— ''The Act so far has been productive of good;

it has prevented strikes of any magnitude, and has, on the whole, brought about a better relation between employers arid workers than would exist if there was no Act. It has enabled the increase of wages, arid other conditions favorable to the workingman, which under the circumstances of the Colony they are entitled to, to be settled without friction and bitterness of feeling which otherwise might have existed. It has enabled employers, for a time at least to know with certainty the conditions of production, and therefore to make contracts with the knowledge that they would be able to fulfil them; and indirectly it has tended to a more harmonious feeling among the people generally,

