<doctype type="text">102	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER













<article title=" NORTHWEST NOTES

" author="">NORTHWEST NOTES





Branch office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



310 McIntyre Block, WINNIPEG, June 14, 1904.

At the last monthly meeting of the Winnipeg Builders' Exchange it was unanimously resolved that the Exchange adopt the Uniform Contract and that members of the Exchange shall sign no other, the uniform general conditions of which arc as follows

The Contractor will set out all the works in accordance with the specifications and drawings and have all necessary levelling carefully done and assist at any time or times that may he desired in testing any of the said works.

The Contractor is to employ a competent foreman for each different branch of the trade.

No portion of the work is to he sub-let unless by written consent of the Architect.

The Contractor is to furnish all transportation, apparatus, scaffolding and utensils needed for performing the work.

The drawings, figures and details arc to he considered part of and as illustrating the specifications and must he carefully followed. the details are intended to be final concerning all sizes, lines, etc., therein set forth and are not to be deviated from without the written direction of the Architect. Figuring and notes are to he more authoritative than scale sizes, not only in the details but in all drawings, otherwise sizes are to be scaled as accurately as possible and followed.

If the plan and specifications contradict one another or are ambiguous the attention of the Architect shall be drawn to the fact and his decision obtained before the work is undertaken.

The Contractor is to he responsible for all violations of the law caused by obstructing streets and sidewalks to obtain correct lines (except side lines) and grades from the City Engineer ; to comply with all requirements of the building by-laws of the City to take out and pay for all necessary permits for all temporary obstructions and enclosures, and to pay all proper and legal fees to public officials; to be responsible for all damages to neighboring proprietors caused by the construction and carrying out of the work in a negligent or improper manner and to hold the proprietor harmless from all claims in respect thereof, and at the completion of the work shall remove all rubbish and waste material from the building, grounds and street and leave the same clean and relay all sidewalks that may have been removed or damaged through the progress of the work to the satisfaction of the Architect.

If at any time the Architect considers any workman incompetent, the Contractor will be required to dismiss the same if requested by the Architect so to do.

Should the work run on until the cold weather, Contractor must heat the building at his own expense if necessary for the completion of the work to he done by him and to the satisfaction of the Architect.

All drawings and specifications are and shall remain the property of the Architect.

The visitor to Winnipeg cannot fail to he struck immediately with the air of prosperity with which he is confronted; on all sides he is face to face with a spirit of progress and confidence, which speaks well for its future and carries the conviction of an established prosperity, and stands in somewhat striking contrast with the deliberate steady ways of the eastern provinces. Undoubtedly Winnipeg has secured for itself not only the premier place among western cities, bot fixed itself as the great Commercial City of Western Canada.

The advancement of Canada's Prairie City is clearly marked by the aspect which meets the observer on his journey through the principal  streets. Side by side with the fine modern structures which arc rapidly springing up on all sides, are still to he seen many of the original one and two story buildings looking strangely antique in contrast to the present-day sky-scraper which is fast gaining popularity.

Perhaps one of the surest marks of success is to he seen in the continual flow (if commercial men passing through the city.

The great scarcity of hotel accommodation is another indication of the city's rapid progress. There are altogether some fifty hotels in the City, all catering for the commercial community. Until recently this was considered ample for the city's needs; now, however, hotels are finding increased difficulty in meeting the demands made upon them, and are finding it necessary to make preparation to supplement their present accommodation.

A large block known as the Assiniboine Block, and at present used as an apartment block, has just been purchased by Messrs. McLean Bros., and is to he converted into an up-to-date hotel. The building is situated in the Main Street, and when completed is expected to he one of the finest hotel structures of its kind.

O'Connor's Hotel on Main St. is also to be replaced by an imposing new building, designed by Mr. J. Cadham, which will he fitted up with the latest improvements.

The permit for the C. P.R. Hotel and new station has been granted. Work is expected to start at once. All the details of this hotel are arranged with the greatest precision, and whilst the outward design is perhaps somewhat plain and uninteresting, it is skilfully planned in point of utility and equipment.

The Queens Hotel on Portage Ave. is to be remodelled under the direction of Mr. Sam Hooper. The plans, which have been submitted, show a well arranged building.

Tile Leland Hotel, which stands on one site of the City Hall Square, is also to be remodelled. A new billiard room is to he furnished, a new bar and saloon, and additional stories added, which

will bring up the capacity to one hundred and thirty bed rooms. The work is under the direction of Mr. F. R. Evans. This hotel stands adjoining the new Union Bank Building now under construction.

The St. Nicholas 1-hotel is also being remodelled, and an annex is to be added. This work is also under the direction of Mr. F. R. Evans.

The Windsor Hotel is in process of complete renovation. Under Mr. Evans' supervision a new front is to he installed and additions which will greatly enlarge its capacity. The National Hotel is also to he altered and enlarged from plans by the same architect.

An imposing block of business warehouses in the occupation of Messrs. Tees and Persee, Limited, has just been sold to be converted into a hotel, an(l work is expected to commence at once. The block is prominently situated on Market Square.

A scheme has just come to the front in which the proposal is to erect a mammoth hotel on Main St. to have some 250 bed rooms, and equipped in the most approved style. The promoters are prominent local men.

It will, of course, be some time yet before all this work is completed, and, at the present rate of progress, it is not at all unlikely that the additions will scarcely meet time natural increase of business.

The building permits issued up to a recent date, and which cover in the main, either business premises or dwellings, give a total of some 1,100 buildings, at an aggregate cost of nearly $5,000,000, and it is not expected that this will materially relieve the situation. To this amount should he added the cost of the C. P. R. Hotel and station, the amount of which has not yet been published, but which is considered to he in the neighbourhood of one and half millions.

The City Hall, which occupies a fine position in the centre of the city, is attractive in appearance, is not scarcely commodious enough, although, at its erection a few years since, it was thought to have been sufficient to provide for all expected development. The insufficiency of accommodation in this building will, however, he met in a measure when the new Library is completed by the removal to that building of the present library, reading room, etc., thus giving additional space (or offices.

There arc quite a few fine business blocks in course of erection, prominent among which is one for Messrs. Miller, Morse & Co. on McDermott & Adelaide Streets, forming a block some 260 x 98 It. It is to be 5 stories high, and will he of mill construction. It is worth noting that this is the first building in Winnipeg built on this principle. A prominent feature is to he the main doorway. It is to he arched, finished in carved stone, with oak door with grill work in upper panels. The lower stories of building will be constructed of rock face natural stone, the upper part in stone an(l white brick. The architect under whose direction the work is being executed is Mr. J. Cadham.

There are many conditions with which the builder in this district has to contend which are not met with elsewhere. One of these has been very apparent recently owing, in part, to time recent heavy fall of rain. On one of the main thoroughfares some excavations had been made ready for the foundations of a large block, but owing to some delay were not immediately proceeded with ; in the meantime the heavy rain had come, with tile result that although the perpendicular sides were considered to he sufficiently shored, the whole of the sidewalk for some distance fell in, the soil below having shrunk owing to its peculiar nature, the heavy weight of the cement sidewalk bulged out the under soil until the timber supports below were forced out. This occurrence is attributed to the peculiar nature of the soil, which carries some distance below the surface a layer of "shale," very much of the nature of quick sand, and which, when disturbed, is a great source of danger. Builders often find it necessary to provide against this peculiarity by supporting the end wall of a range of buildings during erection until the building is well pinned together and sufficiently strong to carry its own weight.

At another point in the city a similar situation exists, hut of a more serious nature, involving danger to a neighboring building. In this instance the Contractor had made his excavations ready for his

foundations right up to the adjoining property.	 During the night

the whole of the wall adjoining, and which to all appearance is a most substantial one, sank bodily several inches, without previous warning or showing any sign of cracking (except at tile point of parting.) The cause of this particular accident has yet to he decided, but it will, in all probability, he traced to the above mentioned cause. The subsidence caused quite a panic at the time and the building inspector, Mr. Rogers, was hastily summoned. He at once set to work to protect the building, which was done by strapping through and through at top

and jacking up the wall above the foundations.	By this means the

building has been raised to almost its former position.

The Winnipeg Builders' Exchange held their monthly meeting on June 7th in the offices of the Association. There was a good attendance of members, and much discussion on important matters. It was reported by the Committee that the Architects had been interviewed and were almost unanimous in acceeding to the request to deposit a copy of plans and specifications of prospective contracts at the office of the Exchange from time to time. The Architects had also approved of the

Uniform Contract" which had been submitted to them. It was also resolved to draft a uniform form of tender for use by the members. and have same submitted to the next meeting. During the meeting the secretary, Mr. W. W. Daly, addressed the members on the subject of the "Aims and Purposes of the Exchange." The address was received with great enthusiasm and a vote of thanks passed to the secretary. It is proposed to have the address printed.

