<doctype type="text">46	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



done by the janitor of the building in a few minutes. This makes the directory always appear properly, and is a great improvement on the old style office directories, which are even now being put up in some of what are otherwise modern buildings.

The following are a few examples of what are seen

The marble slab lettered in gold with black seems to be the most popular, but after they have been lettered a couple of times by different painters, they have such a poor appearance and such a medley of different styles of type, that they are an eyesore to the entire building. The polish of the marble also wears off from constantly cleaning the paint off.

On directories lettered on glass, it is almost impossible to make a nice job, and in most cases the directories have to be removed to be altered every time a new tenant comes into the building. This is a great source

Or in event of there being less than ten offices on each floor, they sometimes read,

Ground Floor 1 to 9

	First Floor	10 to 19

and so on up to the top.

By arranging the letters alphabetically, it is easy to find a name at a glance, and if the number of a man's room is 213, the elevator man knows at once that it is on the second floor, and really never requires much thinking on the man's part who is looking for a certain tenant, that the office was on the second floor, and that the first number denotes the floor the office is on.

The frames of these directors can be made in a great variety of styles. In the North British and Mercantile Building in Montreal, there is one of these directories with a very handsome green marble frame.

The directory in the Grand Trunk Railway offices, McGill St., Montreal, on the main floor, has a natural

































































of annoyance as it deprives the other tenants of their names being on the directory while it is away.

The wooden directory with black panels and white letters, is another sample of a poor office directory, as after it has been changed a few times, one half of the directory appears to be new and the other half old.

With none of these directories is it possible to keep the alphabetical arrangement, which is almost absolutely necessary for quick finding of any names.

There is also a changeable directory, in which little paper letters are pasted on card, and inserted in a frame with glass over. These are rented by the firm who makes them, and every time a new name is wanted, it is a matter of several weeks waiting for the name from New York, and re-arrangement of the whole directory.

The plan adopted by all the large buildings seems to be almost the same plan of this cut, naming the offices in the basement of the building either, A, B, C, D, or B-1, B-2, B3, etc., and then above numbering as follows

	Ground Floor	1 to 99

	First Floor	100 to 199

Second Floor 200 to 299

Third Floor 300 to 399

oak frame, hand polished, set in wrought iron easel, the whole costing upwards of $1,000.

The directories, however for an ordinary building are quite reasonable in price, costing according to their size and number of letters, etc., from $50.00 to $200.00.

These directories are not only used for office buildings, but have been used by stock exchanges for quotations, Steamship Lines for S. S. sailings, Military organizations, Hotels, Hospitals and also in Churches to denote Pew Holders. In fact the uses are unlimited.

The small cut on this page represents a brilliant idea for changeable directories, denoting the heads of the different departments in a factory, bank or office of any kind. This has an imposing effect on customers entering the office where it is placed. It is also a great time saver, as people coming in know from the Bulletin who to inquire for in the different departments.

There are a great many times in offices, where the wrong party is called from his work, and comes down a couple of flights of stairs, and finds that it is not he who is wanted, but the head of another department.

The Martel-Stewart Co., of Montreal, are the makers of this directory and will give all further information with pleasure.

