<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PLATE CLASS COMBINE " author="">PLATE CLASS COMBINE.

There are persistent reports of the formation of a plate glass combine in the States. One authority declares that a new combination of plate glass interests with a capital stock of $12,500,coo is being formed. Prominent holders of the issues of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company are said to he the financial power behind the new combination, and it is reported that C. B. McLean, president of the Lincoln National Bank, is securing the options on the various independent plants which will form the proposed combination.

While the holding company will only he capitalized at  $12,500,000, after all negotiations of the merger have been con-

cluded, it is believed the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company will he taken in as the head of the new combine and that the stock of the big concern may be increased to $25,000,000, or perhaps double that amount.

After the proposed merger has been completed, it is the intention of those backing the combination to raise the price of plate glass 15 cents per square foot, making a total advance of over 50 per cent, above the present prices. The argument is advanced that plate glass is now being sold very low, and with the new combination working, the independent plants remaining out of the combination will have but a small chance of competing with the new corporation.





































<article title=" ANNOUNCEMENT

" author="">ANNOUNCEMENT

George A. Ross and David H. Macfarlane announce that they have formed a partnership for the general practice of Architecture under the firm name of Ross & Macfarlane, Room st. Bank of Ottawa Building St. James Street, Montreal, Telephone Main 227. 1 hey will be pleased to receive samples and catalogues.





The Milton Pressed Brick Company limited Milton Ontario Architectural Terra Cotta

Canadian Contractors Hand-book The C.H. Mortimer Publishing Company of Toronto Limited

McNally and Plumber Manufacturer's Blyth Ontario The Eureka Cement Block Machine

The Canadian Office and School Furniture Company limited Preston Ontario

New Century Refrigerator and Manufacturing Company Limited Dundas Ontario Hardwood veneer doors

