<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the new. Yet in spite of all these disadvantages it must be admitted that the treatment of the new building has a boldness and vigour of its own. The work being still incomplete, it is too early to criticise it as a whole, but the strong handling of the ground storey with bellied courses of approximately semi-circular section and the strong simplicity of the two upper stories make one anticipate some excellent work.



It is surely to be regretted that looking at this building from Craig street a appears to attach the block of buildings which form the Law Courts to the general mass of the city on this side thus destroying the appearance of isolation which is so valuable to an important building. In addition to this, this side has again been treated in a most summary way as a thing of no account. If the tenants on Craig street are at all sensitive they must feel more than ever like pariahs from whom respectable citizens turn their laces. The moldings of the front are taken round for a few feet and then returned on themselves and everything is bare to baldness. Again if it be asked—Is not the architect to blame? One must reply Is an architect likely to want to do things so, or is it not more likely that they should be forced upon him? This sort of thing is the evidence of want of self respect on the part of the citizens.



The moral of all this is that an architect has got to educate his clients so that they may give him proper instructions, and if he be an architect of civic buildings he has to educate the officials with whom he deals so that they may train the general public to give him proper instructions. To prepare themselves for such tasks as these architects must get up very early in the morning. So the Gargoyle turned in for the night.

































GARGOYLE II.











<article title=" PORT ARTHUR AND FORT WILLIAM " author="">PORT ARTHUR AND FORT WILLIAM.



(Notes by a Travelling Correspondent.)



The past year has been marked by the rapid progress made by the twin cities of Port Arthur and Fort William, both of which have developed into great shipping ports for the vast crops of wheat produced in our great west. Every citizen of both cities has a right to feel justly proud of the steady advancement made and which is still continuing. Fort William alone has expended no less a sum than $248,000 in business blocks and residences, an increase over that of the preceding year of $100,000, while the population and assessment have increased over 25 per cent. The Canadian Pacific Railway Company has completed at this point one of the best coal handling plants on the continent of America, and has also erected and is now operating elevators



and "E," and a modern machine shop capable of overhauling four large locomotives per month, besides other works of slightly less importance. The Imperial Oil Company's works here for supplying the Canadian market west of this point still continue to grow, and during the year they have handled 2,000,000 gallons of refined oil, besides 5,000 barrels of lubricating oils and 4,000 cases of other products. The John McKellar Memorial Hospital which was opened June, 1903, has supplied a long felt need, while so great have been the demands made upon it that it is almost safe-evident that an addition will soon be necessary.



In Port Arthur over two hundred and fifty dwelling houses have been erected at a cost of $250,000, and some $175,000 has been spent in the erection of stores, offices, warehouses, etc. The Canadian Northern Elevator Company has expended over one million dollars for increased elevator capacity and docks and the King Elevator Company some $250,000 in connection with its storage annex.



In lumber circles the Northern Land and Lumber Company, a party of Wisconsin capitalists, have erected a very fine

planing mill and are handling large stocks of white and yellow pine.



At present building operations are not nearly so brisk in either cities as they have been during the past two years as the construction of the projected large elevators has not yet begun and also a large amount of money has become tied up in speculative real estate. Mr. M. B. Aylesworth, one of the leading architects of Port Arthur, is now busily engaged on several important buildings in both cities, including the city hall of Fort William, a stone and brick office building in Port Arthur for Councillor T.



N.	Andrews, a large residence for Mr. James Meek, the Provincial Court Clerk, a store and dwelling for D. M. Davidson, residences for H. G. Greenland, of the Bazaar, and John Ritchie school inspector for the district, and a new stone Methodist church, while he is now busily engaged drawing out plans for a giant skating, curling and hockey rink. The city hall at Fort William has been in progress for nearly one year, but it is not expected it will be ready for occupation before June of 1905. However, work has been pushed rapidly along on the Auditorium wing, which will be ready for the opening entertainments in the course of a month or so. The proceeds of these opening entertainments are to be devoted 10 the John McKellar Hospital fund. The estimated cost at completion of the City Hall will be



$70,000.



Besides the work undertaken by Mr. Aylesworth in Fort William there are three good sized business blocks, a four roomed school house and a large number of good residences in course of construction. The Canadian Pacific Railway Company, in place of the burnt elevator are erecting a large working house for the series of elevators. They have recently completed a large power house for supplying electric light to their yards and power for pumping, etc. A large brickyard has also been added to the industries of the town, this making the fourth; all are operating to their fullest capacity.



At Port Arthur there is a possibility of a smelter being erected to handle the rich iron ore deposits of Loon Lake, which lie twenty miles to the north of the city. A charter has already been applied for by the company to enable them to build a short line railway to Thunder Bay.



Architects of Ontario and the States will be much interested to learn that the long disused stone quarries of Vert Island in Nepigon Bay are about to be worked again. They have been idle for the past twenty years having been in the first place opened up to supply the stone for the erection of the famous wholesale house of Marshall Field & Co. on 5th ave., Chicago. The Sawyers Bay grey stone quarries have lately been operated to supply the recent demands of the twin cities.







<article title=" CANADIAN MASTER PAINTERS' AND DECORATORS'



ASSOCIATION.

" author="">CANADIAN MASTER PAINTERS' AND DECORATORS'



ASSOCIATION.



The first annual convention of this new organization was held at the Windsor Hotel, Montreal, during the last week in July, the president, Mr. L. Z. Mathieu, presiding.



Papers were read and discussed as follows "Advantages of Membership in the Master Painters' Association," by Stewart N. Hughes, Toronto "Our City Fathers, Their Relation to, or With Labor Organizations," by A. 1W. McKenzie, Hamilton "Varnish, its Uses, Methods of Manufacture and Adulteration,' by A. T. Blackwell, Toronto; "Necessity for Trade or Technical Schools,' by W. E. Wall, Cambridge, Mass.; "The Purifying of our Establishments from the Evils of Unionism," by J.N. Arcand, Montreal "Competition in the Painting Business," by Jas. Phinnemore, Toronto; "The Apprenticeship Question," by W. T. Castle, Montreal; and "Reminiscences and Comparisons in the Painting Business During the Last Halt Century," by John Murphy, Montreal.



The officers elect for the ensuing year are: President, J. N.



Arcand Vice-president, A. M. McKenzie; secretary, Stewart



N.	Hughes; committee, Messrs. O'Hearn, Brooke, Johnston,



Morley and Stamp. Messrs. L. Z. Mathieu, S. N. Hughes and



G.	S. Faircloth were appointed delegates to the international



convention at Milwaukee.



The social features included visits to local manufactories and an evening reception in the hotel parlors.



Exhibits of painters and decorators materials were made by Messrs. Berry Bros., the Canada Paint Co., Ramsay & Co., Sherwin-Williams Co., Watson, Foster & Co., Colin McArthur & Co., and Stauntons, Limited.



The next convention will be held at Hamilton.

