<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	133



<article title=" SOME REMARKS ON ORNAMENT " author="Hodgson, Fred T.">SOME REMARKS ON ORNAMENT.

By FRED. T. HODGS0N.



There has perhaps been no other art which has made such radical improvements within so short a period as that of ornamentation, and this has been accomplished in the face of great difficulties, and by very peculiar methods.

The artistic and studious decorative architect is forced to combat that constant and ever-present belief entertained by women, that in the decoration of their homes their own individual taste should prevail, notwithstanding the fact that their ideas of color and harmony are necessarily crude and undeveloped. So also there are numerous charlatans in all the building trades, who persuade their customers that a decorative architect is unnecessary and a mere fanatical encumbrance. Still, ornamentation has steadily improved, until it can now he said that. there is a decided change for the better in the various methods of treatment, which change, however, has not to any appreciable extent affected the ideas of the public generally.

Many sensible men who have some instinctive idea of the ' eternal fitness" of things, not only employ an architect to design and superintend the building of their homes ; but they engage them to design t he furniture arid general decoration. This is as it should be, for an architect if worthy of the name—is better fitted to design or choose fitting furniture and proper colors for decoration, after designing the main structure, than any other person or number of persons possibly can be.

It is within the memory of many now living that after the teaching of the late unfortunate Oscar Wilde, a change seemed to take place from the old established forms of ornament to new and improved methods of treatment ; and a study of the ideas of Mr. Wilde will disclose the fact that there was '' a method in his madness ", since, by his many peculiarities, the minds of people were attracted to that which otherwise would have passed unnoticed.

There is, however, a sad Jack of originality in ornament, since its choke is of far more importance than designers as a rule are hard to discover. For example. a stencil or wall-paper, is to be designed, The natural impulse of the average designer is to rush to "Owen Jones's Crammer of Ornament" for an instance of the school decided upon ; but, in accordance with all reason, this is just that which should he avoided, since the text books will soon be exhausted and fin ally, when the designer has run the gamut of ornament, by copy, he will discover how, for lack of thoughtful study, his work is without originality. If our designer be a man like Mr. Louis F. Day, he will invent an ornament of no particular period or school, but a combination of the motives of as many as afford material for a design complete in itself, uniform, and of one part not, as is too often the case, consisting of details and actual parts of a number of schools assembled or thrown together and called an original design.

It is the study of the motives and principles of the various schools of ornament, and not their mere imitation which is required to produce original designs.

It may not seem amiss or pretentious to suggest a few rules, giving illustrations showing their applicability, for observance in ornamentation.

First—Ornament is not necessarily a decoration applied to an object independent of its construction, but

should be a part or whole of its construction. This rule is aimed at the prevalent ideas which at this time are nearly obsolete. Formerly it seemed to be the intent of the cabinet maker, for instance, to hide obvious necessities and in order so to do, all adapted relief carvings were glued on to the surface, and useless knobs and handles were attached, all natural openings being hidden by mouldings and fillets.

It is now the rule to avoid attaching to the object unnecessarily ornament, and to embody in the article itself the ornamentation.

Second -The ornamentation should not in any way interfere with the utility or object of the article. For instance, it is almost impossible to find two paper knives exactly alike, and yet it is equally impossible to find more than one in a dozen which has not been over ornamented. The ordinary paper knife is very likely to have a handle covered with spurs, or rough portions, making it painful to grasp, as in many cases turned, or carved, to such an unreasonable extent as that it is too frail for use, the original object of the knife being sacrificed for ornament. As example of graceful ornament, and well worth consideration as an illustration of its utility, are sonic of the iron registers in churches or other public buildings, however, admirably adapted for the purpose ; perfectly flat and even on the surface, the open space so arranged as to allow the air to rise evenly, and the ornament so disposed as to sustain great weight.

Third—The material should be treated naturally.

That is, if wood, it should he treated as wood, arid not twisted arid painted as only iron should he, and, if metal, it should not be moulded to represent a log of wood, or wood carving, as it often is.

Fourth—The ornament t chosen should be suitable and appropriate.

A hunch of wild flowers painted on a miniature shovel is not appropriate ; decorated clothes pins to fasten napkins are hardly beautiful ; an old shoe, dried and gilded, used as a receptacle for flowers is not suitable, and in all these cases it is thrusting into view objects which are not pleasantly associated with the drawing room or table.

Fifth—The object should never be made to represent that which it is not.

A door or wainscoting may appear to be walnut, mahogany or oak, but a chip at a corner or a joint, or even a casual inspection, discloses the truth that that which was originally a cheap wood has been covered with a coat of staining and the skulking grainer has traced the markings of a more pretentious wood thereon.



Few arts have been more radically modified by the introduction of machinery than the art of building. The stone mason holds his own againt the innovator more stubbornly than the carpenter ; but almost entire dwellings, above the foundations, are now manufactured in factories and then delivered on the ground ready to be placed in position. The men who set them up are still called carpenters, the wrong word of the old title '' carpenter and joiner" having been retained. They would be better classified were they called joiner, or they might be called finishers in carpentry ; hut they are certainly not in any true sense carpenters. The real carpenter has become a machine and though this machine may be able to prepare only the manufactured material for frame buildings, it is equally true that all the interior fittings, whatever the material, of brick stone, or

