<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder



XOL. XVII.- No. 194.

FEBRUARY, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

C.	A. & B. Students' Competition for a Public Library—Design by "Ionic," (Mr. Edgar Guy) awarded First Place.

C.	A. & 13. Students' Competition for a Public Library—Design by "Mic" (Mr. Louis Labelle) awarded Second Place.

C.	A. & B. Students' Competition for a Public Library— Design by " Napsugar " (Mr. Clarence 'fhetford). awarded Third Place.

Cottage at Winnipeg, Man.—Geo. Browne, Architect.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Oak Cabinet with Copper Mounts.—Designed by Robert Brown, Boston, Mass.

Elbow Chair by Sheraton, About 1870.

Buffet—Designed by Robert Brown, Boston, Mass.

Saint Anastasia, Verona, Italy—West Doorway.—Drawn by Prof. Percy E. Nobbs.



ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Portraits of Officers of London Builders' Exchange.

Portrait of President, Province of Quebec Association of Architects.

Portrait of President Ontario Association of Architects.

CONTENTS

Editorial	  - - -	-	 -	 -	 -		25

Students'	Competition -	-  	-  	-  			26-27-28

O.A.A Annual Convention -		-			- 29		to 36

The Delineation of Architecture		-	 -				37-38-39-40-41

The New	President of the	P.Q.A.A, 	- 	 - 	- 		42

Rubber Tiling -		- 	- 		 - 		42

P.Q.A.A.	Annual Convention	-	 -				43

P.Q.A.A.	Exhibition -	.  	-  	 -  		-  	44

Correction	-	-	-	-	-	-	44

Toronto Builders' Exchange Dinner	-	- -	45

An Improved Directory for Buildings	-	-	- 46-47

Sculpture and Its Relation to Architecture	- -	- ix

Toronto Builders' Exchange	- -	-	-	X

The Turin Exhibition	— —	-	—	X

Business Notes	-	-	- -	-	-	x

Personal	— -	— -	-	- -	xi

Plaster and Stone	- -	- -	-	-	xi

The Lighting of Churches	-	-	-	-	xii



SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

Ma. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	EDMUND BURKE,	" Toronto.

S.	H. Townsend,

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.



Students' Competition.

An Important Decision.

The report of the Committee of Award is printed in this number. '[he sixteen sets of drawings received in this competition have been placed on exhibition in the rooms of the Ontario Association of Architects, 96 King Street West, Toronto, and will afterwards be exhibited in the office of the CANADIAN ARCHI'I'ECT AND BUILDER in Montreal.



The Supreme Court of Massachusetts, has recently decided that when an insured building is

destroyed by fire and cannot be replaced except at a cost greater than that of the original structure, the companies holding the insurance policies are liable for the difference. This decision applies to general policies of insurance in which the limit of liability is not specifically stated. There are two remedies open to the insurance companies either to limit the liability in all policies, or charge stiff rates on all but buildings constructed on fire proof or fire resisting principles.



The Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects will ask the Provincial

Government to make certain amendments to the provisions of the Ontario Factories Act governing the installation and operation of elevators in factory buildings. Section 51 of the Act adopted 1901, provides that elevator shafts in factories shall be provided with automatic hatch doors. The increased speed at which elevators are required to travel to meet modern business

Elevators in Factories



Effect of the High Cost of Brickwork.

requirements renders the use of hatch doors impractieccable, and they are found to be not only a nuisance but unless used with gates, dangerous.



Already there seems to be trouble in sight for the building trades in Hamilton, The bricklayers

of that city have intimated that they will demand 50 cents per hour next season. As a result less building will probably be done and in buildings that may be erected, the use of brick will as far as possible be avoided. The high cost of brick-work should tend to hasten the introduction of cement for the construction of the walls as well as foundations of buildings. It is already apparent that for this and other purposes cement is destined to be extensively employed in future building operations.



The tremendous destruction of property resulting from the Baltimore fire is conclusive

evidence, that modern fire fighting appliances and methods of fire proofing buildings are of little avail to check or subdue a fire that has once gained headway under unfavorable weather conditions. Architects, insurance and municipal authorities and building owners will await with much interest the reports of experts, which we hope will shortly be forthcoming, showing the behaviour during the conflagration of buildings of supposedly fireproof construction. Meanwhile there will probably be an influx of architects into Baltimore in search of information and commissions.

The Baltimore Fire.

