<doctype type="text">204	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



five times the calculated load—was put by degrees on the beam, when the operations had to be stopped, the pillars being crushed and having taken a slanting position, which caused the beam to twist badly'. The load was then discharged. The deflection was measured at that point, and the following morning it was found that the floor had sprung hack by 1in. The beam was cracked, but loading might have been continued for some time before complete destruction had not the supports given way.



<article title=" THE VALUE OF MONOLITHISM " author="">THE VALUE OF MONOLITHISM.



Buildings of Hennebique construction have been subjected to very unforseen tests. At Lens, in the north of France, coal silos had been constructed of ferroconcrete soft. high, to contain 1,200 tons of coal. The silos were supported on fourteen pillars. One day, when they were quite full to the brim, a train of coal trolleys came into contact. with one of the legs and broke it. The corner of the silo structure was thrown suddenly in cantilever ; but owing to the monolithism of the whole building, no injury resulted to the silos themselves, nor to the other three pillars of the silo so affected. They merely had to reconstruct the broken pillar. A carshed of Hennebique construction at Le Mans was divided in two spans of 21ft. by a central line of ferro-concrete pillars. One of the cars coining down a gradient got out of control, ran off the metals, and dashed into the central pillar at the entrance of the shed and broke it. The span instantly became 42ft. instead of 21ft. ; but notwithstanding this, the beams supported by that pillar held perfectly, and did not show the least trace of strain—another proof of the safety due to the monolithism of the ferro-concrete construction. The construction of



FERRO-CONCRETE PILES



the author described as one of the finest, most startling, and most useful applications of ferro-concrete. Their cost is little more than that of a timber pile, and they can bear safely a weight so much in excess of timber piles that a very considerable economy can be affected on the total cost of a foundation. At the present moment a foundation was being constructed in which the use of ferro-concrete piles procured a saving of over £12,000, as compared with the original estimate for timber piles. judicious distribution of steel in ferro-concrete is at the root of success, whether it is in a beam, in a pillar, or in a floor—but, above all, in a pile.

<article title=" THE ABSENCE OF VIBRATION " author="">THE ABSENCE OF VIBRATION.



Owing to the absolute monolithism of Hennebique constructions, they are far less liable to vibrations than ordinary constructions. One of the things which strike one most when entering a factory constructed entirely of ferro-concrete, where heavy machinery is at work, is the absence of vibrations and of noise. It is an everyday practice to attach shafting direct to the Hennebique pillars, which consequently have to sustain powerful lateral pulls. Heavy machinery—such as disintegrators grinding heavy materials, dynamos, and dynamo-motors—is also fixed direct on the Hennebique floors ; and, after years of that treatment, the quality of the concrete has been found not to have suffered in the least.

<article title=" FREEDOM FROM RUST " author="">FREEDOM FROM RUST.



Indisputable proofs have been given that the very best material to protect steel is concrete itself. Oxide of iron cannot exist in contact with concrete ; rusted iron bars imbedded in concrete will, in the course of a month or so, be as bright as new. Concrete used in ferro-concrete is markedly different from ordinary concrete, both in its composition, in its make, and in the way it is employed. It is composed of. materials of small volume (3/4in. maximum for the gravel or stone), and the materials used are very clean. The proportions of sand and stone are always adjusted so as to give a concrete quite full—it is used in small quantities at a time, and so vigorously rammed that no cavities or porosity are possible. As regards the

ADHERENCE OF CONCRETE TO STEEL,



its value is such that it justifies the practice of Some ferro-concrete builders who only reckon on concrete to make the junction between the different metallic parts of a structure. Experiments have demonstrated its surprising resistance to high temperature and sudden cooling. After the most destructive fires, Hennebique constructions have been found as strong as ever. As regards

ORNAMENTATION,



there is no reason why ferro-concrete buildings should not be made as artistic as constructions in ordinary materials. There is none that lends itself better—and more economically, too—than ferro-concrete to any shape that one may wish to give to it. To show the ease with which the material lends itself to ornamentation, a photograph was exhibited of the main reception-room in the extension recently carried out at the French Embassy in London. Except the external walls, the whole of the building is in ferro-concrete.



PROHIBITIVE LONDON BUILDING RELATIONS.



In his concluding observations, the author referred to the mischief of the building by-laws in force in London. London enjoyed the unique privilege of being the only city in the civilized world where ferro-concrete constructions are actually prohibited. Building regulations of nearly every other city in the United Kingdom did not, read strictly, permit of the use of ferroconcrete ; but, after intelligent and impartial investigation by the various authorities, Hennebique construction had been allowed. Such buildings have been erected in London, but only on ground belonging to railway and dock companies. These facts have been brought to the attention of the London County Council when they had been applied to for permission to erect similar buildings on ground within their jurisdiction ; but in vain. They always met with the same reply :—" The Act Stipulates a certain thickness for walls. If you give your walls that thickness you can build." But to give ferro-concrete walls that thickness would be financially an impossibility and, practically speaking, an absurdity, since the comparatively thin walls of ferro-concrete are many times stronger and safer than those stipulated in the Act. He trusted that when the new London Building Act was framed ferroconcrete construction would no longer be excluded. Ferro-concrete construction is absolutely safe ; it cannot lend itself to the malpractices of the jerry-builder. Trickery is impossible with it. Should the contractor try to cheat, try to escape the specification, detection will not occur months or years after, but at once.

On account of the lateness of the hour at which the second paper concluded, 10.20 p.m., the Chairman suggested that any discussion should be postponed till the next meeting of the Institute, on Monday, Dec. 5.





<article title=" ONTARIO HAS MARBLE." author="">ONTARIO HAS MARBLE.

Marble quarries of good quality are numerous in Ontario, although only two of them are being worked, says Inspector Carter, of the Bureau of Mines. One of the two in operation is near Renfrew, and thc other at Halley Station, a short distance east. There are a number of unworked quarries in the counties of Hastings and Frontenac, and also in Algoma. The reason that there is so little marble quarried in Ontario is that Tennessee marble has gained the market, but that there is no reason why this state of affairs should continue, is shown by the interior of the Ottawa Parliament Buildings which is all Renfrew stone.





<article title=" CARDINAL GIBBONS ON THE RIGHTS OF

LABOR.

" author="">CARDINAL GIBBONS ON THE RIGHTS OF

LABOR.

His Opinion is as follows :—''The right of a nonunion laborer to make his own contract freely, and perform it without hindrance, is so essential to civil liberty that it must he defended by the whole power of this Government."

