<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



where the workman by reason of his profession should have known at the defect in the material and should have notified the proprietor. Such for example would be the case of a builder employing defective timber where he should have known better.

Could the workman claim the price of his work done at the moment of the loss of the thing? Yes, if the accident happened after the work was accepted by the master. No, if the loss occured before acceptance. Those who support this doctrine say that the workman has only a right to he paid in so far as the work was well done and that since the thing has perished, the verification of this fact has become impossible. It is urged also that this solution is only an application of he maxim "Res pent domino', that the workman is still owner of his work until it has been accepted. He has not only promised his work, but he has promised to make it so as to be received, that is to say to deliver it to the master. Until such time he is owner of it and consequently loses it, if the thing perish.

This is the position taken by the commentators of the Code Napoleon. The commissioners who drew up our code, after careful thought, adopted textually the articles of the Code Napoleon. At the same time they have not indicated them as being new law. Now there is no possible doubt that the Roman Law and Pothier did not adopt such a solution. The Roman Law and our old law before the code, was in thc sense that if the work was such that it should have been accepted, then the master must suffer the loss of the materials, and pay the price of the work. The proof of the work being well done would be on the workman, but if he could make such proof he was to be paid. Such was the law before the code. It has been urged that our codifiers intended to reproduce that law. Under the strict wording of Art 1686 and in view of the fact that it has been taken textually from the Code Napoleon, I do not see how we can do otherwise than accept it as being our law, and consequently reject the solution of the Roman Law and the old law. We have been dealing hitherto with moveables. we come now to the more important question of immoveables. Do articles 1684 and 1686 apply to Architects and Builders? Are they included in the term " workman?" In the cases which we have been discussing does the architect lose the value of his services and the builder his materials and labor? As is natural upon so important a question there is diversity of opinion.

The Roman Law considered that where the owner furnished the land, whatever was built on the land acceded to it and became his property by right of accession. They therefore applied the maxim, ' Res pent domino,' 'a thing perishes for the owner,' and concluded that the owner must suffer the loss of the materials which had gone into the budding and must pay the builder according to the work done. This also seems to have been the view taken by the old law before the Code. Pothier, treating of this subject says, "Supposing I have made a con-

tract with an architect to build me a house on my property, for which he is to furnish the material. So fast as the building is erected it becomes an accessory of my ground. All that results from the work of the architect, the materials furnished and the form given to them belongs to me by right of accession. Tue loss is consequently mine, if it perish accidentally. The commentators of the Code Napoleon have considered that these articles were equally applicable to architects arid builders, and that until the building was accepted its loss fell upon them. There is no valid reason for excluding architects and builders from their provisions, and even if you did do so you would still fall under the general rule, 'res pent domino,' and then if you considered the builder still the owner of the materials until their reception, the loss would be his.

It is said in answer to the argument that the materials accede to the soil, and consequently belong to the proprietor by right of accession, that accession is not accomplished against the will of the proprietor, and that these materials are only conditionally his property, and cannot be at his risk. La Cour de Cassation, the highest court in France, has adopted the reasoning, and, so far as the Code Napoleon is concerned, such seems undoubtedly to be the law, As a matter of fact, both the Roman law and the French law have exactly the same point of departure in the maxim res pent domino,' the effect, however, which they have each given to it has been different. The Roman law found the owner in the master, by right of accession. The French law found the owner in the workman, by right of an implied contact by which the master only became owner after the work had been received by him, thus seeing an intention in the parties to override the general principle of accession.

Has our code adopted the solution of the Code Napoleon? We have seen that it has adopted the exact wording of its text, and it would seem to me that unless we can find some very good reason in the codifier's report for believing that they did not intend such to be the solution under our code, that we must take it as it stands and join hands with the French authors.

An examination of the codifier's report makes it perfectly plain that they did so intend to adopt the Code Napoleon.

We are therefore forced to the conclusion that the building is at the risk of the builder until its acceptation, or until the owner is in default to receive it. The principles governing the contract of lease and hire of work apply, and not those governing the right of accession.

Two cases recently decided by our Court of King's Bench leave no doubt upon the point. I refer to the case of Murphy v Forget and Lessard v Shallow. In both these cases the court decided that these articles apply to architects and builders. They adopt the Code Napoleon and say that the contract is governed not by the rules of accession but by those governing the contract of lonage d'ouvrage.

The Gilmour Door company limited Trenton Ontario Veneered Hardwood Doors