<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	99



—sliding clay as soft as butter—and heavy piling and concreteing have had to he used. Brown uses as his artistic language that type of Helenized brick building which is rapidly becoming the venacular architecture of the States and which I doubt not

You will find herewith a photograph of a nice little building, Nos. 7,9,11, St. John Street, in brick and stone, which has been recently completed and also of two houses on Sherbrooke St.— Residences in plain gray limestone with dainty wooden porches painted white. For once in a way the porch order is of a scale and refinement which does not contradict the material facts of the case. The outside garb of a house is very like the outside garb of a man. In nine cases out of ten an accurate reflection of the life inside, in the tenth a beautiful swindle. Our respect is due to the man who puts up a wooden column and doesn't pretend it's made of granite, especially when the column is fair to look upon.

I also send a snapshot of a house on Peel Street. The worst we can say of it is that it's rather too consciously picturesque—like a girl, who, without being overdressed or vulgar, has put on



site can stand. The materials are yellow brick with gray lime stone corbels and dressings, and the usual thin black slate of the district, and the combination is decidedly charming, especially when the snow is on the ground. Although the pedigree of this house connects it with the Francis I period it is very

HOUSE ON SHERBROOKE STREET, MONTREAL.





the architectural students of the year 4000 A.D. will categorize as American 20th Century.

Talking of architectural students reminds me that the McGill Architectural Department Pamphlet explanatory of the new de



















HOUSE ON SHERBROORE STREET, MONTREAL.





greo of Bachelor of Architecture and the means of acquiring that high sounding title has now been published and copies are being sent to all the architects of the Dominion. In a sense this pamphlet is the last word " on architectural education, for the scheme therein set forth is in substance a compromise between the training which articled pupils receive in English offices and that obtained in the American Schools of Architecture.

No. 7-9-11 ST. JOHN STREET, MONTREAL.





near to Scotch work, the same toning down and "stolidifying" of the volatile fancies and exubrances of the early Renaissance in France.



It is extraordinary how little direct Scots and English influence there is in the architecture of Canada. Italian, French and specialized American growths are common, but the fact that in no country in the world have the private house and the parish church attained developments comfarable with the perfections to be found in England and Scotland, is not reflected in the private houses or the parish churches on this side. Readily do we yield to the French Cathedrals the first place among Cathedrals, to the Italian Palaces the first place among their kind, and to the New Yorkers the first place among the builders of skyscrapers. The domestic work and the smaller churches of England are pre-eminent among such things, and it is high time that more attention were be stowed upon them by those willing to learn from the "old fellows " what cad be learned

from no other source.	THE GARGOYLE.





M. Auguste Choisy, inspector general in the Service des Ponts et Chausees, Paris, has been selected as the recipient this year of the Royal Gold Medal presented annually by the Royal Institute of British Architects.

The Society of the Beaux Arts Architects announce that they have established a travelling scholarship with a prize of $2,000 to be paid within the next two years to the draughtsman who shall become the winner of a series of competitions to be held between April 16 and July 4th. Competitors must be under 25 years of age.

