<doctype type="text">186	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" ADDRESSES AT THE OPENING MEETING OF

THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION " author="">ADDRESSES AT THE OPENING MEETING OF

THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION.

The new president, Mr. Guy Dawber, made a long and useful address from which, as printed in the Building News, we make the following extracts, which are concerned with matters of interest to the profession in this country.

THE LAYING OUT OF STREETS AND DIVERSITY OF DESIGN.



We are living in a wonderful age of building, when houses, streets, great towns indeed, spring into being almost in the space of days. In London, large schemes are in hand, such as no previous generation has ever known, and which are changing the character of whole districts The most conspicuous feature in this new architecture is its entire absence of uniformity or consideration of surroundings. Architects, with varying success, have given rein to their imaginations without allowing themselves to be controlled or influenced in any way by neighbouring buildings ; so that our streets present a want of character and scale which is singularly unsuitable in a city such as this. That this should be the case where many of the buildings individually are most admirable, is lamentable, and I cannot help thinking that it is a matter for regret that in this country we have no Ministry of Fine Arts, or some consultative committee on art who could advise when sites come into the market, or buildings are pulled down, as to the form the rebuilding should take, or what improvements or modifications in the design would conduce to the future dignity and beauty of the City.

It is, perhaps, too much to hope that the London County Council will control the capricious talents of architects and builders in Aldwych and Kingsway, but the greatest opportunity of recent years will be lost if such sites are allowed to be covered with individual erections—the creations of commercial syndicates, too varied in style and material to give any dignity or character to their environment. The recent changes in the Strand have proved that a great deal of the beauty of Saint Mary's came from the fact that the church was so well fitted in style and size to the position in which it was built, and to the height of the houses around it. I venture to think this essential principle is not sufficiently regarded in most of the new buildings we see on all sides. This feeling of inequality and lack of proportion is more noticeable in our street architecture than in anything else—-there is no settled tradition in building ; no definite aim or standard in view, and all treat different things in different ways, and the "loudest" and most garish edifice attracts the most attention. This, again, is emphasised in the treatment of our shops, where massive buildings, many stories high, rest with no visible means of support upon huge sheets of glass, whilst the facades of many others are covered and disfigured by enormous letters and advertisements. It is indeed strange that we should, as a nation with some claims to taste and refinement, tolerate these shams and eyesores that mar and spoil the finest streets of all our large cities and towns.

I cannot help thinking we have lost a good deal in the beauty and consistency of our street architecture since the days when such men as the brothers Adam, Chambers, Nash, and the Woods of Bath gave us their quiet facades and street fronts, all based on some definite idea and planned on a big scale, and though per-

haps slightly uninteresting to us to-day, yet possessing dignity, scale, and symmetry. In street architecture the mass should be the main idea and the individual building should he subsidiary to the general design, but exactly the opposite seems to be the prevalent idea to-day, and one cannot help looking forward with some degree of misgiving to the result of such experiments as we see in Regent-street, which break the simple lines and grouping of what, however much its monotony may be abused, possesses some claims to design on a monumental scale.

Without doubt, all this variety, this diversity of idea and design which we see everywhere throughout the country, is attributable to our lack of architectural education in the past—we have not learned in any school, nor on any method, and hence our architecture, like our training, is individual and haphazard, everyone building what best suits his taste, just as our students study or pick up their ideas in a like manner. On the other hand, in essentially domestic architecture this country stands pre-eminent. Our country houses possess a character and quality of which we may well be proud, and in this branch of our art a common sense and legitimate use of material is producing a style that stamps the building of to-day. In municipal architecture we have also vastly improved during the past decade, and many of our modern buildings are well worthy of comparison with the works of masters of bygone years.

But as a nation we have quite failed to recognize the importance to the community of well-thought—out schemes of building and their environment on a large scale. We lack in England that spirit of civic pride which is so pronounced abroad—a pride in the beautifying of our cities and towns that makes one vie with the other in a display of noble buildings, dignified squares, and that co-operation of' architect, sculptor, and painter, which alone can produce great and noble works of art. The least observant cannot fail to be struck by the feebleness of conception shown in dealing with the various sites that come into the market. It is deplorable that they should be regarded merely as commercial speculations, to be covered with buildings with neither character or individuality, and without the least regard for their surroundings, and perhaps more than anywhere else this is seen in the development of our suburbs. On the Continent this problem is dealt with in a systematic way, and the various municipal authorities prepare the lay-out of the general scheme, the lines along which the extension is to take place and the proportion of the whole site which may he covered by buildings. It is a great pity that our English town councils do not study the admirable work of town extension now being done in Germany and do not obtain Parliamentary powers to do similar work here ; our towns might then be developed and improved on broad and dignified lines instead of the haphazard way we now deal with a question that is worth far more consideration than is given to it.

Experiments have been made in recent years in this country, of building and laying out towns and villages on some artistic basis, and with very satisfactory results. The paper that was read last session on the  Bournville settlement, showed that these buildings' could he erected to pay a fair return of interest for the outlay, and entirely disposed of the fallacy that to build

