<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	57



cut off all communication between the two in case of fire.

This current of smoke and heated gases, which, had the stage ventilator been open, would have passed out directly through that issue, being prevented from so doing, rushed through the proscenium arch or opening with such rapidity and force that it pressed the curtain so tightly against the groove or sides in which the curtain was intended to work, that it could not be got down lower than within 14 ft. of the stage floor.

Thus the fumes and gases asphyxiated the audience and in a very few minutes ; those in the galleries or upper tiers being, of course, the first victims of the disaster.

The Commissioners insist forcibly and are right in doing so, that the stage sky-light or ventilator should have been open during the performance, and that had it been opened and the gases enabled to escape in that direction, there would have been no such a current of air towards the auditorium as to prevent the lowering of the fire-proof curtain, and probably no loss of life at all on the auditorium side of the cut-fire wall. between the auditorium and the stage end portions of the building, would have occurred.

This should be noted and immediately acted on by the managers of our Quebec so called Auditorium, though it is only the audience side of the structure that can be properly so called.

A ventilator over the stage can easily be made of proper dimensions and at trifling expense, which while allowing the fumes and heated gases to pass out, would exclude rain and snow, etc.

True, there are the so called emergency doors—five of











































MR. R. G. KIRBY,

President Toronto Builders' Exchange.





them on the eastern and four on the western side of the building, with iron staircases leading from them to ground level; but in such a climate as this, the landings of these outer stair-ways might, in the case of a heavy fall of snow, become impeded during a single sitting or representation and the outward opening of the emergency doors be thus prevented.

There should be a lad at each door with strict orders not to leave his post during the performance ; for at the Paris Charity Bazaar fire, there were seven emergency doors, but no one having been stationed at them

to open them, when the explosion of the acetylene apparatus of the cinematograph occurred, the audience from the far ends of the bazaar building (300 ft. in length) had to travel 150 ft. to reach the central door by which they had entered, not being aware of the existence of the emergency doors.

Had these doors been opened in time all would have escaped, with scorched heads and shoulders, no doubt from the falling draperies but with their lives at any rate, and three months would have repaired all such sores and singings as were caused by the burning hangings falling from above.











































MR. Geo. C. YOUNG,

1st Vice-President London Builders' Exchange.





The only really safe theatre of more than one story in height, as at the Somner Park, Montreal, which is open all around and allows of immediate escape on all sides, may be said to be at Antwerp, Bruxelle, erected according to the system proposed by the undersigned in 1884 and exhibited in Paris in 1900. In this theatre there are five tiers of inside galleries one over the other, with corresponding iron balconies surrounding the auditorium end of the building on the outside. To each tier of superposed boxes or galleries there are 25 doors—125 in all—opening onto the outer balconies, with iron staircases descending from the one to the other to ground level. But even with all these precautions, the stage ventilator recommended by the Chicago Commissioners and the keeping of it open during each performance, would be none too much of a safe-guard against the possibility of the stage fireproof curtain being out of order.

When the undersigned built the Quebec Academy of Music in 1854, he had designed to have an iron cut-fire curtain (asbestos being then unknown) and the iron covered on the auditorium side with mirror in vertical strips of some ft. in width, with silver-edged bars between them to keep the glass in position ; but funds were lacking to carry out the scheme, and though the mirror was imported for the purpose, the rigid iron curtain was never made.

CHAS. BAILLAIRGE, Architect.



QUEBEC, March 18, 1904.





<article title=" PUBLICATIONS." author="">PUBLICATIONS.



One of the latest additions to the rapidly growing literature on the use of cement for constructional purposes is a book of 200 pages. entitled "The Architects' and Engineers' Hand Book of Re-Inforced Concrete Constructions,' by L. J. Mensch, C.E., published by Win. Seavert, Chicago, price $2.00. It treats of the use of concrete for a great variety of purposes, giving results of tests and illustrations showing important works which have been carried out in this material.

