<doctype type="text;ad">158	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" WALLPAPER AND HANGINGS " author="">WALLPAPER AND HANGINGS.



Apart from considerations of the design and the appearance of a wallpaper under certain conditions, the architect should also consider the means of its manufacture and the materials of its composition, says a writer in the Architectural Record. Wallpapers and hangings may be divided into two main classes (1) the printed papers, and (2) the flock and relief. With regard to the first, the printing is done either by hand or machine, In the hand printing the colors of the different blocks are not applied until after the color is dry, while in those printed by machine the various colors follow on wet, the whole design being printed as the roll of paper passes through the machine. It will, of course, be easily understood from these conditions of manufacture that hand-printed papers have greater sharpness and accuracy, each color being distinct and separate, while in the machine work they frequently run together more or less. The hand-block printer also has the advantage of being able to print two or three pieces at very little extra expense, whereas with machine-made papers the cost of "setting" a machine is so considerable that it does not pay unless a large quantity of paper is printed, the consequence being that after a year or two it becomes impossible to repair a room with machine-printed paper or to repeat the same design if desired. The flock papers are made by printing on the paper with a cementitious material and then scattering finely chopped wood fibre evenly over it. As each different color requires to be worked separately and strewed with wood fibre, the process is, of course, very expensive. The coverings in relief are prepared by a variety of special processes which are to he referred to the general principles of embossing by the application of pressure or moulding when in a plastic or flexible condition, either separate or combined. With regard to the materials of which wallpapers and hangings are composed, the colors are either distemper or oil. The distemper colors have a tendency to fade in sunlight, though much depends upon the colors chosen and the composition. Papers printed in oil colors always darken and yellow—i.e., the ground does—giving a dingy and shabby appearance unless the designer has made allowance for it. When new,



Dr. William Collinridge, medical officer of health to the Corporation of London, has issued a report in which he suggests that all owners of kitchens and aboveground bakehouses be informed that a standard of requirements has been drawn up by the Corporation and that upon complying with this a certificate will be granted. The proposed standard requirements are set out at the end of the report. They stipulate smooth impervious floors, walls and ceilings, double covers to inspection chambers, minimum height of rooms 8ft., minimum cubic capacity 1,500ft. and not less than 400 cub. ft. per employee, temperature not to exceed 80 degs. Fahr., each bakehouse oven furnace to have a flue for carrying oft sulphurous fumes and an outlet for heat and steam immediately above the oven door; underground kitchens to have inlets for ventilation at least 12in. above the footway or ground level, proper lavatory and w.c. accommodation, sto rage water cisterns with dust- tight fixed covers, shelves to be 2in. from the walls and hose to be provided for washing the room efficiently.

they are often good in effect, though, I think, they never equal distemper papers. They have one advantage over distemper in allowing a tint to be gradated by the mezzo-tint process. Papers printed in oil colors may be twice sized and then varnished so as to allow washing, but a varnished paper is always unpleasant. Papers sold as varnished ready for hanging should be avoided, for they are varnished with a quick-drying, hard, white spirit varnish, and have very little durability. If a varnished paper is desired it is best to varnish it after hanging. One little point worth noting in connection with varnished papers is—that allowance should be made in the paint of the room for the yellowing of the varnish.

In wallpapers from reputable manufacturers there is no danger to be apprehended from poisons in the colouring matters, but from the smaller manufacturers a warranty should be obtained that the green papers are free from arsenic (even then it is best to test them oneself) and that papers of other colours are free from copper or mercury. "Pulp " papers have the back of the paper the same colour as the ground of the front. Papers in which the ground or pattern, or both, have a sheen as of satin are known as '' satin" papers, and are made by mixing Spanish white with the colouring matter and polishing it with a burnisher ; such papers are very susceptible to damp, and should he protected by a lining paper. The materials of which the coverings in relief are composed are mainly paper, wood, fibre and cloth. One well-known hanging which claims to be the only material solid both in colour and relief is composed of oxidized linseed oil and wood flour mixed with colours and a few minor ingredients. Another is made by placing wood pulp in moulds to a considerable thickness ; others are composed of asbestos, canvas or silk refuse.



The American Window Glass Company controls an invention for the manufacture of that article for which they are said to have refused ten million dollars It is designed to reduce the cost of

production by dispensing with blowers, gatherers and snappers, all of whom are high-priced men. For a year past, three of the machines have been secretly operated, all imperfections and drawbacks eliminated and overcome and the company has installed 12 of them in the old De Pauw plant at Alexandria, Ind., this plant being newly equipped throughout for the making of glass.

New Century Refrigerator and Manufacturing Company limited Dundas Ontario Hardwood Veneer Doors

