<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PUBLICITY FOR MANUFACTURERS OF

BUILDING MATERIAL AND SUPPLIES " author="Johnson, Cyrus">PUBLICITY FOR MANUFACTURERS OF

BUILDING MATERIAL AND SUPPLIES.

By CYRUS JOHNSON.



The local or traveling representative has always seemed to me the real life and blood advertisement of the firm he represents, and no personal letter, printed circular, blotter, calender or souvenier can take his place.

I speak from experience as a draughtsman, architect and publisher, on personal acquaintance with many of the leading manufacturers and architects of the United States and the publishers of nearly all the architectural magazines and trade papers.

But letters, circulars and advertising literature are necessarily accompaniments to these representatives and it is in regard to this part of publicity that my statements will be confined.

An architect has ever been a different business proposition from any other man in any other profession, trade or walk in life.

He may be led to the trough, but you cannot make him drink.

He may be reasoned with, but never forced to any conclusion.

His impressions are early formed and difficult to change.

Your name once firmly engraved on his specification reminder it will remain in most cases for time to come.

What was law and gospel in the office where he traced his way to fame is good enough for his own office.

But it is needless to elaborate his distinguishing characteristics, only they must be considered in the preparation of catalogues, price lists, announcements or printed matter of any character.

An announcement that would appeal to a banker or broker would fall very flat to the average architect.

In regard to printed matter of any kind unless attractively compiled, printed on good stock and the

illustrations carefully selected, well engraved and properly printed, your money has been wasted.

And this brings me to the importance of having your announcements in the architectural magazines attractively set. These advertisements are only circulars or announcements mailed every issue to the subscribers among the architects, but they are watched even more carefully than you even imagine.

Because the architectural magazine advertisements do not bring the statement, "I saw your ad in the

—," do not infer that your money is being thrown away. It is one of the peculiarities of the architect that he would not mention the name of the publication.

This is true also of the contractor and smaller supply houses, who even avoid the use of the key.

But it is the persistency of circulars, announcements and advertisements, backed by attractive arrangement, that counts. The draughtsman of to-day is the architect and engineer of to-morrow. You must cast your bread on the water of the present for the business of the future.

It always seemed strange to me that knowing the architect's fondness for pictures that they are not more liberally used in your announcements and that the bare cards are allowed to run month after month, year after year in the different journals without change. The publisher is anxious to improve the appearance of his paper and gladly welcomes the new life and interest evidenced by attractive advertising copy. The architectural paper by its news items and articles keeps you posted as to what the best men are doing.

The architects watch it and read it to see what the other fellow is doing.

Concentrate your efforts for new goods and materials on those who are busy.

Strengthen your statements with testimonials and tests.

The busier you get advertise the more. Then should a dull season come you will hold on where others fail.

—The St. Louis Builder.

Canada Foundry Company limited Toronto Office and Bank Railing