<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	33



you. I am not a member, but my own feeling is it would be very desirable if your Association could see fit to take up the work of the Secretary of the R. I. B. A. examination, because I think you will have more R. I. B. A. students from Toronto than you are likely to get from Montreal. Another point is the feeling of the R. I. B. A., that if these examinations were held in South Africa and Australia, as well as in Canada, it should hold primary and intermediate examinations in addition to finals. That, of course, is a matter of arrangement for the P. 1.

B.	A.

<article title=" REPORT OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATION

AND THE EIGHTEEN CLUB " author="">REPORT OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE OF THE ASSOCIATION

AND THE EIGHTEEN CLUB.

Mr. A. H. Gregg made the following informal report:

On Oct.. 30111, 1903, it was decided to form a Joint Committee representing the Association of Architects and the Architectural Eighteen Club. Formerly classes had been held by both of these Associations for the students, and it was thought that by amalgamating much better work could he done. The Joint Committee is composed of three members of the 0. A. Association and three members of the Eighteen Club. A mathematical class is held in our rooms here under the tuition of Mr. A. H. Harkness, B. A., who was formerly one of the instructors of the School of Science, and classes in design are held at the Central School of Art and Design. The mathematical classes were left to the management of the 0. A. A. members of the committee, and the classes in design to the members representing the Eighteen Club. These classes a year ago were not well attended, but I think it is a proof that we are on the right lines, that the attendance is more than doubled this year. Last year the students in the mathematical class numbered seven, and I think the average attendance was much less than that. I have not a memorandum of the attendance at the classes in design, but I think it was very small, too. This year we have fourteen members in the mathematical, classes, just double the number; and from all accounts the students display great enthusiasm in the work; an(l we have found it necessary to divide it into two sections, junior and senior. In regard to what Mr. Sidall has said about the amount of money paid out for educational purposes, our mathematical instructor receives a salary, but at the time of tile last report very little had been entered in tile Treasurer's report. Still, one of the main contentions of the committee was that we should have a professional man in charge of this class, and pay him properly for his services, and 1 think the result has proved our contention a just one. Mr. Hark-ness has taken a great interest in the class, and has been the means of arousing a great deal of enthusiasm, and I think the result will be a large attendance at our examination this year, and in a few years these younger members of the profession will be becoming members of our Association and having gone through our regular course, should prove a most valuable addition to our Association.

The President: We have heard the report of the Toronto Chapter, the Municipal Building By-law Committee, the Library and Rooms Committee, the Legislation Committee, the Membership Committee, the Registration Committee and the report of the Educational Committee I would like to lave an acceptance of these reports moved and seconded, and we will discuss their adoption. Mr. Gouinlock: I have much pleasure in moving the adoption of the reports as presented.

Mr. Burke: I have much pleasure in seconding that motion. Carried.

NEW BUSINESS.

The President: Under this heading I would like the Registrar to read a letter received from one of our out of town members.

The Registrar: This letter is from a member in Ottawa, Mr. Alexander, of the Department of Marine and Fisheries lie was one of our charter members.

Ottawa, Dec. 6, 1903.

To W. P. Gregg, Esq.,

Registrar 0. A. A.

Dear Sir,—In regard to the convention I would feel much pleasure in being there, as my interest in the aims and objects of the Association has never lessened since our organization began; and if all has not been attained which we have sought I would regard that as the reason for more determined future effort. In this connection I specially deplore the cessation of active steps to legalize the title of ''Architect,'' as I regard it as vital to the future success of the Association. as giving the Association the necessary control over its members in all professional questions of a practical, and ethical character; without which it seems to me impossible to bind men together in mutual sympathy.

A gain, I know of Architects who have dropped their membership in the Association because of its being run So much as a Toronto institution. This objection I hardly sympathize with, but rather feel grateful to the Toronto members who have so unselfishly devoted valuable time to the Association; but I regard it as a fair question whether the utility of the Association would not he furthered by the annual convention being held in different large business centres yearly.

With every good wish for the Association, 1 am, dear sir, Yours very truly,

Fred. .1. Alexander.



The President: This letter of Mr. Alexander's touches on two points—legislation amid the question of the advisability of holding our annual meetings in different cities over the province. In regard to the question of legislation I do not think it is desirable to bring it up, as it is in the hands of a special committee, and we have their report, hut as you think about that; however, I think it would he well to discuss at this meeting the advisability of holding our conventions east or west of Toronto; and I think in deference to our outside membership we should make a pronouncement and seriously consider it, so as to he in a position to answer letters fairly written as this has been.

Mr. Gouinlock: In speaking of this proposition or scheme, to hold annual meetings some other place than Toronto, it seems to me there are 50 few architects in the various places in Ontario we couldn't undertake to carry it out successfully. We have discussed this before, arid no city would undertake to carry it through. Unless the proposition was from the architects of Ottawa, or Hamilton, or some such place, I (10 not see that we are in a position to move in this in matter.

Mr. Munro:	I am sure I would he pleased to see a. move made in that direction: for myself, I think we meet here in Toronto, in the Association's rooms, probably to a greater advantage than any place else; but what I think might be done is a midsummer convention, or something of that kind, to he held in different outside towns. In Hamilton there are probably fourteen or fifteen men practising architecture. and some of them were formerly members. I do not know that I can say anything further. I would like to see a convention in midsummer in Hamilton.

