<doctype type="text">148	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



but because its work is good ; and it is good because it is paid for. The condition precedent to paying teachers must be receiving fees, but more certain than this is it that thc condition precedent to receiving fees for teaching is offering the sort of teacher that can only he got by payment. There are virtuous circles as well as vicious circles, and this is one. However, the Association circle was started in its round, it is working all right now ; in both the day school and the evening school the fees received from students more than pay the salaries of' the instructors—in the day school by nearly as much again.

The same quid pro quo principle holds in other doings of the Association. They publish a Sketch Book which has grown to be a valuable production—-one that our architectural associations would do well to subscribe for. The first thing that occurs to one who knows the difficulty of keeping up anything that depends upon voluntary work is "how is the supply of 72 plates a year kept up?" The answer is simple-they are paid for. The subscription for the sketch book is a guinea a year, but four drawings, i.e., one for each quarterly part, entitles the contributor to receive the Sketch Book for a year and ten extra copies of' each of his drawings. This is a good bargain for all concerned. Every advanced student or young architect makes some measured drawings during the year, either in his own country, which is full of invitation, or in the little holiday on the continent which is now so common. The obvious thing to do is to make the drawings 17¼ x 13½ inches to suit the Sketch Book and take some pains about them that they may he accepted. It means a guinea in pocket for doing what one was going to do anyway, and ten copies of one's work instead of one. To the Sketch Book it means a competition of' drawings, instead of labour to get them ; to the subscribers generally, the same competition must give better and better drawings every year ; and the virtuous circle is completed by the impulse given to holiday studying by this reward for its immediate results.

One might go further in investigating the proceedings of' the Association and still find this method of reciprocal benefit the travelling student, for example, is anything but free in using his scholarship. He must submit his route for approval ; he must send back a journal ; he must give up his drawings for exhibition, and the Association have the choice of' one to keep. The Association thus get something out of their gift, but the benefit is still the greater to the student who makes better use of his scholarship under these conditions than he otherwise would.

It is evident that the first consideration in providing for the instruction of students is to provide a good thing ; it is only thus it will obtain support. It may be necessary to begin with money in starting the circle, as the good thing must be presented to students in order to get support, and the cost of presentation is the first step in establishing the circle of advantage. But for this, if for anything, it is fair to ask for aid from the public or the rich. Indeed, a loan might be all that is necessary, for, if similar methods bring similar results, the financial statement of the Architectural Association shows a profit on teaching that would make it easy to pay back soon a sufficient initiative loan.

It may be the better for definiteness to have the Association figures before our eyes; without supposing that

either fees or salaries must necessarily be the same over here. The fees for the four regular divisions of' classes and studio come to about $26.63 a year, and the Sketch Club 65 cents a year additional. The extra subjects spread over the four years come to about $6.42 a year. That is to say the cost to the student, who takes every opportunity offered, averages $33.70 a year and amounts to $134.80 for the four years. The cost to the Association in 1903-4 was $2,401.42, in lecturers' fees for the evening school and the students' fees received exceeded this amount by $590.

W.	A. LANGTON.





<article title=" THE TORONTO BUILDING STRIKE " author="">THE TORONTO BUILDING STRIKE.

After more than a month of idleness the striking builders' laborers in Toronto have gone back to work at the same rate of' wages as they were receiving prior to the strike. The bricklayers who supported the strikers have also resumed work. The net result to the strikers is the loss of thousands of' dollars in wages which might profitably have been spent in providing fuel and other necessary supplies for the approaching winter. Owners of new buildings under construction have been put to great inconvenience, and the general trade of' the city injured.

The strike was entirely unwarranted, in fact was nothing short of' a '' hold up," and was generally so regarded. Public sympathy was unmistakably against the strikers, and some of the daily papers found courage enough to denounce in plain language the action of the unions. The absurdity of the demand made by the laborer;' union for a wage of' 28 cents an hour is shown by the fact that the rate paid in Winnipeg, where labor is scarce and cost of living nearly double what it is in Toronto, is only 22½ cents. Furthermore, it would manifestly be unjust to pay such a wage to unskilled labor while paying only 30 cents an hour to skilled carpenters who, in addition to the years spent in acquiring the technique of their trade, must lay out a considerable sum in the purchase of expensive tools.

The bricklayers were under no obligation to stand by the striking laborers and thereby violate their agreement with the Builders' Exchange. On the contrary, they should have shown their disapproval of' what they knew to be an unjust demand. Had they done so, the strike would have collapsed at a much earlier date and they would have been money in pocket. To show how little their support was appreciated it need only be stated that while they were walking the streets many of the striking laborers were working at 20 cents per per hour as helpers to concrete and other contractors.

As a means of avoiding these untimely interruptions to trade the Builders' Exchange should insist that in future agreements to govern wages must date from the first of January.



H.	C. Standage writes to the Decorators' and Painters' Magazine that one of the easiest methods of cleaning a sponge that has become fouled by wiping the surface of' paint or varnish, is to dissolve 1 oz. of permanganate of potash in parts of water, and steeping the sponge in the fluid for fifteen minutes. Then squeeze out the fluid and allow to dry. When dry, put the sponge into a solution prepared by dissolving ½ lb. of hyposulphite of soda and oz. of oxalic acid in gallon of water, Allow the sponge to soak in this bleaching fluid for 15 to 20 minutes ; then take out and rinse well in cold water, and hang up on a line until dry.

