<doctype type="text">132	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



churches of small size. On a large scale, the more dignified symmetrical plan with double aisles is necessary, no doubt, if there are aisles at all ; hut for a church of this size and even larger—St. Lawrence Jewry is nearly 50 feet wide and over So feet long—a one aisled plan is much to be preferred to a duo decimo copy of a grand church with double aisles. The variety given in a one-aisled church by the two sides with responding composition but different appearance, is a source of more actual interest than is given by double aisles.

If the seating space of two aisles is desired a gallery may be inserted. The philosophy of the gallery, apart from considerations of expense, is that when the congregation is small it need not he used ; and thus scattering, which has a bad moral effect, may (in these days of free seats) be prevented. When the congregation increases, or if there is a special occasion, the gallery comes in as additional seating space. In this way St. Margaret Pattens—which appeared to be comfortably populated by a week-day congregation which counted as 62—is said to be seated for 500—has held 6oo sitting persons, counted by the verger; and is thought to be capable of giving standing room to 10c



































FIG. 3.—PLAN OF ST. MARGARET PATTENS.





more. This elasticity is due in great measure to the handsome allowance of space for passages, which is common to all the city churches and contributes so much to their dignity. At first this feature seems anything but encouraging, but as a means to effect it is on the whole cheap. It is the additional space, over what is necessary, that makes the difference ; and, if the additional space only is taken into account, its cost will not amount to much to set against the cost of columns and arcading. Moreover, whereas dignity is to he got by superfluous space without arcading, it is not to be got by arcading without superfluous space. The lesson of what can be got by superfluous space only is lesson of the necessity of superfluous space under all circumstances. Superfluous space is an aesthetic necessity, but it has this advantage over other aesthetic necessities that it adds at a pinch to the seating accommodation.

In the case of St. Margaret Pattens, the gallery front is an additional interest and the portion which is enclosed for a choir vestry also encloses satisfactorily the choir within solid walls.

There is a low screen or fence, of panelled and carved oak, enclosing the front of the choir, with an openwork wrought iron gate across the passage.

The ceiling is similar to that of All Hallows, Lombard street, in plan, but smaller in scale. There is a cove, penetrated for a portion of its height for a circular clearstory window over each intercolumn, and penetrated its whole height for the sanctuary opening which latter is then finished by an arch and a barrel vault.

The organ is at the west, in a gallery over the vestibule. In so small a church this works perfectly and is in fact an improvement, for the organist at work is no gain to the east end. In a large church the evidence of experience is, on the whole, against separating in this manner the organ and the choir ; but the evidence is not so strong as might be expected. It is only in the seats towards the east of the church that there is any doubt about the blending of sound. At the western end of the church it is perfect.

W.	A. LANGTON.





BY-PRODUCTS IN THE PORTLAND CEMENT

INDUSTRY.*

In the course of the investigations conducted by Dr.

W. Hillebrand at the request of the Committee on Uniform Methods of Analysis of Materials for the Portland Cement industry, he found that when a raw mixture which contained 0.6913612f potash and 0.22 soda was ignited in a platinum crucible for one hour over an ordinary blast lamp, the resulting cement contained but 0.0757216710f potash and 0.094575200f soda. The alkalies had been nearly completely volatilized and the potashmore completely so than the soda.

It at once became of interest to determine whether the same thing took place in the industrial production of Portland cement clinker. It was found that from a raw mixture made from marl and clay which contained the percentages of alkalies mentioned above and which should in consequence contain 1.262f potash when burned (if none of it was volatilized) since the loss on burning was 37.50% potash was carried off in the flue gases at the temperature of the rotary kiln. An investigaton of the flue dust proved that the alkalies were carried further than the point where this material is deposited and it is apparent that by conducting the gases through a horizontal chamber where the temperature could be reduced to a point low enough to permit of the deposit of the potash, this could he collected, perhaps, aided by a spray of water or steam.

The importance of this discovery is apparent if a calculation is made of the actual weight of potash which is produced and lost this way in a cement plant turning out 4,000 Lbs. a day, or 700 tons of material. Six-tenths of one per cent. of this would mean 4.2 tons of potash which now goes to waste, but which could be readily collected and have a value of a least $12 per ton (that of kainite with 1 26C020D83otash) and with a probable value of $45 per ton that of commercial emeriate used for fertilizing purposes. In the latter form over 4.2 tons of potash would be the equivalent of 6.6 tons of emeriate, so that allowing the excessive sum of $50 per day for the expense of the process and interest charges, the profit from a single plant of the size mentioned would be between $too and $200 per day. It would seem that the development of the process would he of commercial interest. In conclusion it may be said that Dr. Hillebrand has an application pending for a patent covering it.

*Paper read at the 7th Annual Meeting American society for Testing Materials, By CLIFFORD RICHARDSON, Long Island city, N.Y.

