<doctype type="text">36	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUIWER



make it $400, so as to make the prize immediately available.

The President: Do you wish to make an amendment, Mr. Gregg?

Mr. Gregg: No. I was answering Mr. Baker. It is the Guild fund, a thing by itself.

Mr. Baker: No matter where it came from, it would he from the Association. It would he handed out l)y the Association like all scholarships.

The President: It is to be handed out by the Association, but it is to be known as the Guild Scholarship.

Mr. Gemmell : I think that $400 is quite an amount to grant, suppose it is to he donated for one special purpose. The Association has plenty of ways to spend their money and I think this particular Guild fund should bc limited to $400 net.

Mr. Siddall : There is a way out of the difficulty, perhaps. It may he wise for the Association each year to make a grant and double the amount that the interest on $400 would produce which would only he about $20. If the Association were to make a grant of a like sum each year it would make a prize worth having. I think that if the amount is made up to $400 this year by the Association, it would he a prize worth having next year ; and then the next year we would double that prize by granting the sum of $20 from the funds of the Association as an additional impetus to the students. I think it would he wise to go slow in the matter. This is a fund by itself ; and if we wish to get another fund we can do so. As far as this particular fund is concerned, I think it would he wise to deal with it separately.

Mr. Simpson : I think the Ontario Association of Architects ought to have some idea what they are going to put this money to before they bind them— selves down to any amount. I do not see what good $i6 a year is going to do any student. We must have some idea what good can be (lone and then let us pass a resolution sufficient to cover the purpose we intend to put it to.

Mr. Gemmell: This fund is a thing beyond our control it is established by this document which Mr. Gregg accepted yesterday, and must he used for that purpose, or the interest on it.

Mr. Baker: After this resolution is carried we may  want to make the interest up to the sum of $25 out oil the funds of the Association ; that will only take a few dollars out of funds to make up the difference between $16 and $25. After this motion is carried, I will make a motion to that effect.

The President put the motion that the Guild fund, which amounts to something about the sum of $320. he increased to the sum of $400 by the addition of such necessary sum from the exchequer of the Ontario Architects' Association. Carried.

1\lr. Baker: I would move that a sum he paid or set aside by the Association sufficient to bring the interest accruing from the Guild fund tip to $25 each year.

Mr. Belcher: 1 have much pleasure in seconding that. It is a good plan.

The President: It is very pleasing to hear that seconed by an outsider we are very anxious to have the support of our outside men. Carried.

The President : I think it would he well while we have so many outside men here to discuss the subject of holding our meetings in some other cities than Toronto or, as was suggested, of holding a summer convention. We should like to hear a discussion on that subject this morning.

Mr. Baker: To bring the matter before the meeting I would move that the Council he asked to

consider the advisability of holding a summer meeting in Kingston at a convenient time.

Mr. W. R. Gregg: This matter was disposed of in a way. The letter suggesting these meetings was handed over to the Membership Committee,  which would report to the Council.

The President: We have quite a few outside members here this morning, and I would like to hear what they think of such a proposition.

Mr. Bell: Although I am a native of Toronto, I reside in Ottawa at present, and I know that there 15 a hard feeling in connection with the matter. I



think the only way to overcome this difficulty and keep up the Association, as we would like to see it kept up, would be either to hold the winter meetings occasionally in the outside cities or have a summer convention, and probably the summer convention would be the better. It seems to me that about three places would do, London, Hamilton and Ottawa; Kingston, of course, is an older place, but it is such a small town that it does not class with Ottawa. My opinion of the matter is that something must be done, and I think the summer convention would he better. Probably that matter could be best discussed if left entirely to the Council and that is what I would suggest.

Mr. Belcher: I agree with this proposition; I am too conservative to upset the old Association by travelling about particularly in the winter. I think  Toronto is a more convenient place to nearly every one, as far as Ontario is concerned. I think at the same time it might be well to have a summer convention, amid especially for the students. And in consideration of the students 1 think it would be a nice thing if it could be arranged.

Air. Bell: I belong to the American Society of Civil Engineers, and also to the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers. the American Society holds its convention during the summer and I have attended a great many of them during the last twenty—live years; I have found these meetings very useful for the purpose of bringing the members together and getting them acquainted, socially, especially. I mink there is a feeling of something of that kind in connection with our Association, amid something ought to be done.

Air. Burke: I think, as far as the annual meeting IS concerned, it would be enough almost to wreck a



particular meeting to have it outside of Toronto; the majority of the Council live in Toronto and we have all the machinery here -for our meetings. We have our rooms and our place for exhibition, and having had it for so long it seems it has got into a certain groove, and to take the annual meeting out of Toronto would be very serious. I think if we could manage a summer convention and have an interesting as well as a social meeting, it might he a good thing for the Association.

The President: I think we can safely leave this in the hands of the Council, especially after hearing from so many of the outside members. We have with us to-day Professor Nobbs, of McGill University, Montreal. He is to give us a paper on the subject of Delineation of Architecture.

Professor Nobbs was greeted with applause.

AFTERNOON SESSION.



When the convention reassembled, an address was delivered by Prof. Mayor of Toronto University On "Recent Developments in the Planning and Improvement of Cities in Europe and America," and was followed by a paper by Mr. V. G. Todd on ''The Advantages of a Park System."

The election to Council resulted as follows: Mr.

W.	R. Gregg, Toronto; John E. Belcher, Ottawa; and S. G. Curry, Toronto.

