<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ELECTRICAL NEWS	79



<article title=" NEW FLOORING MATERIAL " author="">A NEW FLOORING MATERIAL.



Mr. Henry M. Morgan, United States Consul at Lucerne, Switzerland, writes Architect Siegward, of Lucerne, has patented a new system of a concrete flooring, consisting of hollow tubes of mortar and iron. It is fireproof, and will, I believe, be of considerable interest to builders in the United States.

It is claimed that this system is an improvement on the inventions of Monnier, Hennebique, Koener, and others. It consists in manufacturing, in a factory, the mortar into hollow beams for forming a floor or roof ready for delivery to the builder—one which can be laid together on the supporting walls without planking. By this means one floor after another can be laid in a very short time, and the floor so laid can be used to work upon at once without scaffolding.

This appears to me as a great advantage compared to the usual devices of stone, plaster, etc., which are dependent largely upon temperature and weather, and

in all cases must be left for some days to dry before they can be walked upon.

One advantage claimed for the Siegwart system is that no workmen are required other than the ordinary laborers. Another fact which should be considered is that armored beams which are made in the building can only be depended upon for uniformity when the mortar is mixed in exactly the same proportions and when it is not influenced by shocks, frost, or rain during the time of setting. When this is done in the factory it is far easier to secure uniformity and protect the beams against weather conditions.

The beams manufactured at Lucerne have a uniform breadth of 25 centimeters (9.84 inches) and are manufactured in five sizes, viz. 9, 12, 15, i8 and 21 centimeters 4.7, 5.9, 7.08 and 8.36 inches) high, according to the length of span and load. The size of the iron rods in the beams is between and 10 millimeters (1.96 and inches,) and generally six such rods are used in each beam. Two of these rods are

The Canadian Bridge company limited Walkerville, Ontario Steel Buildings Roof Trusses

The Seaman Kent company limited Meaford Ontario Hardwood Flooring

Doolittle and Wilcox Hamilton Ontario Blast Furnace Slag

Canadian Contractors' Hand-book and Estimator Toronto

Jarvis Concrete Company Limited Toronto concrete buildings

