<doctype type="text;ad">64	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

For each part there are different tradesmen, the plumber taking care of work above ground, the drainmen that below ground. The connection of soil pipe with the system of drainage belongs to the plumber, and he is responsible for the same. This connection has to he made with cement, and the most important of all, for it is covered up and not likely to he seen again until trouble occurs in the drainage. If then it is admitted that iron pipe free from all defects is necessary above ground, is it not of more importance that the same soil pipe should continue uninterrupted to a point outside of the foundation walls.



In this city materials out of which house drains have been constructed have remained the same while other improvements were being made, and it is time that we should take the initiative and have our drainage system placed in a proper position and constructed of material that the first cost will he the only one, and that the interest of men engaged in the manufacture of pipe must take second place to the health of the people. The ordinary tile drains must be discarded since they cannot he secured against breaking and defective joints. Perfect joints and not mere increasers must be used between sections of drains and soil pipes inside of any building. The removal of main traps and the purification of sewer gas that is the most poisonous, namely, sulphurated hydrogen and sulphide of ammonium.



It is not extravagant to talk about a perfect system of drainage since lasting material can be used. There is no more reason why there should be perishable material used and defective joints made in house drains than in the pipes which convey the gas. The latter are air tight and gas tight; so should the former be. House drains should be recognized as a part of a house, not as something that will be covered up and not of so much importance. The supervision and the construction of house drainage should be put under the direction of the responsible and practical plumber, and not as at present, any man who can do it the cheapest.



It appears very simple to those who take no further thought of it that the essential element in plumbing is the ventilation of the sewers, but conditions and details of actions require to be studied, taking into consideration the disregard many people have for the plumbing fraternity, and it will he necessary for us to use scientific knowledge and practical experience to improve the sanitary comforts for all conditions. A united co-operation between the medical, architectural and engineering societies, lean on by our own professional plumbing and heating engineers, might bring the day when we will fully realize that an Omnipotent Providence has placed on us a responsibility of educating the indifferent to an understanding that the highest material things in life are cleanly surroundings and a pure system of ventilation.



Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of every grade of varnish.

Warden  King and Son limited Montreal Iron Founders