<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" A CRYSTAL BOOTH AT THE ST. LOUIS EXPOSITION " author="">A CRYSTAL BOOTH AT THE ST. LOUIS EXPOSITION.



No visitor to the St. Louis Exposition should fail to see the

Crystal Booth Exhibit of The Bridgeport Wood Finishing Co., in



the Liberal Arts Building, Block 75.

The building is constructed of clear rock crystal quartz, with a balustrade all around it making an especially attractive exhibit' and when lighted up by numerous electric lights, the effect is in deed beautiful.

This company has also another exhibit in the Forestry Building, Block 14, consisting of various native woods all finished naturally finish being obtained by first filling with Wheeler's transparent No. Wood Filler.

In both exhibits is also shown a full line of the various specialties made by this company, such as Breing's Lithogen Silicate Paint, Lithogen White Lead, Lithogen Primer, Japans, Dryers, Wood Stains, Polishers, etc.

The exhibits of this company are in charge of Mr. John Borden, who has had charge of its exhibits at various expositions for

many years.



<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES." author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



P.	Oslin & Co., builders, have opened at Grenfell, N.W.T.



The Canadian Petrified Brick & Stone Co., Limited, of Winnipeg, has been incorporated, with a capital of $100,000.

In the make up of any building which is to have inhabitants, the lighting fixtures is a most important feature, for on them depends much of the finished appearance of the structure. There are many lines of gas and electric lighting fixtures offered for sale throughout the world, but one that deserves the careful consideration of every purchaser is that which is manufactured by The James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, Limited, of Toronto, Ont. This old established house is noted for the excellent and superior gas and electric lighting fixtures which it manufactures and in its comprehensive showing of stock patterns are included almost everything that any fancy might desire, while the facilities of the company enable it to advantageously make to order special fixtures from specifications. If you are likely to be a purchaser of lighting fixtures, the Morrison Company's annoucements will certainly be of interest to you.



Berry Brothers limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of every kind of varnish and japan

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto Mosaic glass window