<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	151



not only for the mouldings with which he divided the surfaces he had to decorate, but as ornamental features within the paintings themselves. A few years after Bramante was at work on St. Peter's. His investigations, says Vasari, resulted in the discovery of the method of preparing stucco employed by the ancients, the secret of which had been lost in their ruin, and remained concealed ever since. Vasari relates how Raffaelle and Giovanni da Udine went together to see some subterranean chambers then just discovered in excavating the Baths of Titus. Giovanni was so much impressed by the stucco decorations with which they were covered that he devoted himself to their study, and reproduced them with so much grace and facility that there was only now wanting to him the knowledge how to compound the stucco. At length, by compounding finely-powdered white marble with the lime from white travertine, he succeeded in producing the stucco of the ancients. Raffaelle at once caused Giovanni to decorate all the vaultings of the Papal Loggie in stucco. Pierino del Vaga, another of that wonderful band of young artists in the Vatican, stands pre-eminent as an ornamentist and as a decorative colourist ; his stuccowork has a quality of fine decorative appropriateness, both in design and scale, that has been surpassed by none. Of his bolder conceptions the great ceiling of the Sala Regia is a fine example. Alessandro Vittoria was one of the best-known stucco-workers in the latter half of the sixteenth century. His work tinder Sansovino at Venice, in the Libreria, and in the Scala d'Oro of the Ducal Palace are characteristic examples of his style.

Francis I. attracted to France some of the most capable of the Italian artists skilled in stucco. Primaticcio and II Rosso came about 1530, and their wonderful stucco decorations at. Fontainebleau long influenced French design and French sculpture. Niccolo dell Abbate followed twenty years later, and then his three sons, the youngest becoming after a time the director or manager of these decorative works. Their work is a fine field for the study of what may he done in stucco, and it was the parent of the rich decorations of Louis XIV.'s reign, which, in their turn, became the model for civilised Europe.

Henry VIII, was also very successful in securing the services of able artists in England, many of them pupils or relations of those who were at work on the masterpieces of the Vatican. Pietro Torrigiano, who was among the earliest, completed the bronze monument of Henry VII, in 1519. It was to the Palace of Nonsuch that the new stream of talent was directed

although not a vestige of it now remains, the names of some of the men who adorned it are a guarantee that the work was neither coarse nor commonplace. As to the question lately raised about the external panels of Nonsuch being in stucco, the author said there was not the smallest doubt on the subject. There were plenty of examples done more roughly within the next seventy or eight years which remain to this day, in spite of exposure and neglect.

External decorative work in plaster continued to be a feature of many English houses down to the end of the 17th century. But the interior was the more important field, and from the time of Nonsuch for a century no house of any pretence was without its elaborate plaster ceiling and frieze. Admirable in many ways

as these old English ceilings are, few of the men who did them had either the art or the skill of the Italians, who made ornamental plaster work popular. The latter endeavoured to make their work perfect in modelling and finish. Each figure was a work of art. In the English plasterwork, however, scarcely a figure can he found that is not more or less barbaric in execution, and the minor work, effective as it is, is often greatly wanting in grace of line and in intelligent modelling. 

The next step in English plaster-work leads straight to the Classic work of Jones and Wren. The gap caused by the Civil War made the change more complete. Building operations after the Great Fire opened the way to new men and methods. French and Italian plaster-workers were again invited to England in Charles II's reign. Besides the work in St. Paul's, St. Stephen's, Wabrook, and other city churches, the chapel of Trinity College, Oxford, may be cited as a good typical specimen of plaster ornamentation. A feature of some of the plaster decoration of the end of the seventeenth century is the elaborate modelling of fruit, flowers and foliage in full relief, often in parts quite detached from the grounds and either supported by wires imbedded in the plaster or by small sticks of tough wood. This work, full as it is of artistitic ingenuity and clever modelling, was by that very ingenuity departing from any true principles of stuccowork, and therefore hastening the decay of the art. A notable example is the ceiling of the chapel of the Royal Hospital, Kilrnainham. The next modification of style was largely due to Kent. In his designs the plaster ornamentation is mainly used as architectural enrichment, bold in treatment—sometimes too bold for the space, but effective in its way. Following closely on Kent's work came a flood of plaster ornament derived from the French work of the time of Louis XV. This was sometimes very good—often straggling and purposeless, yet not without a certain elegance The best of it was at least partly modelled, but the greater part was cast and fixed. With this style stucco modelling practically came to an end. All that followed was cast and fixed. The change of style brought about by the brothers Adam was due to the same influence which has produced the detail of the Vatican Loggie and the Villa Madama—- namely, that of tile antique stucchi in the excavated ruins in Rome. The difference in the result may he thus accounted for. Giovanni da Udine studied them, as an artist by endeavouring to produce similar work with his own hands. Robert Adam, as a draughts man, copied them on paper, as did probably the Frenchmen through whom France adopted the style. It was undoubtedly elegant, and the effect refined ; and, since the method of reproduction was mechanical, it lent itself to extensive use.

Much good plaster work has been done in the last half of the 19th century—always in the form of at -tempts, sometimes very successful, to reproduce a past style, and by casting. '' Fibrous plaster," introduced since 1861, is a valuable innovation, and presents immense advantages. It does away with the danger of enormous overhead weight, and requires so much the less timber structure to carry it ; it can be executed quickly, and it dries quickly. The facility of plaster work is at once its recommendation and its danger.

