<doctype type="text">146	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Lessons from the

Toronto Fire.

" author="">Lessons from the

Toronto Fire.

As o the lake front drive, from Queen's wharf to the Humber, it seems to be all advantage ; even the making is a gain. As long as the street commissioner has innumerable cart loads of ashes and other stuff to dispose of, and no where in particular to put them, no inequality of ground is safe from his necessities ; and to create a safe dumping ground for him, which will ultimately turn out a boulevard, is a happy state of affairs, equal to Sidney Smith's account of the cooking of oat meal water ''She put some dirty water in a pot and by the blessing of God it came out a pudding." And by the time this boulevard is made, perhaps the City Council will have in sight a destructor which will settle the question as it ought to he settled and has been settled elsewhere, by burning up ashes, rubbish, garbage and tin cans all together, making of them a slag harder and better than stone for making and mending the roads.





The General Committee of Fire Insurance Companies have published a report which is a rather

dry statement of facts conveying, however, one or two practical lessons. There is the usual complaint about the interference of overhead wires with the work of the firemen, which it is as well to keep in mind until these wires are put underground ; but there are two or three practical lessons which ought to have immediate effect in influencing the manner of rebuilding the warehouses that have been destroyed. The most striking suggestion may he extracted from the account of the '' Sprinklered Risks," viz: the warehouses of W. R. Brock & Co., Kilgour Bros., and the Evening Telegram. The two former were supplied with both inside and outside sprinklers, and the evidence seems to show their efficacy if the flow of water can be kept up in spite of the competition of the hydrants. There seems to be no doubt that in the case of W. R. Brock's building, if there had been fewer hose going, if the fire had been concerned only with its immediate neighbour, this warehouse, though exposed to precisely the same contact with fire as in the April fire, would have escaped burning ; but in a conflagration which kept 50 streams of water running and reduced the pressure at the hydrants from 70 or So pounds per square inch to 37 ½ pounds, the water curtain from the outside sprinklers, which kept the fire off while pressure lasted, began to fail in the upper stories ; ''then," the report says, ''it is supposed that the fire entered the risk through the upper windows at the rear." The automatic sprinklers inside kept the fire in check until the tank supply was exhausted, after which the supply to the upper floors ran dry inside as well as outside and the fire got possession of the building.





The account of the Kilgour building's apparatus is not so clear. It had the advantage of a larger tank supply for the inside automatic heads, and the outside heads are said to have had a steamer connection auxiliary to the supply from city pressure ; but it is not said whether the steamer connection was made use of, or whether the safety of the building, and the credit which is due to it of having stopped the fire at that point is due to its superior apparatus or to the good fortune of having had as its exposing neigbour on its uninjured side, a lower building than the Brock ware-

house had. One point is clear, that, where the building did take fire, its advance within was held in check by

good division walls ;'' but that is a precaution well known, however little used. The immediate example furnished by these buildings is the efficacy of sprinklers if their efficacy is secured, and the simplest way to secure it would he to supply these, as well as hose pipes, with water from the fire engines. It would require a point of application at a comfortable distance from the fire ; not up a lane but on the street; and on the edge of the sidewalk rather than against the building.



The Telegram building, though sprinklered, did not get to the point of opening the heads. The fire was successfully fought with inside hand hose, and special mention is given to good work done with a length of hand hose attached to a roof hydrant. This sounds like a good thing to have but not to rely upon. It is good to stop small beginnings, hut the flame that reaches across a street would make short work not only of a hand hose but of those who operate it.



A second lesson is that a longitudinal fire wall hinders only a transverse fire; and a transverse approach is no longer the only thing to be expected from fire. Buildings are now so much higher than formerly, in relation to the width of the road, that it is only a question of the direction of the wind whether the flame from a burning warehouse will attack its adjacent neighbour or its neighbour across the street. Fire walls should run all round a building and the roof drain to the middle.



The great lesson of the fire, however, is one that was taught before, when the McKinnon warehouse took fire through its windows from the Globe office across the way. A building is not fire-resisting unless its windows are protected. With protected windows any brick building with fire walls and a reasonable roof would be hard for the fire to get at; without them a building may he as fireproof as a stove and burn as well. It is the stock that burns. Most stock burns well and much of it is very inflammable. There is nothing to prevent fire running through a fire proof building from front to rear, if there is nothing but glass between its stock and a fire across the road.





There is one other question of some interest :— How far is a portable fireproof safe a certainty in case of fire? There are rumours of safes being burst open by their fall from an upper floor. Whether this is founded upon evidence or conjecture there is certainly, in one statement of the Insurance Companies' Report, some food for conjecture as to the fate of safes which fall to the cellar. The report says: - "The hardware stocks were in very bad shape; hardened steel tools, gun and rifle barrels and heavy shelf hardware being found in masses, sometimes of several tons weight." 1-low is a safe likely to fare that falls into the sort of fire that could make one mass of steel implements such as are described above! There should certainly be some hold in the wall for portable safes, to keep them out of the cellar. What answered once will not necessarily answer now ; for with bigger buildings we have bigger fires.

