<doctype type="text">138	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NOTES ON THE SUPERVISION OF BUILDINGS. *

" author="Innocent, C. F.">NOTES ON THE SUPERVISION OF BUILDINGS. *



By C. F. INNOCENT.



In this paper I have tried to express my views as to the general conduct of a young architect on a building, embodying such information as would have been useful to me a dozen years ago.

First, let me urge upon pupils the importance of getting on to work in progress as much as possible, as this is the way to obtain a practical knowledge of construction. If your principals would allow you to visit a building from commencement to completion, say, every day or every alternate day—to act, that is, somewhat as clerk of the works-you would be greatly benefited.

The person with whom you will have most to do is the foreman, and it in well for you to remember that he is placed in his position by the builder to look after his (the builder's) interests. Much useful information can he learned in conversation with an experienced foreman, and also with the better class of workmen, such as the joiners who are ''staircase hands" and the masons who set the ashlar. It you should he appointed, as I have advised, to look after work, the foreman will soon take your measure ; and if he thinks you are a likely fellow for it, will try to persuade you to alter all sorts of things—of course to improve the work ; such, for instance, as the benefit to he derived from the substitution of lia-lime for cement in concrete and if you are green enough he may make such substitutions without saything to you about them. Things will go more smoothly if you always stick pleasantly and firmly to your first decision ; if you know that you are right, take no notice of the builders objections that such-and-such ways are unnecessary fads and that Mr. So-and.so always has it done in sonic other way ; you will find it. best to show at the beginning that you mean to have everything done well. And whilst on the subject of foreman I would remark that some builders have an inconvenient habit of moving their foreman about from job to job ; this will cause you a great deal of trouble and should he objected to.

in condemning materials you will of course order them to he removed from the site, and if you are wise you will see them go ; unless this is done it is very easy for an unheeding workman to use up the stuff—of course quite by accident. If you do not see the goods removed you should at any rate remember their appearance thoroughly, and if possible plainly mark them as disapproved.

I believe that some undesirable builders consider that disapproved material is removed if placed on another part of the site hew are of this. Then again, when the builder assures you that the materials are the best, he may be correct in the letter but wrong in the spirit,

-as "best" used as a trade term does not always bear its recognized dictionary meaning. The ''best" in some materials may be of quite medium quality.

In work out of town, where the builder's unable to drop into the architect's office whenever he wants to ask

	it is	necessity to ad

	a question	almost a	opt a regular

day for inspection or to inform the builder before-hand of your visit and I believe that some architects adopt this practice with their work in town but in such cases it is of questionable utility, as it always enables the builder to have everything on the work ready for your inspection as he wishes you to see it, and there is the disadvantage of allowing the large force of men whom he has put on the work to gladden your heart on your visit of inspection to be transferred to another job when you are safely out of the way for a few days or so. Visits at all times and any time are the best to keep everyone on the qui vive. You know that as soon as the laborer who is mixing mortar or loading up bricks in the road sees you bearing down on the job lie goes inside and shouts up to the scaffold that So-and-so, whatever your name or nickname may he, is coming ; then the word is passed round, and by the time you have climbed upon the scaffold the bricklayers, who have been laying the bricks nearly dry

* Extracts from a paper read before the Sheffield Society of Architects and Surveyors.

except on the face joints, are laying them as carefully as eggs, and the masons who have been packing their walls with little stones without a scrap of mortar to cover them, have flushed them all up in what seems a most satisfactory manner—until you poke into it. I suppose it is natural for everyone to go the easiest way, and you will have an early example of this when the stripped soil on the site has to he tipped ; you will find most excellent reasons produced for wheeling it down hill.

When you pay a visit to a building for the purposes of supervision it is as well to go around by yourself amid  not be led round by a talkative foreman ; in such a case I sometimes feel that work is being smothered tip on another part of the building- while lie is engaging me in conversation ; of course, it is a different matter if you go to learn what you can from him, as suggested before, and I may say here that it will he as well to ascertain from your principal what is your standing on the work. No doubt you will realize that the con— demnation of work or materials by an inexperienced pupil sometimes places the architect in such a position that it is necessary to let the pupil down.

It is obviously impossible for me to describe here the numerous probable defects in the various works and materials. This has already been done in such standard works as Seddon's " Builder's Work and the Building Trades " and '' Notes on Building Construction "; and various excellent articles have been published in the architectural papers. There is one point, however, which I consider does not receive adequate consideration in the text-books, that is, the correct order in which the different trades and operations follow each other. These are well known by the builder, but he does not always act up to his knowledge, considering his own convenience ; sometimes, if permitted to do so, for instance, he may build the walls in one part of a building before those in another part, with unequal settlement as a possible result, or he may rush the concrete floors on while a shower of sawdust is descending from the joiners working at the roof, thus weakening the concrete ; or the joiner may bridge or strut the joists as soon as they are fixed, so that the fastenings are strained with each swelling and shrinking of the timber or a laborer with nothing to do may he set to sweep up the rubbish while the painters are varnishing, thus producing a fine frosted effect without extra charge ; or various works may he delayed perhaps in the hope of slipping them all together. On contract work each tradesman usually wishes to change his men around as little as possible, to keep them at regular work, and to go s right forward and get as much work finished as is possible at one time.

I will now run through such other matters in the work requiring your attention as occur to me.

As to the commencement, some architect s set out the work themselves, and others refuse to do so, but check the dimensions after the builder has set out ; this is necessary because you will understand what a saving an unscrupulous builder would effect if he were to pinch 2½ in. or 2 in from each dimension of each room. The rooms should also lie tested to see whether they are square. Whether the walls are at right angles nia he easily tested with the measuring tape if you remember hat the sides of a right—angled triangle are in the proportion of 3, 4 and 5, and their multiples of course. The heights of the rooms should also he tested.

You are not likely to be troubled much in Sheffield with bad foundations, though here amid there are quick— sands, in which cases the pump and concrete are a necessity. As clay is liable to swell when wet and contract when dry, with unpleasant effects to the building, you should have the footing ready before raimi gets to the work. It the footings are of rubble it is necessary to see that they are well bedded on the foundations and well compacted together. Poor footings lead to subsequent cracks in the superstructure.

While speaking of the foundations I would remind you that they are occasionally omitted in places where

