<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



other. I regret this the more because I first suggested in a report to the Gresham Committee, dated Oct. 9, 1890, that these panels should he painted historically.

Undoubtedly painting in the studio instead of on the wall itself tends to enlarge the risk of want of harmony with the whole surroundings, though it certainly presents some advantages. To take one disadvantage alone, the difference of light. This is almost certain to be different in degree and quality, 'and more than likely to differ in direction. This being the case, there is only too much probability of a general difference of tone between the picture and its surroundings when finally brought together. Even the design of cartoon of the picture—color apart—will often need some change, when tried on the spot, from what seemed satisfactory when viewed in the studio.

The colored bands or margins which in colored decoration are so valuable, are more than ever useful when pictorial treatment is adopted in the panels. They afford the means of connecting the more forcible coloring of the picture panels with the rest of the work, and so preventing them from appearing as detached patches. Apart from this function, they greatly facilitate and direct the passage of the spectator's eye over the whole work and aid that prompt grasp of form and surface which I have already spoken of as inducing the sense of repose.

The matters which I have mentioned are practically "axioms" which are absolutely independent of style or fashion. The building may be ecclesiastical or secular, classic or gothic, simple or elaborate, it matters not.

The general principles which should guide decoration are true for all. And it is this main point which it seems useful now to insist upon, because we find so many persons ready to substitute particular arrangements of color or pattern for any real knowledge of art or principles.

Be sure of this, that just as sound principles are independent of style or fashion, of any special harmonies of color, or of any character of design, so no design, no arrangement of color, no excellence of skill can really enhance the value of the architect's work if the decorator does not carefully think out and follow those immutable principles which, whilst they allow of an infinite variety of treatment, have for their base the expression of the repose and stability of the architecture.

<person>J.	D. CRACE.</person>





<article title=" SAND FOR BUILDING." author="">SAND FOR BUILDING.



TORONTO, December 21st, 1903.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR,—In your editorial notes, November issue, you state that "a Company who are carrying out dredging contracts in Toronto are sending out circulars re Water Washed Sand (whatever that may mean) and are asking a higher price for their material, which is a waste product, etc.

As there are three misstatements of facts in your article and as the conclusions you draw arc based on these misstatements we wish to have them corrected.

1st.—Our sand is riot the waste product of a dredging contract but we have spent $20,000 to build special plant, including a twin screw steam barge to bring our material to Toronto docks and it is dredged solely for the purpose of the building and contracting trade.

2.—A higher price is not asked "for this material with the high sounding name.' Experiments show that 17770f clay or loam in sand decreases the strength of mortar or concrete made with it 10, and as most pit sands have from 2to 657216710f clay, loam or vegetable matter in it, the value of the cement or lime is decreased accordingly. Our water washing consists of pumping two thousand

gallons of water per minute and discharging it over and through the sand so that any loam, vegetable matter or clay is washed overboard and the pure, clean, waterwashed sand only is retained.

It is uniform in quality. the grains being graded from fine to coarse. Tests made at the City Hall, Toronto, shew that cement made with it in three months time is 57 útronger than pit sand. Toronto is the only city on the Great Lakes that has not been using dredged sand for from ten to Fifteen years past. Nothing else is used in Chicago, Fort William, Port Arthur, the Canadian Soo, Detroit, Windsor, Toledo, Cleveland, Buffalo, Hamilton, Montreal, Kingston and Ottawa.

Toronto architects have complained for years about the poor quality of some sands that have been brought on work executed by them, but there being no fixed standard they found it hard to get Just exactly what they required.

Last year we fixed a standard by washing out all fine material and screening out all coarse material so that we get an even quality of goods every day, pure ant' clean.

Architects and many builders have been quick to see the

merits of our standard sand and our trade has increased 350

for 1903 over 1902 or from 6ooo cubit yards in 1902 to over



25,000 cubic yards in 1903,

Trusting that you will give this letter equal prominence to the article containing the misstatements.

Yours sincerely,



SAND AND DREDGING, LIMITED.







<article title=" FIREPROOFING METHODS " author="Muller, A.">FIREPROOFING METHODS.

"A lie which is at! a lie may be met and fought with outright; flut a tie which is part a truth is a harder matter to fight."

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, —In your December issue appears a letter from Mr. <person>F. W. Barrett</person>, Agent of the Expanded Metal Company, in which he purposes to print cuts showing the effect of fires in buildings of terra cotta arches, and of buildings of concrete construction.

Your correspondent starts out on his crusade by referring to the lire in Pittsburg, Pa., of May 1st, 1897, and selects for his demonstration the Horne Department Store, while ignoring all reference to the Horne Office building adjoining; the floors of the former being of dense tiles, the latter of porous material.

He states 'The fire burnt out the woodwork and contents but was NOT HOT enough to destroy the stone work on the front; it WAS HOT enough to destroy thc terra cotta floors throughout a great part of the building' (the capitals arc mine).

When one considers that. the building in question was a Department Store—6 stories and basement, filled with the usual stock of such stores, i.e., packing, crockery in crates, dry goods, etc., which were completely consumed; the intensity of the fire may readily be inferred.

In reply to your correspondent's assertion that the fire destroyed the terra cotta floors, I would refer him to the report of Mr. <person>S. Albert Reed</person>, manager of the New York Tariff Association, an authority, presumably unbiased; lie says—''The collapse of the roof involved in more or less damage almost the entire half of the building east of thc large wall"-"Now although FOUR-FIFTHS of the arches were standing after the fire, AND ONE COULD SAFELY WALK OVER THEM (if "Fireproof" of Chicago is right, it does not seem safe to do that on concrete floors even before a fire) there is nevertheless a damage throughout the building to the under side of these arches by the breaking and dropping out of the lower webs."

It has long been contended, that dense tile are not as good as tiles of porous material; and reference to the Horne Office building, wherein the floors were of the latter material and which came out with flying colours, again proves the claim good.

I await with interest Mr. <person>Barrett's</person> instances of concrete floors under fire: but in the meantime beg to call his attention to some very recent collapses of concrete floors, which probably deeming discretion the better part of valor, on being tested for strength, forthwith tell in, killing several workmen :—<person>J. L. Mott Jron </person>Works, Trenton, N. J., Ferro-Concrete, December 8th; Belle-field Apartments, Pittsburg, Expanded Metal, December 5th; <building>Will & Bauman Building</building>, Greenpoint, October, and several others as enumerated in the Fireproof Magazine.

Yours truly,



<person>A.	MULLER.</person>

628 Carlton Ave., BROOKLYN, DEC. 29, 

