<doctype type="text">168	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" SOME NOTES ON MOTOR HOUSES " author="">SOME NOTES ON MOTOR HOUSES.



With the swift strides made in the automobile industry during the last few years the demand has arisen for a class of building unthought-of a decade ago; and there will soon be but few architects in general practice who will not at one time or another have been called upon to prepare plans and specifications for a motor

save a few pounds on the structure in which it is to be housed, and beyond this there is the question of personal safety, which may be seriously imperilled in consequence of the rusting of parts of the machinery or the action of damp upon the fabric of outer covers and the rubber of inner tubes.

With the style of building I have no concern, that





























house. At this early stage no settled definite planning has been arrived at ; much that has been done must be looked upon as merely tentative ; and I would therefore ask the reader to remember that I put nothing forward as final, preferring my remarks to be treated simply in the light of suggestions, from which (in combination

being entirely a matter for the individual architect neither am t concerned with the materials to be employed for walls and roofs so long as they are lasting and thoroughly wind, weather and damp-proof. The walls internally may be finished with struck-jointed brickwork or the) may be plastered; but the best finish































































with the opinions and experience of others) some settled lines may in due course be evolved.

It is scarcely necessary to say that nothing of a temporary nature should be deemed good enough for the stabling of a motor car. Wood and corrugated iron buildings, whether portable or fixed, are both unsuitable for the purpose, warmth, dryness and approximate equality of temperature being of first importance in the preservation of a car. It is a poor policy to risk the well-being of a vehicle costing hundreds in order to

is of course given by some form of tiling, with a dado of enamelled bricks for the harder wear in the lower portions of the walls. Roofs should be boarded and felted and should, if possible have neither rooms nor loft above so that plenty of top light may be obtainable.

In place of the obsolete coach-house doors, steelhinged wood revolving-shutters or sliding doors should form the entrance, as with these there is no danger of damaging the car by the swinging of a hung door in a heavy wind. The doors, if sliding, must run on an

