<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	159



<article title=" AN ENTIRELY CONCRETE BUILDING IN

HALIFAX. 

" author="">AN ENTIRELY CONCRETE BUILDING IN

HALIFAX. 

On the illustration sheets of this number is a building owned by A. M. Bell & Co. in Halifax, N.S., in which the walls and piers are entirely of concrete and steel bars. This forms quite a precedent in Canada, as in the majority of cases of buildings of concrete construction we usually find the facings of brick, stone or marble, but in this building all the face work and even the mouldings are of concrete.

The walls were constructed in the usual way by building up wooden sheeting on each side and filling in the concrete. 'They are twenty inches thick to the top of the first floor, sixteen inches to the top of the second and twelve inches in thickness for the remaining three upper stories, the building being five stories high. The piers on the two frontages are four feet wide and two feet thick.

The mouldings which stand out strongly in the illustrations were formed by building up the reverse mouldings in wood, thus forming the concrete mouldings in one piece with the walls.

Cracks, due to the expansion and contraction of the concrete, were prevented by building up the main piers in both frontages separately with boxes built in recesses to receive the ends of the lintels which were built in later, thus forming joints where the movement due to expansion and contraction could he taken up. These lintels, as also all the piers and walls, were reinforced

by iron beams and twisted steel rods, while iron rods were laid horizontally in the walls every tour feet of the height, and twisted iron rods were run vertically the full length of the piers.

The concrete used in the construction was of various grades and qualities, that used for the walls being composed in the proportion of seven parts of sand and gravel to one of cement ; that in the piers of five parts of sand and gravel to one of cement, while the mouldings were constructed of cement composed of equal parts of sand and cement.

Within the interior of the building is a large twostorey vault with double 8-inch cinder concrete walls.

The building was designed by R. A. Johnson, architect, successor to Hopson Bros. of Halifax, N.S., and constructed by Geo. B. Low, contractor, of Halifax.



<article title=" PUBLICATIONS." author="">PUBLICATIONS.

A fourteenth edition, revised and rewritten, of the Architects' and Builders' Pocket Book, by Frank E. Kidder, C.E., Ph. D., has been published by John Wiley & Sons, New York. It contains 1650 pages, size 6½x3 7/8, with 1000 illustrations. Price, in morocco binding, $5.00.

The McGraw Publishing Company, 114 Liberty Street, New York, have recently issued an instructive work by Frank W. Skinner entitled "Types and Details of Bridge Construction." '1'he book comprises 294 pages and is liberally illustrated. It is printed on heavy paper and substantially bound in cloth. The price is $3.00.



When melting size for distemper keep it well stirred, and it should not be allowed to get beyond a lukewarm state. If very hot when mixed with the whiting the distemper will be "runny" when cold instead of a jellified mass.



<article title=" NOTES." author="">NOTES.

Mr. Peter Brass, one of the oldest and most highly respected architects of Hamilton, Ont., died a few days ago following an operation in the general hospital of that city.



Two strikers were picketing the entrance of an alley during the strike at the factory of the Kellogg Switchboard & Supply Company in Chicago. A nonunion man came out of the factory and started across the street. One of the strikers picked up a brick. As he looked at it an expression of disgust came over his face and he threw it down.

Why didn't you throw it at the scab ?"

asked the other striker.

Because it's a non-union brick. "—The

World's Work.

The New Century Refrigerator & Manufacturing Company, Limited, of Dundas, Ont., have their large new factory completed and in full operation. It is splendidly equipped with the best and most modern machinery and systematized so as to reduce the amount of labor to the minimum, and is one of the most complete wood-working factories in Canada. There are large and extensive dry kilns by means of which all lumber will be thoroughly seasoned before being manufactured. The company will make a specialty of hardwood veneer doors with built-up bodies, which they claim are unshrinkable and are guaranteed not to warp or twist. They are made in modern designs, artistic in appearance and equal in construction and finish to any door on the market. They will also give close attention to architects special designs of doors and trims. Agents will immediately be appointed in the different districts, and they will doubtless find their products a profitable line of goods to handle.



The metallic Roofing Company limited Toronto Fire-proof  glass Windows