<doctype type="text">56	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ly uninjured, while all above, including the roof, was completely ruined. Another building, the National Bank of Commerce, had all the wood-work burned out of it, but the concrete floors are absolutely intact. The writer saw a large safe being moved across the concrete floor. The banking house of Alex. Brown & Sons is another example, with floors and roof included, of expanded metal and concrete fireproofing. The military cordon and debris strewn street alone prevented this institution from opening for business the morning after the fire.

A most remarkable example of the fireproofing qualities of concrete is exhibited in a four storey structure now known as the ''Concrete Building",

the concrete is intact and as good as when first installed. The buildings on all sides of it were levelled to the ground and the brick walls of the building itself crumbled and fell away. The cast iron front failed also, and to-day this concrete monument stands, a paradox of a building largely consisting of floors without walls.

The concrete work at Baltimore displays an unbroken record of complete immunity from damage by the general conflagration, and without exception will not cost a dollar for repairs.



<article title=" THE CHICAGO THEATRE FIRE.

" author="Baillairge, C.">THE CHICAGO THEATRE FIRE.

On this subject Mr. Chas. Baillairge, Architect, of Quebec, writes:—"I see by the report of the Commis











































































ANNUAL BANQUET OF THE TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE, FEBRUARY 23RD, 1904.



which prior to the fire was the office of the U.S. Fidelity & Bond Co. We publish a view of this building showing its unique appearance. It is built of steel-reinforced concrete floors, roof, beams, and columns. In erecting the building, party walls belonging to adjoining buildings were used instead of building new walls, and in order to carry the floors pilasters of concrete re-inforced with steel rods were built up against the walls, and on these were carried the beams, also of concrete and steel rods. The beams are about 22 feet long, spaced about 10 feet apart. The floor slab is of reinforced cinder concrete, about 5" thick. There is no structural steel in the building, so that there can be no warping of heavy metal framework. Although the brick walls and iron front succumbed, as well as everything combustible,

sioners appointed to inquire into the cause of the disaster, that is, as to the rapidity with which the fire from the stage reached the auditorium and was the cause of the loss of so many lives in the short space of a few minutes, that while in the roof or ceiling of the auditorium there was an open ventilator, a skylight which on the roof over the stage end of the building should have been open, was on the contrary hermetically closed.

"Now, say the Commissioners, all the smoke and heated gases, which, had this skylight been open, would have passed out direct through opening, had to seek issue by the ventilator over the auditorium9 thus creating a current of air which prevented the lowering of the incombustible curtain which, with the wall separating the auditorium from the stage, was intended to

