<doctype type="text">184	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



The wasteful mountain torrent in California and the arid land are being brought together by the aid of long-distance transmission of electrical power. The wilderness promises to blossom as the rose ; for the dessicated fertility of these lands is of long accumulation and abounds with fruit under the simple influence of water. The water is there but beneath the surface so far that horse-power is required beyond the power of horses. Mountain streams have been used to supply power to pumps as much as a hundred miles away, and the Kern river is being, or has been, harnessed for the great orchard and farming regions, 25 miles away. This, though primarily a Californian affair has like most things now-a-days, a bearing upon our Imperial

question. What is possible in California has excited attention in India as possible for India ; except that there it is paddy and jowra and bajra that propose to lift their heads ; and, though it is somewhat of a leap in the dark, we may affirm that it will be a good day for India when paddy prospers and jowra and bajra are within the reach of everyone.

	x	x x



Excavations of foundations for two or three large buildings in the down-town district of Chicago will be made in a novel way. Chicago's down town streets, as now is generally known, are paralleled forty-six feet below the surface with tunnels corresponding to the streets above. In order to get rid of the earth from the building foundations the Illinois Tunnel Company, owning t he underground tunnels will extend spurs from their main tunnels to a point about the center of the lots to be excavated and wells will be dug connecting these spurs with the surface. Steel cars of about 20,000 pounds capacity are being built, which will be run to a point at the bottom of the wells, and earth from the foundations will be shot down the well into these cars. An outlet for the earth thus set below ground will be provided on the lake front, where the cars with their loads of dirt will be elevated up a well and run on tracks to the dump.

x xx



The chairman of the London County Council has, in an opening address, been reviewing the work of the Council during the fourteen years of its existence. Among bewildering thousands of persons rehoused and millions of people carried over the Council's tram lines we meet with one figure that is a recognizable achievement the death rate has decreased by 40 per 1,000. That is something definite and a great improvement. It is attributed to the clearance of slums, the building of better houses and the opening of parks and recreation grounds. There is no doubt that this attribution is right and it is encouraging. To support the intolerable deal of preliminary talk that is necessary to get public improvements done, particularly those which affect the welfare of the classes who do not or cannot concern themselves in the matter, it is necessary to have a clear consciousness of the certainty of results otherwise the dread of becoming a Mrs. Jellyby creeps over the promoter and makes him flabby and irresolute. Here then is evidence that cleanliness, comfort and beauty are practical matters, and that the result is not only definite but so quick in coming that effort and expenditure to get and maintain these conditions is not over-altruistic.

<article title=" CAMERA IN SCULPTURE " author="">CAMERA IN SCULPTURE.



Charles Boesse, who recently invented a new process of photo-sculpture which, according to the scientific publications, is destined to revolutionize the photographic art, has arrived in Rome, where he intends to start his first establishment. The young inventor was born in Florence ; his father was German and his mother French. He is only 25 years of age and admits that he owes his discovery to chance.

He explained the way he is able to produce in relief all sorts of pictures by a very simple process. The fundamental principle of the invention lies in the discovery that gelatin, sensitized with bicromate of ammonia, loses the property of absorbing liquids in proportion to the length of time it has been submitted to the action of light. A cake of such gelatin immersed in a special liquid under a photographic negative will after a while show relief and depressions, representing the image on the negative.

The difficulty in M. Boese's invention was to procure a negative in which the transparency would be proportioned to the degree of relief which it was desired to obtain. In order to do this the object to be photographed is placed in a dark room in front of a specially constructed camera and a special blue light, filtered through a red prism, is projected on it. Two poses are necessary. so that, having obtained the first impression, the operator rapidly reverses the negative and takes a second picture on the same plate.

This negative is developed like all photographic negatives and is copied on film, after which the two pictures are laid one on the other, and thus a negative is obtained totally different from the ordinary photographic negatives. If the cake of prepared gelatin, immersed in the special liquid, is exposed to the light under this negative in five or six hours it will reproduce the picture in relief with the utmost perfection of detail.

Mr. J3oese already has given practical demonstrations before the Camera Club and the Royal Institution of London and the Urania Society in Berlin.—Toronto World.



<article title=" AN OPTICAL ILLUSION " author="">AN OPTICAL ILLUSION.

The engraving represents a Gothic arch bisected at one side by a straight column, the apex of the arch

being at A. On looking at the two sides of the arch, it will seem impossible that both can be of the same degree of curvature, or that the line of the shorter side, if extended, will join those of the longer. It can, however, be very easily proven by drawing two lines with a pencil across the straight bisecting lines, when the arch will at

once appear in its proper from, although until this is done the eye refuses to perceive the fact, and the appearance of two dissimilar arches persists. This illusion is of practical importance to architects, who, in planning buildings with arches, should avoid placing columns in such a position that the arches will be unsymmetrically divided by them. — Popular Science News.

