<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	67



alone, and when attacked by the fire toppled over leaving a clear path for the extension of the conflagration.

The insurance companies should change their methods of assessing buildings, and offer greater inducements than heretofore to the owners of substantially constructed buildings, In the past buildings have been simply grouped into classes, each class being rated the same regardless of differences in construction. This method should no longer prevail, but substantial inducement should be given those who will put up solidly built structures and employ fire-proofing methods. When it is considered what great losses have been incurred by the occupants of buildings destroyed in the recent fire because of interruption to their business, it will be seen that, apart altogether from the question of insurance rates, it would pay the owners and occupants of such buildings to use a higher standard of construction.

































VIEW ON WELLINGTON STREET.



At least one important building was saved by the fact that the windows on one side were protected by iron shutters. The advantage of protecting windows by this or other methods equally effective is beyond question. The value of open spaces in preventing the progress of fire has also been demonstrated. Had it not been for the open spaces immediately to the west of the Custom House and east of the Queen's Hotel, and the fact that facing on these open spaces were walls of solid brick, the fire would doubtless have spread further in both directions. While the water pressure was very defective, yet in the face of the unfavorable weather conditions prevailing this fact had little bearing on the situation. No matter what the pressure might have been, the fire could not have been stopped by the fire brigade after it had once got headway. In this connection it seems pertinent to enquire if, by the exercise of better judgment on the part of the heads of the Fire Department, the fire might not have been confined to the building in which it originated. It is said to have stated at the rear of the building, and that, instead of attacking it there, the firemen broke open the front doors, thus allowing the flames to be driven by the fierce wind through the building and across the street, setting fire to the large warehouses opposite. It would seem to be the duty of the Chief of the fire Department to direct his men on the street instead of as on this occasion entering burning buildings, where he was partially disabled, thus throwing upon the shoulders of subordinates the direction of affairs.

"Here all is sunny, and when the truant gull

Skims the green level of the lawn, his wing

Dispetals roses; here the house is framed

Of kneaded brick and plumed mountain pine,

Such clay as artists fashion, and such wood

As the tree-climbing urchin breaks.

My house, I say."

-Louis STEVENSON.









<article title=" LESSONS FROM	THE SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM." author="">LESSONS FROM	THE SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM.

One of the best things in London is the South Kensington Museum. It shows examples of nearly every kind of design and is invaluable to designers of all kinds. Books and photographs are very well—there are books and photographs in the Museum Library—but when it comes to really feeling at home with design, to know what it is really like and measure one's mind against it with certainty, there is nothing like an example. For purposes of study it need not be the original ; a model is as good. A model may fail to convey exactly the sentiment attaching to its original, or the beauty it has acquired from a bath in the atmosphere of centuries ; but these are accidents which the designer s own work cannot share, and it is just as well that their attractions should not disturb his judgment as to what is essential. All that is necessary is that the actual modelling of the object should be presented to the eye if coloured like the original when it was new, so much the better.

As a matter of fact it is a great question whether the most important part of the work of the South Kensington Museum is not done by models of its own originals, rather than by the originals themselves. Part of its work is to send out examples to Provincial Museums and Art Schools, and though it sometimes sends originals, the greater part of these little circulating exhibitions consists of models in plaster, made by workmen, attached to the Museum, who have attained to so much skill, in colouring as well as in casting, that the copies are, for practical purposes, facsimiles. They demonstrate incidentally the possibility of improving architectural casts by the application of colour; which would, in many cases, add to their instructiveness by expressing the design more perfectly, In the case of the casts which constitute the circulating exhibitions, colour is essential as part of the design of the original or to represent its material. The works exemplified are, for the most part, textiles, book binding and leather work, wood carving, silver and other surface metal work, medals, plaster work, gesso, and other decorative handiwork. The examples already prepared are in constant circulation, and a demand in any direction is met by fresh preparations. Classes of work which are not easily reproduced by casting or electro typing, or are not sufficiently portable, are represented by photographs or coloured drawings; and there is a catalogue, 138 pages long, of books for circulation in the same manner. In addition to these the Museum has a collection of classified lantern slides on all subjects, from the composition of monumental buildings down to lace work, with catalogue numbers running to 3,000, which is available for lectures and instruction in any part of the country. The card catalogue of this collection is worth noting. Each card has, underneath the title of its subject, a print of the negative from which the slide was made, and, an application for slides for a lecture on a given subject is responded to by a set of the cards which catalogue the

