<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	93

<article title=" NEW BUILDING REGULATIONS FOR

TORONTO.

" author="">NEW BUILDING REGULATIONS FOR

TORONTO.

Attention is called to some of the new building regulations for the city of Toronto printed in this number. These comprise only a section of the new building by-law which it is proposed to put in operation at an early date. The city architect and city council are to be commended for having taken prompt action in this matter, thereby forestalling the erection of an undesirable class of buildings. Unfortunately a difference of opinion has arisen between members of the architectural profession regarding the new regulations which have already been adopted. The chief objection raised is in relation to the clause specifying the percentage of window openings in walls, and providing for an increase in the thickness of the walls where the percentage of openings is increased. While it is desirable that the cost of buildings should not be unduly increased, and building enterprise thereby retarded, the new by-laws should compel the construction of substantial structures capable of withstanding fire. One of the chief requisites of such buildings should be substantial brick walls.

It is gratifying to note the energy with which the burnt district is being cleared and prepared for new buildings. It is not likely, however, that all the buildings destroyed will be immediately reconstructed. Probably not more than from one-third to one-half will be rebuilt this year, and probably some will never be rebuilt. A sufficient number will be erected, however, to insure an unusually active building season ; already the demand for bricks and certain other lines of material is greater than the supply. The scarcity of these materials is likely to interfere with the progress of new buildings outside of the business quarter of the city.

<article title=" NOTES FROM QUEBEC " author="">NOTES FROM QUEBEC.

[BY A CORRESPONDENT.]



 Just at the present moment there is no great activity manifest in the building trades of Quebec. The prospects, however, for the near future are very good, many of the leading architects have in band plans for erection of new buildings, as well as the rebuilding of many old ones within the city, (mostly business  Houses), these in the aggregate would form a substantial total and should mean a good wave of prosperity to the various trades concerned. The present unsettled state of "labour" is consequently causing no little anxiety, and is making itself felt in the great difficulty experienced in getting contractors to give solid quotations.

There is a movement on hand among the labour unions to open their shops and undertake contracts for its members, but this is not expected to meet with great favor, one of the strongest objections being the difficulty there would be n getting guarantee of specific performance, which is now obtainable through a substanial contracting firm.

It is hoped that the painters difficulty will be settled before the 1st May and it is generally expected that this will be the case.

Should, however, the carpenters force a strike, as is threatened, the effects may be of such a character as to cause serious loss and hindrance to this year's business, and the carrying over to another season of several of the projects on hand

In addition to the immediate work referred to in the city itself several of the leading architects have on hand some important work for other towns and districts, many of which are eccelesiastical buildings. Any development in the labour situation, would therefore be greatly deplored as a menace to the steady run of substantial business which appears to have set in.

The project to pull down and clear away the old and unsightly buildings at the top of Mountain St. has now taken tangible form and estimates for the work are expected to be called for shortly; this will give an additional area to open space of some 4,000 sq. ft. in a fine and imposing position.

It is also in contemplation, when this is done, to erect on this space a statue in honor of Mgr. de Laval, the founder of Laval University, which is in close proximity.

The Committee having this matter in hand are now considering as to the best course to follow, whether to call for drawings to be submitted for consideration and thus select the most Suitable, or to instruct an individual architect to do the necessary drawings to the committee's instructions.

The continued steady system of improving the public buildings and open spaces, which has been followed by the municipal authorities during the past ten or fifteen years is now making a marked difference in the appearance of the city and general satisfaction is expressed with the result.

The Gilmour company limited Trenton Ontario Veneered Hardwood doors