<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	167



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.



The city of Montreal though not one of the largest cities in the world has yet that cosmopolitan character which is generally found in the largest cities. Perhaps it would be more correct to say that it has that cosmopolitan want of character which belongs to huge masses of humanity moving together and mixing and touching continually yet without any distinct, common aim and without even sentiments in common except always on the largest and most broadly human issues, In the city of London, a Chinaman might wander long enough without. meeting a single individual with whom he could share, one, even the slightest, of his celestial reflections. But should the same man chance to meet some sudden accident the first dozen passers by would minister to his necessity with as ready and genuine a sympathy as if he also were a son of Father Thames. The further apart we find our lines of life to be cast the more glad we are when we can meet one another on the common ground of simple human nature.



The larger the city the more manifold become the interests of its inhabitants and the more thoroughly disintegrated does sentiment become. In this way such a thing as 'esprit de corps' almost ceases and can only be revived by an appeal to the more elemental bonds of society. Thus cities go on shaping themselves in a shapeless way.

This sort of thing takes place more readily where there are initial conditions tending to keep people apart and in Montreal such a condition exists in the division of the people into French and English sections. The two races are held apart more than anything else by that strange division that a difference of language involves. Everything that tends to freedom in the interchange of ideas and sympathies helps to knit people together and strengthens them in all common thought and effort. Everything on the other hand which clogs this ready interchange must tend either to conflict and friction or to apathy and aloofness.

Another cause of the general lack of common interests in Montreal is the very large influx to the city of persons with purely



private interests. They come from many lands each with his axe to grind, and each seeking nothing in Montreal but a grindstone suited to his needs. The rapidity with which the city has grown lately and still continues to grow further contributes to its formless and dishevelled state.

In a city of this kind then, where are we to look for hope for a better state of things for some pride in having tile city to appear well in the sight of men—in tile sight of her own men and of tile stranger who comes to her gates? The said stranger if he comes by water is tipped out into an unassorted lot of fragments of wharfs and grain elevators. Regretting that be should have arrived at so unfortunate a time when such extensive alterations were just at their thickest, he mounts a cab and is conducted up St. Francis Xavier or St. John street. These curious streets are unfortunately also a little out of repair and if the picturesque profusion of poles and wires were a little less thick one might be able to say whether or not these large buildings were of substantial construction. In St. James street he can recognize that the buildings are indeed substantial and tall enough to satisfy any mind not smitten with the fever of giantism. This street is unfortunately narrow—a result doubtless due to its antiquity--- so, paying due reverence to age, he can admire the picturesqueness of this street with its spasmodic buildings. In Craig street one encounters the phenomenon of a fine wide thoroughfare, convenient and central, which is as yet little taken advantage of for trade or business purposes and is largely occupied by a class which exhibits a painfully low order of intelligence in disfiguring whole rows of the neatest old stone houses imaginable with disproportioned and unattractive, not to say repulsive signs, in apparently some kind of simple and unquestioning faith that they thereby recommend themselves to the general public. A little modesty and tidiness would make a wonderful transformation here.

Telegraph poles and wires we know are mortal and will pass away—we hope to live long enough to see them decently interred underground. The electric car wires give promise of a longer period of pernicious life, hut to improved methods of traction these too will yield. These are accompaniments of unperfected engineering devices. They are the derricks and scaffolding required in the growth of our civilization arid will he taken clown when the constructed fabric comes into the full exercise of its functions with implements more efficient arid more seemly. But

these disfiguring signs arc worse than sins, they are blunders, and to architects they are particularly offensive as being a cheap way of obliterating even tile finest architecture.

What one should wish and can surely hope to see is an intelligent emulation in excellence of appearance, not in magnitude of announcement —in appropriateness and charm of expression not in loudness and piercing quality of voice. At the present day advertisement is everywhere loudly acclaimed as the one true god who will lead our endeavours to success. Let us remember then that our gods are images of ourselves and be careful how we shape our advertisements.



In the beautifying arid ennobling then of this our so cosmopolitan and formless Montreal we must look to the broad sentiments which are tire property of all mankind. Its diverse elements are a great potential mine of wealth. Though hard to fuse together their eventual fusion will yield tile richer product. The resultant character will be broad and inclusive, made up of many of the strands that compose our human nature. Such a character we may hope some day to see expressed in the streets of our city—its buildings with grace fulfilling their functions and therefore looking appropriate thereto, and tile people exhibiting manners as sane and delightful as their buildings—both equally free from tile present blatant advertisement and untidy scuffling



their work a pleasure to themselves and to those who deal with them.

"CONCORDIA SALUS."





<article title=" CHURCH HEATING AND VENTILATION " author="">CHURCH HEATING AND VENTILATION.



Particulars are given by the Decorators' Gazette of an interesting method of church warming and ventilating introduced by a German heating engineer in a Berlin memorial church that in general plan resembles St. Paul's Cathedral in London, though of smaller dimensions, the height of tine nave and transepts being 82 feet and of the dome 237 feet. The corresponding measurements of St. Paul's are 100 feet and 360 feet respectively. To the height of So feet from the floor the walls are traversed by hot-air chambers, so that from the ground to the galleries 22 feet above, there is no perceptible difference of temperature, the air being kept constantly at 6o degrees. The radiating surface is placed high up, in the neighborhood of cooling surfaces, maintaining a higher temperature in the upper portion of the building, and intercepting and reheating the cooled air inn its descent toward the lower part occupied by the congregation. There are thus four strata of air of different temperatures. On the ground floor arid in the galleries there are very few coils, but along the first entablature, at a height of 95 feet, the coils are sufficiently numerous to counteract the loss of heat through the walls, which are no longer traversed by hot-air channels, and to maintain from this level to that of the second entablature—at a height of 145 feet, or 50 feet above the first—a temperature a few degrees higher than that in the parts below. Other coils are fixed above the second entablature and in the lantern of the dome. To avoid tire dangerously chilling draughts that would follow the opening of the doors in the intense cold of a Prussian winter, the entrances are provided with double swing doors and coils are J)laced in the intervening passage. The engineer maintains that the system of heating the upper more than the lower regions of the air is the only proper course in such lofty buildings as churches. He holds that with the ordinary method the air heated on or below the ground level is cooled in reaching tire roof, and, fouled by the products of respiration descends on the heads of the congregation, unless withdrawn by some such exhairstring arrangement as is carried out in the English Houses of Parliament; while in his system the fresh air is warmed to an agreeable temperature in its passage through fire walls, and its ascent is favored by the coils between the first and second entablatures. The coils in the dome, although they do not contribute to the warming of the parts occupied by the worshippers, serve effectually to prevent the misscent of the foul air by securing its continued ascent toward and escape through the apertures in the lantern that crowns f lie edifice.—Decorators' Gazette.





In the construction of a large factory on the site of what was formely the bed of a canal of Cincinnati, it was found impossible to set a foundation except by driving piles. As wooden piles would rot, resort was had to concrete piles which were successfully driven home by the impact of a 4,000 lb. hammer. The top of the piles were prevented from chipping by the use of a steel bonnet. In some instances it required 400 drops of the huge hammer to sink the pile. This is said to be the first time the this method has been employed in the United States.

