<doctype type="text">106	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE ARCHITECT BEFORE THE LAW.*

II.

" author="Archibald, S. G.">THE ARCHITECT BEFORE THE LAW.*

II.

By S. G. ARCHIBALD, ADVOCATE 



Mr. President and Gentlemen:— To-night I propose dealing with the questions of servitudes in



general, and more especially of mitoyen walls, and with the question of risk, i.e., at whose risk is the building before acceptance by the proprietor? Upon whom does the loss fall if the building be destroyed by force majeure before delivery? Are the architect and builder deprived of their right to recover the value of the work already done? T



The question of servitudes is perhaps riot one which will appear so immediately practical nor interesting as that of the to year guarantee at the same time it is one with which architects ought to have a good general acquaintance. As a matter of fact, I presume that in the daily practice of your profession you have acquired a sufficiently practical knowledge of the question. I propose to put into systematic form the general ideas upon the subject which form the basis of our law, and to cite cases from our jurisprudence, which have given practical application to these theories.



In the first place, what is a servtiude? A real servitude is a charge imposed upon one property for the benefit of another belonging to a different proprietor. From one point of view then a servitude implies a right, from another a charge. The property burdened with the servitude is called the serviant tenement; that which enjoys the right is alled the dominant enement.

While a servitude resembles an obligation in almost every particular, it differs from it in this respect, that it has to do with properties and not with individuals. The right arid the charge pass with the properties. The individual may be discharged from art obligation upon the payment of a certain sum of money, hut the proprietor of the serviant tenement cannot liberate himself front the servitude by offering to pay its value in money. It is in reality a sort of dismemberment of property so far as the serviant tenement is concerned, and, so far as the dominant tenement is concerned it 15 a sort of quality in the property which forms part of it, and which the owner cannot he obliged to sell. Titus, for example, if there is a right of way in favour of my property across my neighbour's field, he cannot force me to forego my right by offering to indemnify one. If, however, my right of way has become, owing to cumstances, particularly burdensome, It can offer me another right of way over a different part of his property, and I will be obliged to accept it if the proposition is reasonable, and this will be a matter for the courts to decide.



It, of course, goes without saying, that the proprietor of the dominant tenement may self or otherwise give up the servitude which exists in favor of his properly, and, in such case, neither property will be affected with the servitude for the future.



No servitude can be acquired except by title, as the French maxim has it, nuille servitude sans titre. It is not possible, therefore, to prescribe a right of way even by making use of



for 30 years. There must he some definite title establishing the right invoked.

There are 3 classes on servitudes : (1). Those derived front the natural situation of the properties called natural servitudes. Sticit, for example, Its the obligation of a lower land to receive the natural fall of water from land above it.



(2). Servitudes established by the law, or legal servitudes. Such, for example, as the obligation to contribute to the erection of a mitoyen wall.



(3). Servitudes established by the act of man.

The distinction between the first two is only a distinction of words, because both classes are servittides sanctioned by the law, and which exist independently of the will of the individual proprietor. Servitudes are really, therefore, those imposed by law and those which the individual chooses to place upon his property, and, as a matter of fact, these latter are the only ones which can strictly be called servitudes, because they arc the only ones which really derogate from the state of legal liberty iii which all property is a servitude, being a modification of property can only fairly be applied to those modifications made n respect of a particular property by the act of man. Our code, however, makes the division of servitudes into the classes just mentioned, and we must adhere to that division.

Under the head of natural servitudes the code treats of the



*	A series of lectures prepared for arid delivered before the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, 1903, and published by permission.

obligation to receive waters from a higher level, of boundaries, and of fences. While we have no time to take up these questions in detail, it may he remarked ' en passant ' that the proprietor of the higher land has no right to aggravate the servitude iii any way. Thus, for example, the Privy Council in the case of Frechette v La Compagnie Manufacturer de St. Hyacinthe (9 App. Gas. 170) decided that the proprietor- of land occupying a higher level who had constructed works whose effect was to accumulate the water arid to deepen the channel by which the water passed to the neighbouring land, had aggravated the servitude. Numerous other cases might also be cited forbidding any such aggravation. With respect to bomage,' this may be demanded at any time, and the right to make such demand is umprescribable. The cost of making a homage is borne equally by the patties, with the exception that the cost of measuring is borne proportionately. Needless to remark, if legal contestation arise in fixing the boundary, the costs are borne by the losing party.

While the right to demand a bomage is imprescribable, it cannot he exercised arbitrarily, and the law in Art. 941 C. C. P. lays down the only cases in which it may be demanded. Where a legal bomage has been demanded, the surveyor intakes his report, and the Court then, by its judgment, establishes what the line between the properties shall be. The parties have a right to be heard upon the surveyor's report, and no judgment, fixing boundaries, without a surveyor's report, arid, upon which the parties have had a chance to be heard, is sound. Such is the jurisprudence of our courts.

First and most important among the legal servitudes is the obligation to contribute to the erection of mitoyen wails. In general we mean by mitoyennete the co-ownership in indivision of an intermediate object serving as a boundary and as a separation between two contiguous properties, amid especially a mitoyen wall is one which belongs in common undivided ownership to two owners whose properties it separates. Each owner has thus an equal amid joint right in every part of the wall.



Mitoyennete constitutes a community of property quite different in many respects from the ordinary community of property. lt. differs as to proof of it, as to its duration, as to its effects, arid as to the manner of its acquisition.

As to proof, Arts 510, 5t m, C.C. give us a system specially adapted to it. They are as follows : (510) Both in town and country, walls serving for separation between buildings up to the required heights, or between yards and gardens, and also between enclosed fields, are presumed to be common, if there lie mm title, mark, or other legal proof to the contrary. (511 ). " It

a mark that a wall is not common when its summit us straight and plumb with the facing on one side, arid on the other exhibits an inclined plane; and also when one side only has a coping, or mouldings, or corbels of stone, placed there in building the wall. In such cases time wall is deemed to belong exclusively to the proprietor on whose side are the eaves or the corbels and mouldings.

As to its duration. The ordinary rule regarding property is that no one can he compelled to remain in a state of undivided ownership. lie can always putt an end to the indivision by demanding a partition. In the case of a mitoyen wall neither

party can demand a partition unless his neighbor consent. There is, then, only one means of ceasing to be undivided owner and that is the abandonment of the common wall.

Ordinarily, when two persons are owners in common of a certain thing neither party can make any change in it without the consent of the other. Not so, however, with respect to the mitoyen wall. Each party can use it in such a way as to benefit himself, on condition only that he does not injure his neighbor in any particular. Thus, for example, he may build against the wall, lie may place beams in it to within 4 inches of its thickness, arid lie may raise it, if such a proceeding is useful to him.

As to its acquisition. As a general rule no one can he compelled to sell his property save for purposes of public utility. This rule, however, suffers exception in the case of a wall separating two contiguous properties. He who has riot contributed to its erection may acquire the common ownership of it by paying an indemnity composed of (1) half of the value of the land on which the wail is built, and half of the actual value of the wall or part of' the wall of which the mitoyennete is acquired. It is to be remarked that this right only exists in favor of the

proprietor of the land immediately joining the wall, so that if A has left ever so small a strip of land between his wail and B's

