<doctype type="text">32	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Toronto members, and two in offices of members in other places.

Five students presented themselves for examination in April, and of these four passed the first  examination, one was allowed a supplemental in one subject of first examination and one passed the second examination.

Proceedings. —One thousand copies of the Proceedings were printed arid distributed A permanent mailing list has been carefully prepared in such a way that it can he revised and added to from year to year, and the volumes are mailed or delivered mostly by single e copies

to

Societies and persons interested in architecture at home and abroad.

A number of valuable and interesting exchanges are received from other Societies in return.

Civic Improvement. —This Association in 1902 became a member of the American League for Civic improvement!, which was formed in 1900 in Springfield. 0., and has held annual conventions in Buffalo, N. Y., St. Paul, Minn., and Chautauqua, N. Y. and will meet in 1904 in St. Louis.

The Ontario Association of Architects was represented by W. R. Gregg at the Chautauqua convention in 1903.

Three members of tire Ontario Association of Architects assisted in the formation of the Canadian League for Civic Improvement in Toronto in February, 1903, and the Association has also become a member of this League.

Guild Bequest. —A Trust Deed has been prepared 1w Mr. W. D. Gwynne, the Solicitor of the Association, and signed and sealed, by which a sum of over $300 is placed in trust by the surviving members of the former Architectural Guild of Toronto, to l)e invested until the fund and accumulations shall amount to $400, after which the income is intended to he offered as a prize to students, this prize to he known as the Architectural Guild Prize.

A full copy of this deed will he published in tile Proceedings for 1904.

Committees to Report. - Toronto Chapter, Mr. E. Burke_ Monthly Meetings, Mr. E. Burke:

Library and Rooms, Mr A. H. Gregg; Editing. Prof. C. H. C. Wright; Publishing, Mr. John Gemmell; Municipal Building Laws, Mr. A. F. Wickson; Legislation. Mr. J . A. Pearson Membership, Mr. A. R. Denison; R. I. B. A. Examinations, Prof. C. H. C. Wright; Joint Association and Eighteen Club, Mr. A. 1-1. Gregg: Educational Committee, Mr. A. TI. Gregg.

The President: I think instead of presenting the report now, amid discussing it, in order to save time, we will take up the reports of time several sub-committees. The first is that of the Toronto Chapter.

Mr. H. E. Moore, secretary, reported on behalf of the Toronto Chapter, Mr. Edmund Burke for the Monthly Meetings Committee ; Mr. A. H. Gregg for the Library and Rooms Committee, Mr. Helliwell for the Editing Committee, and Mr. Gemmell for the Publication Committee. These reports were adopted.

REPORT OF THE MUNICIPAL BUILDING COMMITTEE.



Mr. Wickson presented tile report of the Municipal Building Committee as follows:— I do not know that T have anything to report.

Although my draft by-laws were sent in there last January nothing has been definitely, that is, finally, done yet. I wrote to the Board of Control once or twice since Mr. Flemlling was appointed, and I have also seen him. He told me just prior to time appointment of the City Architect That one of time first things lie would do would be to take up this work. I am given to understand that Mr. MacCallum is devoting his

time to that now, and I suppose before long we will come to a final discussion on them.

The President: We have been waiting for that since we were young in time profession—most of us.

REPORT OF THE LEGISLATION COMMITTEE.



Mr. Gouinlock: The chairman of the committee 15 not present to day, but I might say that time Association did not deem it advisable to urge for further legislation this season, and they decided to leave the matter in abeyance for tile present.



REPORT OF THE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE.



Mr. Denison presented time following report:— I have nothing of special interest to report.

Matters are just about ill the same position as they were this time last year; but while I am on my feet I might say I was one of the representatives to the Technical School Board, Mr. Gray being the other. A new Board of Education has recently been elected amid the old Board goes omit of existence. Mr. Gray amid I attended the meetings on many occasions and did what little work we could. T only hope the new system may be all right in its working, but so far as the Technical School Board is concerned I have my doubt.

Mr. W. R. Gregg: I would like to supplement Mr. Denison's remarks. He has really reported for two committees, the Membership Committee and the Technical School Board. With regard to tire question of membership time Council slightly amended time by-law a year ago, giving them discretionary powers to admit architects who had not passed the regular examinations if satisfied as to their general fitness and qualifications. We received one member under the amendment to the by-law. It still remains in the book, and it may be advisable to cast around the province

and see if there are not other professional men who should be members of the Association.

Mr. Denison: I think that ought to be put prominently in our Proceedings this year, so that it will be noticeable.

The President: In time absence of Professor Wright the chairman of the R. I. B. A., is there any person to report?



Mr. W P. Gregg: The Registrar's report gave the number of student's examined and that is practically all. Mr. Taylor the Secretary for Canada, writes, enclosing notice of time P. 1. B.

A.	examination to he held.

MONTREAL January 4th, 1904 The SECRETARY ONTARIO Association Architects:

My Dear Sir:—T enclose notice of the next R. I. B. A. Examinations. to be held in June. arid on behalf of the R. 1. B. A.. may I ask that you will kindly bring this before your Council as soon as possible, and that they will be good enough to give instructions, that all the members of the Association may he notified by circular of this Examination, for their own information arid others.

The R. I. B. A. will greatly appreciate the cooperation of our Architectural Associations, in making these Examinations as widely known as possible.

I remain.

	Very truly yours.

ANDREW T. TAYLOR.



Hon. Secy. for Canada R. I. B. A.



The President: Possibly Professor Nobbs can give some information on this subject.

Prof. Nobbs: Mr. Taylor has taken up the in his letter Mr. Taylor told me himself that he is leaving Montreal in time spring

and the	question of getting some one to 

the work is sure		arise.	I thought Mr. Taylor 

would probably mention	that in his letter to

