<doctype type="text">164	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



utilitarian point of view and utterly lifeless, stupid and ugly from the artistic standpoint.

A clumsy, thickset heaviness is right and proper and beautiful in cast iron while a lacelike slimness is equally characteristic of the material and technique of wrought iron. Here I have the cast iron parapets of two bridges in St. Petersburg which as cast iron design leave nothing to be desired and some English XVII Century wrought iron which shows at its best the full influence of the hammer technique.













































































































CAST IRON PARAPET, NICHOLAS BRIDGE, ST. PETERSBURG.





One more example, and this from the breakfast table of the average boarding house will show how general is this disease of blatant sham in the field of design.

Look at the ordinary cream jug or sugar basin. It is facetted all over with a design of geometrical struc

ture natural to cut crystal and to nothing else. But is this crystal? and is it cut? I trow not! It is very common glass, it is moulded and the facets are so futile that they absorb more light than they reflect. Why was the sugar basin male so ugly? fur before

	CAST IRON PARAPET, ALEXANDER Brand	St.	Pittsburg.





it was squeezed into its mould it had all the grace and beauty of a ball of glass in the blowing. I suppose because taste is thoroughly depraved the ordinary man finds a beauty (to him it is beauty in the imitation of what is rich and rare and a misguided satisfaction in getting the appurtenances of life cheap.

Enough has now been said to prove the contention that materials and techniques have it in them if rightly apprehended to suggest a very great deal with regard to the decorative treatment of objects, and it has incidentally been made abundantly evident that no good results from avowed and unadapted imitation in one material of another or of a superior by an inferior technical process.

In the course we are initiating work of the different building trades will be studied as such regardless of historical sequence, and the masterpieces of all periods will be called in to illustrate the best way of doing things at the time when they were done best.

Designs for details of all the trades will be prepared not as tricky sketches but as working drawings.

By this means I hope the students will get at least a glimpse of the best workmanship of our civilization during the last 3,000 years—XVI Century plaster work and XIV Century glass ; VI Century mosaics and XII Century marble inlay ; XV Century carving in marble and XIII Century carving in stone. From Italy and England, Constantinople and Rome, France and the Low Countries and sunny Spain.

When the student understands Gothic joinery construction and Renaissance iron work, Modern plastering and Ancient glass painting, there is some profit for him in the study of historical styles and ornament. Without such knowledge such study can only be hurtful to any instinct for design he may possess or which might be induced.

This, gentlemen, is the message as I take it of the Gothic Revival of the 2nd half of the XIX. Century— a movement which by the way has had its chief effect for good in classic design. To treat materials with sympathy and techniques with understanding ; to ask what shall this be made of or how will that be wrought before the pencil is committed to the paper ; and above all things the negative precept not to sham.



In the burnt district of Baltimore a company is about to install a central heating and refrigerating plant. Prof. Woodbridge is said to be making a study of Washington public buildings for a similar purpose. The use of such a plant should greatly reduce the fire risk and consequently the cost of insurance. It is proposed to install meters which will register the amount of condensation in the pipe lines, so that the consumer will pay for only the amount of steam used.

