<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



FIG. 2.—MONUMENTS To FYTTONS.



The plan in fig. 3 is a study of its possibility. As far as the general proportion goes, an internal view of the existing church is most satisfactory from the extreme west, i.e., standing at the entrance under the tower, where, through a high arched entrance to the tower,

the whole length of the roof is to be seen. A suggestion of the view is given in fig. 4 from a photo taken from the point marked a, under the tower. The camera is not as inclusive as the eye and it was not possible to get in either the same extent of roof that is seen by the eye or, what is the great beauty of the view, the windows along the sides. The photograph was taken to serve as a sort of sectional view, showing the relation between the span and the height of the wall. This is exactly satisfactory in proportion to the length from west to east, and these dimensions—92'.0" length, 29'. 0" width, and 23'.0" wall height—would make a well proportioned single chamber church as laid down in fig. 3—which is like some aisled churches with the aisles omitted.

The side passages 22. and the centre 5'. 0" are quite enough ; the sea s seem to want a few inches in length to make them take six persons of moderate size with ease. An exact width would he 30'. 3" and the other dimensions may be safely increased in proportion.

For hearing, the total length is not too great for the familiar words spoken from the altar, where the speaker has also the advantage of having a wall close behind him. The greatest distance for ease in speaking from the pulpit would be, as far as one can judge by the eye in the church, the distance from the east wall to b. on the passage from the north side door. This distance may then be transferred to the new plan as the distance of the chancel screen from the west end. The length thus left for the chancel is about right and the width, allowing for return passages for communicants, is no more than is necessary for good arrangement on the pulpit side, for the reading desk should range with the men rather than with the boys. The lectern may repeat the pulpit on the other side and there will thus be a mask to both hind seats and a similar motive in plan at the ends of the screen.

The three seat arrangement of the choir requires some defence as it may lead to mixing up men and boys if the balance is to be kept. But, in the first

