<doctype type="text">2	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



French Chimney Top.

<article title=" TENDENCIES OF WALL PAPER DESIGN " author="">TENDENCIES OF WALL PAPER DESIGN.

Before attempting to outline the tendencies of wall paper design at the present time I should like to earnestly direct the attention of architects especially to a kindred subject, one at least inseparably connected with the decorator's work. I think I can say without exaggeration that decorators approach the work of covering the plaster walls of houses and other buildings erected of late years with trepidation amounting almost to terror as to the results. To see one's best laid plans and most cherished schemes completely frustrated by the treacherous under surface is more than disappointing. The ''skin or putty coat" so much in use to impart that beautiful snowy smooth surface which so strongly appeals to some people

has usually no actual adhesion to the coat beneath it and only waits thc application of some material to sever its very weak connection and destroy the decorator's work. The so-called sand finish of many plasterers is almost as great a delusion. On walls thus treated many patches will be found into which no sand and very little plaster of Paris has entered —nothing but lime. Plasterers freely admit these imperfections and also that it is possible to get as good results as were obtained in houses a generation ago but they claim that current prices do not admit of the use of sufficient plaster nor of sufficient time being given to the work. Surely it is a false economy to cheapen a material which is admittedly imperfect at best, which covers so much surface and which places a stamp of dilapidation on the house out of all proportion to its relative cost to the total cost of the building. I feel satisfied that this work does not receive the attention it deserves at the hands of the architect, and that not only would the problem of decoration be greatly simplified but that the life of the plastering would be materially lengthened if honest work were insisted upon.

Another feature in the preparatory work of ceilings and walls for decoration deserves more than passing notice. I refer to the obtaining of true perpendicular and horizontal lines in the angles of the room. It is no uncommon thing to see the ceiling run from one to one and one half inches out of true in a wall of twelve or fifteen feet. The upright angles of the room are frequently as much out and in many cases meander in and out of line as they climb to the ceiling. Many rooms are two or three inches wider at one end than at the other. It can be easily understood how difficult it becomes under these circumstances to apply pattern of any sort so that it shall not appear to be leaning one way or the other. These defects are not by any means confined to cheap buildings but may be seen in some of our most pretentious structures. In almost every other trade if the work proves defective in itself it has to he made good. Why should not a guarantee he required from the contractor for plastering that his work shall successfully meet the demands made upon

it in the decoration which may subsequently be applied to it ?

And while I am on this portion of my subject I should like to point out what is always to the decorator at least the unexplainable practice of many architects, of carrying doors and windows in the room to two, three or more different heights. My own dining room has five such openings and every one is of a different height, varying from the others by several inches. There was no reason why the three doors at least should not have been of the same height.

The foregoing are some of the difficulties in the path of the decorator, whose remedy lies in the province of the architect. And their connection with my subject is in this. When the standard of design and the value of materials in wall coverings have advanced as they have done of late years it becomes increasingly necessary that the remedy should be applied and more perfect results obtained. The various canvasses, burlaps, denims, buckrarns, etc., now manufactured solely for decorative purposes are undoubtedly great acquisitions to the resources of the decorator and are all perfectly practical on properly plastered walls. But the risk and labour of applying them to the ordinary conglomeration of sand, lime and plaster is so great as to greatly restrict their use.

Pattern has been sparingly applied to these materials partly because their own texture and coloring is quite satisfying and partly because the ordinary printing process necessitates too frequent repetition and the consequent wall-papery appearance. Block or hand printing has not been so used to any great extent though I can see no reason why excellent results might not be obtained by block printing or stencilling.

Book cloths, that is cloths used in book binding, the process of manufacture being slightly altered to adapt them to the purposes of wall covering, are sold under the trade name of Holliston cloths. The dyed burlaps and denims are too well known to need description. A Japanese material called grass-cloth woven of raw flax and dyed in beautiful tones has all the appearance of raw silk on the wall. It comes in rolls of eight yards, thirty-six inches wide. A plain paper of English manufacture called silk fibre comes in a variety of excellent colorings and has a texture much superior to the ordinary ingrain papers. These various plain materials form an important group showing a tendency to return to plain wall surfaces but with the relief of texture of one sort or another. They also call for something in the nature of a frieze to relieve the absolute plainness of the wall and although the frieze in wall paper has not yet reappeared among us, the demand has been met in England in the work of two or three men, notably Bailie Scott and Shand Kydd, the latter of whom has produced some very beautiful friezes both in design and coloring, quite individual in character and which are being extensively appropriated by other designers. On account of the amount of hand treatment in them they are themselves rather expensive. In actual progress the English designers are undoubtedly to the front. Much attention is being given in their work to the purpose for which the material is to be used. Many of the designs therefore are flat stencil effects in two tones of one color. Where varied color is used, green and blues are laid together, or greens, blues and purples, or again browns,

