<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	185



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.



A number of new buildings are now in course of erection in the neighborhood of McGill University, The college buildings themselves are a somewhat disjointed and oddly asserted crowd, but the grounds with their grass and trees form a pleasant feature in the western part of Sherbrooke street—the only street in Montreal which one can be really proud of, and that more for its good surface and fine avenues of trees than for its architecture. There is reason to hope that in this latter respect also we may soon see some improvement. The space in the college grounds having become pretty well occupied with buildings, there now appears a tendency to expand along the farther side of Sherbrooke street. As the property here can probably only be purchased in comparatively small lots a less promiscuous and probably more severe and dignified placing of the buildings will have to be adopted. At the corner of McGill College avenue and Sherbrooke street the new McGill Y.M.C.A. building is now in course of erection from the designs of Messrs. Finley & Spence. The more important facade is of freestone, the other of brick. A little east of this at the corner of Victoria street excavations and foundations are in progress for the Students' Union Building.

Not far from these buildings in Peel street there has just been completed the shell of the new clubhouse of the Montreal Amatuer Athletic Association from the designs of Messrs. Brown & Mitchell.



Much care and skill has obviously been brought to bear on the architectural treatment of this building. On a base of Montreal stone the walls are of brick to which the employment of irregularly scattered black headers gives a certain richness of colour. Freestone cornices and window dressings are used. A strongly Greek flavour has been given to the design generally and more especially to the details. Thus the openings are straight-beaded

—the ground storey is finished at top with a broad stone band with carved fret ornament; on this stand six flat and broad pilasters extending through the next two stories. A strong entablature crowns this range of pilasters and above the main cornice is a classical attic storey. The doorway in the center of the building of very simple square-headed form impresses by its size and depends for richness upon broad surrounding mouldings and simple cornice all carved with ornaments of a very pronounced Greek character.

One cannot help being a little afraid that the popular verdict on this building will be that it is a square factory-like block. Two circumstances militate against it. The first and most obvious is the tremendous extent of the wing elevations to which the treatment adopted to vivify the front has not been extended, and their huge inert masses have a deadening effect upon the whole, the more so that the street not being a very wide one the passer by takes his impression of the building from some distance along the road where one or other of the great flanks is well in view. The other circumstance referred to is the fact that the mass of the building is in brick—a material with a considerable degree of colour, therefore tending to detract from the force of a design of delicacy and intricacy because the shadows and high lights caused by slight projections and which would be obvious enough on a building all of stone become lost where the mass is of brickwork. Here, though it is somewhat beside the mark, one may recall the banded treatment of brick and stone used in many fine old buildings of Belgium and Holland—a treatment which restores to the eye the ability to follow not by the light and shade but in another and very charming way all the little "ins" and "outs" of a wall surface. In that case however the colour so far from being simplified is rather heightened and demands the adoption of architectural forms especially suited to that method of building.



Before leaving the fine building of the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association one cannot help wondering whether the jewels of Greek imagination can ever be set so as to appear a natural product of plutocratic materialistic Montreal.



At the corner of St. Catherine Street and Greene Avenue there is now almost ready for occupation the new branch of the Royal Bank of Canada designed by Messrs. Maxwell. This building has two facades of sandstone standing on a base of limestone. It is of no great size—the total height is probably less than 40 feet—but it arrests attention by its appearance of compactness and unity. Any one who finds delight in stones of generous size may contemplate this building with great pleasure. The courses of the masonry are 21 inches deep and the blocking course on the top seems about 3 feet deep. This with the general air of

breadth and simplicity about the little building conies upon one like a breath of fresh air after having to fill one's eyes with so much of niggled and unwholesome tawdriness that swarms around. As might be expected from an architect with an appreciation of good stone the details, the cornices and the quaint Ionic capitals are worked out in careful and even researched manner. The main doorway and large front window mutually



































































































































trespass on one another's domains in an audacious if picturesque way that must take the breath away from an ordinary law abiding citizen.



A little farther on in Green Avenue a small branch building of the Bank of Montreal has recently been erected by the same architects and shows the same quality and finish though not the same breadth and simplicity as the Royal Bank just described.

CONCORDIA SALUS.





Mr. W. C. Harris, A. R. C. A., architect, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, spent a few days in Toronto recently, en route to the World's Fair at St. Louis.

