<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	189













<article title=" NORTHWEST NOTES " author="">NORTHWEST NOTES



<article title=" THE UNION BANK.

" author="">THE UNION BANK.



Work on this building, of which an illustration was published in our October number, was commenced on the 17th of October, T903. 21 concrete caissons used in the construction of the foundation taken down to 40 feet below the sidewalk were used. These caissons average about 5 feet 6 inches in diameter, enlarged to about 12 feet diameter at the base. The steel work was proceeded with during the winter and was completed on the 5th May. The masonry including all brick work, terra cotta, etc., was started on May 14th and was completed on July 16th From that date the numerous other trades completed their different works and the building was ready for tenants on November 1st. The banking room quarters will be ready shortly.

The building comprises eleven stories and rises to the height of 150 feet above the sidewalk level. The front is constructed of white terra cotta and buff pressed brick. The floors and partitions throughout are built of hollow tile, the floors being finished in maple with quarter cut oak and mahogany trim. All floors for public space in banking rooms, halls and corridors are of marble.

On the ground floor are the banking room and manager's office. The former is 48 X 72 feet in size with 28 feet ceiling. The principal entrance is from Main Street.

The windows in left wall and in west wall which faces Leland Hotel, have metal frames filled with wired glass.

The building is equipped with three fast elevators and is heated with steam, with vacuum air system for radiators.

Messrs. Darling, Pearson and Over were the architects and the Thompson-Starret Co., of New York, the general contractors.

<article title=" WINNIPEG BUILDERS EXCHANGE " author="">WINNIPEG BUILDERS EXCHANGE.



The Winnipeg Builders' Exchange held its annual meeting on the 8th inst., which proved to be a well attended and successful one. The Exchange continues to prove its usefulness and find favour amongst the building fraternity of the city. Seven new names were added to the roll of members.

At this meeting many matters of interest were considered and important business for the Exchange to deal with during the coming winter was broached by the president. During the long winter evenings it was felt that the social side of the Exchange should receive more attention, without detracting in any way from its primary function of a business organization. The remarkable success in this direction of some of the exchanges to the south of the line was adduced by several speakers from personal experience. The Property Committee was asked to confer on this matter and to lay some proposals before the Exchange at its next meeting.

Notice of motion was also given that two regular meetings in each month be held in future instead of one as heretofore.

With almost a month of beautiful Indian summer weather the building outlook has improved rapidly for the coming winter. Contractors say the fall has been most favorable for finishing their work, and very few buildings are not roofed in and ready for severe winter weather, should it come suddenly. When once the roof is on the buildings can be kept warm enough for the men to continue their work. Contractors have been rushing their work to reach this point and have succeeded.

On November 1st the new Union Bank building was thrown open to tenants and already the offices are nearly all occupied. The ground floor and first storey are given up to the banking business and its officials. This part of the building is not finished yet but is being pushed as fast as possible From the third floor to the ninth inclusive is occupied entirely by offices. There are thirteen suites on each floor, these again being divided into different compartments to suit tenants. On the tenth flat are the lavatories, janitors quarters and rooms for the janitor's staff. All work is finished in hardwood and thoroughly up-to-date throughout.

The new Liberal Club on Portage avenue is rapidly nearing completion. This is a three-storey building with basement. The front is of RedFord stone and hydraulic-pressed brick, giving

a soft grayish appearance. The ground floor is for the club room. It is 42 x 70 feet and has a large plate glass front with tiled entrance. On the second floor is a large committee room and a number of bachelors' apartments with bathroom in connec

tion. The third floor consists entirely of bachelors' apartments. It is expected to be ready for occupation early in 1905. Mr. J. Chisholm is the architect.

Pilkington Bros., of St. Helens, England, are having a large warehouse built on Market street east. This building will be 100 X 100 feet, four stories and basement. The foundations are being put in but it is undecided as to whether the work will be pushed through the winter or not. S. F. & W. A. Peters are the architects.

Another new building that has just been commenced is the Grundy block, on the corner of Portage avenue and Hargrave street. This block is to be 88 X 130 feet, four stories with basement. It is for stores, offices, etc., and will be carried on during the winter.

The new O'Connor hotel on Notre Dame street east would have been roofed in by now but that it has been decided to add another storey to it, making it five stories. It will contain about seventy-five rooms and be up-to-date in every respect. J. Cad-how is the architect and P. Burnett the contractor for the masonry.

The old Assiniboine block has undergone a great change. It has been remodelled and will now be known as the Empire Hotel It has a frontage on Main street of 150 feet, which has been filled with large plate glass windows, 6 X 12 feet in size. As rearrang.. ed the building will contain about 200 rooms, comprising single rooms and suites, each with a bathroom in connection, and finished throughout in first-class style. A. & W. Melville are the architects for the alterations.

The new theatre is being rushed to completion, as it is the intention to open it by December 5th. This building is being done by Frank McClure, of Chicago, theatre builder. Thc front is of cement block, manufactured by the Canadian Petrified Stone and Brick Company. The building has the usual balcony, gallery and pit for seating and will hold about 1,200 people.

Work on the Agricultural College has been commenced, but it is not likely that more than thc excavating will be done this season.

Plans for the new Normal School on William ave. and Francis street have been prepared by Mr. Hooper, government architect, but nothing will be done this season.

The Land Titles offices and the Carnegie library are both roofed in and the inside work is being pushed.

The work on the new C.P.R. station has been pushed very vigorously and the station part, baggage rooms and offices, are expected to be ready for occupation by the first of thc year. These buildings will be four stories high with a basement A temporary roof has been arranged so that the lower portion for offices can be finished and the staff take possession, as the old building has to come down. Most of the plastering has been done, no lathing being required, as a plaster board has been used and the rough and smooth plaster put Onto this. The radiators have been arranged in a temporary fashion so that steam may be turned on when necessary. The hotel proper is not so far advanced, but already the foundation walls have been built, the concrete bases for the steel pillars laid and a number of the pillars placed. The hotel is to be a seven-storey building with about 350 rooms, and will be the largest and most complete and up-to-date hotel in the West.

This month the Main street subway was opened to foot passengers and hundreds of people traversed it to see the work. By December 1st it is expected that the whole street will be opened and the street cars running through to the north end. This is a very fine piece of work, and, although to the eye it appears to be all concrete work, in reality there is enough steel and iron. worked into it to almost carry the whole strain of traffic from the cars. Steel trusses are run parallel with and under all the tracks, and these again are supported by iron rods running into

