MR. JOHN GEMMELL,

President of the Ontario Association of Architects.

<doctype type="text">28	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The elevations are simple, direct and effective, and like the plans are unpretentious. The rendering has may good qualities, is unaffected and appropriate.

CAMBRIA. "—This library possesses the merit of being one which could be built at small cost. The elevations are below the average both as to design and rendering. The arch over front entrance is weak in appearance. The stack room should have direct light for all the aisles between the stacks.

"MONUMENTAL."—This design has been conceived in a somewhat extravagant spirit, the stack room being very large in area for the accommodation obtained. The attendant at the delivery desk has practically no supervision of the reading rooms, and the catalogue and reference room rather fills voids in the plan, than composing well with the workable arrangement. The dome as shown in elevation is inadequately expressed on plan. The elevation is extravagant in conception with the dome superimposed without adequate reference to anything underneath it. The elevations are rather crudely rendered, the accessories such as sculpture, carving and landscape, being rather bad.



"TOUT A Vous."

—" Tout a Vous" has a good plan, the main defect being the Librarian's obstructed supervision of the rooms (see criticism of '' Mic.") The connection of the reference room with stack room was well thought out. It is questionable whether a recreation room would be of any service, as being entirely away from the attendant there would be great difficulty in controlling the frequenters. The proportions of the exterior are satisfactory and the general design is good, though the running of the large piers up through the cornice creates a lack of cohesion at that part and the arches over the cornice above the small windows is very unsatisfactory. The rendering of the side elevation is rather better than that of the front ; the printing is neat. The drawings would have looked better with a more liberal amount of paper.

"MONSIEUR."—" Monsieur's" plan has much to commend it, the position of the delivery and reading rooms being generally speaking, well arranged with reference to Librarian's desk and the stack room has the necessary mending room easily accessible. The plan is a little pretentious for a 10,000 volume library, and had it been curtailed, bringing the stacks closer to the attendant, it would have been a better plan. The elevation having so much blank wall space would have been improved by having a better proportioned cornice. The outline of the dome could be improved—in fact were the author to set up a perspective he would be surprised at the manner in which the dome would disappear. It would have been better to put windows in the reading rooms at the front and the windows in these

rooms should have had their sills much nearer the floor.



"CRESCENT."—The author of this design disregarded one of the rules of the competition which states that drawings are to be made to an eighth scale. The plans in this design are presumably to a sixteenth scale, although no indication is given by which this may be determined. Generally speaking the plan and elevation have much merit and the author would have done well to have given a little more study in order to bring them to greater perfection. This plan has the detect of others in not giving the librarian in charge sufficient command of the reading rooms. Too much space has been devoted to stairways and we think it would have been better to have enlarged the floor area of the stack room to make it more in keeping with a building of this size. The general proportions of the front elevation are very good, but the rendering exhibits too much haste. The two single trigylphs over the columns at the entrance would be better omitted. With more care in the details and general rendering, this design would have stood much higher on the list.

"REX No. 2."— This competitor, as stated in connection with his drawings, is a student of only eleven months standing. Quite apart from this fact the design is worthy of great praise, and in view of the draughts-man's short experiences really remarkable.

The design as a whole bears the stamp of its purpose, is quiet and dignified, and of good working quality.

The plan is handled in a thoroughly monumental manner. The treatment of the approaches, entrance and rotunda are excellent. The plan would be much improved, considered from a strictly architectural standpoint, if the size and position of the librarian's, and catalogue rooms, &c., were altered, and the centre line of the wings horizontally were made the axes of the reading room.

The stack room is well planned in its arrangement and lighting. Technically speaking the element of supervision has been well worked out.

The elevation is very good indeed in respect of its general design and proportion, but it is undecided in detail. The treatment of the entrance requires more study, as also does that of the windows, but the work as a whole is on right lines.

The rendering, while it shows inexperience, is quite acceptable. The background of trees is simply but effectively indicated.

[EDITORS' NOTE.—The publishers of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER wish to express their satisfaction with the result of this competition, as well as their thanks to the Committee of Award for the time and care bestowed upon the work of the competitors.]

