<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	139



the building inspector can be squared or where he has not yet put in an appearance.

When the drains are laid the laborers very often start to ram the filling as soon as the first portion is thrown in, with cracked pipes as a possible result; this should not be allowed. It should also be seen that pipes are clear inside especially from cement filling. In places where there is much filling, water from a hose may be used with advantage to supplement the rammer.

The mortar is a most important ingredient in a building, and as the builder naturally dislikes to waste any, the spare mortar a day or two old is very often reworked up and used in the work; as, however, its setting powers are then impaired this is not satisfactory, and you should watch and prevent it. Good mortar ought to feel greasy between the fingers and dry limey on them. A builder's rough test for mortar is to take some up on a shovel and turn the shovel over; if it runs off easily he considers that it is of good quality and vice versa. In practice, poor mortar which works off stiff (by reason of the too great proportion of sand) is wetted to make it work more easily, and it is then deceptive ; the waller finds mortar with poor sand (that is, lomey and clayey) most easy to work with. The lime used for mortar should he in lumps which ring when struck together. If it is sort or fallen to powder it has probably been rained upon or slaked by the moisture in the atmosphere, and should not be used for mortar.

In mixtures where lime or cement are ingredients there is a tendency, owing to the greater proportionate cost of these materials, to put in a less quantity than specified, and whether you have doubts or not it is advisable to personally watch over the mixing—especially of concrete, where the strength may be of importance the proportion of cement may be reduced under your very eyes by the labourers putting the box for measuring the cement unto the heap of stones and sand and knocking it down, thus forcing some of the stones up into the measuring box and reducing the amount of cement. Mortar should not be allowed to set too fast (or rather too dry) and in hot weather the bricks should be well soaked in water ; such wet bricks are heavier and handier to the bricklayer than dry bricks. Concrete is also not improved (but the reverse) by drying, as may take place with floors in windy weather, so that it should be kept damp until it has set. You will of course see that the bricks are properly bonded especially at angles, in reveals arid jambs, and in piers. A well-bonded brick wall is much more satisfactory in appearance than one in which the joints are not perpendicular and the bricks cut about ; in this respect the old eighteenth-century brickwork, where the piers and openings are all multiples of a brick, is superior to much modern work, where the piers and openings are set out on a drawing to a scale of feet and inches and the bricks have to be cut to fit.

In the walling of flues, a matter which needs careful attention is not to "throttle" them, because this is one of the most usual causes of smoky chimneys; particular attention should be paid to the flues at the bends to see that they are kept large enough; as the necessary bends themselves impede the smoke, you should see that the men in walling do not make them smaller at the angles, as they have a habit of doing.

Inferior workmen are very careless about keeping woodwork or steel joists properly away from flues and fireplaces; many fires have been caused by this, and you must carefully guard against it. There are still builders in this district who lay the joists, then build the flues around them as they come, afterwards cutting off the pieces of joists which run across the flues, leaving the ends of the joists exposed.

You will have learnt that stone should be laid in the work upon its natural bedding plane or "quarry bed." A good way of ascertaining the bed of a stone is to douse it with water. The beds worked by the mason requires your attention to see that they are level and of full size, otherwise pieces may flush. It is rather expensive and troublesome sometimes for a builder to

replace a piece of ashlar which has got chipped or otherwise damaged, and it is possible for him to patch it up very neatly and inconspicuously with cement; and I understand that very up-to-date masons stick the chip on with shellac and sand the joint, all with unfortunate results later. Keep your eyes open for this.

Some inferior builders, in order to save scaffolding on the work, only put it up on one side of the wall

this necessitates what is known as walling "overhand" and should be objected to, as it is almost impossible to plumb up the work properly ; of course in some cases this one-sided walling is necessary. You should regularly plumb the walls, as those out of plumb are unsightly and may be unsafe; besides the joiner and the plasterer cannot make a good job with them. Another point to attend to in walling is to see that the scaffolding is raised in easy stages for the wallers some men neglect this, to the detriment of the walls. These are little ways in which the builder may effect savings that keep money in his pocket and add of course to his balance on the right side. Similar things occur in all trades—in the carpenter's, for instance, as giving all the bearing timbers an inch or so less of bearing at each end, or by making the roofs of a flatter pitch than shown on the drawings (which is easy in a hipped root) or by setting the joists of wood or steel an inch wider apart than taken,, or by systematically omitting one joist in each room; such omissions all add up.

The ordering of extras is important, and I must warn you to be careful of what you say, as builders sometimes put their own interpretations on your innocent expressions of opinions, and when the bills comes in and your principal asks the builder who ordered such-and-such an extra, the builder, looking in his pocket-book, says, "Oh, your Mr. So-and-so ordered it on such a date" ; and the results may be unpleasant for everybody. It is best for the builder to understand that the architect alone can order extras.

I have previously pointed Out the importance of seeing work carried out, and I would here emphasize the importance of getting round the builder's shops in addition to the building itself, as without a good acquaintance with workshop practice you will hardly be able to draw workable details. I have seen sections drawn for local sandstone which could only be worked in wood, or perhaps in marble, and every builder has tales of impossible details that come out of architect's offices. Not only are such visits to shops desirable for the acquisition of knowledge but they are necessary in the case of joinery, as the first coat of paint, known as the priming coat, is usually put on in the joiner's shop, and all kinds of defects may be covered up if not seen before being painted.

The principal points to notice in the joiner's work at the shop are the quality of the timber (especially as to sap and seasoning), bad joints, and the omission of labour, as in grooving and rebating. and to see that the framing is square and not winding on its faces also, if detail drawings have been used, to see that the work as regards mouldings, framings, panels, etc., has been carried out in accordance with them. The quality of timber gets poorer as the years go by.

The places where things are most likely to be forgotten (as I will put it) are those which are dark and difficult of access, more especially the roof. I would urge you to climb up and see whether the spars and purlins and the other timbers are all properly spiked together. A client usually notices things which, though structurally unimportant, render, if not rightly built, the "very very pretty house" desired by some people unobtainable, and they should be carefully at.. tended to—such as the quality of paint and varnish, the centering of fireplaces and windows in walls, the fitting of window sashes, and the squareness of joiner's work, irregularity in which interferes with the correct fitting of wallpaper patterns. In setting out, joiners work up to eighths of inches but consider 1/16 in. ininfitesimal. Bricklayers and masons do not expect to take into consideration less fractions than half inches.

The root coverings require careful watching. Slates from the better-class quarries have not been very easy

