<doctype type="text">188	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



any of the greatest architects of the past were craftsmen in the sense that we use the word to-day, and I do not think that any work in any of their known buildings can be pointed to as actually executed by them. The function of an architect should be to design and have the control of the entire building, to be the master builder in fact, and to he conversant with all the work being done. He should, as far as possible, have a knowledge of the technique of the various trades and crafts, and be able in a general way to direct and control them all, but more than this seems unnecessary. To concern himself personally with matters of actual craftsmanship must be to the detriment of his buildings, because an architect cannot carry out the multifarious duties required to-day and find time to do these things as well ; though of course if an architect wishes to work with his own hands, and has a tendency that way, he will doubtless produce excellent results, but the idea in buildings of any magnitude or importance seems out of the question. Do not he led astray by theories such as these, but try and gather round you artists and craftsmen in the allied arts, who understand and sympathise with your aims and who will work with you. That is what all our great architects have done and what we should try and do to-day.

The president was followed by Mr. Aston Webb, a former president of the Association, and recently president of the R.I.B.A., who, among other remarks, made the following additions, as reported in the Building News, to the remarks concerning sketching and laying out cities.

In his student days, when they entered a church they looked at the door, took a sketch of the jamb and the arch moulds in order to send a little drawing to the Architectural Association Sketch-book ; when they went inside, if there was a screen they took a sketch of the carving and perhaps one or two of the mullions, and generally looked out little bits which would form an easy and useful little sketch. Very often they missed perhaps the whole interest that the church may have possessed, as he was thinking the other day when he was in a west-country church. He noticed, what was to be seen in many west-country churches, that the nave and chancel were of the same height ; but, what was not so often the case, the transepts were also the same height, which gave the architect the opportunity of putting a barrel ceiling over the nave and chancel, and also over the transepts, so getting a groin at the intersection over the nave; the arcade was continued straight through to the chancel arch, but the wall was not carried up to the roof, so that one saw the roofs of the transepts over the arcade, giving a delightful and unusual perspective effect. What they wanted to teach students to see and understand was the scheme of the whole thing ; the detail was a matter as to which the individual feeling and character of the man who designed the church should he left, to a great extent, unrestrained. Students would learn more from the general design and scheme of the architect of buildings visited rather than in looking at small details—mouldings, carving, and such like. The President had touched on another subject in which he (the speaker) had taken much interest, i.e., the desirability of some control, or some advice, in the laying out of towns and cities—both new and where great alterations are in hand. The subject had been sympathetically. received by the present First Commissioner of

Works, and it was quite possible that, if the profession supported the idea, that in time something of the kind might he obtained. They all regretted the stage in which the matter of the great new street of the London County Council stood. There was the competition for the selection of a design, the design was selected, but then no further action had been taken upon that. That was a matter of great regret ; and, although they all knew that the London County Council were anxious to do the best, he should like to see some expression of opinion among architects that more decisive steps should he taken before it was too late to prevent that great street being built on in the style described in the President's address. During the last two years an important Commission had been sitting in reference to streets and traffic, and, as far as he knew, only one architect had been called to give evidence, and, as far as he could gather, the evidence of that one witness gave more suggestions than nearly all the others put together on the general lay-out of a city. It might be an ideal scheme, but it had the germ of an idea, i.e., radiating roads from London to the suburbs which would, to a great extent, redeem London from that monotony and dulness which the president had so properly objected to. He had always thought it is a most unfortunate thing that the municipal bodies of the cities and towns of England had dispensed more or less with architects as their advisers, and had engaged surveyors instead—absolutely necessary gentlemen in certain work ; but, after all, in the formation of new streets, etc., there was something more required than the convenience of traffic and excellence of drainage there was the question of aesthetic appearance, and the man who could give the best advice on that was the man who had been trained in such matters, and he was, generally speaking, the architect.





<article title=" TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN

CLUB.

" author="">TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN

CLUB.

At the annual meeting of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club held on October 11th, the following officers were elected President, Mr. Henry Sproatt first vice-president, Mr. E. R. Rolph ; second vice-president, Mr. j. C. B. Horwood ; third vice-president, Mr. C. D. Lennox ; secretary-treasurer, Mr. J. P. Hynes. 



<article title=" STRENGTHENING A RETAINING WALL " author="">STRENGTHENING A RETAINING WALL.



A dry stone retaining wall on the Albula Railway, Switzerland, built in the spring of 1902, gave trouble by slipping and was reinforced in an interesting way. Settlement was anticipated, and so the wall was built a foot higher than the intended level of its top. Several slips occurred during construction, attributed to the water flowing along the surface of the rock, and soon after the wall was finished it was observed to be creeping down and bulging out. In November the top of the wall was rebuilt. It passed the winter well, but the spring thaws and rains caused a renewal of the movement. At the same time the wall bulged badly in places and assumed a stronger batter than it had when built. To give the (try stone wall a secure foothold, as rapidly as possible a number of shafts were sunk down in front of it to reach the rock, and pillars of masonry made in quick-setting cement mortar were built up under the wall base, and also some way up in front of its face, being bonded into it as well as possible, to stiffen it against the bulging tendency. These buttresses of masonry were anchored into the firmer strata of the rock.

The work, which had to be carried out with great caution so as to avoid any breakdown of the wall, was done in the course of three weeks, and gave satisfaction, as no further settlement was observed.

