<doctype type="text;ad">96	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



nearly opposite the wing of the Law Courts now in progress is a fine old building.



On the last mentioned building certain young gentlemen have lately been observed hard at work in their shirt sleeves with foot rules. tape-lines and sketch-hooks, and it is understood that the McGill College School of Architecture is in this way seeking to preserve an authentic record of some of the ancient land marks of Montreal and at the same time to wean its students from drawing paper, photographs and plaster casts and to introduce them to things as they arc in solid tact. As the sight of the student at hand to hand grapple with his subject is usually an inspiring and infectious object lesson to aspiring minds it will be surprising if others outside of McGill do not also take up this, the most natural and most delightful introduction to t he study of architecture. Montreal may not possess many monuments of a quality to repay this sort of study, yet such as they arc they make this city rich indeed in

comparison with others that are entirely		without them. They



are sufficient to give the key to unlock the treasure-house of the past for all desirious to make the history and tradition of architecture of some value to their minds, and inasmuch as they are not so very far removed in date and sentiment from the present day they are all the more within t he capacity of the young student to appreciate and derive benefit from.

	Whilst on the question of architectural	training it should he



observed that the Province of Quebec Association of Architects has just announced a Scholarship which it is offering to students. This takes the form of four years training in the course for the Bachelor of Architecture Degree at McGill University offered free to one student presumably—each year. There is nothing very formidable in the list of subjects set for examination and any beginner who should he afraid to enter the contest would do well to seek his life's amusement and instruction in some other line of life than architecture. It is a common complaint against young architectural associations that they do little for the training of the youth of the profession the complaint in general coming of course from the somnolent and unimaginative members who fail to realize that such an association has objects

to fulfil which if not more important, do at least require first attention. The Province of Quebec Association seems however to be making a beginning in this direction, and one must now look to students themselves to respond and to take some of that common interest in things which carries men so much farther than individual interest alone can do.



The revolution in the weather inaugurated on the 1st of May combined with the lapsing of old and entering upon of new leases on that date occasions a special stir amongst the building trades. Hence the time becomes a favorable one for strikes amongst workingmen. The painters, the marble cutters and the plumbers have each had their various grievances to ventilate. The plumbers alone have sharply contested the issues at stake. In these matters again the climate becomes a factor which cannot be ignored. If work is to he impeded during the coldest months of the year working hours must naturally be longer during the favorable season or the country will fail to keep abreast of her neighbors. It is only cutting according to one's cloth.



GARGOYLE, H.









<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



The new organization of the Locomotive & Machine Co., of Montreal, Limited, is making rapid headway. They have recently moved to a fine suite of new offices in the Imperial Bank building, Montreal, overlooking Victoria Square, and are now fully organized for business. Their extensive works at. Longue Point are tinder way and well nigh completed, and are equipped for almost unlimited expansion. The whole of the structural steel for these buildings, which is of a most complete nature, was manufactured by the company themselves, and are a marvel of completeness. It is intended that while keeping the Canadian company quite separate, at the same time to keep in close touch with the American company, so that the full advantage of the experience and progress of the American concern may be secured for the Canadian company.



<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



The Master Plumbers' Association of

Winnipeg held their first annual dinner on



the 13th inst., which proved to t)e a most

enjoyable event.



In a recent lecture on geology in Glasgow, Mr. A. McWilliams, A. R. S. M., stated that granite consisted mainly of two minerals, quartz (hardness proportionately 6) and telspar (hardness 7), whilst the hardness of a best—quality Sheffield pocket-knife blade was 612, the wearing powers of granite would therefore be readily understood Pore clay with less than about 2 per cent, of potash and soda was a fireclay if white, a china clay or a pipeclay while containing per cent. of oxides of iron and generally a fair amount of potash and soda it became an ordinary red brick clay.

A contractor with very large experience in Portland cement work, particularly in the making of walks and floors, asserts that lie has never used any mixture of cement t and sand for such purposes that has not been notably improved in wearing qualities by the addition of black color. Nor has lie ever taken up work where black and gray tiles alternated in which the gray tiles were not inferior. When Mr. J. C'. Plant finished the Phoenix building in Minneapolis with Portland cement

the floors in corridors and offices, the idea was so new as to be classed with the experiments. Red and gray tiles were used and the difference in the two is Very noticeable at present, and all in favor of the colored miles. Lampblack is generally used for coloring these tiles black, arid in the absence of experience one would not predict advantage to come from its use, but so much evidence in favor of the colored tiles must be taken as conclusive.— Western Architect.



Metallic Roofing Company  limited Toronto Fire-proof glass windows