<doctype type="text;ad>THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" AN EXTRAORDINARY FEAT IN HOUSE

MOVING.

" author="">AN EXTRAORDINARY FEAT IN HOUSE

MOVING.



The Engineering Record describes how the John Eichleay, Jr., Company, of Pittsburg, Pa., transplanted a brick residence to a new site 160 feet above the one on which it originally stood at the foot of a cliff, without in any way injuring the building. The face of the cliff behind the house was terraced by excavating in it six cuts making an equal number of horizontal platforms about 90 feet long and from 10 to 20 feet wide, affording level seats for the successive tiers of cribbing. The excavation was nearly all in solid rock, which was drilled and blasted with light charges of dynamite, thirty men being busy on it during the entire progress of the work.

Holes were cut through the end foundation walls and 12 x 12 inch longitudinal needle-beams about four feet apart were inserted in the usual manner. They were parallel to the face of the cliff and reached through from wall to wall of the main part and the wing. Main 12 x 16-inch sills were placed under them and carried, on each side of the front and rear walls, 12 x 12-inch longitudinal sills which supported the latter with pairs of short transverse 10-inch I-beam needles. The main sills were jacked up to lift the building clear of the foundations, which were then removed and the ground was leveled to receive lines of cribbing under each of the main sills. Each line of cribbing was located on the center of the sill and consisted of a continuous row of cribs made of 6 x 8-inch timbers about 3'2 feet long. The bases of the separate groups were made horizontal. but at irregular heights, offset to correspond with the surface of the ground, and were leveled up so that the upper courses were in exactly the sale planes. There were in alt eight lines of cribbing perpendicular to the face of the cliff, one under each main sill. Two' lines of cribs supported each end wall of the main part of the house. Two more lines were spaced at equal distances between them and two carried the end and centre of the wing. About three hundred 5-ton jacks were set under the sills bearing on the second course from the top of the cribbing. These were divided into thirty groups of from eight to twelve each, from three to five groups being located under each sill. At a signal' given by blowing a whistle, one man started at the end of each group and gave each jack in succession one-half turn. After all the groups had been turned, another signal was given and the men returned to the starting points, screwing each jack another half turn and so on back and forth, simultaneously screwing the jacks so as to raise the building uniformly about one-half inch at each round trip.

The building was thus raised about 14 inches in less than two hours. A new course of cribbing timber was then laid in the space between the last course and the sills, and the jacks were simultaneously slacked off sufficiently to lower the sills to bearing on it. The jacks were then screwed down, set one course higher, the building raised another fourteen inches and so on. As the building was raised the lines of cribbing were extended so as always to reach beyond it to the gradually receding face of the cliff where new cribs were started on successive footings leveled to receive them. In every eighth or tenth course longitudinal timbers 20 or 30 feet long were used to bind the, cribs of each line together, and the next course above them usually con-

tamed several long transverse timbers reaching through, and built into, the next line of cribs to bind the two together and insure their lateral stability. The cribs were also braced by inclined shores and were X-braced by wire ropes reaching from the top to the bottom of each panel under the main part of the house. In each panel between cribs vertical planks were spiked to the longitudinal sills, and horizontal longitudinal beams were bolted to their lower ends to carry the suspended working platform of loose transverse planks. These were arranged at the proper height to be convenient for the workmen to build the cribbing and operate the jacks and rollers. They were always maintained in the same relative position as the building was raised, and when the floor planks approached the cross timbers, the latter were picked up and placed on top of then-i so that when the scaffold was raised a little higher, it engaged them and lifted them off. The main sills supported a stiff-leg derrick with a loom commanding the full length of the building and operated by a hoisting engine at the bottom of the cliff. This derrick delivered the crib timbers to the men who were always busy on the suspended platforms.

After the building had been raised to a height of about 60 feet a pair of long track timbers were laid on top of each line of cribbing, and wooden rollers 8 inches in diameter and 4 feet long were inserted about 12 inches apart on centres between them and the sills, and the building was moved back on them about 40 feet to the face of the cliff. This was accomplished by two

with 2-inch

nine-part tackles	rope and fall lines about

1,200 feet long, In the front of the building the tackles were attached to vertical oak timbers bearing at the upper end on the saddle pieces over the needle-beams, and at the lower end on the main roller timbers. The tackles passed under the house and were anchored at the face of the cliff to horizontal longitudinal timbers bearing across the runway timbers under the rollers. The lead lines were carried through snatch blocks to two 2-horse-power windlasses on top of the cliff.

After the house was moved, the crib-work which had been released was taken down and used in building up the second section of cribbing from the 'roller level to the top of the cliff as the building was continuously raised the remaining 60 feet to the top of the cliff. It was then rolled over beyond the face of the cliff and moved in the usual manner on inclined runways to the new location. The total weight handled was about 1,200 tons and no mishaps occurred during the progress of the work. All the plant and materials used were regular stock from the contractor's yards.

Richmondt Conduit and Manufacturing company limited Toronto Richmondt Electro-Galvanized and Navalite Conduit Tubing and Tubings

