<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder





VoL. XVII.—No. 201.

SEPTEMBER, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Maxwell Farm, an Elizabethan Farm House (on the right) added to (on the left), by Mr. Seth Smith.

Store Building at Halifax N. S., Built Entirely of Concrete —R. A. Johnson, Architect.

Lodge for Western Art Association, Brandon, Man.—W. N. Lailey, Architect.

Plans of Lodge of Western Art Association, Brandon, Man.—W. N. Lailey, Architect.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Union Bank, Winnipeg, Man.—Darling, Pearson & Over, Architects.

Head Offices of the Bank of Montreal, Montreal, Recently Remodelled.—McKim, Mead & White and Taylor, Hogle & Davis, Associate Architects.





CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	-	-	-	- 145-146

The Architectural Association and Its Works	-	- 147

The Toronto Building Strike	- -	-	- 148

Northwest Letter	-			-	 -	 -	-	149

Plaster Decoration - - - . Design - - - - - - - 152

The McClary Mfg. Co.'s New Works at London, Ont. 153-155

A Rhapsody of the New Art	.	 .	.	.	 .	156

An Extraordinary Feat in House		Moving	-		-	157

Wallpapers and Hangings	-	-	- 

An Entirely Concrete Building in Halifax	-	-	'59

Publications	-		—			-		-		- 159

A Correction		-		-	-		-		-	ix-xiii

Personal	- 		- 	 - 		- 		- 		ix

Plaster and	Stone  	-  		-  	-  		-  		-  	x

Dangerous	Corinces		-	 -		-		-		- x

Useful Hints	— 	 — 		- 	— 		— 		- 	xi

Legal - -			-	 -		-		-		- xii





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. XV. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	" EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

" Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





<article title=" Improvements for Toronto " author="">Improvements for Toronto.

The embodiment in the report of the Toronto City Engineer, recently published, of two suggestions that have been made for the improvement of Toronto—suggestions of a couple of diagonal thoroughfares and of a lake front drive— mark that these propositions have at last reached, or are on the verge of reaching, the region of practical politics. The diagonal streets, when they are accomplished, will be one of the greatest improvements made in Toronto since it grew to he a big place on a plan that is only suitable for a small one.

the refreshment of a bend of some kind. College street, though of no startling beauty in its present state, offers, between Spadina avenue and the west, suggestions of how little obstruction a slight bend is in a road, and how much pleasanter it is to travel over when varied by even such slight curves as these; and, as to the question of vistas, the view from about Euclid avenue looking east to Spadina avenue, where the tower of the Broadway Tabernacle rises as a central object in the road, is far better than the interminable vistas of King or Queen streets.

There is no time like the present for a work of that kind since freedom from costly obstruction is so necessary. ''At present," the City Engineer says, "there are no expensive buildings on the line of the proposed avenues." But, if the suggestion underlying this statement is that it is a necessary condition that the proposed avenues should be straight from one end to another, we could almost wish there were expensive buildings on the line; not enough to daunt the promoters, but enough to make it necessary that the avenues should have what would be a great advantage to their beauty and interest—vistas of moderate length terminating with a building, and having at that point

We have at last discovered that constant right angles do not make perfection in laying out streets; let us go a step further and abandon the bee line too. We all want to get home as soon as possible, but there is no reason why we should not enjoy the process of getting there if we can. That a street should here and there deviate from straightness adds practically nothing to its length and takes much from the fatigue of traversing it. It is direction that is the essential consideration in a street. For this it is worth while to take pains and, if necessary, pay money; hut to suffer over making a street straight, or to suffer the want of it because it cannot he made straight, is to suffer in vain, for straightness is neither necessary or desirable.

