<doctype type="text">90	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MURAL DECORATION.*" author="Challoner, F. S.">MURAL DECORATION.*

By F. S. CHALLONER

Some one has well said that ''all painting should decorate." Decorative painting, strictly so called, however, may he broadly defined as the appropriate filling with graceful lines, subtle or strong, light or dark, masses and harmonious colors, of spaces of various shapes and sizes which are made by the architectural lines of a building. These spaces may be either modelled in low relief or smooth, domed, vaulted or flat. They are sometimes 01] the ceiling, in the cove and frieze, or around the walls. In every instance they are influenced by their architectural enviromment 'ro fill all these panels with great art there are certain qualities othcr than the best composition, drawing, mosdelling and technique, that must be present in the work. These qualities which are essentially "mural" are always seen in the best decorative painting, and often are there at the expense of some of the others. One of these mural qualities is harmony. No scheme can be truly decorative unless harmony exists between it and the other parts of the building to which it belongs. To secure this, architect and artist must ''pull together,'' so to speak. Else, though you may have good architecture and good painting, you will have a poor ''ensemble.'' As an illustration let me quote an article that appeared in Scribner's amongst the Art Notes for April, 1897; dealing with this very aspect of the question, and in connection with the newly decorated Library at Washington The writer of that article goes on to say: "Many of the mural decorations considered separately are very satisfactory, but considered as a part of a whole they have often failed in conformity and harmony. This has resulted almost entirely from the lack of a systematic plan covering the whole building to be decorated. In place of general supervision there has been individual license. There is variety in it, to be sure, and so there is in a crazy quilt, but what is needed in decoration is not variety but quiescent unity, unostentatious oneness of effect. Some of the pictures not only swear at each other, but at the building generally." Continuing, the writer says: "If our buildings are to be decorated in a proper manner, a scheme of form, light and color, planned and controlled from cellar to roof, by some person or persons, would seem absolutely necessary. The true artist never yet suffered by architectural or decorative restrictions. The axiom of the whole being greater than any of the parts, is as true ill art as in mathematics; and tile great aim in decoration should be ensemble.' An "omnium gatherum' of wall paintings, however good they may he separately considered, is not decoration."

In order, too, to be in harmony with its setting, a mural painting must, in artists' parlance, "chug to the wall.'' There should be no attempt to disguise tile fact that the painting is on a solid wall and level surface. It must neither seem as though it were modelled in relief nor make a hole in it, but should lie quietly and flatly in its place.

A decoration, therefore, should not be stereo

* Paper read at the annual convention of the Ontario Association of Architects January, 1904.

scopic, for the moment you introduce depth of atmospheric perspective, and focus an effect in one place only, as is done in picture painting generally, you at once do break through the wall.

A mural decoration, like a tapestry, should tell as a whole from one corner of the subject to the other. It should also be kept as simple as possible, since a hack of simplicity is disturbing and also prevents it being effective when seen from a distance as mural decorations very often are.

Now, simplicity does not mean emptiness, not a bit of it; it does not mean wholesale leaving out, but skilful leaving out.

The attainment of harmony in color is even more difficult in decoration than in other branches of painting. Color is largely governed by lightiug, and in decoration every problem is a new one, as far as illumination is concerned.

Thus, pure colors, such as yellows, reds, blues and gold, which produce an admirable effect in the subdued light of some buildings, would look garish indeed in others that are well lighted.

Where artificial light is used it should be kept at a proper distance from the paintings or they will be cancelled; no pigment can fight against either gas or electricity. In this respect 1 might mention a couple of ceiling paintings which some of you are familiar within; they are in the front dinning-rooms, upstairs, at Mc— Conkey's; they are about seven by fourteen feet in diameter, and in one of these time artist has represented the "Coming Day,'' and a Cupid with a torch liglmts the whole composition. In time centre of that panel a sixbranch electrolier has been placed, and as a natural result that torch that the youngster carries does not count for much it is quite knocked out by the electric lights. Some other form of lighting that room satisfactorily could easily have been devised, it seems to nine, had tine matter been given more attention by tine architect, and the painting would have looked far better. Simplicity of modelling is another factor in decorative harmony—a factor of the greatest importance. Strong Rembrandt-like shadows are entirely unsuited for this class of work.

Of time evolution of mural painting through time ages to what in time fulness of time has become the splendid art with which we are familjar, its suitability as a means of beautifying tile home and time place of worship; the mediums used; the choice of appropriate subjects for the various classes of buildings and rooms; the scale upon which these should be executed, and other matters connected with tine execution of the work, interesting to architects, might also be touched upon, had I but a little more time. I will, therefore, proceed to take up time aspect of time question as an educational factor in the municipality. In its minor forms it is little more than a mere embellishment, but even then it helps to intake life easier and pleasanter, but when it comes to he applied to the decoration of public buildings it should he significant, either symboli cal or commemorative. arid it has been so in all its best instances. The people of the past- Athens, Florence, Venice arid other European cities felt the value of art in this respect.

