<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



wall, leaving a space round the communion rail about equivalent to that between the railing and the foot of the pulpit steps.

The south side used to he blocked by a building so that there are windows only on two sides. The difference in the walls is an advantage. The order is quasi  FIG. 2.—PLAN OF ST. NICHOLAS COLE ABBEY.



Corinthian; Wren was apt to use an interesting freedom in the employment of "the Renaissance box of bricks.' The moulding of the ceiling beams is that of the cornice down to the bottom of the corona, and the beams, which have a soffit the width of the upper diameter of the pilasters, mitre with this much of the cornice. The result is neat but a little flat ; it suggests coffered panels. The walls frieze and soffit of ceiling and beams are coloured yellow ; the order (including the beam mouldings) and the dado black, touched with gilding; an effect striking hut satisfactory.



























FIG. 3--SEATING PLAN FOR ST. NICHOLAS COLE ABBEY.



In Fig. 3 is shown a modern seat arrangement compounded of St. Nicholas and other churches; that is to say, there is in St. Nicholas an eccentric massing of the choir on one side, and it seems better for the sake of a descriptive plan, to adopt the arrangement usually to be found in other churches. The dignity is apparent, obtained at the expense of a good deal of space, but it is the nature of the plain plan to get its effects by space and indeed the lesson to be learned from this adaptation of Wren's plain plans is the excellence of the effect thus obtained. The reduced seating accommodation in a city church is never sufficiently reduced to meet the sparsity of the congregation; for further accommodation, in a church with greater need for seats, the body of the church would stand elongation. If this were done and the ceiling not returned but made to run only from west to east, reflecting in some way the subdivisions of the floor, there would be a good modern church.*

W.	A. LANGTON.

*the organ in St. Nicholas Cole Abbey, as in most of Wren's churches. remains in a gallery at the west end.

<article title=" BUILDING MATERIALS AFFECTED BY THE NEW TARIFF " author="Jones, M. L.">BUILDING MATERIALS AFFECTED BY THE NEW TARIFF.

Among the changes in the Canadian tariff announced by the Dominion government are some which affect certain lines of building supplies. The duty on plate glass not bevelled in sheets or panes not exceeding seven square feet each, n.e.s., is lowered to 10 per cent. ad valorem. On the same material in sheets or panes exceeding seven square feet and not exceeding 25 square feet each the duty will be 25 per cent. ad valorem.

The maximum duty under the British preference on china and porcelain ware is reduced from 20 to 15 per cent. ad valorem ; that on common and colorless window glass from 13 1-3 per cent. to 7½ per cent.



RADIATION	OF PIPE SURFACE.*

Table M.



Radiating SURFACE FOR ORDINARY BUILDINGS. RESULTS OBTAINED FROM ACTUAL TESTS.



Compare these with' calculations obtained from various formulas, Table N.















































































TABLE N.

RADIATING SURFACE REQUIRED FOR ORDINARY Bu ILDINGS.



Calculated from the formulas of various authorities, compared with Actual Radiation used in Tests shown in Table M, showing discrepancies in the results obtained.

