<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" LEGAL." author="">LEGAL.



Builders as long ago as 1826 were informed in courts of law that an architect has no general power to order extras. If he does so without express authority the contractor cannot recover from the building owner unless special arrangements have been

made. Since then many eases have been fought on this point which contained differences of detail, and thereby differences of decisions. One was recently heard on appeal at Glasgow by Sheriff Guthrie. A firm of contractors had agreed to effect alterations to underground premises for £4,746. K 25. 3. The employers left the control of the work to Mr. Bell, their architect. Unexpected difficulties were encountered, especially the foundations. which required to be excavated, and brought up the total cost  £. 7,821. 7s. id. The employers refused to pay the balance. They were ordered by the court to pay the whole amount on the ground that though the work executed was not included in the estimate, it chiefly consisted of extras ordered by themselves or their architect. Sheriff Guthrie, after hearing the appeal, said that front the evidence it was clear that the employers left the whole operations under the control and power of Mr. Bell, and it was equally clear that he ordered and priced after measurement the whole of the work done under contract, including extras and deviations. It was certain that the defenders' directors knew that deviations were taking place, and it was equally certain that both in accepting the contract at first and in every stage of the work these directors entered into 00 direct communication with the pursuers beyond occasional conversation and consultation, and that the whole superintendence, direction and control of the

work was left by them to Mr. Bell.		The magistrate, in con

clusion, said	It might not perhaps be wise in all eases for



owners of property to put themselves entirely into the hands of their architect, but if they did so they had themselves to blame, and if the architect had exceeded his powers in dealing with contractors who had been allowed, as in this case, to suppose that his powers were unlimited, their remedy was against him, and not against the innocent contractor.



McNally & Plummer, Blyth, Ont,, were exhibiting at the Canadian National Exhibition, Toronto, their Eureka cement block machine for concrete construction. It is simple in construction, easy to operate, strong and durable.



Berry Brothers, Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of every kind of Japan and varnish

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto Marble Mosaic Floors