<doctype type="text">34	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Mr. Simpson: What strikes me is this. If it is so difficult for this gentleman to leave Ottawa how much more would be it he for the number from Toronto to go to Ottawa. I very much like the suggestion of an excursion to some of these outside places in the summer. However, T think that it ought to be on the invitation of the architects of the city we visit.

Mr. W. R. Gregg: Would it not he well in replying to Mr. Alexander's letter to suggest that lie inaugurate a movement in that direction among the Ottawa architects1 and some sort of excursion, if not the annual convention might he made to Ottawa. There is a great deal of interest there to architects, and it may be the means of more architects there joining the Association.

Mr. Sidall: 1 agree with what has been said by the members who have already spoken on this question. We have discussed it before; I think that on the first day of our proceedings last year the very same sentiments were expressed, and believe we all agreed that it would he a nice thing and a very helpful thing. The trouble is it would be very difficult for so many to leave Toronto to meet so few in another city. However, I feel that something along this line could be arranged for, and I will move that that letter be handed over to the Legislation Committee with that object in view.

The President: Might I suggest the Membership Committee?

Mr. Baker: I have very much pleasure in seconding that motion. I think I had the pleasure of bringing that subject up last year for discussion. I see that the membership of Ottawa and Kingston, combined, is 7, and that of Hamilton and London, combined, is 6; it means to me that London and Kingston are the only two places where the convention could he held to he central, Kingston taking in Ottawa and Peterboro and towns in that part of the Province, and London taking in the towns in their 1)art of the Province. I think something must be done if we are going to increase our membership. I think there are more than 70 practising architects in Ontario, and that there are nearly that number in Toronto. I think nothing further can be done than refer it to the Committee.

Mr. Simpson: Might it not 1)e well to suggest in replying to the letter that the Association would be glad to consider the question of forming an Association Chapter, on the occasion of such a visit.

The President: I might say that the annual convention of the Quebec Association of Architects, at first held only in Montreal, is now held alternately, in the cities of Montreal and Quebec. When down there I inquired as to the result. and they said it had been a wonderful success. Meeting in these two large centres has been conductive to a great increase in their membership, and in the general tone of the profession in that Province. The membership of the Ontario Association of Architects shows that we have a local membership of 34, and a non-resident membership of 34; and it seems to me now that we ought to pay some attention to this matter, possibly it can be best done through the committee that Messrs. Sidall and Baker suggest and I will therefore put to you the resolution of Mr. Sidall. that this letter and correspondence be referred to the Membership Committee. and that they reply to the writer, having heard the sentiments of the Association.

Mr. Sidall: I still have the matter of the education of our students in my mind. and I think that some efforts should be made. Our own education has perhaps gone beyond the rudiments, but for

the sake of coming architects I think we should (10 something more than we are doing now. I think we are on the right lines; the prize that has been offered, or is about to he offered to students of a travelling scholarship, or some other incentive to study, is a move in the right direction; but I think that during the coming year some further effort should be made. it seems to me we have money in hand which might be used for that purpose, and I would like, if the architects present agree to the sentiment, that it be taken up more enthusiastically than at the present time.

The President: It is vital to our Association and I would like to hear a full discussion on this subject.

Mr. Denison: I was out of the room, unfortunately, at the lime Mr. Sidall made his remarks, but it occurs to me_ and it has always seemed to me to he strange that the architects should. be expected to pay for the education of their students. I think it is the duty of the Government. In every other profession and every other calling in life the Government makes provision for education; and we have received probably the least support of any body of men in Canada to-day. There is nothing surely, so important as architecture in the building up of a new country. There is nothing that shows what any country is capable of to the extent that architecture does. But tie Government seems to think that anything is good enough as an

architect, and they do		nothing for us.

	Mr. Sidall: There is an old saying		that if you

want a thing done you should do it. yourself. Mr. Denison: It looks like it.

Mr. Baker: We might hear something about the President's scheme for scholarships; at the beginning of the term I understand that was all cut and dried, but in his report we hear nothing about it.

The Registrar" I would like to draw attention to the fact that thc first. step has been taken in the matter of scholarships or prizes. That is to say, the Toronto Architectural Guild Fund has been put into shape. The fund was originally $ 400, but through the loss in the Farmers' Loan Company it is now between $300 and $350, and it has there got to remain until the interest or the liberality of some friend brings it up 1 o $400. When this fund amounts to $400 the interest goes for the first prize ever offered by the Ontario Association of Architects; it may be a prize in books, or a medal, I don't know just what it will be but if we ourselves contribute a small sum and bring it up to $400. it means there will be a prize.

Mr. Gemmell: Ts there anything to prevent the Association bringing it up to $400 without waiting for the interest?

The President: No.

Mr. Gemmell If I might be allowed I would move that a portion of the Association's funds be used for that purpose.

Mr. Sidall: I second that motion.

Mr. W. R. Gregg: T do not feel quite so despondent as Mr. Sidall does about the educational work of our Association. We have very good classes now, and we have taken a great deal of trouble to prepare suitable examination papers to test the ability of the students, and I believe this year we shall have students coming all the way from Winnipeg and Port Arthur for examination. As the interest grows we may expect more, and all that is necessary is for each individual architect to encourage students to take advantage of these classes.

Mr. Burke: The hour has now arrived for another session, and a large number of visitors are

