<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	61



<article title=" PLUMBING PRACTICE UP-TO-DATE.*

" author="Le Grow, Lewis">PLUMBING PRACTICE UP-TO-DATE.*



By LEWIS LE GROW, Toronto.



The plumber has always stood for one who works in lead; the name stands for the same to-day, but it has advanced to a position where it not only represents one who works in lead but also one who is responsible for the health of the community more than any other, and as it has been stated that there is nothing new under the sun, plumbing as we find it to-day is a contradiction of that statement.

It is not long since that plumbing was looked upon as the least important part of a house. It was considered quite up-to-date to have a 4-inch tile drain, extending from sewer on street to the most convenient point and then to run branches to different houses without respect to what basements it went through. or how complicated it might be constructed. Once an obstruction occurred in the main drain all properties dependent on it suffered in consequence. To-day every house must have its own drain carried outside of foundation walls.

Light soil pipe was universally used to bath room, then extended with galvanized iron through roof with slipjoints. Every fixture in the bath room would be connected into heel or closet bend and it often connected to soil pipe with a putty or rust joint. Then for the finishing of the job, Pan, Hopper or Demerest closet was considered quite a luxury, but on no condition was any part of it to be exposed that might allow the free circulation of pure air, which in the opinion of many was not so important as that everything boxed in and painted so that microbes and other parasites might he the better increase.



With the advance of practical and technical education, laws hive been adopted to compel people to appreciate good plumbing. Our improvements have affected all fixtures and condition of work, the most important being our system of backventing and syphon jet closet.

We will briefly notice the most important article of plumbing construction, namely, traps. A great many have been placed on the market, but from experience I find that traps with internal partition are most dangerous. A flaw may exist in this partition



*Paper read before the Toronto Master Plumbers' Association.

above the water line and allow gas to enter the house. When we consider that it is not the depth of seal that offers the most resistence to syphonage, but the amount of water and that it is the depth of seal and not the amount of Water that offers the greatest resistance to sewer gas, it is very important that the trap should be well made and work on the centrifugal principle with a back vent to relieve the trap from the pressure of sewer gas. The main trap in the sewer in my opinion should not be tolerated; it prevents the ventilating of sewer through the main stack and it also acts as an impediment to the flow of sewerage.



House drains should carry waste out of the house—not much nor little, but all—and do it promptly; when that which is intended for the street sewer is started on its journey it should be afforded a means of reaching its destination at once and without interruption, not a particle of filth should be allowed to cling to the sides of waste pipes nor be held in solution in some trap until it begins to decompose and give off its dangerous gases.

Kitchens of hotels and restaurants should have a grease trap situated in an open place and easy to clean out; all back vents on bath traps should rise perpendicular through the floor and not be bent so low on the trap as would allow any particles of waste matter to accumulate around its opening and stop the free ingress of air. When this occurs there is danger of syphoning. Where vents from traps conned with wrought iron pipes square elbows should not be used, angle fittings are the only perfect connection. Water closets such as the Richelieu and improved Sanitary should not be used on sanitary work owing to the vent being made a part of the trap and crockery is not a safe thing to connect with lead; the vent being rigid, any settling of the floor or movement of the fixtures is likely to break off the vent horn. And to prevent any settlement of soil pipe, it should rest on a foundation of brick or stone properly built by a mason. There are too many stacks of soil pipe connected with the tile drain allowed to rest on a bed of sand supported only with iron hangers. We have all had experiences of a very unpleasant nature from hear frost accumulating at top of 4-inch soil pipe above roof, stopping the ventilation of fixtures and causing syphonage, allowing sewer gas to saturate the room in a short time. All soil pipe passing through the roof should be increased to 5-inch from underside of same.

Another point of very great importance to the health of the people is the proper construction of a cess pool. It should be so placed that the liquid front it into the surrounding soil may not affect the water supply or leak into the cellar of the house.

(Continued on page 55.)

The Gilmour Door Company Limited Trenton, Ontario Veneered Hardwood Doors