<doctype type="text">92	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



portant public buildings, they are boundless. Surely no one needs to be told what opportunities are afforded by a great library—such as we are going to have some day, what evolution of civilization by intellectual development may be unrolled upon its walls; what celebration of ecery sort of literary knowledge from the scrawl of one of our savages upon bark, to the letters of Cadinus, and on to the printing press an(l modern book. No one for an instant doubts the possibilities of a court house, where all the attributes would show to all onlookers, the wisdom, justice and power of the law; the judgment, moderation, fortitude, clemency that govern the deliberations of a court. In banks, the history of money as a medium may find its legitimate expression; from the earliest barter of savages to the first coin, and from the first coin to the earliest letters of exchange, and so on, down through all the different developments of the interesting history of exchange. Agriculture from the time of the sharpened stake of Abraham's time down to the latest steam plow or other farm implement, might be treated in our markets.

The post office and railway station are somewhat akin to each other and for them I would suggest the history and evolution of transportation with all its variety and picturesqueness. Some of the railway stations in Paris arc decorated, the Gar de Lyon is a notable instance; in that station there is a series of panels by good landscape men, forming panels around the buildings, of bits along the different branches of the road by "bits" I mean those particular features in the landscape that are usually illustrated in the time tables or souvenirs given away by railway companies. Our own Grand Trunk Railway and the C. P. R. are trying to do something along somewhat similar lines, but a little more pictorial; they still cling to their framed picture, which, I think, is a great mistake. Between the waits at stations everyone naturally longs for something to look at; at Present there is nothing but the time table and a few photographs of views of different parts of the country; and lithographs and show cards of steamship and other companies. How much better it would be if the architect in planning such a building took into consideration that very fact, and instead of using up quite so much marble around the base left a few agreeable spaces which could bc filled with landscapes, views of cities, or the battle fields of thc country, if there are any—we have a few—and a number of other features; I am sure the time would pass very much more pleasantly and a great deal faster.

When art was at its highest tide the artists' best patrons were the great corporations, the syndicates of the time. To-day, in Canada, there is plenty of room for the celebration by our corporations and industrial companies of our electrical, mining, lumbering, manufacturing, insurance and various other companies, whose history or business possess great decorative opportunities.

I do not think it would be out of place just

here—I might have quoted it earlier—to read a clipping from an American newspaper which deals with Pennsylvania's new state capital. The article states that the State of Pennsylvania has determined to make the new capitol at Harrisburg one of the foremost examples of a building in which the architect, sculptor and mural

painter have worked in absolute harmony. To show the magnitude of the opportunities and the liberality of the architect and of the commonwealth. The first detailed announcement of this important project involved $300,000 for sculpture and $150,000 for mural painting; the mural paintings are to be by Mr. Edwin A. Abbey, who is a native of the city, and the sculpture by a sculptor who was also born in that State, Mr. George Grey Barnard.

I think it would cause some discussion in the

press if Mr. Ross and his Cabinet were to do likewise; still, there is no reason why they should not do it, and I think it would pay them to do it, as it will pay Harrisburg, in thc number of



people that will go to visit that town to see those mural decorations and to see that sculpture.

On mural painting as the greatest forms of painting I will now say a few words. Moat people still seem to have an idea that mural painting is an interior branch of art as compared with picture and portrait painting. This impression, however, soon passes away when they take the trouble to read art history or to seriously consider. the decoration of any important surface with all its difficulties, intellectual and material.

A mere enumeration of the names of decorative artists ought to convince those who have not seriously considered the matter.

The greatest works of many of the greatest artists who ever lived, Michael Angelo, Raphael, Leonardo di Vinci, Correggio, Veronese, Tintoretto and others were essentially decorations. The landscape schools have arisen since the great decorative days of the Renaissance, therefore they had little practical part in the decorations of the past; but in a new decorative Renaissance, there is no reason why they should not play a part and a brilliant part too. For monumental public buildings it is probable that the great symbolical ideal, call it what you will, picture will remain the highest expression of mural art as in the Vatican, the Ducal Palace and the Sorbonne; but besides this and the historical picture, every other form of art finds place in decoration; the landscape and marine may be at once decorative and commemorative; the casel picture, if properly placed, properly lighted and properly hung may decorate a room even more delightfully, because more subtly, than would the fineest porcelain or metal work.

Realistic portraits also would make magnificent decorations if properly panelled into walls and over mantels; this has been done in some of the "old world" buildings with magnificent results.

In our own City Hall there is an excellent illustration of how bad pictures look hung on a white wall without an architectural setting; they wake nothing but a series of black holes and spots all along that corridor. That same corridor could easily have been panelled so as to have made a suitable frame or setting for the portraits of the various mayors of the city, past and to come.

