<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	125



<article title=" CAUSES OF A NEW YORK BUILDING

 FAILURE.

" author="">CAUSES OF A NEW YORK BUILDING

 FAILURE.



Mr. II. de B. Parsons, the expert appointed by the New York City authorities to report upon the causes of the recent collapse while under construction of the Hotel Darlington, a steel frame structure, states that primary causes for the failure of the structure were faulty design and carelessness and neglect in the erection of the members. The actual cause of the collapse was the lack of lateral support for the columns, which permitted them to act as 'long columns'— that, the ratio of length to least radius of gyration exceeded the limit of safety.

Mr. Parsons further states: "Each floor was lettered and the columns varied in sixe on the same floor, a specimen schedule being as follows

of these floor members pulled over the adjacent columns to which the other ends were attached, and these columns having no lateral support broke at the lower flange, as the pull had a lever arm of about to feet, or the length of the column. This action and reaction of the stresses affected only the structure above the level of the original fracture. In fall, the mass off material from above crashed down and broke that part of the structure below the level of the original fracture.

'' The exterior columns did not break of as low down as the interior columns, because the mass fell away and























Fig 1—Side elevation of the Steel Frame, showing in slightly exaggerated form the failure of the column on the fourth floor, resulting in the collapse of the structure above it. which crashed through the lower portion of the building. The break occurring just hack of the centre of the floor, the structure had a natural tendency to fall toward its centre. the greater amount of metal in the front, however, pushing the rear portion backward.



Practically the building was pin connected. The bolts fastening the girders and beams against the column lugs were of smaller diameter than the holes, so that the columns received little or no lateral support. The column lengths were bolted together at the top and bottom, and acted as continuous columns. All loads were eccentrically supported on the side brackets. In consequence, the columns were too long to carry the superimposed weight and buckled. One column situated at or near the 'center of fall broke. The upper part of this column being deprived of its support fell, and pulled with it the floor members bolted to it. Each

Fig. 2.—Floor Plan, showing the Fig. 3.—Floor Plan, showing the location of the cast iron columns- location of the cast iron columns according to their proper in the outer walls, and numbers, and indicating the indicating the stories at which centre of fall" slightly to these columns broke. The in-the rear and left of the centre side columns were practically all

	of the building.	broken off at their bases.





did not crush them as it did the interior ones. The uniformity in bight at which the exterior columns broke strongly indicates that the primary fracture occurred at or about the level of the fouth floor.

"As proof that the top fell into and toward the center of fall ' before the lower part of the structure collapsed, columns G H and K H were taken out of the debris near the ' center of fall ' and from beneath other members, which originality were connected at points lower down in the building. Near the same spot column D 36 was found. standing in a nearly upright position. Of these columns, the first was broken at the centre and the other two at the flanges. Furthermore, as more of the structure 'was south of the centre of fall ' than north of it, the northern, or rear, portion was forced outward against the Hotel Paterson."



NOTES.

The British Consul General at Berlin reports that the efforts to form a combination of the cement manufacturers throughout Germany for the purpose of improving the conditions of the cement manufacturing industry, have thus far not succeeded. Manufacturers in certain districts have got together, and they are now striving to bring in the South German and other North German groups.



In the course of the recent excavations at Pompeii there has been discovered and placed in the Museo Borbonico at Naples a bronze wire rope an inch in circumference and some 15 ft. long. It consists of three strands laid spirally together, each strand being made up of fifteen wires twisted together, and its construction does not, therefore, differ greatly from that of wire ropes made to-day. Pompeii was destroyed in A.D. 79; but how long wire ropes had then been known it is impossible to tell, though, judging by the knowledge shown in the construction, it may he safely concluded that they had been known for a considerable time. The uses to which these ropes were put are not definitely known ; but further excavations may possibly shed some light on the subject.

