<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE COLORED INTERIOR DECORATION

OF ARCHITECTURE.*

" author="Crace, J. D.">THE COLORED INTERIOR DECORATION

OF ARCHITECTURE.*

When so large a subject has to he dealt with in so short a time, it is necessary to select some one section or principle to which particular attention may be called, and in looking round to make such selection I find one upon which I have often laid stress before, and which cannot be too often insisted on with regard to decoration. I mean its subservient relation to architecture; its duty of respect to the architecture it is to adorn.

Let us for a time put aside the average dwelling room with no features that can be classed as architecture. Color can do much for it—can give it character, can give it proportion, and can make it lovely or unlovely but the result after all is a matter which concerns only the owner and the decorator. They can try what experiments they are inclined to, or what fads they fancy, and they do no man wrong. If the result pleases their friends, they have their reward, and if it does not, they will be satisfied that this is due to want of culture in their friends.

But it is quite another matter if the building under treatment has other than domestic functions, or has received from its author some definite architectural expression ; that is to say, bears some stamp of another man's thought.

When this is the case, it becomes the decorator's business to study that evidence of thought, and to endeavor to enhance its value. In pursuit of this intention, he has first to try to ascertain what lines or what features are really of the first importance in expressing structure and proportion. If he can find these, he must never lose sight of them, for these are the features or lines with which nothing else must interfere.

However varied or however rich the decorative detail of the whole may be, the final result of colored decoration of architecture should be lucidity of expression. And this is only to be obtained by allowing the due proportion of expression to each feature which has a place in the ideal scheme of structure.

If such expression is really in due proportion, repose

—that great element of beauty in all art, but most of all in architecture—is produced. For what is it that produces "repose" in art? It is the immediate satisfying of the mind's instinctive search for something; and in architecture that something is stability. Now, this stability which the eye and mind demand is not one of which scientific or practical evidence need be forthcoming. It is that of which an instantaneous conviction is borne to the mind by the continuity of suggested lines of strength in reasonable proportion to each other. And it is the lines of suggested strength which color may do so much to explain or confuse. Nor is the explanation together so simple a matter. It is as harmful to over-accentuate any of them as to confuse them. The expression of each part must be relative. To exceed the due proportion of expression in any part is to disturb the balance. Blatant expression in color is like shouting one's own language in the ear of a foreigner; it does not make things clear, and probably gives offence.

Another point which it is desirable to mention, because it is the subject of frequent misconception, is that lucidity of expression does not depend on the use or

*A paper read before the Architectural Association in London

the use or omission of detail. The most elaborate and delicate detail is compatible with perfect lucidity.

The one necessary thing in using ornamental detail is to take care that it does not interfere with the main science. Used with proper skill and knowledge, it should be able to assist materially in its development. On the one hand, it should assist to explain surface or to accentuate line; on the other it is invaluable as a means of lowering tone and softening effect, without sacrificing purity of the individual colors. Further, it facilitates harmony by giving the opportunity of small "recalls" of colour—of importing, as it were, fragments of one colour into the field of another—one of the most essential conditions of complete success in harmony. This should be carefully noticed by students in examining the pictures of the best masters.

I have said just now that it is the first function of color, when used in architecture to assist in producing that "repose" which results from an instantaneous impression of stability. This means that the eye must be encouraged to recognize at a glance such features and proportions as indicate or suggest well balanced structures, whether that be expressed in the architecture or not; for it must and in fact does, often happen that structure is not outwardly expressed—at any rate not to the extent that allows instantaneous conviction of its sufficiency. A flat ceiling is one example. In such cases color steps in and suggests constructive lines of some sort, which, though they have possibly no relation to the actual invisible structure, suffice to satisfy the eye in a moment as to the balance and stability of the surface on which it must otherwise have hesitated in doubt. Moreover lines of some kind are indispensable to assist the eye and mind to travel over the surface of the building; and whether by moulding or by color, it is the disposition of these lines upon which depends the impression of "repose." If simple and suggesting the relation of one part to another, the eye grasps the meaning quickly and is at rest. But it the lines expressed (whether by mouldings or colors) are inconsequent, purposeless and without proportion, the eye becomes puzzled, restless and dissatisfied. The eye demands a clear path, not a broken wilderness.

To touch on another branch of decoration, and a most important one, the use of pictorial art, in connection with architecture. We are accustomed to hear the most transcendental talk over the idealism or symbolism of the subjects to be painted in this or that building. I am far from under-rating the value of this quality of art. What I want to point out is that it is the building as a whole, if it be a worthy building, which first has to be considered ; and that is the form, the tone, and the treatment or style that affect the building, not the "subject". For the harmony of the building it would not matter a jot whether the subject were "Cupid and Psyche" or "Moses in the Bulrushes." But it may ruin the whole effect, if the picture is in a badly proportioned panel, painted in too cold a key or executed in a style too crude or too complicated for its surroundings. Not one in fifty of even very able English painters has been trained to look at art from this side—or to consider the necessity of keeping the whole tone of his own work in relation to the decorative result in the whole building. Look at the paintings in the Royal Exchange. Not one, or perhaps but one, is in tone with its surroundings; not any two in tone with each

