<doctype type="text">170	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" DESIGN AND CRAFTSMANSHIP.

" author="">DESIGN AND CRAFTSMANSHIP.



Ever since the ideas of mankind had to be converted into concrete form, there has existed a gulf more or less wide to bridge over, and even in this twentieth century, with all its arts and appliances, are still scarcely able to reconcile design and construction The exhibition of selected works from the various national schools of art we noticed last week shows to what an extent this discordance is still observable. The examiners in their several reports speak with much reserve and caution of works in different branches which indicate this separation. Though in many instances the drawings or designs reach the standard required, the executed specimens sent in show a falling-off ; the designers' ideas have not been realized in some important quality. In not a few cases the subjects attempted are beyond the students' capacity or powers as with regard to the architectural designs. In many more the design has been made in complete ignorance or forgetfulness of the actual condition and limitations of the material ; and directly the student passes the barrier, puts his ideas into execution, he finds a great deal of the beauty and glamour of the conception disappear. These qualities seem to elude his grasp, and in their place we get the hard and intractable qualities of stone, wood, or iron, the want of precsion and definition inseparable from moulded and cast materials, and machine tools, the inequalities of form and colour caused by firing in pottery and tiles, and the technical defects inherent in textile and woven fabrics. A decorative design may look admirable on paper; but when it comes to be translated into the real material, by stenciling or brushwork, by the arrangement of tiles or tesserae or thread, the effect may have been considerably diminished. We notice these defects in most of the stencilled work we see executed, in tile decoration, where the painting and pattern are at variance, and in woven textiles where the technique of weaving is not understood. In furniture, wood inlays for panels, we observe a distinct inferiority in the executed work if the designer has not selected the proper-coloured wood for inlay, or placed them according to their grain to suggest the nature of the object presented. In the very artistic firescreen we noticed last week by a student of the West Ham School for which a gold medal is given, the designer has observed these points, he has selected suitable coloured woods for the figures representing the four seasons, and the grain and "figure" of these woods are made to suggest the drapery or vestments, the hair, even the growth of trees in the background. The designs on paper are sometimes at fault they show or expect too much ; they suggest ornament and treatments which cannot be realized in the particular material ; they are frequently overcrowded with ornament. On the other hand, the designer may know little of the material he uses or the method of construction ; his selection of material to represent his design may be imperfect, or his method of application faulty. Owing to one or the other of these errors, or both, the execution fails. One sometimes sees a design that is really defective and faulty in itself, yet which by the skill of the workman or artist engaged in execution is produced in a very satisfactory manner. This result is because the craftsman has discerned the designer's intentions, and has put forth his own personal skill in the execution. It is the way in which the success and charm of a good deal of Mediaeval building and detail can be explained. Both

designer and craftsman devoted their heart and soul to the work they put into it their best efforts, and what one failed to do the other rectified or perfected. But under our modern system of workmanship we have no such corrective the designer does not co-operate with the executive artist—there is little sympathy between them, and so the inferior design is misinterpreted or aggravated in the result. The craftsman obtains no personal interest in the work or extra pay for endeavouring to improve the design or offering suggestions. Why should he trouble to do more than follow the drawing when he reaps no reward for his skill? So the modern estrangement between the work of designer and craftsman is detrimental. On the other side, the design may be all that can be desired ; but it is placed in the hands of workmen or artists who are imperfectly educated in art, and who do their work in a mechanical way. This is, perhaps, the commoner failing ; it is the one which the architect who carries out contract work so often experiences. His ideas and intentions are thoroughly misunderstood or evaded, with the object of cheapening cost. Such things occur as details altered or cut down, mouldings misunderstood or altered, depth of relief diminished, the ornament mutilated -in short, the design really "murdered." Whichever may be in fault—the design or the material and method employed—the result is disastrous for art. The two things must go together. Design and construction or handicrafts engaged must be linked together, as any disagreement or difference is fatal to both. We may have good construction without skilful design. Thus we may have a building perfect in every trade, and scienific in its construction ; but from error in planning or a discord in the external design it never satisfies. Or we may have the reverse-—perfect design linked to a building that is badly constructed, and is always showing signs of weakness and decay. Neither is desirable. The Schools of Art combined with technical instruction have attempted to bridge the chasm—to unite both the artist with the industrial producer. We do not deny a good deal has been done in this direction. Artists and designers have been brought into touch with manufacturers. We have now much better and more satisfactory metalwork, woodwork designs, furniture, pottery and porcelain, stained glass, modelled work, wallpapers, hangings, carpets, and textile goods, and the training in art has influenced our industries all round ; but still there is the distinct and separate training given to each. The designer is still taught to furnish designs based on traditional methods apart from materials and methods of construction, and the craftsman is taught little of the art or methods employed, and is satisfied if he can turn Out so much work in a certain time. Other causes have kept the two apart.

The divergence between design and construction or execution is greater under some conditions. Where the artist designs in only one material, the difference is less than it would be if several materials are employed. Thus designs for modelled work are more likely to honestly express the actual result ; but when several materials have to be taken into account in the construction, there is the likelihood that the design cannot express equally well in each the actual want. A work of architecture conies under this category. A building is constructed of various materials ; brick, terracotta, stone, timber, iron, plaster, &c. It is almost unreasonable to expect the architect to be expert as a designer in

