<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION AND ITS

WORK.

" author="Langton, W. A.">THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION AND ITS

WORK.



SECOND ARTICLE.



In a previous article some account was given of the habitation of the Architectural Association and its Day School, which takes care of preparatory and junior work. This work is carried on further by an Evening School, necessarily held at that time because it is for working students.

The EVENTNG SCHOOL, like the Day School, is a serious affair with a comprehensive curriculum and paid lecturers of experience ; and the hours of attendance for students, 6.30 to 9.30, for four nights a week, means serious application on their parts.

"The complete curriculum (to quote the Association Brown Book) " is arranged in two divisions with some extra subjects and extends over four years. There are in each division two parallel but distinct courses, viz. a course of Lectures and Classes, and a course in the Studio." This means that the theory of Design, Construction and Sanitation so far as it can be taught by word of mouth is thus taught in the course of Lectures and Classes, and the instruction so given is worked out on the drawing board by practical exercises in the Studio. These parallel " Courses " of Lectures and Studio work are again sub-divided into '' Divisions," not for the further classification of subject but simply that the whole subject matter may be cut into four convenient lengths to occupy the evenings of four winters. There are thus two divisions of lectures and two divisions of Studio work, and they are usually taken alternately, so that Division I. of the Lectures is followed by Division 1. of the Studio, which runs parallel with it ; and Division II. of the Lectures by Division II. of the Studio.

What is accomplished is laid down in the curricolum as follows

DIVISION I. LECTURES AND CLASSES. i. Greek and Roman Architecture and Classic Ornament. 2. Elementary Principles of Building Construction. 3. English Architecture to A.D. 1500. 5. Outlines of Medkeval and Renaissance Architecture in Europe. 6. Elementary Physics as applicable to Building-, Forrnulae and Calculations, Stresses and Strains. 7. Plane and Solid Geometry.

DIVISION I. STUDIO. i. Freehand Drawing. 2. Descriptive Geometry. 3. Perspective. 4. Ornament Drawing from the Cast. 5. Greek and Roman Architecture The Orders, their optical corrections, characteristic forms, mouldings and ornament. 6. Mediaeval Buildings and their Accessories. 7. Building Construction. 8. Elementary Architectural and Decorative Design.

DIVISION II. LECTURES AND CLASSES. i. Materials, their Nature and Application. 2. Construction.

3.	Hygiene (Drainage and Water Supply). 4. Hygiene (Materials and Construction, Ventilation, Lighting, and Heating.) 5. Professional Practice, including the London Building- Act, Valuations, Dilapidations, Light and Air, Specifications, Approximate Estimation of Cost, Contracts and Agreements. 6. Lectures and Field Demonstrations on Land Surveying and Levelling.

DIVISION II. STUDTO. 1. Stereography and Sciagraphy. 2. Architectural Perspective. 3. Ornament and Shaded Drawing from the Cast. 4. Studies in Ancient, Mediaeval and Renaissance Architecture and

Design, founded upon examples in these styles. 5.

Designs and Working Drawings of Modern Buildings.

6.	Internal Decorative Work. 7. Time Sketches.

The EXTRA SUBJECTS are :—1. Lectures and Classes on the Elements of Quantity Surveying, including the Preparations of Estimates. 2. Instruction in Modelling. 3. Elementary and 4 Advanced Water Colour class. 5. Ornament and Colour Decoration. 6. Class for Sketching and Measuring. 7. Lectures and Demonstrations on Perspective. 8. Discussion Section.

The latter comes under the head of extra subjects chiefly in virtue of its special fee of half a crown. It is simply a paper reading meeting, held on the fifth night of the week, hut it is made safely instructive by securing the presence of a person of special experience in each subject under discussion, to sum up the debate.

This it is not too much to ask a busy man to do occasionally, but with the exception of this, which strikes few places far between, there is no volunteer work connected with the evening school. There is also a School of Design and Handicraft which resembles what in America is usually called a Sketch Club, except that to the School of Design and Handicraft it is intended to add a course of workshop demonstration. This school has, for each of its two divisions, a monthly meeting presided over by an architect drawn from a large Committee of Visitors. This also is volunteer work ; but with the exception of this and the chairmanship of the Discussion Section there is no volunteer work asked for in the teaching work of the Association. In fact one might almost say there is no volunteer work asked for at all, for, though the president and other honorary officers must no doubt give their minds to the affairs of the Association during their term of office, they are riot called upon to do any clerical work. For this there are salaried officers.

This is the central fact to be extracted from an inspection of the doings of the Association ; nothing is expected for nothing and nothing is given for nothing. It is recognized that no one can afford to give time and labor such as is required for real teaching, unless he can get or help to get his living thereby. This is the fundamental basis of the schools ; they offer something worth having. The right to ask for the fees which carry the work along and the readiness to give them are consequences. It should, however, be noted that the kind of immediate inducement, which young people and even their parents require to seduce them to a proper valuation of the necessity of high training, is present in the examinations of the R.I.B.A The letters signifying associateship and fellowship of the Institute are becoming- more important to architects than ever, as the demands made upon the architect's capabilities become more complex, which is only to say that it is the need of education that is recognized by young architects rather than the necessity of letters. The Institute's examinations have come to take exactly the place they ought to take—a place which our examinations ought to take—-a convenient standard for testing efficiency ; a definite landmark to aim at in an outlook which extends to such hazy distances that it is satisfactory to have something obtainable in view, which when reached, is a guarantee that one is in the right way and is getting on fast enough. This is the advantage that the Institute is to the Association. The Association, however, does not live by reason of this,

