<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	91

They believed that certain benefits arose from

the cultivation	of beauty; that the pleasures	of



private life, the dignity of public life were in creased thereby. It seemed only natural to such cities that the buildings which belonged to all should he the finest of all; consequently it was on the walls and ceilings of these buildings that the native artists were set to work. Go where you will among the great cities of the past and you will find these painted glories still, works which will make these cities famous and splendid for all time. Those cities made the interior of every public building beautiful. Why should not the cities of Canada? History tells us that Athens

spent more money upon her art than upon her wars. And this art was the property of all; it belonged to every citizen who had eyes to see; it was ''of the people, for the people, by the people.'' The history of the city was not shut up in libraries; it was made living upon the walls so that the humblest and least educated citizen knew its principal and worthiest events. Every one is more or less impressed through the eyes, especially so are the masses owing to their lack of imagination. "Pictures are the books of the ignorant " said St. Augustine.

To—day, I have been told, the same citizen in Paris walks around the court-yard of tire Invalides, and easily gets the battles of the Republic by heart. A t the Pantheon he is taught who civilized his country and who fought for it; he sees Charlemagne as civilizer, St. Louis as law giver, Jeanne d'Arc as liberator, and St. Genevieve as its patron saint. It is time same with the other civic buildings; they are all either decorated or being decorated and dignified by her leading artists, and so, whichever way he turns, he sees on the walls time figures and the stories of those who have helped him in the past and urged along the chariot of progress. In this way the modern Parisian is taught who are the benefactors of France, and when he next sees it. lie understands the great inscription in letters of gold upon the

pediment of the Pantheon, " A grateful country to its great men."

It is the same in other cities of Europe; they have all followed tire example of the people of the past, and if the pictured lessons are good for  them such would be good to—day for all of us who have occasion to use our own civic buildings.

In our own municipal buildings, above the in— tier series of arches of the main entrance, you will see some decorative panels and over them the following words: "Hail pioneers; their nanies and deeds remembered and forgotten, we honor here.'' if you look around you won't find many of those famous men nor many of their deeds upon those walls. At present, barring the stained glass window, and the portraits, the place is but a whiteened sepulchre. This should not be, for what Athens, Rome, Florence and Venice have done in the past, New York, Boston Washington, following their example, are still doing in the present; Montreal, Toronto Ottawa, Hamilton, London and Winnipeg, and the other cities

of our fair Dominion may do in the future. If these countries thought it worth while, why not Canada? She has much to celebrate, tire settlement of time country, the exploration of its rivers and lakes, the achievement of Confederation, our  national industries, amid lots besides.

	<article title=" MURAL PAINTINGS AS AN INVESTMENT " author="">MURAL PAINTINGS AS AN INVESTMENT.



In every country there are those who when anything new is suggested ask, "Will it pay? Is there airy money in it? Is there a practical side to this celebration of national civic, corporate arid individual achievement?" Most assuredly there is . There are scores of illustrations to be cited to show that time decorations of public buildings may he of sonic financial benifit to a city or corporation. Everybody recognizes tire immense amount of money which the artistic preeminence of Paris brings to her yearly in the hundreds of thousands who go to see, to study to buy. Some day, Toronto will be a great art centre, and tourists will pour into it by the hundreds of thousands too; but riot until the municipality spends a little money along those lines, because visitors are attracted to a city largely in proportion to time amount there is to see there, its beauties in tire way of monumental buildings and sculpture, its parks; magnificent drives; its museum and art gallery; arid also) tire pictured history of tire past that is displayed on time walls of its most important buildings.

In time 16th century one of the Popes Leo X., I think it was commissioned Michael Angelo to decorate the ceiling and tire end wall of the Sistine Chapel, and to—day, if the money could be collected together, which has gone into copies,

photographs arid time books that have been writ-term about those decorations how many such chapels would not tire sum suffice to decorate ? The same might be said of tire Vatican, that was decorated by Raphael, to) see which an army of

pilgrams have tramped to) Rome for nearly four hundred years.

Coming nearer home I might say that the Richelieu and Ontario Navigation Company had thought it worth while to spend a little money in this way in the decorations of their palatial steamers; some sketches of my own are around these walls: they thought it worth while to spend some money in that direction; as it made those boats that much more attractive. When there was nothing else to see omit of tire windows people required something to see inside. They have not poire by any means all that is possible along those lines, they have but started.

The same might hue said of some of the theatre companies, some of which have spent a little money in mural decorations, notably the Russell Theatre at Ottawa. Between acts, when the curtain is down, people get tired looking at each other—I suppose so any way - and long for something to rest their eyes on that will have a nice restful feeling in contrast to time movements on time stage. The restaurants also find it pays; you will often find quite elaborate decorations in

palatial restaurants.

As for the decorative possibilities of our im

