<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



length of obliterating instead of sympathetically enforcing the differences between various subjects rendered, it is time to remember that there is such a thing as approximate truth which is not entirely compatible with meretricious affectations either in speech or drawing.

The drawings submitted annually for the various travelling studentships of the R.I.B.A., afford us excellent examples of English methods and these sets of measured work from Melrose Abbey, Houghton in Norfork and Aston Hall, Birmingham, will give some

As to the crossing of ink lines at corners much difference of opinion prevails. When exaggerated, the tangle of lines quite defeats the object, which is to make it clear what is an arris and what a bead or moulding on a small scale drawing with thick line. When systematically practiced and not overdone the crossing of lines makes for rapid work and clearer meaning. I have known cases, however, in which a laborious draughtsrnan has gone over a drawing, crossing all his ends to give it a smart look—such second hand affectation needs no comment here. The unskillful draughtsman is very apt to draw far too much detail on a small scale drawing. We have all seen elevations in which the caps of Corinthian columns appear as so many black blotches while a delicate swag is made to tell with more force than a three foot cornice. As the scale gets smaller so should the amount of detail sought to be represented.

Turning now to full size details, I would here commend the use of the shaky line because it is much easier to hold to the true sweep of a curve with a loose than with a hard line. Full sizing should be learned by measuring off old work, for only so can the sense of the right scale of things which is far more important than their actual form be attained. For full size details of ornament the softest pencils should be used—speed and

MEASURED DRAWING, MELROSE ABBEY.—T. WASS.



























MELROSE ABBEY—S. TRANSEPT.

From a Photograph.





idea of faithful rendering and good workmanlike methods of execution without undue affectation of technique.

Before leaving this matter of scale drawings in ink line it may be well to call attention to a few of the tricks of the trade which enable us to express, albeit in a conventional way, something of the interest that is in caps and carvings, and sculpture. When sculptured decoration is shown it is impossible really to give it its value by uncompromising line drawing, while if patched shading is resorted to we at once knock the pure line drawing of the architecture out of time. The draughts-man's method should be to draw the folds of drapery

more thoroughly on what may be supposed the shaded side, leaving the strongly lit portions in unbroken white. Cast shadows should be very sparingly employed and only where the line drawing fails to convey an idea of what is meant.

FULL SIZE DETAILING TO SHOW SINGLE HATCHING.

Percy E. Nobbs.



sympathy are to be found in a 3 B. Every one will develop his own way of shading, but the advantages of point work are worth considering, and here let me say that shadows are not our business. To my mind architectural details are simply rendered misleading by the projection of shadows in the "Beaux Arts" manner. That is encroaching on the painter's prerogative to represent things not as they are but as they look or might under unlikely circumstances be imagined to look. To detail ornament then we must ignore all the cast shadows. The projection we purpose can be given by sections. The modelling of surface can only be rendered by shading, so let us adopt the most adaptable method of doing this. I have already said " shade with the point," and I must add and " do not rub the paper into a gray scumble." Clean single hatching is the fastest and most suitable of methods. Three ways of differentiating values are inherent in this kind of shading and they make for sympathy in rendering as well as direct and speedy execution: (a) By the wider spacing of the lines any degree of change may be attained. (b) By the use of heavier lines any tone can be presented. (c) By the direction of lines, flow of surface can be indicated.

The simpler and more direct the method to which a draughtsman confines himself, the greater dexterity will be attained in it. The intrinsic beauty of shading

