<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder MARCH, 1904.

Vol XVII.—No. 195.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Bank of Montreal, Sydney, C. B.—A. T. Taylor, F.R.I.B.A., Architect.

House in Glen Road, Toronto.—Chadwick & Beckett. Architects.

Fire Station, Quebec.—Staveley & Staveley, Architects.

Miscellaneous Sketches.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Entrance, Woburn Cottage Hospital, for the Duke of Bedford.—H. P. Adams, Architect.

' The Gothic Room. "—House in South Kensington.





ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Portrait of the President of the Toronto Builders' Exchange.

Portrait of the 1st Vice-President, London Builders' Exchange.

Group Photograph, Toronto Builders' Exchange Annual Dinner.

Fidelity & Bond Building, Baliimore.

Illustrations accompanying article on Meditations in a Church.

CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	-	- -	-	- 	49-50

Meditations in a Church	- -	-	- 	51-52-53

A Graphical Solution of the Fink Roof Truss		- 54

Some Comments on the Baltimore Fire	- - - 

The Chicago Theatre Fire		56-57

Photography for Architects			- 	-	58

Ecclesiastical Art in Ireland			- 	-	59

Lombardic Columns	-	.	-	.	-	-	60

Plumbing Practice Up-to-Date	- -	-	61-63-64

The Iroquois Tneatre Fire	-	-	-	-	ix

A Visit to the Canada Foundry Company's Works	- ix

New Idea in Hot Water Distribution		-		-		-	ix

Personal - - -	-		-		-		x

Business Notes - - -		-		-			x

Furnishings of the British Buildings at	the	World's			Fair	-	xii





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	" EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

S.	H. TOWNSEND, "

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal " W. H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A. F. DULOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal. " FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect, Collingwood, Ont.



<article title=" Uniform Building Laws " author="">Uniform Building Laws.

The International Society of

State and Municipal Building

Commissioners was recently organized in the city of Washington. One of the purposes of the Association is to secure a greater degree of uniformity in building regulations. The object is praiseworthy, and one that we hope to see achieved. The combined experience of a large number of cities in relation to the most satisfactory methods of constructing buildings, to ensure safety and reduce the fire risk should be embodied in a standard set of regulations that should govern the construction of important city buildings in the future.





A letter appears in the Vancouver papers over the signature of Mr. Henry Lye, a well known

fire insurance adjuster, protesting against the proposed erection in the heart of the city of a wooden building of immense size, which must prove a source of danger to the more substantially built structures surrounding

it.	In 1886 Vancouver was laid in ruins by fire. Is a period of only seventeen years sufficient to efface the memory of such a catastrophe and destroy the lessons it should teach? While the adoption of the severest restrictions in force for the prevention of fire in metropolitan centres might be calculated to hinder the development of young cities like Vancouver, build

<article title=" Vancouver Warned." author="">Vancouver Warned.

<article title=" The Water Supply of Toronto." author="">The Water Supply of Toronto.

ing in such cities ought nevertheless to be subject to reasonable restrictions. This especially applies to the business district, in order that none hut buildings of substantial construction and appearance may he put up, and that the appearance of the principal thorougfares may be pleasing and impressive and a barrier placed in the way of the spread of fire. A city of the size and importance of Vancouver ought to have build-restrictions of some kind, and any kind should be sufficient to prevent the erection of a fire trap in the centre of the business district.





The property owners of Toronto have shown wisdom by voting in favor of the by-law submitted

for their approval on the 23rd inst. to authorize the expenditure of a million dollars for improving the public water supply. The city has entirely outgrown the present system and from the standpoint of health as well as of fire protection, demands that the capacty of both pumping and distributing systems he largely extended. During the present winter the city was brought almost face to face with a water famine, and much destruction of property must have resulted if a serious fire had occurred during the time when there was but little pressure on the mains. There are some things a city may do without, but an abundant supply of pure water is an absolute necessity

