<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE RAPID CONSTRUCTION OF AN OFFICE

BUILDING.

" author="">THE RAPID CONSTRUCTION OF AN OFFICE

BUILDING.

The rapidity with which high office buildings are sometimes erected is a source of wonder to many people, and it really is not surprising that such is the case. A recent example is that of the 15-story building now nearing completion at the south-west corner of State and Madison streets, Chicago, known as the Chicago Savings Bank Building, In the erection of the steel frame the figure 17 is rather prominent. It did not, however, prove itself an unlucky number for either the contractors for the work or for the owner. In all there are 17 floors, and in the construction of the framework 1,700 tons of steel were used. This was erected in just 17 days, or an average of 100 tons of material were used each day.

No special means were employed to rush the work. The speed with which the steel was put together was due largely to the systematic methods with which the work was carried out. There were, however, no delays because of lack of material, the steel being delivered as fast as it could be used.

The completion of the exterior of the building has been carried out with the same rapidity as was that of the framework. The setting of the tile floor was accomplished at the rate of five floors a week. The plumbing, heating, electric wiring, plastering and other portions of the work followed as closely as the state of the building would permit, so that at the present time, in less than three months after the first steel was set,

the building is well along towards completion. -- Engineering Record.

To this account should be added the following extract from the report of Capt. Sewell on the Baltimore fire "The modern building erected in record-breaking time is never a model of workmanship, and often it contains defects that reduce the factor of safety almost to unity. The standard of work that prevails in these hastily-erected structures would not be tolerated for a moment in general engineering works. "—ED.

The Richmondt Conduit and Manufacturing Company Limited Toronto Richmondt Electro-Galvanized and Navalite Conduit Tubing and Fittings

The Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville Ontario Steel Buildings Roof Trusses

Crown Art Stained Glass Company Limited Toronto 

The National Builder Chicago The best building paper published in America