<doctype type="text">152	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



It is, perhaps, well to be sometimes reminded that the simplest materials have not been scorned by the greatest men, and that the finished result of any art pleases not only by the talent bestowed on it, but by the fitness of the limitations which the artist has imposed on himself.

Mr. R. Phene Spiers, F.S.A., proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Crace, and expressed his concurrence in the lecturer's condemnation of the imitation in modern plaster work of the wavy surfaces and crooked lines found in old examples, and due iii them to indifferent technical skill. He held that all plaster decoration should be executed on curved surfaces, as not only was a perfectly fiat surface less pleasing to the eye, but it gave the appearance of sagging.

Mr. G. H. Fellowes Prynne, in seconding the motion, remarked that stucco was not satisfactory or permanent as external work in this damp and variable climate. Plaster decoration should only be employed under cover, and then in low reliefs on plane surfaces. For such mural decoration in low relief there was now a very large opening.

Mr. W. Aumonier observed that the harmonious effect of 16th-century plaster was due to the fact that

both the	and	modelling were entirely

	moulding	the

handwork, whereas in most of the present day decoration all the mouldings and outlines were rigidly and mechanically produced, and even much of the modelling was executed in facsimile.

In replying to the vote of thanks, which was carried to acclamation, Mr. Grace said he agreed with Mr. Spiers that very low relief decoration appeared to greatest effect on a curved surface ; but for all that the artistic merit of a subject did not depend upon the angle at which it was seen.



<article title=" DESIGN." author="">DESIGN.

A conference dealing with arts and crafts was held in connection with the Bradford Exhibition a few weeks ago, when Mr. Walter Crane, the well-know artistcraftsman, gave a lecture on " Design."

Mr. Crane first showed the linear resources in abstract which were at the command of the designer, and went on to demonstrate some of the rules which were observed in different classes of designing. Coining to speak of the importance attached to beautiful things, he observed that, as a domestic nation, fond of their homes, and exercising constant and often highly-cultured taste in respect of their decoration, considering carefully the colours which they cared to live with, the patterns with which they would have to put up day in, day out, the form of the furniture, and all these things, Englishmen had been forced to consider whether they should not make the things of their homes beautiful as well as reasonably useful. A sort of national shyness, or shirking from display had laid a rather wholesome check on exuberance in ornament.

Turning to speak of the style which is known as the New Art," Mr. Crane observed that that style had had a very sudden rise, but its origin was quite traceable. If there was a public analyst for art, he would rather like to catch some of the most extravagant specimens of the '' New Art," and send them to the analyst in a bottle for examination. The sources of the details could quickly be determined. The whole style might be described as a species of rhetoric in design--a

rhetoric which was rather meaningless, and which was much repeated, sometimes in skilful hands but very often in unskilled. It had had, however, great influence over the decorative art of our time, both at home and on the Continent. It could not be denied that it had about it certain dramatic power. I3ut one could not live too far from Nature for long without suffering in health, and the forms reminded him of plants which, under artificial stimulus, had been drawn up into very long stalks, with flowers only on the extreme end. Although it was " New Art," it seemed to him already in decline. It had exhausted its own stock of expressions.



Mr. Crane urged students to study Nature, observing that they need not be inappropriately naturalistic-but the more they studied natural forms the more varied and interesting would be their design. A new fashion had now come in, a kind of secondhand Louis XVI., with early Victorian mixed. This pretended to go to Nature, but a real rose would blush to find itself by one of the rose garlands of the newest art. Mr. Crane proceeded to speak of the modern movement toward beauty in craftsmanship, and pointed out that a necessary constituent in the beauty of an object was that in its design there should be full recognition of the characteristics and limitations of the material which was used in its production.

There was, he observed, in all manufactures a tendency to imitate, and to exert skill in trying to step beyond the nature of the material, which found acceptance at the hands of those who, if they could not have costly things, would rather have a cheap imitation than nothing, or than something which was simple. Under the industrial organisation of the last century the ideal had been mechanical precision—quantity rather than quality. A different idea was asserting itself more and more.

Where England was behind was not in the capacity for producing beautiful arid individual objects, but in the realisation of the national importance of art—art as the expression of the life of the community. England did not give sufficient opportunities to her sculptors to do great things. Instead of perpetuating the form of an eminent citizen in senatorial garb—frock coat and so on—his portrait might, he ventured to suggest, be confined to a bust or to a medallion, and the artist might he called upon to exert his skill in a heroic group or composition typifying the life's work of the citizen who was honoured. England had a great deal to learn in that respect from her neighbours of France and Germany.

In conclusion, Mr. Crane commended the drawing which he had that day seen at one of the Bradford schools, and emphasised the importance of the teaching of drawing well. Education, he pointed out, did not consist in learning various facts and he feared that in schools not enough play was left to the imagination.  English people were over-industrious, and were afraid of the pleasures of the imagination.



A SUBSCRIBER writes:	"I have to fix a brass curb on a marble curb around a dining-room grate. The brass has already been fixed once or twice in cement, but this has been broken and the curb has come out of its place. Which would be the best way 10 fix it?" The best plan would be to rivet iron bars on 10 the standards, pass them through the marble curb and bolt to the underside of the hearth.—Builders' Journal.

