<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	£83



of its own and a door of its own it is in fact a dressing room. The proposition therefore becomes that, if we wish to make a sitting-room of a bedroom, we must have a dressing room attached to it. The situation implied by these precautions about toilet furniture

—the reception of visitors in a bedroom—is not after all a common situation. Where it occurs, the Universities offer another hint, perhaps better. A slight extension of the dressing room makes room for a single bed. The bed room and sitting room are thus made quite distinct by day while at night they become one good sized sleeping room.

The kitchen description is on a scale of such splendour—glazed tile walls, rubber tile floor and "a telephone to each bedroom, hall, drawing room and dining room "—that it almost quells practical interest. With the exception of the telephone—suggestive of a practice of eating between meals, which is to be deplored—the rooms and fittings are however only a high expression of conditions that are necessary in all kitchens, and the section, which is chiefly concerned with the usual appliances, is well worth reading.



<article title=" COST PLUS A FIXED SUM CONTRACTS." author="Gilbreth, Frank B.">COST PLUS A FIXED SUM CONTRACTS.

The following circular letter from Frank B. Gilbrett, general contractor, New York, has been furnished by a prominent contractor in reply to a letter from the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER asking for an explanation of this system.

DEAR SIRS, --I would like to explain to you in detail our method of contracting for building construction on a basis of Cost-Plus-a-Fixed-Sum. In £901 approximately 30 per cent, of our work was on this basis in £902 45 per cent. and during the year 1903 we completed contracts amounting to several millions of dollars, 70 per cent. of which was on the above mentioned basis.



When about to contract for work on this basis, we proceed as follows :—When the general plans are ready we estimate by the cubic foot basis what the actual cash cost of tile proposed construction would be to us. We figure 10 per cent, of this estimated cost, and call it the fixed sum referred to above. For example, if we estimate that a certain piece of construction will cost us $150,000, we contract with tile owner or his representative to do the work for actual cash cost to us plus $ $15,000.



By contracting for work on this basis the following results are obtained

First—The owner gets the building at a minimum cost.



Second—The building is completed as rapidly as is consistent with good workmanship.



Third—The owner is insured the best workmanship.



Fourth—The construction goes on without disputes over extra work and costs of changes. The owner can have the architects change the drawings and specifications at any time, knowing that there will be no dispute or delay in the construction made necessary by adjusting compensation to contractor.



Fifth—The owner, or his authorized representative, has at all times full control of the construction.



If we consider each of these results more fully, I may be able to explain how they are obtained.



t. "The owner gets the building at a minimum cost." From an owner's standpoint the cost of the building may be divided into three parts, the cost of (a) labor ; (b) material (c) contractor's profit.



The labor (a) on such contracts is handled as follows we put on to the contract as many men, and these of such trades, as we believe the conditions require. We aim to have the best possible labor, but if the owner or his representative is not satisfied lie may substitute other labor or discharge any man, at any time, without giving a reason for so doing. This insures getting the best possible labor.



The materials (b) are obtained in the following manner we carefully schedule each and every class of material required, and attach to the schedule shop drawings, when such are necessary, so that every concern estimating on materials knows exactly what is wanted. For example, tile cut stone schedule has at-

tached to it shop drawings showing every stone in such detail that the stone cutter can cut all the stone from these schedule drawings. These schedules are submitted to all concerns that we know to be reliable and equipped to furnish the materials. We are particularly well qualified to get estimates for furnishing materials not only because we have clerks in our employ whose constant work is that of making schedules and obtaining sub-bids, but also because we have offices in New York, Boston and Baltimore, The owner or his representative is also furnished with copies of these schedules, so that he can himself call for bids for furnishing the required materials if he so desires. The sub-estimates, being based on the same schedules, are very easily compared and, after considering price, time of delivery and capacity of the sub-contractors, we send them, with our recommendations, to the owner or his representative, in concise form on a blank called a quotation list, which is especially designed for this purpose. We then award the contracts in accordance with the instructions of the owner. Orders for materials are in triplicate; one copy goes on record at our office, one copy goes to the owner's representative immediately, and the third copy remains in the order book. By this method the owner, his representative and the contractor are able to tell at any time what the itemized cost of the construction has been to date.



From the above it is obvious that the owner or his authorized representative has full knowledge of the cost of materials even before they are purchased ; and I think it is also clear that the materials are obtained at a minimum cost.



Concerning the contractors profit, it may be said that the contractor receives only a reasonable compensation for his services. This being fixed before he starts the construction, remains unchanged. The owner should certainly expect to pay said compensation on all construction, especially when he considers that the fixed sum is not all profit to the contractor, who furnishes plant, etc., gratis. On percentage work there is sometimes a feeling that the contractor is running up the cost to increase his profit. This does not occur when work is contracted for on a basis of cost-plus-a-fixed-sum. When the profit is a fixed sum there is no incentive to the contractor to increase the cost. When work is contracted for on a lump sum basis, there is an incentive to slight the quality of the work, and to let the work drag along slowly.



This proves, I think that the contractors profit is best dealt with by the cost-plus-a-fixed-sum met 110(1 of contracting.



2.	"The building is completed as rapidly as is consistent with good workmanship." Since the contractor gets no compensation for length of time, he will naturally complete the building as rapidly as possible, so as to obtain his compensation, and to have the use of his plant elsewhere at as early a date as possible. When work is being done on a percentage basis it is generally slow and costly. This is not the case when work is contracted for at cost-plus-a-fixed-sum.

3.	'Tile owner is insured the best workmanship." This is obvious, for the reason that it will in no way be to the contractor's advantage to do any but first-class work. If he did poor work lie would lose chances of getting oilier contracts from the same parties. '1'his we realize to be very important, since seventy per cent. of our work last season was from owners and architects for whom we had previously completed contracts.

4.	"The construction goes on without disputes over extra work and costs of changes. The owner can have the architects change the drawings and specifications at any time, knowing that there will be no dispute or delay in the construction made necessary by adjusting compensation to contractor." As charges for extra work do not affect the contractor's profit, there is no cause for dispute. The construction goes on as monthly as if no change had been made from the original design. When work is contracted for on a lump sum basis there are invariably disputes over the detail drawings, extra work and changes, and these often have to be adjusted at the completion of the work by a Board of Arbitration. This is always disagreeable. Such bad conditions do not exist on any work that is contracted for on a basis of cost-plus-a-fixed sum.

5.	'The owner or his representative has at all times full control of the construction." This has been shown in speaking of results one to four.

You will note that by this method we have eliminated the must important of the disagreeable factors which enter into ordinary contracts and we have embodied in this method many desirable features which do not exist in lump sum or percentage contracts.

All that remains to he said in regard to Cost-Plus-a-Fixed-Sum contracts is that we are extremely well equipped to handle work on this basis.

Yours truly,

FRANK B. GILBRETH.

