<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	27



The conception of the elevation is fair, but the detail is not so good, while the rendering, particularly of the front elevation, is very feeble.



"Number 4 "—This design is a very pleasing conception for a library building of the required size both in plan and elevation. The stack room is rather poorly lighted and the reading room would have been better separated from the delivery by a screen, in order that the attendant might have full view of it from the counter. The plan is somewhat extravagant in the amount of wall taken to enclose so small an area. The elevation is very pleasing and consistent, its chief defect being the window in gable having its label mould round and its upper part apparently filled with solid stone work. The rendering while somewhat effective is rather indefinite.



"THE LAST."—In this plan the accommodation for books in the stack room seems inadequate and it has the great objection that there is no simple method which could he adopted to enlarge the room without impairing the appearance of the building. If the stack room had been placed in the centre of the rear, it could then have been extended indefinitely at any future time without affecting the general design. The space given for delivery of books would be found small and the librarian or attendant has no way to enter the stack room, except by opening up the delivery desk which would be extremely awkward. It would be almost impossible according to this plan for the attendant in charge to have any supervision to the reading rooms. As regards the elevations a most objectionable feature is, in the building of a classical character, to have windows inserted of a design more suitable for an Elizabethan residence and the main entrance door also is hardly in keeping with the rest of the design. The heavy projecting cap to the base course is a detriment ; a better scheme would have been to have made a slightly projecting course under the columns and the plinth at the ground level course. The rendering is fairly good but more care should have been taken, particularly in the elevations, to indicate detail, such as the balusters and parapet and the consoles of the main cornice. if the author of this design compares these details with any standard examples, he would see how defective they are. The lettering in this design is also rather sketchy for a competition drawing.

" KOHINOOR" --The general conception of this building is suitable for its purpose. There is an attempt to make a good plan, but the plan is defective in that the delivery room, between entrance doors and counter, is too cramped in comparison with the vestibule, and in that the rear ends of the reading rooms do not adequately balance the front end of these rooms. This latter awkwardness has arisen in attempting to make a symmetrical side elevation enclose an unsymmetrical plan. The plan of the front wall and stack room are much better. The arrangement is suitable for the working of the library but the stack room is about 40too large for the volumes specified. The elevations are good, being, relatively, much the better part of the work. Larger paper with line borders would have greatly improved the appearance of the drawings. A margin of ¾" on one side of a sheet and a full 2' On the other side is an injustice to a drawing. The mechanical line work of the rendering is fair, but there is great room for improvement in the freehand work. The washwork of the surroundings of the building shown on front elevation could be very greatly improved. A safer method for one with "Kohinoor's" experience would be to show the rendering of trees in large masses after the manner of "Mic."

"MAX" is a good design in some respects but is more suggestive of a court-house than of a library.

The plan is defective in the following particular: From the side elevation one would have expected a room the whole width of the wing, as the central window is the the largest of the three, but, on consulting the plan, we find two rooms across the end--a reading room and a lavatory—with unequal sized windows in the end of the reading rooms. "Max" should not have erred in this, as the rest of the work, especially the handling of the dome, shows better knowledge. The elevations are good, but the spacing of the columns at entrance could be improved. The line work of wash drawing is fair, but the brush work shows evidence of haste.

"QUEEN CITY."—The general conception is much more complicated than was implied in the conditions. No mention was made in the programme of art museum or of librarian's apartments. The plan lacks in pronounced architectural character, which the problem permitted. The stack room is badly lighted. Supervision of reading room by attendant at lending desk is impossible. Elevations are stiff. The large windows in the side elevations are poor and badly out of scale with the rest of the work. Arrangement of drawing is fair. Rendering is hard and the clouds are badly drawn and would have been better omitted.

"REX." The plan is poorly handled. The main object seems to have been to get a central circular hall for delivery room at all costs. One would have expected a circular motive in the roof over this delivery room instead of a square one as indicated. The plan of the stack room is bad as the side of it is bowed to the right merely because the rotunda wall projects into it at the left, and because the windows are put in to balance the reading room windows on the elevation instead of to properly light the stacks. "Rex" has erred in thinking a reading' room and stack room may, logically, have the same external expression. The entrance is the best part of the whole plan, but sliding doors in same are not practical. The stair to basement is badly handled. The general effect of the elevations is better than the architectural detail and rendering. A good honest line drawing is much better than "Rex's" spotty and indefinite method of rendering. Fewer surroundings and the omission of hadly drawn figures would have been safer in the case of one with his experience.

"Ha Ha."—The design has the merit of simplicity, and the desire to give the building the character a Library ought to possess. The plan, while it is formal in general outline lacks that recognition of axes that is essential in work of a monumental character. The attempt to secure complete supervision is successful, but on the other hand, the stack room is poorly lighted. and the lavatories are badly situated.

The design would be more successful if brought into harmony with good monumental work both in planning and elevation and if more study were given to proportion and detail.

UTILITY "—" In this design the librarian is too far from stack room and has not a sufficient supervision over the reading rooms. There should be a room in connection with the stack room either on the same floor or in basement for "mending "; the plans are carefully drawn. The elevations would bear more study the omission of a frieze and the enormously large windows are detriments ; the design would have been better with less ornament ; the parapet as well as the wall below lacks continuity. The idea followed in the rendering is not at all bad.

''ALPHA. "—The author of these drawings has produced a design which calls for much praise, and which possesses a great deal of interest and charm arising from the directness and ingenuousness with which he has handled the subject. The general treatment however, both in plan and elevation seems inadequate for the purposes of the building. The reading room, containing as it does, accommodation for all the readers, men, women and children, and for the books and catalogues as well, is hardly appropriate in a library of 10,000 volumes, although it must be acknowledged the matter of supervision is much simplified.

