<doctype type="text;ad">144	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.



There is some talk in Toronto of appointing a supervisor of elevators. With a view to furthering the security and safety of the thousands of people who daily patronize the elevators of New York, the Superintendent of Buildings of that city is now formulating a plan for inspecting, licensing and badging elevator men. In New York there are 6,000 elevators.

x x x



It is said that some one expressed in the presence of Cobden "the hope that some day all people might become intelligent enough to read Bacon." To this Cobden replied: "I would be happy indeed if the time ever came when all the working people could eat bacon." This was said some sixty or seventy years ago. The time has surely come when the working people not only eat bacon but also read Bacon.

x x x

Almost every day sees evidence of some new use for concrete. So vast are the uses that it has already been put to that to-day, as stated by the Canadian Manufacturer, we are walking on it, riding on t, eating our daily bread from grain stored in concrete elevators, taking our drinking water from concrete reservoirs and cisterns, living and doing business in houses constructed of concrete, sanitating our cities with sewers of concrete, and last, but not least, enterprising undertakers are offering us the opportunity of taking our final rest in concrete burial cases, deposited in concrete tombs, surmounted by concrete monuments, sacred to our evanescent memory.



The Foundation-stone of the new Liverpool Cathedral will be laid by King Edward on July 19th.

<article title=" BUILDING STRIKE IN TORONTO " author="">BUILDING STRIKE IN TORONTO.

The expectation that the present building season in Toronto would be entirely immune from strikes has met with disappointment. As this number goes to press building operations in that city are almost at a standstill consequent upon a strike of the union laborers for an increase of wages from 25 to 28 cents per hour, and the decision of the bricklayers' union to support the strikers by refusing to accept material from non-union laborers. The Builders' Exchange have positively declined to grant the laborers' demand, so there exists a deadlock, which unless broken, must seriously hamper business enterprise especially in the burned district, and spoil what would otherwise have been the most active building season in the history of the city. _________________________







<article title=" LEGAL.

" author="">LEGAL.



CHRISTIE V. Cooley.—Judgment by Justices Meredith and Teetzel in the Divisional Court at Toronto, on appeal by defendant from judgment in County Court of Hastings in favor of plaintiff in action to recover possession of a strip of land 4 feet wide, situate in the town of Trenton, part of lot 5 on the east side of Water street. In 1883 there was erected on lot 5, which has a frontage of 66 feet on Water street, a three-storey brick building divided into three stores. The northerly part of the lot had been purchased by plaintiff from one Gordon. the remaining part being retained by Gordon, and the buildings on it, and so much of the part sold to plaintiff as was used or intended to be used as an hotel called the Hotel Aberdeen. In the conveyance from Gordon to plaintiff there was a clause by which plaintiff authorized and empowered Gordon to appropriate and use a longitudinal strip of land along the southerly side of the 25 feet conveyed of about 4 feet in width, for the purpose of erecting a suitable building, "this grant to remain in force only so long as the said building so to be erected shall remain standing on the said 4-foot strip, and no longer." The building was put up, and in 1899 was seriously damaged by fire. Held, that the building not having been entirely destroyed by fire, must be taken to have remained standing on the strip, and plaintiff was not entitled to recover.

The Gilmour Door Company limited Trenton Ontario Veneered Hardwood Doors

