<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" WINNIPEG BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">WINNIPEG BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

The annual meeting of the Winnipeg Builders' Exchange was held on the 6th inst. and was very largely attended, nearly sixty members being present. The following officers and directors were elected for 1905 President, G. W. Murray 1st vice-president, A. I. Davidson ; 2nd vice-president, Jos. Bourgeault ; treasurer, T. D. Robinson ; sergeant-at-arms, W. F. Lee directors—term expiring December, 1907—J. G. Latimer, E. Cass, M. B. Martinson, Frank Powell ; term expiring December, 1906, D. Cameron, V. L. Bouch, Win. Alsip, C. H. Simpson ; term expiring December, 1905, Jas. A. Payne, J. W. Morley, Thos. Cotter and

J.	A. Girvin ; secretary, A. E. Porter.

A vote of thanks to E. Cass, the retiring president, was passed amid great applause, Mr. Cass responding n happily chosen terms.

The new president, the well-known proprietor of the Royal Planing Mills, addressed the meeting on being installed, thanking them for the trust reposed in him and expressing his intention of doing all in his power to further the interests of the Exchange.

Messrs. Mackenzie Bros. were admitted to membership.

Immediate steps will be taken to obtain a charter for the Association, also to appoint representatives to the Board of Trade,

New and much more commodious rooms have been secured in Robert Leckies' block at 218 McDermott street, and the Exchange will move into them on December 15th.

Two regular meetings will be held monthly hereafter, the next being held on January 'rd, 1905.



E.	J. Baber, lumber dealer, Boiestown, N. B., has secured an extension of time.

The contract has been awarded for the building of seven miles of railway from River Hebert, on the Joggins Railway, to Minudie. The work is to be completed by the 15th of June next, and will provide the Minudie Coal Company, as well as the Strathcona, Victoria and other coal areas in that region, with a shipping point by deep water at Minudie. The directors and a number of United States shareholders recently visited the property. The Atlantic Grindstone Company is owned by the same parties, and the quarries, which date back to the eighteenth century, are still turning our large quantities of the stone, which has become famous all over the continent.



<article title=" A NEW KIND OF CHIMNEY " author="">A NEW KIND OF CHIMNEY.

=In the Stone Trades Journal a description is given of a chimney at Seelbach's New Hotel, Louisville, Ky., built entirely of cement, sand and steel, under the Weber patents, by the Weber steel Concrete Chimney Co. The height of the chimney is 176 ft. 7 in., and inside diameter ft. 6 in. Up to the offset the chimney consists of two separate shells, the outside being 6 in. thick, and the inner 4 in., separated by an air space of 4 in.— above the offset for a length of 94 ft., it consists of a single shell 5 in. thick. The steel reinforcement of the chimney consists of T steel bars of different sizes, and there are about 18,000 pounds of steel used in its construction, forming a vertical reinforcement by means of a heavier kind of these bars which are encircled again at short intervals by horizontal rings bent of T steel of a smaller size.

The steel reinforcement is designed to be strong enough to take up all the bending forces caused of wind pressure, and the chimney is guaranteed to withstand a pressure of 100 miles per hour— even at this pressure the factor of safety would be four—which indicates the structure would be safe in every respect. This style of chimney will, without doubt, in a short time replace brick and steel, almost entirely, says our contemporary, as its advantages are very great 'without the consideration of price which is said to be somewhat less than brick. Some of the advantages of these chimneys over those of brick are :—They take less room for erection, and space is money, especially in modern steel plants they are practically indestructible—gaining in strength the longer they stand they are perfectly smooth inside, and having a uniform inside diameter, are of the highest working capacity they are absolutely air-tight and withstand a higher wind pressure they need no painting or re-painting, and are practically everlasting. One of the remarkable features of this chimney is the proportion between the inside diameter and height, being to 40.—The Architects Magazine.



The Jas. Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company limited Toronto

The Decorators' Supply Company Chicago

J.D. MacDonell and Company Toronto Grilles

