<doctype type="text">82	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Timber Tests " author="">Timber Tests.

which tipped, precipitating him to the ground from a height of five stories. If temporary floors s had been laid down as required by the Toronto building by-law, this man's life would have been spared, and his wife and family of five young children would not have been deprived of the bread-winner. Workman have a right to insist that every reasonable precaution be taken for their safety. The cost of necessary safeguards for this purpose should be included in contractors' estimates.





A plea is made by the Engineer-Record for a continuation of the timber tests conducted some time

ago under the direction of Prof. Fernow of the Forestry Department at Washington. It is very properly urged that future tests, to be of practical value to architects, engineers and builders, should deal with timber as it must be purchased from the dealer, not with selected specimens, from which much better results will be secured. On this point our contemporary says: While engineers already possess a large amount of experimental data in regard to the resistance and durability of timber a far larger amount of information than yet secured is most urgently needed, not only as to the ultimate resistance under different kinds of stress but also a much more complete knowledge of the conditions under which greater durability may he secured. The resisting value of the details of framing, the effect of preservative processes on both elastic and ultimate resistance and a great variety of other similar data are also still lacking.





With the rapidly increasing use of cement in construction work, the time has come when a systematic system of testing cement should be established. It is quite as much to the interest of cement manufacturers and dealers as to the interest of owners, architects and builders that all cement should be subjected to test. If this plan is not followed, we may expect to see failures in cement construction which will tend to weaken confidence in the material and greatly restrict its use. That there is a great deal of cement of poor quality on the market is a well known fact, and steps should be taken to prevent this material from getting into works of construction. A Canadian manufacturer of cement submitted a sample of his material to one of the Canadian scientific schools recently, and it failed to stand the hot test, If such was the result with a cement that may be supposed to have been specially selected for testing purposes, there is every reason to suppose that much of the cement bought and sold in the ordinary course of business is far below the proper standard of quality. In what way the testing of the material should be carried out is not quite clear. It has been suggested that the Government might inspect the material at t he mills, as is done in Germany, but Governments are slow to act, and the adoption of a system might be indefinitely postponed if the Government were depended on to undertake the work. Perhaps a better plan would be for each city and town to adopt a regulation compelling all cement used within the municipality to be subjected to test. It is to he hoped that action will be taken in this direction at once, in order, as stated, that the development

<article title=" Cement Tests." author="">Cement Tests.

<article title=" Building in the North West." author="">Building in the North West.

hich cement construction is now having, may not be retarded.



Probably nowhere on this Continent is there to be found greater activity in building operations

than may be witnessed at present in the city of Winnipeg. Population is flowing into this city at such a rate that it is found impossible to build rapidly enough to meet the requirements for houses and buildings for business purposes. The value of new buildings erected last year was in the neighborhood of $6,000,000. This year the figures will probably reach $10,000,000. The population increased last year by 13,000, and will probably show a greater increase this year. The city directory shows a present population of 70,000. As a result of the demand for buildings, the number of architects and builders is rapidly increasing. There are at present about thirty practising architects in the city. Several eastern firms have recently opened branch offices. Building materials of every kind and skilled mechanics are in urgent demand. Fears are expressed lest the recent great fire in Toronto should interfere with the supply of materials and workmen required for this season's operations.



It is a fortunate thing for the city that, at the outset of its career several of the leading banks have erected on the principal business thoroughfare buildings which, in point of architectural beauty and substantiality, would do credit to any city. These buildings will serve as good examples for those to come after them, and will be likely to prevent the putting up of uninteresting and ugly buildings. Unfortunately, it has not been possible in the past to obtain red bricks at reasonable cost. Those manufactured in the immediate vicinity are grey and, while substantial in quality, give to the buildings an uninteresting effect. In such a bright clear atmosphere and a climate which In winter is sometimes severely cold, the use of warmer tints of color is desirable. The Dominion Bank, built of red sandstone from Lake Superior, has a very pleasing appearance, and should lead to the use of this stone in important buildings in the future. In view of the high price of stone and brick, it is probable that cement construction will become popular when a good quality of cement shall be manufactured in the Northwest. At present the material must be imported at a cost of $5.00 per barrel, which prohibits its use on a large scale.



There are many differences to be observed in methods of construction employed in the Northwest, as compared with those in the East. The severity of the climate in winter makes it necessary to give the occupants of buildings greater protection against the cold. Hollow walls and box construction for windows are prominent features. Houses are built as far as possible without projecting features, chimneys being kept inside the walls in order that as much heat as possible may he retained within the building. It has been found that a thin hollow wall is of greater service

a protection against cold than a solid wall however thick. As during the period of frost there is little or no rain, no coping is required for brick walls and chimneys, and the exterior of buildings is not subject to disintegration by alternate thawing and freezing, as in a milder climate.

