<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" RATIONAL LABOR VIEWS " author="">RATIONAL LABOR VIEWS.

Wisdom is evolved from experience, and as experience becomes known the world grows wiser. In a recent address, Mr. Terrance V. Powderly expressed the opinion that strikes were no longer useful to those who engaged in them. Statistics go far to sustain him in his opinion. Not ten per cent. of the strikes instituted during the past twenty years were successful from the workman's position, and where victory was achieved, it was gained at such dear cost and sacrifice that the instigators were virtually the losers. Another a vocate of the adoption of rational measures to settle labour disputes is Rev. A. B. Mitchell, pastor of the First  Methodist Episcopal Church, at Cleveland, Ohio. The  church over which he presides is in the workingmen's district and the greater part of his congregation is composed of wage earners. Rev. Mr. Mitchell is a man endowed with a more than ordinary amount of ministerial common sense. His observation is not warped by prejudice nor blinded by self-interest. He has a remarkably clear conception of things and he gives utterance to his convictions in no uncertain language. On Labor day he delivered an address to his

gist

congregation, pertinent to the occasion. The of

that address was that in this free country every man has the right to sell his labor to whom he pleases and for what he pleases ; that compulsory membership in a trades union, in order to procure employment, is unAmerican and intolerable ; that every employer should have the right to decide whom he shall employ and that the principle of the open shop should everywhere prevail ; that differences between employer and employe should be amicably settled by arbitration; that both capital and labor should be organized for mutual benefit, and that labor should share with capital its profits and losses; that every man should be paid according to his earning capacity and not according to a uniform wage scale; that capital must recognize the right of labor to organize for its own protection and

benefit and such laborers should not be discriminated against, so long as they do not interfere with the rights of others; that a workman cannot quit his job and hold it at the same time; he has no right to prevent another from taking up the task he has voluntarily laid down; that the principle of the boycott and sympathetic strike is to be condemned ; the effort to destroy another man's business is un-American and un-Christian; that employes who have taken the place of strikers have the right to be retained after the strike is settled, and finally that the basic principles of Christianity must he applied in all capital and labor relations, In the main Mr. Mitchell's deductions are correct, and while he has enunciated nothing new to the readers of the Journal, his views have value as emanating from a disinterested source. Concisely he supports the contention that capital has the right to go into the open market and purchase labor for what price labor is willing to sell and that labor is entitled to all it can get without coercion or obstructive methods. —Architects' and Builders' Journal.





<article title=" MOVING A BRICK OFFICE WHILE IN USE." author="">MOVING A BRICK OFFICE WHILE IN USE.

Although a large brick office of the Fred M. Prescott Steam Pump Co., West Allis, near Milwaukee, is being moved several hundred feet, occupants suffer no inconvenience and continue their labors uninterrupted. The building is being moved to Sixty-third and Green-field avenues to make room for an extension of 100 feet to one of the machine shops. Steam heat is furnished to the building by means of a long hose. A cable from a near telephone pole keeps the telephone service intact and electric wires laid on the ground keep the building supplied with light. The large brick vault, containing a heavy safe, was lifted and taken with the building. A movable stairway, arranged like the gang plank of an ocean liner, is used to gain access to the building.

The Gilmour Door company Limited Veneered Hardwood Doors Trenton Ontario