<doctype type="text">68	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



illustrations of that subject ; so that the lecturer can make his choice with certainty.

The special interest of these proceedings to us is that they are conducted away from London, at any distance in Great Britain or Ireland from which an application is made ; and one of the directors of the Museum has expressed the opinion, not official but personal, that it is conceivable that the distance to which the material of the circulating department is sent, might be extended to the colonies. The Museum authorities seem to be always on the look out for fields for further expansion of the Museum's usefulness, and an enquiry from any bona fide Museum or School of Art in Canada would be heard with attention at any rate and might be productive.

The weak point in the situation is the absence of depositories on the other side ; and, in view of the excess of advantage over cost, one wonders at it. Toronto ought to have a museum of architecture and decorative art. it is a mistake to try to go on without one ; and to have one is not such a great affair after all in the way of cost. It is not necessary to have originals to do good work ; and it is not necessary to have everything that can be got together. Many of the old world museums are fuller than would be necessary for us, or indeed desirable. For them there is a mixed motive. There are more critics of the past among their frequenters than creators of the future, and for historical purposes a collection cannot be too complete. But what we, in Canada, want to study is not history in design but design in history. We need only a skeleton collection, the elemental types and nothing else ; but we need these if we are not to flounder about, arriving at last, if we arrive anywhere at all, only at a point from which we should have started.

A well selected collection, arranged according to subject only, ignoring history as a theme by itself, would not be too extensive either to be purchased or housed. The greater part of such a collection has already been cast, and there is nothing to prevent special castings being made to complete a sequence or scheme.

Casts of the various objects of manufacture would be for the most part inexpensive. It is architecture that costs sums to cast which require consideration; yet architecture is, if anything, more in need of models than the manufacturing arts, for its originals, while the buildings exist, cannot be transported. The cost of an architectural room may be fairly gathered from an examination of the rooms at the South Kensington Museum ; for the cost of each piece that has been bought is, as a rule, printed in a corner of the label which gives the name and date of the object from which the cast was taken. The examples below are given, not as subjects particularly suitable for a Toronto gallery, but as types of size in relation to cost. Size at the South Kensington Museum runs large. They have, in casts, the whole three portals of the 13th Century Gothic Cathedral of Santiago de Compostella, in Spain; measuring 57 feet in width, covered with sculptured figures in all possible and impossible places, and costing £2,300. They have the whole of Trajan's column (the top half standing on the ground beside the bottom half); the whole doorway of San Petronio at Bologna, 51 ft. by 40 ft. ; the whole of the mantel from the Palais de Justice at Bruges, including 6 or 8 feet pro-

jection of the ceiling above it. In originals, they have a Flemish rood screen 42 ft. by 30 ft. costing £900; and the timbered front of the Sir Paul Pindar house as it stood on Bishopsgate Street, except the gable. But not to consider objects of this magnitude for the beginning of a collection, here are some examples, selected as being familiar either as individuals or as types

i.	Niccolo Pisano's pulpit in the Duomo of Pisa; panels crowded with figures half detached; 8 columns resting on beasts and groups of figures; a sufficient height of the column, against which the pulpit is set, included, and the steps which go round the column. Over all about 14 tt. x 18 ft. X 13 ft. high. Cost



£320.



2.	Tomb of Carlo Marsuppini in Santa Croce, Florence. Elaborate 15th century work. Carved podium; niche with columns, entablature and circular pediment; 12 ft.. wide by 20 ft.



high over all; pair of figure at base; pair of figures on cornice; has relief in tympanum; elaborate sarcophagus in niche_ with recumbent figure on top. £210.



3.	Donatello's Singing Gallery for the cathedral at Florence. Double planes, columns in front of figures; about 18 ft. by 14 ft. and 4 ft. projection. £152.



4.	13th Century Doorway from Norwich Cathedral. Jambs recessed four times with columns in front of mouldings. Enthroned figure with angels on soffit of the arch. Over all 11 ft. by 15 ft. high. £120.



5.	Choir screen from cathedral at Hildesheim. Arcade of 13 arches; 12 filled each with a figure, the 13th a doorway. Smaller open arcade above. 25 ft. long by 11 ft.. high. £81 108.



6.	Tomb of Filippo Decio from the Campo Santo at Pisa. Half reclining figure on top reading a hook. The arms and book being partly free complicate casting. 6 ft. 6 in wide, 9 ft. high.



£45.



7.	Chimney piece from Hotel Lallemant Bourges, French, 16th Century. Large fireplace, carved projecting top and portion of ceiling. 12 ft. X 13 ft. £44.

8.	Doorway, 15th Century Italian. Pilasters, lintel and cornice; all carved. 10 ft. 6 in. by 12 ft. high. £34 los.



9.	Portion of Ditch screen, with 5 elaborate 16th Century columns. 11 ft. x 6 ft. £9 i8s.



10 Anglo Saxon cross, at least 15 ft. high, with low relief carving. £7 15s.

11.	There are several valuable models to scale, of buildings or rooms. These appear to have been made to order but the cost is not attached. Models of sections of Italian buildings, decorated by painting, probably cost serious sums to produce; but possibilities are shown by a model of Fergusson's theoretical restoration of the Parthenon, which cost only 14 shillings.



Some of the Italian originals at the South Kensington Museum were got at prices which tempt one to stray from decision in favour of casts. L.75 for a black marble doorway 9 or 10 ft. high, carved all over with cinque cento carving, is cost price or less ;

for a carved stone mantel 8 ft. by 12 ft. is certainly less than cost But buying prices are not what they used to be, and as a matter of fact these particular pieces are not such good work as the subjects in the cast room ; and a cast on the same scale costs less.

If there is to be any dealing in originals, England is the country for it. There is a continual pulling down and rebuilding going on and good details find their way to dealers or to museums. The South Kensington Museum has some beautiful specimens of this kind, gifts from the owners of old buildings which were pulled down.

In fact it is well worth noting in conclusion that gifts to the South Kensington Museum far exceed in number and value, its purchases. It is also the repository of some fine collections which the owners have no means of housing themselves. At first as a nucleus, later as a recognized centre, the Museum has attracted gifts and loans, which is also instructive.

W.	A. LANGTON.

