<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	207



<article title=" LEGAL." author="">LEGAL.

A legal decision of both interest and importance to all concerned in the building trade and its allied professions was given last week by Mr. Justice Ridley, sitting without a jury. The question was apparently a simple one It an architect and surveyor makes plans, drawings, specifications for an employer and is paid there-for, has the architect (in the absence of any special condition) the property in these documents ? To that question some business men of experience would give a confident affirmative answer, while others would reply with a very emphatic negative. To state briefly the facts of this case (Gibbon v Pease), the plaintiff owned some property at Bavswater which he wished to convert into flats, and for that purpose he employed the defendant as his architect and surveyor, and an agreement was entered into by a firm of contractors, that they should execute the necessary work under the directions of the defendant. The local water company would not pass dedendant's plans, whereupon Gibbon, the plaintiff, instructed a firm of plumbers to smooth over the difficulty, and to do that part of the work to the satisfaction of the water company. The defendant, not having any notice of this arrangement, expressed his annoyance that a professional slight had been put upon him. However, the work proceeded and was in due time finished, and upon its completion plaintiff asked his architect for his charges and paid them without demur. Gibbons thereafter asked Pease for the plans and other documents referring to the property, hut Pease absolutely declined to hand them over, alleging that, beyond a lien for his charges, he had the absolute property in the documents according to a universal and well-known custom in the trade. Hence the action to compel defendant to hand them over, In the schedule of the Royal Institute of British Architects, paragraph 16 reads '' In respect of the ownership of drawings and specifications, it has hitherto been the general custom for the architect to be paid for their use only, those documents remaining his property . No authoritative decision in the courts of law has yet been given on the subject ; it is therefore desirable, that for the present at least, that the architect should have a distinct understanding with his employer on this point."

Against this two strong opinions may be pitted. First, in his '' Book on Buildings, Lord Grimtherpe sets out in full the standing form of agreement with an architect in use by the Commissioners of Works. There paragraph 6 runs "The plans and thc documents relating to the work shall be the property of the Commissioners —i.e., at once not merely matter the work is done—and the architect shall make at his own expense all copies of them necessary for the conduct of the work." Secondly, paragraph 17 of the same is as follows '' No rules of the Royal Institute of British Architects or any other society to he held binding on the Commissioners."

It should be added that the decisions on the point under discussion are so uncertain and conflicting, that

Mr. Justice Ridley felt himself compelled to take his own, and he entered judgment for the plaintiff, with stay of execution for three weeks pending an appeal. The matter will certainly go to the Court of Appeal, and we shall at last have a definite settlement of what has been for a lonu time a too-much-vexed question.— b

The (London) Contract Journal



HOPEWELL V. KENNEDY.—Judgment by Chief Justice Meredith, in the Divisional Court, Toronto, on appeal by defendant from an order of the judge of the County of Carleton, sitting at Ottawa Spring Assizes, for the Assize Judge. The action is for libel and being called for trial and before the empanelling of a jury, plaintiff's counsel moved for order to strike out certain paragraphs of defence and defendant's counterclaim. The order was made with leave to defendant to amend. The plaintiff, an Alderman of the city of Ottawa, and a member of the Building Committee of the Public Library, for the stonework and masonry of which defendant was contractor, made certain criticisms in committee in respect of work done by defendant upon the building. The libel complained of was embodied in a letter by defendant published in The Ottawa Evening journal, 23rd October, 1903, in answer to plaintiff's criticisms. The point involved in the appeal is whether the defendant's statements were privileged. Held, that the plaintiff made no appeal to thc public in offering his criticisms at a committee meeting, and that it was not open to defendant to enlarge the constituency created by the plaintiff and claim a privileged occasion. Some of the paragraphs are deemed admissible in mitigation of damages, and limited to that purpose, may be so pleaded. As to the counter-claim, held, that the reference therein to the charges as set forth in the statement of defence, and the further allegations that such charges were falsely and maliciously spoken by plaintiff, are quite sufficient to make the counter-claim in its present form a good pleading within rule 268. Appeal allowed as regards counterclaim and dismissed as regards statement of defence. Defendant may amend within five days. No costs of appeal on order appealed from. H. M. Mowat, K.C., for defendant. No one for plaintiff.





The new Union station at Toronto will cost $3,000,000

Thc architects who have been asked to prepare plans are

Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Mr. E. J. Lennox, and

Mr. A. H. Chapman.



Definite announcement is made of a new union depot for Emerson, Manitoba. Four of the five railroads entering the town vis., the Canadian Pacific, Great Northern, Canadian Northern, and Minneapolis, St. Paul & S. S. Marie Railway, will construct a new international union depot on the border where the four lines intersect. Owing to the fact that two of the companies interested are American and two Canadian a like portion of the depot will he placed on each side of the international line.

