<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	43

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ACRHITECTS' ANNUAL CONFERENCE " author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ACRHITECTS' ANNUAL CONFERENCE.



The meeting place this year was the Chateau Frontenac, Quebec, and the conference was attended by some 25 members, of whom about half journeyed down from Montreal to be present. The following persons were in attendance: W. E. Doran, J. S. Archibald, Prof. P. E. Nobbs, W. J. Carmichael, D. R. Brown, C. Bernier, R. P. Lemay, J. P. E. Dussault, C. Baillarge, Thos. Raymond, A. Levesquc, A. H. Larochelle, E. B. Staveley, G. E. Tanguay, A. Chausse, J. E. Vanier, J. A. Karch, Jos. Venne,

J.	H. Lebron, J. P. Ouellet, J. E. Larochelle, S. Finley, Raoul Lacroix, F. X. Berlinquet.

Shortly after half past ten W. E. Doran, the president, took the chair. The minutes of the last annual meeting held at Montreal on January 27th, 1903, were read and approved and also those of the special general meeting held on November 14th of same year.

The annual report of the Council was then taken as read and adopted on the motion of Mr. Tanguay, seconded by Mr. Kareb.

The Treasurer's report was similarly disposed of in the motion of Mr. Lemay, seconded by Mr. Bernier.

The election of office hearers was then proceeded with and

the following is the result President, Mr. J. P. Ouellet; 1st

Vice-President, Mr. J.S. Archibald; 2nd Vice-President, Mr. A.

Chausse; Secretary, Mr. J. E. Vanier; Treasurer, Mr. D. R.

Brown.

Members of Council—Messrs. W. E. Doran, R. P. Lemay, J. Z. Resther, W. J. Carmichael, A. A. Cox and Jos. Venne.

The auditors appointed for the following year are Messrs. L. Lemieux and P. E. Nobbs.

Mr. Doran then congratulated the new President and after thanking the retiring Council for their support during his term of office moved the new President to the chair.

Mr. J. P. Ouellet in the chair then rose to thank the members for the honor done him and paid a graceful tribute to the energy of the retiring President and referred to the arduous legislative business of the coming session.

It was then moved by J.S. Archibald. seconded by Jos. Venne, that the following amendments be made to Section Eight of the By-laws.

(a) At the end of the fourth paragraph after the words "Matriculation fee' add "Of ten dollars."

(b) In connection with the fifth paragraph, erase that section of the paragraph after the word "Accompanied' at the end of the third line and substitute the words "By the registration fee of

$25.00."



(c) In connection with the sixth paragraph, add at the end of this paragraph the words "Should the candidate fail to present himself for examination, he shall forfeit the sum of $5.00.'

(d) In connection with the eighth paragraph after the word "Acoustics" at the end of this paragraph, add the words "Specification of works."

(e) In connection with paragraph nine, omit that part of the paragraph after the word "Examiners' at the beginning of the seventh line, and substitute "In the event of the candidate not being admitted to the examination, no portion of the registration fee shall be forfeited."

(f) Insert the following between paragraph nine and ten: "The Board of Examiners shall report to the Council on the result of the examinations at the regular meetings of the Council for March and September respectively. The Council shall notify candidates of the result of the examinations within eight days following the adoption of the Exminers' report." Mr. Archibald made it clear to the meeting that there was no new principle involved but that the changes in the wording of various clauses were designed to make them more harmonious. At the same time he stated, the Council had prepared in accordance with the resolution passed at last annual meeting, a pamphlet for the guidance of candidates. These proposals were adopted.

It was next moved by Mr. W. E. Doran seconded by Mr. J. S. Archibald to add to bye-law 8th:

"Candidates for admission to registration as architects who have graduated from recognized schools or colleges of architecture after a full course of four years and who shall present certificates of having successfully passed in such schools or colleges in their final examination, for any of the subjects prescribed by this bye-law shall be exempted from further examination in such subjects.'

Mr. Doran in introducing this motion pointed out that this

motion proposed a slight extension of the principle of recognizing standards of examinations held by other bodies already admitted. Subjects in which the P. Q. A. A. examined and not covered by the work of graduates of Architectural Colleges would be still enforced, while the question of whether a college be recognized or not remained in the hands of the Council.

Mr. Lacroix moved that the question be referred to a Committee appointed by the Council, as it was too serious to be disposed of at a general meeting.

Then Mr. Venne objected to the principle of the motion, holding that the Association should have absolute control of its qualifying examinations. He admitted that the standard at present was low and would have to be gradually raised.

Mr. Lacroix was permitted to speak a second time. In warmly supporting Mr. Venne's attitude his main contention was that the dignity of the Association could best be assured by keeping the control of the examinations.

Mr. Nobbs then rose to speak in support of Mr. Doran's views but to second Mr. Lacroix's amendment as he deemed the matter should not be settled out of hand. In so far as this motion affected McGill he reminded the Association that it was at their instance that a School of Architecture had been started there and a great deal of money had been spent on equipment and endowment. That school had now passed through the stages that all architectural schools on this side pass through the stages of too close connection with the engineering college that gave it birth—and he was able to announce that a purely Architectural Course and the degree of Bachelor of Architecture had been embarked upon. The proposal of Mr. Doran would be of great benefit to McGill as an inducement to students of architecture to study there and therefore for the good of the profession. The Association existed for two purposes—for the advancement of the study of architecture and for the regulation of professional conduct. Its existence as a close corporation was a mere incident of these high purposes.

Mr. Nobbs then proceeded to compare the standards of Architectural education required for the R. I. B, A. final by the American Colleges of which lie had made a special study and by the Association and stated that there was no comparison possible. between the Association standard and that of the Royal Institute and the American Colleges with which McGill would now be ranked. In conclusion Mr. Nobbs said he would be pleased to see the graduates of McGill Architectural school required a longer term with a principal after leaving college and before presenting themselves for admission to the P. Q. A. A., and he would gladly see a design required of them by the P. Q. A. A. but he had the greatest objection to their being compelled to take examinations in subjects already passed on a higher standard and he did not think it was to the interest of the Association that they should do so.

The meeting then adjourned for Lunch.

At 2.30 the President again took the chair when Mr. Archibald continued the discussion with a view to ventilate opinion on the subject. He reminded the Association that they had set $6oo aside to put a student through the McGill course and asked if that would have been done if as good training could be had outside its walls as

inside. Moreover he knew that that University had been largely drawn upon for examiners for the Association and endorsed Mr. Nobbs remarks as to the low standard hitherto required by the Association, which must be raised. After citing cases in which members of the American Institute of Architects bad been admitted to the Association and referring to the rule by which members of the R. I. B. A. and of the 0. A. A. were admitted while all graduates of Universities were exempted from the Association Preliminary examination, he argued that the principle of Mr. Doran's motion had long been established of adopting equivalents to the examinations. Moreover the motion before the meeting left it entirely in the bands of the Council what colleges should he recognized.

Mr. Belinguet then spoke a few words on the practical nature of all architectural training and while agreeing with what had been said on the matter of standards and examinations felt that it was in the office alone that the architect could learn much that was vital.

The meeting then adopted the amendment referring the matter to a committee nominated by the Council and to include the proposer and seconder of the amendment and to report at the next general meeting.

Mr. Doran laid before the meeting a letter from Mr. E. Maxwell strongly objecting to the present tariff and urging a

