THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



clears himself the damage caused will he presumed to be caused by his fault. This contention has thc advantage of being supported by thc jurisprudence in France. In my opinion, it is the correct solution. A building which falls



only (10 S

down can	o through defect of construction, material, or soil, or on account of some extraordinary event



which could easily be established in proof. Now the architect for ten years must guarantee the building against all these causes, save the last, and it will he perfectly easy for him to make alternative proof of any fortuitous event which may have caused the ruin, and if he can't (10 this, lie is liable.



if this were not so, you would force the proprietor to make negative proof; because, if the must prove that defects of construction caused t lie ruin, he must prove the particular defects, and this, in cases where the building had fallen down, tight he very  lucid the pro if indeed by

hut1 to make. lie would often he forced to attempt to prove that nothing else could have caused the ruin, fort

to go through a process of elimination, in fact forced to make negative proof. I do not believe that that was the intention or the spirit of the law. As I have already said. the Legislature iii placing this heavy responsibility oil architects and builders, did so because public order and public safety were involved. Architects and builders must, at all cost, he thoroughly alive to the importance of building well and safely, and that is why this salutary burden was placed upon their shoulders. The building must stand for ten years a, or the architect must show good cause for its not doing so. While this interpretation may not be in accordance with the exact wording of tile Code, yet I do think it is in accordance with its spirit.



The Privy Council in the case of Wardle vs. Bethuine already cited, while not called upon to pass upon this point, gave expression to the opinion that the onus would he Oh the builder in the circumstances under discussion.

It is hardly necessary for me to say that this liability of the architect or builder for the whole amount of the damage suffered, has only reference to the proprietor and that as between themselves each is liable for his own fault. Thus the architect would alone he liable for defects of construction depending solely on defects of plan. On the other hand the builder would be alone liable for his own mistakes, where the architect had only furnished the plan. where the architect has also directed the work, each is liable for his own fault. The builder would hot be received to set up the negligence of the architect with respect to a fault committed by himself. As regards third parties Article 1b~, which we have been discussing, would have the application. The architects responsibility towards them would he governed by the general law contained in Article 1053, that every one is responsible for his own fault which causes damage to another.

We have seen, therefore, gentlemen, that you are under a serious responsibility to look to it that the buildings you erect are solid and built according to the rules of the profession to which you belong, and further that you cannot liberate yourself from this burden even by contract with the proprietor, because as private individuals you cannot derogate from the laws of public order which concern all citizens and to which all Private interests are subordinated.



MONTREAL LETTER.



No. T.



MONTREAL IN GENERAL..



To the student of architecture to whom the cities of Europe are beknown, some for their ostentatious splendours, others for the sake of old world charms, arrival at Montreal brings a new sensation and not one of unadulterated pleasure. Every town has its architectural character just as it has its specific odors. The best way to understand this architectural character is to arrive late in the afternoon, to feed at some famous hostelry and then sally forth into the waning light to get the general impression of things—to cross the great squares and steal around the high cathedral walls what time they stand up in all their grandeur of scale in ever deepening silhouette against a lemon sky. Daylight means details to the roving quizzical architectural eye and, details are architectural accidents, whereby much goo(l work is spoiled and little bad work is redeemed. At dusk the details are washed out and a first impression at the magic hour may be the truer as it certainly is the more lasting on this account. Unfortunately steamers which have spent the night at anchor between Montreal and Quebec are apt to arrive in the morning and after the beauties of the St. Lawrence it is forcibly brought home that "God Made the Country and Man Wide the Town," and the

comparison of workmanship is trying to the latter. Thus it is conceivable u lint t tie sensation above referred in fully have suffered by unfair comparison and too much sunshine upon a certain lair September day.

But to return to the general architectural character of the place, which is over theme, it must be understood that the writer finds there are many expensive buildings and some handsome ones in Montreal there are a few really good buildings and a very hew exceedingly beautiful ones, but all these are but a drop iii the bucket and the average structure fronting on her streets is neither good nor beautiful rarely sensible.

Architecture us a public art—the only truly democratic art—and a few isolated private examples however good will never redeem the architectural character of a city where die citizens dive  in ugliness.  What makes the sensation above alluded to different from that produced by many other cities is the fact that there is so little decent building tradition manifesting  self. Where houses do not stand cheek by jowl they are most of them armed with one front and three backs and the bucks are as a rule the less offensive compositions judged in pour-c elevation. Where houses stand hard up to each other the prevailing ideal is differentiation--this is attained by recourse to enormities in wood work with the underlying idea of a balcony as an excuse, or to crimes in zinc perpetrated with it excuse at all and a very light heart. Of material frauds wood masquerading as stone, etc.,—there is no end. Amid these distressing reflections there is one ray of hope: this caricaturing of Architecture is Only a phase iii the city's development, and from its very unserviceableness will succumb the rigorous of a climate (which by the way a new arrival has no right to mention.)

A little closer inspection reveals the fact that two serviceable types of plain house were evolved in Montreal a short time back and it is deplorable to think that the excellent traditions of which they are manifestations have riot struck deeper roots.



There are in Montreal many plain limestone houses— some quite plain — others with a soupscon of French architectural instinct - —not very sincere but quite charming. Substantial houses these tore, built of fair blocks oh stone with reasonable tin or iron roofs and decently proportioned chimneys around windows. There are none of them quite good enough to tie worth an architectural students trouble to make measured drawings of, butt they are the best things on the streets arid represent a once live local building u radiation at least—the kind of tradition, that is, with which u the architect must saturate himself if his work is to be indigenous at all. It is you who chose of u lie modern house that it usually proclaims pretty clearly of which stock it comes, and bides us far as possible every hint of having been bred on the soil tint which it stands. Local tradition hiss quite died out of the building's trades in most parts of England and on this side many of the towns have not yet got the length oh a tradition at all; but lucre is Montreal with very excellent tradition in quiet grey stone houses

—and u he taught on appears to have been plucked up the u hue roots about two score years ago, since where. ehaos!—confusion worse comfounded. The oilier type is in brick. Red brick, green shutters, white window frames, a medium pitched roof ——what more can any designer want? Property used these simple ingredients have been combined to form streets it is a pleasure to walk down, far more to live in; yet this type too has given place to the vulgarities above alluded to, and is it longer' hurt up— nay it is being paneled down in several places at this moment.

The problem of' vi miter glazing inside the ordinary window frames has been solved in Montreal in a more slovenly way than in other civilized cities subject to a "cool" winter. The appearance of a house depends immensely out the external window finish, and for four months oh the year every house in Montreal wears spectacles which spoil the expression of eyes that might be quite pleasant.  For Russia arid Northern Germany the double glazing has been solved on a variety of ways, neat arid handy, some of them very ingenious and all without recourse to the barbarous expedient of slapping a rough chamfered frame of inferior glass on the outer edge of the window opening.

The real difficulty which has not from its nature been better solved elsewhere is the roofing question. The slates of Montreal are very good and very ugly, and they don't improve or deteriorate with the kindly hand of time. Lead is no use. Copper goes as black as the slates. The good old tin Inns been out of the market goodness know how long. Zinc and iron remain, arid the genius who could give artistic expression to these obdurate and unsympathetic materials is not vet in evidence. A medium pitch roof has to he cleared of snow, a steep pitched roof is a danger to the community you first roof remains tire best solution, but how is a building a whole ever to look right even in the glory of evening light and giving shadows with its top shorn off and its chimneys grow unlike mushrooms, here arid there, tint a desert of asphalt and gravel ~

Yes, the architects of Montreal their little problems to solve and by degrees of properly faced, tine architectural character of the p1 ire iv nil improve, but it is not solving the problem of designing for a 11 it roof treatment to little an 80 slate ship above the corner Just .us 'in acknowledgement of the old habit of slating roofs, while a flat roof is concealed behind, nor is it any use relying inn zinc ''wheriligigums and whigmaleeries'' to distract the attention from the drawbacks of a drill sky tine.

There is a little and a very little good old work in Montreal—a closer study of it would do more to improve the present stare of things.

There tore a few and a very few beautiful new buildings in Montreal—and these will be recorded from time to dune by the

GARGOYLE.



<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	73



clears himself the damage caused will be presumed to he caursed by his fault. This contention has the advantage of bcing sttp])orted by the jurisprudence iii France. In my opinion, it is the correct solution. A building which falls dowom caur only do so through defect of construction, irmaterial, or soil, or on account of some extraordituarv event which could easily be established in proof. Now the architect for ten years must guarantee tine building against all these causes, save the last, arid it will he perfectly easy for hum to make affirmative proof of any fortuitous event whieli may huave caused time ruin, annul if he cant (10 thuis, hue is liable.

If this were not so, you woomid force thue proprietor to make negative proof; because, if lie must prove that defects of construction caused tine ruin, he must prove the h)articular defects, and this, inn eases where the building had fallen downi, might he very uhf difficult proof, indeed, for him to rtrake. lie would often he forced to attempt to prove that notluing else could have catused tine mum, forced to go through a process of elimination, in fact forced to make inegative proof. I do trot believe tltat that was tine intention or the spirit of the law. As I have already said, tIne Legislature in placing this heavy responsibility ott areluitects and builders, did so beeaouse public order arid public safety were involved. Arehiteets anud builders must, at all cost, be thoroughly alive to tine importance of building well and safely, arid that is why this salutary burden was plaeed upour their shuorulders. The building untust stanud for ten years, or the architect must show good cause for its riot doing so. Whuile this interpreation may trot be itt accordance with tlte exact wording of the Code, yet I do think it is in accordance with its spirit.

The Privy Council in the case of Wardle vs. Bethunue already cited, while not called upoit to pass upon this point, gave expression to the opinion that the onus would be on the builder in the circumstances utider discussion.



It is Itardly uhecessary for me to say thuat this liability of the architect or builder for the whole amount of thue damage suffrered, has only reference to the proprietor and that as between theniselves eaeh is liable for his own fault. Thus the architeet would alone be liable for defects of counstruction depending solely on defects of plan. On the other hand thue builder wotuld be alone liable for his own mistakes, wltere the architect had onify furnished the



plan. Where the arehiteet has also direeted tite work, each is liable for his own fatolt. The bttilder would unot l)e received to set top tlte negligence of the architect with respect to a fault committed by himself. As regards third parties Article 1688, whuich we luave been discussing, would have ito applicatiout. The arelnitect's responsibility towards them would be governed by the general law contained in Article 1053, thuat every one is responsible for his own lautit which causes damage to another.

We have seen, therefore, gentlemen, tluat you are under a seriotos respotusibility to hook to it that the buildings your erect are solid and built according to the rules of the prolession to whuielt you belong, annul further tltat you cannot liberate yourself from this burden even by conutract with the proprietor, because as private individuals yoto cannot derogate front the laws of piublie order which concern all citizens and to which all private interests are stubordinated.



<article title=" MONTREAL LETTER " author="">MONTREAL LETTER.



No. I.

IN iN GENERAL.

To the stundent of architecture to whom the cities of Europe are beknown, some for their ostentations splendours, others for the sake of old world charms, arrival at Montreal brings a new sensation amnd nuot one of unnadulterated peasorre. Every town has its architectural character ,just as it has its specific odours. Tine best way to understand this architectural character is to arrive hate in the afternoon, to feed at some famouns hostelry and them sally for-tin inito tine waning light to get the general impression of things—to cross tIne great squares and steal around tIne high cathedral walls what time they stand up un all their grandeur of scale in ever- deepening silhouette against a lemon sky. Daylight means details to the roving quizzical architectural eye and, details are architectural accidents whereby much good work is spoiled and little bad ivork is redeemed. At dusk the details are washed out and a first impression at the magic hour- may be tine tinner as it certainly is the more lasting oni this account. Unfortounately steamers which have spent the night at anchor between Montreal and Quebec are apt to arrive in tire morning and after the beauties of the St. Lawrence it is forcibly brought home that "God Made the Country arid Man Made the Town,' and tine

comparison oh workmanship is trying to the latter-. Thus it is coticcivable that the sensation above referred to nnay luave stiffer-ed by unlair- comparison amid too much sunshine upon a a certain fair September day.

Bout to return to the general architectural character of the place, which is over theme, it must be tinder-stood that the writer finds tlucre are many expensive buildings and some handsome ones in Montreal; truer-c are a few really good buildings and a very few exceedingly beautiful ones, but all these are butt a dr-op inn the bucket and the average structure fronting oni tier- streets is neither good nor' beaurtilul—rar-cly sensible.

Architecture is a public ar-i—the only truly democratic art—arid a few isolated private examples luowever- good ivill never- redeem the architectural character of a city where tIne citizens dwell inn ugliness. What intakes tine sensation above alluded to different Irom that produced by many other cities is the fact that there is so little decent building u raditioti manifesting i. self. Where houses do not stand cheek by jowl they are most of them afflicted with one front and three backs anud time hacks areas a rule the less offensive compositions judged inn poure elevation. Where houses stand hard up to each other the prevaihinig ideal is differentiation m- this is attained by recourse to enormities mm wood work with the under lying idea of a balcony as an excuse, or to crimes in zinc perpetrated wit In rio excuse at all and a very light heart. Of material frauds—wood masquerading as stone, etc.,—tber-e is no end. Amid these distressinug reflections there is one ray of hojie: this caricaturing of Architecture is only a phase inn tue city's development, and from its very-unserviceableness will succumb the rigours of a climate (which by the way a new arrival has no right to mention.)

A little closer iuuspection reveals the fact that two serviceable types of plaint house were evolved in Montreal a short time back and it is deplorable to think that the excellent traditions of whicim they are manifistations hnave not struck deeper- roots.



There are inn Montreal many plain limestone houses -- some qunite plain—others with a soupscon of French architectural innstinct—not very sincere but quite charming. Substantial houses these "ore, built of fair blocks oh stone ivith reasonable tini or iron roofs anrd decently proportioned chimneys and windows. There are none of them quinine good enough to he worth an architectur-al student's trouble to nnake measured drawings of, but they are the best things on the streets amid represent a onnee hive local building tu'aditioui at least—the kiund of tradition, that is, with which me architect must saturate himself if his work is to be indigenous at all. It is the cur-se of the modern hourse that it usually proclaims pretty clearly oh what stock it comes ,and hides as far as possible every hint of having been bred on the soil on which it stands. Local tradition tilts quite died orut of tine humId— mug trades irn most parts of England anrol urn tins side many of the towns have unot yet got the length of a tradition at all; but here is Morin real with a very excellent tradition in quiet grey stone houses

—arid mIne tradition appears to have been plucked up by the roots about two score years ago, since when, ebaos!—confu.iorn worse conlounuded. Tine other- type is mm brick. Red brick, green shutters, white window frames, a medium pitched roof—what unnore earn nanny niesigumer want ? Properly used these simple ingre— clients htuve been combined to form streets it is a pleasurre to walk down, far more to live imi; yen this type too has given phace to the vulgarities above alluded to, anid is rio lonuger putt up— nay it is being poulled dowun in sever-al places at uluis moment.

Tne problem of ivinter glazing outside the ordinary window frames Inns beeni solved inn Montreal in a more slovenly way than in other- civilized cities subject to a "cool" winter-. T lie appeararuce of a house depends immensely on tine external window finish, antd for four months oh the year- every house in Montreal wears spectacles winch spoil the expression of eyes that might he qui'e pleasant. fun Russia amid Northern Germany the double glazing has been solved in a variety of ways, neat and handy, some of them very ingenious and all witbourt recourse to tIme barbarous expedient of slapping a rough cuamfered frame of inferior- glass oni tine outer- edge of the window opening.



Thue real difficuilty which has riot from its natoure been better solved elseivben'e is tine roofing question. The sluttes of Montreal are very good arid very ugly, and they donut improve or deteu'iorate witti nine kindly hand of time. Lead is rio use. Copper- goes as black as the slates. lime good old mini has been out of thue market goodness knows how long. Zinic and iroun remain, and the genius who cotuld give artistic expression to these obdurate and unsympathetic materials is not yet inn evidence. A medium pitch roof has to be clear-ed of snow, a steep pitched roof is a danger no the community---a flat roof remains the best solution, but how is a building as a whole ever- to look n'ighnt eveni inn the glory of evening light and growing shiadows with its top shorn off amid its chimneys growing like mushrooms, here and there, in a desert of asphalt and gravel?

Yes, tIme architects of Montreal huave threir little problems to solve amid by degrees, if properly faced, tire architectural character of tine place will improve, bunt it is not solving the problenun of designing for a flat roof treatment to punt an 80 slate slip above the cornice just as an acknowledgement of the old habit of slatitig roofs, while a fiat roof is concealed bebind,nor is it any nuse relying on zinc . 'wher-ihigiguims anti whigmaleeries" to distract tine attention from the drawbacks of a dull sky line.



There is a little arid a very little good old work in Montreal—ut closer- study of it wound do much to improve tIne present state of things.

There are a few and a very few beautiful new buildings in Monnur-eal—and these wilibe recorded from time to time by the

GARGOYLE.

