<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" AN EXPLANATION " author="">AN EXPLANATION.

NEW YORK, June 7th, 1904

To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—As a means of justifying ourselves and correcting a false impression, we would ask you to publish this letter in a conspicuous place in your magazine.

There appears to have been circulated in Montreal a false, as well as unjust and spiteful rumor as to our standing and methods of doing business. This is evidently the result either of a row between two parties who agreed to act in conjunction as our agents there, or eke the result of a spiteful feeling on the part of one of the above mentioned individuals, because of our having refused to continue business relations after our experience with his firm on the subject of payment of duties and delivering in which they were guilty of gross errors and misrepresentations too serious to cite.

We are not interested in family rows, nor do we care to slap back, for we might be able to hit too hard; but we want it thouroughly understood in Montreal in particular and Canada in general.

1st.—That we were the first to show American goods in our line, could be sold and delivered with eminent satisfaction to the Canadian market, and ours in particular, cheaper and better Than any others.

2nd.—That we are in the Canadian market to stay, and to prove to the best builders and architects that we are At in finance, ability, delivery and product, and the right kind of people to deal with. We refer to a wide and long range of architects and builders during ten years active work, a list of which will be furnished on application.

In Montreal we are now represented by T. A. Morrison & Company; in Toronto by our old friends J. D. Macdonell & Company, both representatives of the best the trade offers.

Extensive photos of past work in detail, in album form, a practical and technical catalogue; samples and prices ; and a printed

and classified list of users of over ten million of our brick in the States and a stock-list of brick, close up to two million are ready to be placed at the disposal of Canadian architects or builders who wish to be convinced of our standing. We invite inspection of our Canadian deliveries as compared with those of other manufacturers, including English and Scotch.

Very truly yours,

AMERICAN ENAMELLED BRICK & TILE Co.



J.	Francis Booraem, Mgr.



<article title=" SOURCES OF HEAT " author="">SOURCES OF HEAT.

Faraday calculated that the average amount of heat radiated in a day on each acre of ground in the latitude of London is equal to that which would be produced by the combustion of sixty sacks of coal.

The heat of our globe is termed terrestrial heat. The layer of constant annual temperature is the limit to which the solar heat can penetrate below a certain internal layer. Its depth varies in different parts of the globe; at Paris, it is about 30 yards with a constant temperature of 11.8° C.

The temperature increases below the layer of constant temperature at the rate of 1° C for every 90 feet on the average. The greatest increase is at Irkutsk, in Siberia, where it is 1° for 20 feet, and the lowest is in the mines at Mansfield, England, about 1° C. for 330 feet. This central heat is confirmed by the existence of hot springs and volcanoes.

To account for the existence of this central heat, various hypotheses have been proposed. The one usually adopted by physicists is that the earth was originally in a liquid state in consequence of the high temperature and that by radiation, the surface was gradually solidified, so as to form a solid crust.—Engineering Review.



Fire at Tyndall, Man., recently destroyed the engine shed of Gunn & Co.'s quarry, also the switching locomotive used in connection.





<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



Water was first brought into London

dwelling houses by lead pipes in 1582, by

Peter Morris, a Dutchman.

Two Canadian patents for fireproof construction have recently been granted. The main feature of one is a network of wires or rods, fastened with hooks to supporting beams, and covered with a reticulated material; concrete is then placed on top of the beams, rods and this material, and above that are placed alternate layers of felt paper and insulating material, and the floor is laid on top of them. The other patent consists of a fireproof tower containing ventilating shafts, in connection with a system of water-pipes arranged in the ventilating shafts and within recesses in the floor of the building. Other inventions are a device for removing shingles and a tiled flooring.

The Japanese houses extend from the magnificent types of towers known as 'pagodas' to the plain dwelling. Some of these dwellings, however, are exceedingly elaborate in structure, the tile roofing often being highly colored. The coloring materials are made into the clay stuffs at the works, and the color is therefore fixed and lasting, even under the influences of the sun and the rains. Many of the low buildings are erected with an unusually rigid framework, which is built in with the clay cubes, bricks and tilework. The 'cage' construction of house building is followed quite closely, and one sees many a little Japanese habitation, in which the tiny apartments are erected with heavy walls, very clumsy and thick but essentially substantial. Much of the timber work is round, and the connections are with mortise joints pinned together. The roof is trussed and commonly tiled.



The metallic Roofing company limited Toronto Fire-Proof Glass windows