<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	197



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

HOUSE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

HOUSE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.



The walls of this house are apparently of brick plastered white. The window shutters are not distinguished in colour, the sash bars carry the same colour across the openings and the roof is either silvered or stained with a silver gray. It is a strong case of simplicity and illustrates its power. There is however a scheme of decoration by climbing plants which owes its value partly to the simplicity of the background and partly to the extension of the trellis over the whole front, in lines which run with the horizontal lines of the openings and are in scale with the building. The nature of the trellis work is seen in the view of the doorway below. Its effect at a little distance, as seen in the general view is much more architectonic than the small diagonal lattice which we are accustomed to see. It adds to the character of the wall ; and indeed the inventive designer may see in its apparent unity with the

centres. This, in a perspective of 350 feet gives an apparent closeness, which produces a beam effect upon a magnificent scale.

The apse of the east end does not occupy the width of the nave. Its relation is, as suits the T shaped



































DOORWAY OF HOUSE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.





wall a suggestion for enriching the surface of a concrete wall by fillets formed in the course of its erection.



THE CHURCH OF SANTA CROCE, FLORENCE.



The Franciscans, for whom Santa Croce was built by Arnolfo di Lapo, were a preaching order and a poor one. They wanted a big plain church for little money ; so that we have in Santa Croce an example of the thirteenth century treatment of a cheap job.

With the exception of the east end, it is as simple as a barn, but is nevertheless the most impressive church in Florence. Size has something to do with it but also the constructional vigour of its design. The nave arcade and aisle arches are 65 feet to the apex, and the plate of the main roof cannot be less than 90 feet above the floor. It is this great roof of king post trusses that is so impressive, partly from its height and partly from the frequency of the principals—about 12 feet on

cross of the plan, rather with the ten chapels, two of which appear with it in the view up the nave shown on on the illustration sheet. It will be noticed that the windows on either side of the apse are not in the same plane; the lower range being at the back of the chapels.

The aisles are roofed by a series of gables pitched from the backs of the aisle arches, which have, therefore, each a valley above. The timbering of these roofs shows within. This arrangement (which even in Italy must require some attention) was made for the sake of strength, and gives, much more than a sloping roof, an appearance of stability to the exterior.



HOUSE ON	ROXBOROUGH STREET, TORONTO. — MESSRS. SPROATT AND ROLPH, ARCHITECTS.



The drawings on the illustration sheets are reduced to a scale of 8 feet to an inch. The house faces south. The main construction is simple and rectangular, but the plan is interesting from a variety of effect, due to recessing the windows on the south side, and to a difference of level between the drawing room and the living room, which appears again in the hall in the way of a pair of landings to reach the same level, for access from the hall to the dining room and to the kitchen department, which is, for the purpose of service, on the same level as the dining room. The first characteristic of the plan is, however, spaciousness, without which the variations in level would fail in effect and the recessed windows cease to have their present contrast with plain wall surface. The hall and living room placed end on to one another give the

