98	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<doctype type="text">

<article title=" Plastering " author="">Plastering

cross-walls 12 inches thick at the base, 8 inches thick at the top and from 4 to 10 feet high. After the supporting walls were in position the seats and risers were built upon them in alternate sections. Careful attention was given to provide thorough drainage of the foundations. The total cost of the structure was about

$32,000.







Much of the plastering done in Toronto in recent years even in expensive buildings is of a decidedly poor quality. Notwithstanding that the cost of work in this line has greatly advanced, the modern work bears no comparison with the older examples. In much of the work now-a-days, sharp sand and hair

—two of the requisite ingredients of good mortar— are conspicuous by their absence. A diligent search might reveal a little hair scattered through the mortar, but the quantity is so infinitesimal as not to have much value as a binding material. When to this is added the fact that the so-called sand employed is oftentimes little better than mud, it is not surprising that the lath and plaster soon part company.

Goad, C.E.), it is able to offer the Committee's gold medal and a purse of £20 for the best fable for children calculated to serve as a warning against the danger of playing with matches or fire. The competition for this prize is open to British subjects residing in any part of the Empire. Elementary school teachers are particularly invited to compete. Two silver and four bronze medals will also be given as additional awards for meritorious essays. Copies of the conditions governing the Competition and all particulars can be obtained at the Committee's offices, 1, Waterloo Place, London, S.W., England, upon application by letter only enclosing a stamped addressed envelope. The Competition will close on the 3ist of October next, and the awards will be announced in the leading British and Colonial papers.





<article title=" MONTREAL LETTER " author="">MONTREAL LETTER.



No. III.



Montreal is at present looking its best in the fresh green of early summer which happily pervades all parts of the city except the docks. In many directions building operations are in full swing. The hapless remains of the old Mount Royal Club are being collected, and it will not he long before the new Club-



<article title=" Painters' Convention." author="">Painters' Convention.

The recent difficulty with their employers having been settled the Master Painters of Montreal

are now giving attention to perfecting arrangements for the first Annual Convention of the Canadian Master Painters' Association to be held in that city during the last week in July. Apart from the benefit to be derived from listening to papers and discussions on subjects affecting the painting business, and profiting by the opportunity of comparing experiences with others in the same line of business, master painters' who may attend this convention will receive a hospitable welcome from the local Association in Montreal and will find much enjoyment in making acquaintance with the leading commercial and financial centre of Canada.



<article title=" Elevators." author="">Elevators.

The City of Baltimore has recently adopted new regulations governing the installation and

operation of freight and passenger elevators. The principal provisions are that the carrying capacity of elevators is prescribed according to the area, which allows one passenger to every 400 square inches of floor space. Operators of elevators must not be under i8 years of age, and must have a certificate from an elevator company that they possess the necessary practical knowledge. The regulations provide that stairways must be separated from elevator shafts by fireproof partitions, and in the case of buildings more than three storeys high above basement, brick walls of a designated thickness are specified. All elevators are placed under the absolute jurisdiction of the building inspector.



The British Fire Prevention Committee have hit upon a novel method for reducing the fire risk

in the future. In view of the great loss of life and property due to children playing with fire, the Committee announce that, through a generous donation from a Canadian member (said to be Mr. Chas E.

<article title=" Fire Prevention " author="">Fire Prevention.

HOUSE ON PEEL STREET, Montreal.





house begins to show behind its boarding. Messrs. McKim, Mead & White are the architects, and while it is a matter for congratulation all round that an example of that rarifled classic (with all the Beaux Arts claptrap material chastely omitted), which is associated with the name of McKim, will arise in our midst, it is just a little humiliating to the profession here that the work should go to New York. True we have no one here as great as Mr. McKim, but it is a little surprising to find the Montrealers protective instincts not manifesting themselves. The fact is, art is not ruled by the usual laws of supply and demand, nor is it amenable to commercial policies—not even in this sordid commercial age, thank God ! In art the supply creates the demand, which being so all Things are possible. But if we pursue this vein of thought there will be no room for news, so to the next site.

The M.A.A. Clubhouse, (Mr. D. R. Brown and J. M. Miller, architects), which is situated on Peel Street, is to be completed before the end of the year, and the first brick was laid on the 4th day of June. The site is one typical of that part of the town

