<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder



VOL. XVII.—- No. 203.

NOVEMBER, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

First Christian Church, Bathurst Street, Toronto.—S. H.. Townsend, R. C. A., Architects. Palace Pompei Verona—Measured and Drawn by Cecil A. Burgess. A.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION. Views of St. James Cathedral, Toronto——Cumberland & Storm, Architects. Design for New Post Office Building at Winnipeg—Darling, Pearson & Over, Architects.





CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	-	-	- 177-178

Some Notes on the Question of Fireproof Construction -	179

Students' Competition	—	—	180

Cost of Ventilation	- -	- 180

Pictures Without Lenses	- -	- -

Our Illustrations	—	—	—	—	—	— 181

The Modern American House in the Architectural Record 181-182

Cost Plus a Fixed Sum Contracts - - 

By the Way -		-		-	-	- 

Camera in Sculpture - - - - - 184

An Optical Illusion - - - -	Montreal Notes - - - - Addresses at the Opening Meeting of the Architectural

	Association	-	-	-	-	186-187

Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club	- -	- 188

Strengthening a Retaining Wall	-	-	- 188

Suggestions from New Zealand on Theatre Planning -

A Carpenter's Epitaph	-	-	-	- 

Northwest Notes -	-		-		-	-

Dynamite in Great Fires - - -	- 192

Built all in a Day	- -	-	- -	192

Winnipeg's Building Record - - - - ix

Business Notes	- -	-	- -	- ix

Kryptol—--A New Substance for Electric Heating - xi-xii-xiii

A Smoke Consuming Device	-	- -	-	xiv

Personal	-	-	-	-	-	-	xiv



SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, Toronto.

	EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect, Collingwood, Ont.





<article title=" The Duty on

Architectural Plans.

" author="">The Duty on

Architectural Plans.

The Ontario Association of Architects are endeavoring to have changed the present customs

regulation fixing the amount of duty to be paid on plans brought in from other countries. Until a few years ago, duty was charged not, as at present, on the value of the plans only, but on the total value of the completed building erected from the plans. In some way the regulation was changed so that ditty has to be paid on the value of the plans only. The regulation in its present form is felt to be unfair to Canadian architects, and an effort will be made to induce the Government to revert to the former regulation.





Perfection in municipal arrangements is to be found in Great Britain rather than on this side

of the Atlantic. They have crowded cities over there that must be well run if they are to he run at all to suit the English tasle for having things in good order. It would do its good to cultivate the same taste and, even at some little cost, to qualify the prevailing shabbiness of our towns. But it is not cost so much as economy that would result from a study of English municipal methods. Administration is the forte of the English and they are making their municipal works pay in many ways. In the matter of refuse destructors, there are said to he one hundred now in operation which supply power for electrical purposes, sewage pumping or water pumping, equivalent to the use annually of 150,000 tons of the best steam coal. An average

<article title=" Power From Refuse " author="">Power From Refuse.

<article title=" Concrete Plies " author="">Concrete Plies

annual saving of 1500 tons of coal wherever one (f these destructors is used must offset the working cost considerably, but there is another point worth considering—t hat combined works of this kind are better worth having than works where the power is not utilized, inasmuch as the high temperatures which are essential for satisfactory power production are at the same time a guarantee against nuisance.



For wet and dry conditions in a piled foundation concrete piles have recently been used successfully as reported in the Engineering Record, in building the Dittman factory, on the canal in Cincinnati, Ohio. The piles ranged from 8 to 22 ft. in length. They were square in cross-section, with a 2 in. bevel On the edges, and tapered 2 inches in 16 feet ; being 10 in. square at the point end and 14 in. at the upper end of a 16 ft. length. The piles were reinforced with 34 in. twisted bars, one in each corner, and these were bound together with 14 in. hoops, 12 in. apart on centres. These bars turned in at the bottom into a cast iron shoe weighing 5023 lb. As it was desired to drive them as soon as possible after being made, a I 2 4 mix was used. The piles were aged at least four weeks before being driven. In order to keep the top of the pile from fracture a special cap was used, which was stuffed with rubber from old hose. The hammer used was two tons, and the drop averaged from 4 to 6 ft. Higher drops were used but the record was against them. The cost of the piles is only stated as "considerably more than the cost of 

