<doctype type="text">104	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



service, would reduce annoyance from stragglers and danger of theft, and allow team platform and delivery access under track at the lower floor level somewhat protected from the weather.

It is unquestionably good practice where the warehouse is not large enough to require a separate delivery and receiving foreman, to have these two departments close together.

Among several reasons why it is wise to have floor strength uniform on each floor of a warehouse, is the fact that the city building inspector always accredits a floor with only the strength per square foot of its weakest part after dividing by their usually high Factor of safety.

It is regarded wise to have all floors slightly inclined towards the elevator shaft so that in case of a flood of water from fire engine, or an unroofing storm, it will drain off promptly. This incline need not be enough to be noticeable in handling goods. Sometimes the ground level floor is perceptibly inclined from the rear railway track end to the front truck delivery end, to aid the movements of trucks in the easy transfer of goods directly through the house.

The number, kind and general disposition of the windows in a storage warehouse have generally not received full attention in even the newer buildings erected for this purpose. Very few windows and those placed where they can throw their light down the aisle, and high so there will be the least obstruction possible, would certainly seem good judgment. Every window exposure is a serious outside fire-hazard from an insurance standpoint, bleaches the goods which happen to he opposite it, besides heating the house in summer



and cooling it in winter, and presents a vulnerable spot for storm damage and for burglars. While some daylight for handling goods is needed and is much better than to rely on lanterns, and some airing may occasionally he necessary, and direct outside access to each floor and section is demanded by the fire department—it is possible by one window at each end of each main aisle to secure all these with comparatively small openings. 

If the glass is the ordinary ¼-inch wire-glass, the danger of fire from without is less and if the wire-glass is set in iron or all sheet metal shod sashes, frame and casing, the danger from outside is reduced to a

mum, and you secure the main protection of an iron fire shutter without its disadvantages. Much help in diffusing light is obtained by having the brick walls at window openings tapered off at degrees on sides and top both inside and out, so that the light can reach each side as well as straight in front of the window. Luxfer Prism glass in aisle windows is as fire resisting as wire glass, and will secure fair light for a great depth through a room, and will prove a desirable feature.

Probably the best arrangement of floors for a nonfireproof building for general merchandise storage, is what has been called the highest type of mill construction, in which only postline girders are used, the floor planking reaching in a continuous line from girder to girder and by virtue of its own stiffness holding the load. The floor planks are somewhat thicker, usually four to six inches, are tongue-and-groove matched together and are of double length reaching over two sections of floor so as to avail of the cantilever effect of the bending tendency.

The writer has devised a system of trussing by inexpensive sheet metal the entire under side of such floors, which has been highly approved by some authorities and which is designed to increase the floor stiffness sufficiently to avoid the need of extra thickness, while it also adds to the slow burning quality of the building.

The number and location of the power elevators is a subject upon which there is divergence of opinion, and many of the best architects and builders strongly advocate grouping the elevators at least two in a stack, but there seems to the writer to be formidable reasons why it would be better policy to scatter them. It is recognized from insurance reasons nowadays almost essential to enclose the elevator shaft in brick, and where the same general class of storage is conducted on both sides of a party wall there is probably no reason why the elevator stack cannot be set in the wall, half in each side, thus serving both sections. We have recently constructed a very satisfactory dry storage house in the writer's city in which, at his suggestion, the elevator was located in the aisle at the hack or railway track end. This allows of directly trucking on of goods from the cars for upper or lower stories and is found to save almost a carload of the valuable room on each of the floors except the track level floor. On the tatter, of course, a separate side door has to be provided for passing through goods intended for storage or handling on that floor.

The wood now largely preferred for its strength and evenness of grain is Washington fir, which can he had for posts in almost any size timbers. It has within a few years been determined that a large augur hole bored through the centre length of each post and heavy timber will result in the seasoning cracks running to the center, leaving the outside solid, and of course, adding to the sightliness and strength of the structure.

It is often dangerous to cover with oil paint stringers and other construction timbers, because of the tendency to dry-rot when the surface is thus sealed, and it has been a common experience in some parts of the country for the building inspector to make the starling discovery that some main supporting stringers so painted consisted of an inch shell with the entire centre of dry punk. This condition never results, even where timbers were somewhat green when erected, if they are left unpainted, but where a more finished appearance is desired, a coating of any of the several cold-water fireproof paints or of white-wash, will form a good surface, and at the same time add in a probably valuable degree to the slow burning qualities of your building. In this connection it is worth mentioning that these coatings are now easily applied by any large painter, with the use of a spray machine and at an expense for labor of less than one-third what it would he if done in the old way by hand and brush.

As an additional fire protection, it is wise to provide sand-fire doors covered with tinned iron and closing automatically in case of fire by a fusible plug and retaining cord at all wall and elevator openings.



Eighteen sculptors in Europe and America are said to have expressed their intention to compete for tile designing of the

proposed memorial shaft of the South African Memorial Association.

The Board of the United States General Appraisers are said to have just ruled, in effect, that architects are ''artists," and

that architectural drawings, for tariff purposes, arc dutiable in thc same class with ''painting in oil and water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings and statuary, not specially provided for."

