<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION AN[) ITS

WORK. 

" author="">THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION AN[) ITS

WORK. 



A visit to the new building of the Architectural Association showed that they are doing real work, worth studying. Their new quarters are in the building of the Royal Architectural Museum at Westminster which, with the architectural casts it contained, was handed aver to the Association about a year ago ; and the Association have, in the meantime, spent over 840,000 in altering and adding to the building, to fit it for their use. The result is a building composed of three divisions, each containing one set of the Association requirements, and a staircase in an angle between them.



































There is first, for the disposition of the casts of the architectural museum, a hail about 50 feet square and three stories high, open to a skylight but with a ten-foot gallery running round it at the floor levels. On a third side are the staircase and a small block of rooms for general purposes—a dining or common room with serving room attached, the master's room, a coat room, lavatories, etc., and the front, which is four storeys high, is taken up with the library rooms and the secretary's room on the ground floor at the entrance and three floors of class or lecture rooms above, The two top floors are each divided into two class rooms ; one floor for the day school, the other for the evening school, each of which consist of two classes. The first floor is divisible into three rooms by means of folding partitions or can be opened up into one large hall about 70 feet long and 24 feet wide.

So much for the habitation. The works are numerous. What concerns us most is the school work. There are three divisions the Day School, the Evening School and the School of Design.

The DAY SCHOOL. This school which begins its year on September 28th and ends it on July 16th, has three terms of twelve weeks each with hour from 9.45 a.m. to 5 p.m. The fee is 15 guineas a term ($228.70 a year) for the first year and 10 guineas a term ($152.50 a year) for the second year. There is a master, who directs and attends to give lectures, and two assistants who are always in attendance. The subject matter of the teaching is the elements of construction and design. There are two years. The first year is preliminary to articles, intended to give the student a standing of some usefulness when he first enters an office, and to fit him to understand better and learn more rapidly from the work he will see going on about him. The second year is taken in connection with office work; a

certain portion of his time during his first year in articles being allowed the student for school work.

In the first year all the ground is covered, in both history and construction. The master gives a lecture a week in each subject and the rest of the time is occupied by drawing under the direction of the demonstrator. The following is an outline of the work:

Construction is taught by means of visits to buildings in course of erection. It does not require many visits in a term, for the subdivisions of elementary construction when spread over three terms, do not give too much to think of at one time. The subject is divided as follows First term, Foundations, Brickwork and Masonry second term, Timber and Metal Construction ; third term, Roof Coverings, Plumbing (which is English for flashing and flat work, as the work is usually done in lead), Plastering, Joinery and Finishing. The method of teaching is to first explain construction on a building, with examples before the students of the points under consideration, and then to set papers to find out how much they have learned as a guide to further lectures. Drawing goes on concurrently with lectures, and there is a blackboard upon which the students are encouraged to study details full size. A case of models comes into use in the last term when joinery and other finish is under consideration. By that time the drawing has reached the stage of application, still however only by means of copying drawings. Drawings of a cottage are supplied for study and imitation; large an(l small scale drawings and full sizes are drawn, traced, printed and colored, and specifications are written, exactly as would be required in an office. The year's work in the study of Construction thus brings the students into touch with actual draughtsman's work.

On the side of History there is outside work to be done both on buildings and, for the earlier stages especially, in museums; but drawings play the principal part. Beginning with the Orders, the students proceed, during the first term, to the study of a large Roman plan, exemplified by the Baths of Caracalla, photographs of which in its existing state and a drawing of its conjectoral restoration hang on the walls to help them to realize the building. Roman basilicas wooden roofed and vaulted conclude the first term's work and prepare for the second which is occupied with vaulted buildings—a plan section and elevation of a Byzantine and a Romanesque church and a couple of bays of an early-French vaulted refectory. In the third term the students work through the more elaborate Gothic vaulting to the Renaissance, which they study in English examples. Lectures in the meantime go on, keeping pace in subject with the period of the drawing in hand, and the object of the lectures is not so much to carry on the same line of instruction as is given by drawings as to give an account of the history of the period and cast light on the manners and conditions of life which gave rise to the style of building under consideration at the moment on the drawing boards.

During the first year there is also given some instruction in measuring old work, and the Easter vacation of a month is supposed to produce a study of this kind ; for which opportunities of such work with prizes and rewards offered later in the students' career as members of the Association, give sufficient inducement.

At the end of this year's work a student should he fairly qualified, in point of both construction and de

