<doctype type="text">200	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" AFFAIRS IN TORONTO." author="">AFFAIRS IN TORONTO.

THE site of the new building for the Toronto Public Library is not settled. As far as users are concerned, there seems to be good arguments for both down-town and up-town sites but the balance is in favour of an up-town site for the permanent and valuable part of the library, which will be used by students, and a lending branch in the city. The site chosen is the Perkins estate on College street, where the building will he in close association with the university group and on a thoroughfare which, from this association and from other accidents in its course, has more possibilities for the creation of beauty than is usual in the streets of Toronto. It is impossible, however, from the point of view of advantage to the neighbourhood in which the building is placed, not to regret the loss of an occasion given, if the site adjacent to the City Hall had been found desirable, to make the proposition include the whole block of land between the City Hall and Osgoode Hall. The argument would have been that, if we house valuable books and unique documents in the middle of a great-risk fire district, the building that contains them should he isolated the result would have been the redemption of that part of Queen Street.



T

HE air of Toronto is heavy with building projects. The Union station is an actuality. Messrs. Darling & Pearson, E. J. Lennox and A. H. Chapman, (the latter associated, for this purpose, with Messrs. Sproatt & Rolph) are understood to be retained as competitors for the new building, if they are not as yet actually engaged upon it. Its erection will mean the transformation of Front street between Yonge and York streets.



T

HE EXHIBITION BOARD will soon be applying for a grant from the city. They are talking of new buildings. There was also

some mention of a plan of the grounds, but not in the same breath ; not at any rate with the same amount of breath. If, however, their rerequest for a grant is to be supported by anything definite, it should include a definite plan of the grounds. The success of the Exhibition appears to be such as to justify the City Council in taking a hand in its extension and improvement, but, though the money given is given for building, the value of the buildings, as a means of making the Fair attractive, depends so much upon their disposition upon the grounds that it is a plan of the grounds that chiefly concerns the custodians of the public purse.



T

HE UNIVERSITY is about to begin the Convocation Hall, for which plans have been prepared for some time, and the Ontario Government will expend, on a new building for the department of Physics, the $180,000 received from the Grand Trunk Railway as the purchase price for the old Parliament Buildings on Front street. It is understood that the position of this building in relation to the other University buildings has already been considered. If it is anywhere within grouping distance of the main building, it is to be hoped that it will fulfil the obligation—difficult, but possible—of harmony without imitation. The great want in the University set of buildings is of a plain type that

will harmonize with the ornate main building This has been done at Columbia. The scientific buildings are machine shops and the library is a monument, but they harmonize.



A

 UNIVERSITY RESIDENCE is being talked of. Mr. E. C. Whitney, of Ottawa, has given, to the trustees of the University, $15,000 to be the nucleus of such a residence. A good deal more will have to be got before anything can be done, but the sum ultimately aimed at need not all be got at once. A good suggestion was made, in the newspaper account of the presentation of the gift, that the proposed residence should be a composition of units which could be built separately ; the whole when completed enclosing a quadrangle. Each house would hold fifty or sixty men who would be under the general direction of a member of the faculty in charge of the house. University men are, like other men, but children of a larger growth, and the growth is not only less large but comes upon them rather suddenly, when they leave the restraints of school for a freedom such as they never had before, nor indeed, it may be said, are likely ever to have again. Personal influence of the right kind is even more important than rule in making the most of the double opportunity— the opportunity for studious seclusion, and, at the same time, for constant association with equal minds— which makes the charm and is the advantage of college residence life. And this influence is most effective where the field is not too large. Houses for 50 or6o making the sides of a common central space, quadrangular or otherwise, would make an excellent system of formation for a residence or a series of residences at the University. It can be built, a unit at a time, as funds come in. If the University had succeeded in selling its land to the north of Hoskin avenue it might now have the funds for such a residence but it would not have the land. Now, in consequence of that fortunate failure, it has the land and, as the province is on the bound, there may be, now or soon, other people who have the funds.



T

 HE HOUSING QUESTION has, with the approach of winter, become more acutely



felt to be a serious matter. Inconvenience is felt by all classes, but the poor are



suffering. It is an expensive matter for a whole family to board. Poor people must have a domicile of some kind, and the shifts they have been put to are sometimes startling. Homes are made in stables, sheds, old street cars, tar-paper shacks, etc.

all duly visited by a local reporter with the freedom of a friend of the family ; and the willingness shown, by those he visited, to talk about their affairs is a symptom of the strain they are feeling. The occasion has roused Mr. Goldwin Smith to try to organize joint-stock company to build workmen's houses and rent them on the basis of a fair profit for the capital invested. This is a large-minded and truly philanthropic scheme. To apply money where the public good requires it, and, while asking for a fair profit, to ask for nothing more, is a conception of the use of capital, which, if it obtained generally, would bring about happiness on the earth without failure and without delay. It is to be hoped that this scheme will work without failure, and also—as the need for it is pressing—without delay.

