<doctype type="text">74	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

	<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

" author="Archibald, John S.">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

Address by John S. Archibald 1st Vice President.

There comes a time in the life's journey of everyone, when it is advisable and advantageous to stop and calmly survey the road recently travelled. Such contemplation may not always he pleasing for the reason that no matter what the results may have been we feel convinced that if we had to travel the same ground over again we could improve on the past and the results would be more satisfactory. Faults become apparent in the perspective of time, lost opportunities stand out strongly in vivid contrast to the background of which little has been accomplished and results which called forth extraordinary effort, seem, in the blue haze of he distance, to become pigny and insignificant. Such are usually the first thoughts which strike us. Yet when these depressing mists have been brushed aside, we begin to see and realize die steep hills successfully travelled, the may milestones passed, and here and there, the seeds sown on the journey springing up and bearing fruit according to the quality of the seed placed in the hands of the sower. And so it is with the life of our Association. We are now entering upon the 14th year of its existence, and front the point of view of time and circumstances, I consider it advantageous to glance over our past history with a view to finding out if any work whatever has been accomplished, what that work may be, if the results obtained can be considered satisfactory and on what lines must the work continue.

The Association was brought into being on the 30th December in the year 1890, when, at that time, the Act of Incorporation was assented to by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.

I have very little to say regarding the first period of the Association life, viz., from the date of its inception up to the year 1898. At the same time, we cannot he too loud in our praise of those members of our profession who recognizing their duty to the public interests, comprehending the immense responsibility placed upon the shoulders of the followers of our profession in the Province of Quebec, and being alive to t lie possibility and advisability of advancing the art of Architecture by united efforts along recognized lines, bent all their efforts 10 obtain the original charter. These members have every right to congratulate themselves on being the pioneers of compulsory registration of architects on the Continent of America. At this late date it is difficult to realize the mighty obstacles and prejudices that had to be overcome, and when we to-day discuss this phase of the question, we are apt to forget t lie labour and toil which terminated in such a successful issue. Their example has been followed by the State of Illinois, and many attempts have been made to have a similar law enacted for the Province of Ontario, and I am strongly of the opinion that some of us will live to see the day, when the work begun in the Province of Quebec, will branch out and bear fruit from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and we shall have the practice of the profession recognized in law as of such importance as to merit the attention of the Legislative bodies and result in the passing of enactments similar to those under which we now govern.



It is true, that up to 1898, the work of toe Association was limited in extent, but this I consider was a necessary probationary period, wherein its limited membership became alive to the scope of its usefulness, its possibilities and even its drawbacks and even at this time it began to prove its usefulness to those of the

profession who were not included in its membership, for it was often used as a shield behind which they were pleased to protect themselves. In the public eye it justified its right to exist by demonstrating on every possible occasion that it existed primarily for the protection of the public and for the fostering of art. It is not surprising therefore that when amendments to the ('barter were desired in 1898, all parties recognized the right of such an Association to exist, and as a result, little or 110 opposition was met with.

From this period, the scope and usefulness of the Association is now enhanced and the horizon has extended.

It is on the work of this second period that I desire to dwell for a few minutes, tint with a view to bolstering up a case for congratulation, but with the objects stated in the introductory remarks.



The first step that was necessary after tile charter had been amended, was to perfect the organization. To the Association this was imperative, in order that full benefit could be taken of its provisions. The machinery put into the hands of the Association was complicated and required the most careful study



*Delivered before the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, March 15th, 1904.

and investigation. It was necessary that the members of the Council at that time make themselves thoroughly familiar with all its different parts, to examine its mechanism in every respect, and where possible to test it under action. This all took time, and those of you who have been members of Council during the last five and a half years, will remember the difficulties and tribulations which we had to undergo. In some respects the provisions of the Charter turned out satisfactory, but in other respects it is found to be entirely inadequate. In spite of the careful consideration that was given to its compilation, errors have been noted, omissions discovered, and in some cases what can be called by no other word than "carelessness."

In the 8th annual report, presented to the members in 1898, we read "The arduous task of the material organization is now nearly completed and the Association can congratulate itself on having secured an authority much coveted by many similar Associations and from other points of view, much more influential than ours. Not only the interests of the profession lint more especially those of the public, are now protected against incompetent and doubtful practice." According to this everything appeared rosy and hopeful, but under the experience of the past five and a half years, we are forced to the conclusion that there is great room for improvement in our charter. The protection of the public, spoken of, amounts to nothing, for no that for how incompetent a man may be to practice the profession of Architecture, our charter has got no authority over him unless he designates himself "Architect." The usefulness of this designation becomes apparent when we realize the fact that buildings are going tip around us every day from plans drawn by persons other than those of the profession, and yet we cannot even step in arid say "nay. Even when someone does transgress the law, we are met with the difficulty that no provision has been made in our charter for naming the court in which the case ought to he tried and we are therefore open to the danger that, under certain circumstances, the Association might be muleted in heavy damages when prosecuting. Even in the case where members, after belonging to the Association, have fallen into arrears, we find that under our charter we cannot site them for such art ears. The time has therefore come when we should look the matter boldly in the face with a view to amending cur charter along the lines of greater possibilities. There should be no difficulty in having our charter amended, that the practice of the profession would he protected instead of the mere name of "Architect' and thus make it impossible for any individual to undertake architectural work unless having undergone architectural training Oil the lines laid down in our charter.

During this period, the by-laws governing our Association have been amended in many respects. This arose from a closer acquaintanceship with the work, arid the by-laws governing the examinations have received much attention. This question of the examinations has at all times been a difficult one to contend with, but under the new by—laws, it is anticipated that all, or nearly all the difficulties will be removed amid the work of the Examining Board made much simpler.

SECOND —Duty TO THE PUBLIC.—The Association has at all times recognized their duty to the public and much good work has been done in this respect. We see evidence every day of the public becoming educated to a higher standard and appreciation of art and for this no small need of praise is due our Association, for they have, by means of lectures, exhibitions, and the mere fact of the existence of such an Association, exercised a leavening effect on the public mind. In our city, the building laws were drafted by the Association, and by steady, persistent effort, have passed into law. It is undoubtedly true, that there is great room for improvement in these by-laws, yet we have established the principle and precedent that we, as a body, have a right to be heard and our views receive every consideration.



The Association should at all times keep an eye over the regulations governing the erection of buildings in the city, to protest against any tinkering that might result in depreciating their valve, and at all times seize the opportunity to have them amended and improved in the public interests.



That we as a body have been considered worthy of attention is evidenced in the action which crowned our efforts in the appoint-merit of an Architect to the Building Inspectorship of this city, and this department of the city work has graciously received any suggestions from the Association, made in the interests of our profession or the public.



It is more directly in the public interest that legal proceedings were taken against those persons who violated our charter.

