<doctype type="text">72	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



age, for which he was responsible, which more than offset any commission due him. Scott answered that lie had faithfully followed thc plans of Mr. Wills, tile architect, who had first been engaged for the building, and that he was not liable for defects in Mr. Wills' plans. This pretension was overruled and the Courts laid down the principle that an architect was liable even where he only followed plans of another architect handed him by his employers.



The architect is liable along with thc builder for errors committed by the latter, because he is held to see that a work well conceived by him is well executed by the builder—this doctrine was illustrated in a case of McDonald vs. David, 14 L. C. R, 31. In this case the floor of a building on St. James street had sunk in consequence of the insufficiency of the timbers used to support the joists. It was there held that the architects, as well as the carpenters and joiners employed in the erection of the building, were jointly and severally liable for the damages incurred.

It was held in a case of Cowen vs. Evans that where a contractor undertake certain works for the proprietor of a building for a certain price, independently of the other contractors, and not having the general direction of the works, lie is not liable for the faults of the other contractors. In this ease Cowen put a brick wall on the stone foundation of another contractor after his wall was up some way, he found defects in the foundation, pulled down his wall, and sued for annulment of the contract, lie was answered that lie had accepted the foundation and was responsible for it. This flea was dismissed, the Court rendering judgment in the sense just quoted. The architect must also warrant that lie has not violated any of the municipal regulations or any of the laws of neighborhood. Thus, if a mitoyen wall be pierced without the neighbor's consent, or if a chimney hearth be placed directly over beams of wood, or if a well be dug near a neighbor's wall without any counter wall being provided for, in all this class of cases tile proprietor could recover not only the damage to Ins own building but whatever lie may have been compelled to pay his neighbor for damage done to him. The architect must build so as to leave no room for any complaint on the part of the neighbors. This guarantee must be distinguished from the guarantee of solidity on the part of the architect, Iron which lie is relieved after ten years. Under Article 1053 of our Civil Code, everyone is liable for his own fault which causes damage to another. Prescription, therefore, of this action will only begin to run against the owner from the moment when lie had knowledge of it and would riot he acquired in favor of the architect for 30 years from that date.

This, at least, is the opinion of the majority of thc authors, though Duvergier, Troplong, Fremy-Ligneville and Perriquet consider that it is prescribed in tell years— and is in tile same position in that respect as tile guarantee with respect to solidity. This, however, is hardly a question of practical utility. It will be time enough for you to discuss it, when you are actually troubled with

it.	If a fire were caused through a beam, placed underneath a hearth, becoming ignited, the action against the architect would lie from the moment of the fire whenever it occurred, and would only prescribe by thirty years. The guarantee of solidity, on th

e other hand, only lasts for ten years, because the law has fixed this as an arbitrary period after which thc building will he designed to have fallen through some other cause than a defect in construction. The practical effect of this is, that a defect which doesn't threaten the ruin of the building for ten years is no defect at all. Even should the whole edifice crumble to the earth in its eleventh year, yet would there be no liability on the architect's part, if no fraud is alleged against him. Not only is there a presumption that the building was properly constructed there is more, there is aim actual bar to any action on the part of the proprietor, who will not he admitted to prove, even out of the mouth of tile architect himself, that there was any defect in construction. Questions of guarantee, however, are of no importance the moment fraud is alleged. Everyone is

liable for his fraud. If, for example, you have purported to build a stone wall three feet thick, but have in reality filled in the centre with rubbish and have merely put on a stone lacing, you could not possibly hope to be discharged iii any other way than by thirty years without action oil the part of the owner from the date of the discovery of the fraud.

We have seen that the architect under the law is liable for every derogation from the principles of his art and for every infraction of the rules and laws which, as a professional man, lie ought to know. Can lie, by contract with the' proprietor, rid himself of this weighty burden of responsibility? What if, when lie has pointed out to the proprietor the defects in the soil or in tile material or in the plans furnished him, the proprietor insists on his proceeding and contracts to relieve him from the guarantee imposed upon him by law. What then is his position ? A glance at the principle in virtue of which this responsibility is placed upon the architect will give us the answer. Public order and safety are concerned, and private individuals cannot by contract derogate from that which concerns public order. The architect is not relieved in such a case and his duty to himself and the public is to refuse to proceed with the work. It, of course, goes without saying that lie is not responsible towards time proprietor who has so released him, but he would be towards third persons damaged in any way by the ruin of the building.

It is of ten important to establish the exact day from which this guarantee will begin to run, and this will be from the date when the work was received. It will always be safer to have this fact fixed by a writing. All doubt upon this point will then be removed and the interest of both proprietor and architect better served. The question of prescription of this action has sonic theoretic interest, but is not of practical importance for the moment. It is contended on the one hand that time arbitrary term of ten years puts an end to any action against the proprietor even though the building have fallen down within the ten years. in other words, the owner must use the architect before the ten years have expired. On the other hand it is argued that the fall of the building within ten years only gives rise to a right of action, which right will only be prescribed by thirty years, and this latter view seems to me the more sound of the two. The question of burden of proof with respect to this guarantee is a most interesting and important one. Does article 1688, when it says that the architect and the builder are jointly and severally liable for the loss, if the building perish within ten years from a defect in construction or from the unfavorable nature of the ground, mean that they will he held guilty until they prove themselves innocent, or does it simply bind them for ten years, when without that article they would have been discharged by the reception of the work? It can readily be seen how vitally this question interests the architect. Who must prove his case—the plaintiff who demands damages or the architect, who says "I am hot responsible?"

At common law tile reception of time work would discharge thc workman. The proprietor has had an opportunity to examine it; has examined it and has received and paid for it, and the workman's responsibility ceases. But in this case Article 1688 specially derogates from this principle and says "architects and builders must guarantee their work for ten years." The French authors are very much divided upon this question. Trophong, Duvergier, Guillouard and Laurent argue that fault is not presumed and that all Article 1688 intended was to carry the architect outside the common law which would have liberated him from the moment his work had been received by the



proprietor. These are onerous sections and must bc interpreted strictly and the very fact oh thc reception of the work creates a presumption that it was well done. The article does not say that they are presumed to he in fault, it simply says that if time defect exist, they are liable for

it.	They argue, therefore, that the proprietor, plaintiff, in responsibility, must prove the fault which he alleges.



0mm time other hand, Marcade, Fremy - Ligneville, Aubry and others consider that until the architect

