<doctype type="textad">x.	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" PLASTER AND STONE " author="">PLASTER AND STONE.



Mr. Guy Dawber, in an address in England, said that he would go so far as to say that plaster work outside houses might be introduced into towns and cities. It was only in the last hundred years that the art of plastering had become degraded to its present level—so much so, that when they mentioned plaster and stucco to people they were met with contempt. In Austria there were towns in which all the houses were done in painted and colored plaster, and the effect was most charming. The difference between that work and our work of the last hundred years was that in Austria plaster had been treated as a plastic material, whereas we endeavored to treat it to look like stone, which rightly enough brought it into contempt with both architects and the public.



<article title=" DANGEROUS CORNICES " author="">DANGEROUS CORNICES.



The Building Act Committee of the London County Council, reporting on the fall of the parapet and cornice of the main portion of premises in Westbourne Grove, Kensington, which killed one person and injured several others, says An examination of the remaining portion of the parapet showed that the accident was due to defective construction of the brickwork, the pressure of the wind and the weight of the projecting cornice. The brickwork of the parapets of the adjoining houses were also found to be decayed and cracked and bulging outwards. In view of the serious nature of this accident and of others that have occurred, we thought it desirable to send a circular letter to district surveyors calling their attention to the necessity of the cornices, coping and parapets of buildings being

kept under careful observation. We are of opinion that a useful purpose would be served by public attention being drawn to the danger caused by defective cornices, parapets and copings, and to the fact that these portions of the buildings are, on account of their exposed positon, more liable than other portions to be injuriously affected by the weather, and consequently should be more frequently inspected and repaired. We have accordingly asked the Metropolitan Borough Councils to give publicity to the action taken by us in the matter."



<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES

" author="">BUSINESS NOTES



The business of the Jarvis Concrete Co., of Toronto, has been purchased by Mr. John E. Webb and Mr. G. Elliott, contractors.



The Roman Stone Co., Ltd., Marlboro Avenue, Toronto manufacturers of plain and ornamental stones of all kinds, window and door sills, lintels, columns, etc., had an interesting exhibit at the Canadian National Exhibition, Toronto.



The O'Keefe Mantel & Tile Co., 97 Yonge St., Toronto, with Mr. L. E. Thomas, purchased the interest in this line of goods from the Chas. Rogers & Sons, Co., Ltd., some nine months ago and have continued the business in the same show rooms, 97 Yonge St. They devote all their energies to this particular branch and manufacture mantels from their own and architects designs from the simplest to the most elaborate form. Mr. O' Keefe has followed this line during his business career of 30 years, 20 of which he was in the British Isles, and for the past 10 years manager of the Chas. Rogers & Sons, Co., Ltd. In their show rooms are always to be found the latest productions in grates and fire place fittings, also floor and wall tiles.





The oldest building in the world that has been uninterruptedly used for church purposes is St. Martins cathedral at Canterbury. The building was originally erected for a church, and has been regularly used as a place for religious gatherings for more than 1,500 years.

The Gilmour Door Company, Limited Trenton Ontario Veneered Hardwood Doors