<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	95



<article title=" MONTREAL LETTER " author="">MONTREAL LETTER..



No. II.



The remarks of ''Gargoyle'' in the last issue called forth in certain quarters some indignation as if it had been the intention to cast a slur on the fair name of Montreal, on account of practices in architectural matters in which the men who build in these parts fail to set their faces ''straight to the instant need of things'' or have at least so far failed to find adequate and satisfactory solutions in the case of some of the most pressing demands of the



climate—perhaps partly for the very reason hat the optimistic Canadian will persist in thinking that the rigours of his climate are entirely overestimated by the rest of the world and can really be met in any old way. These off-hand ways of meeting difficulties, though they may serve their utilitarian purpose for a while,

are little likely to be satisfying as a matter of art, least of all in architecture which demands before all things evidence of skillful forethought and t lie suggestion of permanence. Bacon's idea of art as the "adaption of the shows of things to he desires of the mind'' is the golden rule that must inspire what ever of the handiwork of man is to find any lasting favor or good repute.



Though Montreal may not he a sinner above all of the cities in these matters, yet the instances quoted by "GARGOYLE" show that here as elsewhere we are far from any finality in the problem of meeting the case. To get our window sashes and other simple essentials efficient and at the same time satisfying to the eye is to have laid well he foundation of our architectural design. With out t his the framework of our buildings may ascend to heaven but t heir souls will still cleave to the dust.



Some of the humbler old Montreal buildings referred to last month as exhibiting the satisfactory result of perfectly simple and at the same time perfectly unselfconscious methods of providing desirable accommodation and comfortable protection against climate are illustrated by sketches this month. They exhibit the common sense of a tradition inherited front intelligent workmen, wanting their buildings to he strong from t lie pleasure all men take in strength and to he comfortable because comfort was an idea hat appealed to their own minds and they took a natural delight in finding themselves contributing to lie sum of human happiness. At the opposite pole from these old homes stand the inanities which have been obviously considered by their builders as machines for turning coin into other men's pockets.



Amongst Montreal's old buildings however are to he found some of a more imposing air and of a public character, which whilst standing distinguished from their private and less assuming neighbors, still wear without affectation the mantle of directly inherited tradition. There is the Inland Revenue Building facing the river and there is a row of buildings in Notre Dame Street almost opposite the head of St. Lambert Hill which is quant and pleasant. The building near the east end of St. James Street occupied by the Credit Foncier as more than a reminiscence of Adam's work. The Government Offices in St. Gabriel Street

The Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville Ontario Steel Buildings Roof Trusses 

The Canadian Office and School Furniture Company limited Preston Ontario

The Hanover Portland Cement company limited Hanover Ontario manufacturers of Saugeen brand of Portland cement 

Richter manufacturing company Tenafly New Jersey Tapestrolea burlaps and canvases 

T.A. Morrison & company Montreal Pressed bricks

Canadian Contractors' Hand-book and estimator Toronto The C.H. Mortimer  Publishing company

