<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	165



<article title=" VENTILATION " author="Bennett, Robert">VENTILATION.

By ROBT. BENNETT.



Ventilation is a term applied to the method by which a due supply of fresh air is maintained in buildings and other confined places.

The word was invented about 200 years ago by Dr. Desaguliers, a well known scientific man of that time, who devoted a great deal of time and money and skill towards improving the sanitary conditions of buildings, which at that time were considered very bad. He invented a " fanning wheel," or, in other words, an "air propellor," which was worked by manual power, and the man who worked it was called the "ventilator." The word has since been divorced from its original meaning and is now used to signify an opening in a building through which air may, or may not, pass, according to circumstances.

Everybody knows that a supply of fresh air is necessary for all living things, even for plants and vegetation. To cover the head with a cloth for a short time produces a sense of oppression, and on its removal a feeling of relief is experienced. The heat of the person's breath causes oppression. People often say of a crowded building "it is too hot," whereas the discomfort is caused chiefly from the impurity of the atmosphere.

Many diseases are produced by the impurities in the air. Continued breathing of impure air lowers the tone of health. Consumption and scrofula are attributable to vitiated air. The instance of the confinement of 140 Englishmen in the Black Hole of Calcutta in the year 1756 is illustrative of the fatal effects of breathing foul air. After 10 o hours of imprisonment therein only 23 persons were found alive. Fresh air is essential as the purifier of disease and also for resisting diseases. The use of gas adds greatly to the impurity of air. The poisonous effect of gas combustion has been the cause of many deaths.

The subject of ventilation is being sadly neglected. Churches, houses, schools and public buildings are being built without proper regard to necessary ventilation. Those responsible for the building of churches and other places of worship seem to he the worst offenders in this respect. For instance, a church is planned and submitted to, and passed by a fixed authority—it is difficult then to introduce changes. The usual form of church building, copying more or less the beautiful architecture of the 13th or 14th cen tunes is by no means an ideal form from a sanitary point of view, whatever it may be in other respects. It is generally built in the form of a nave and side aisles, lighted by clerestory windows, giving practically (including the chancel) four ceiling-s of different height, making it most difficult to extract the air at the level of the roof. The clerestory windows chill the warm air as it rises, and send it down in the form of a cold draught on to the heads of the congregation. The roof is lofty and dark, necessitating a large amount of light, and as a rule about twice as much gas is burned as is necessary. Nonconformist places of worship are even worse on account of the frequency of galleries and consequent crowding.

How often do we see the windows of a church opened when one or two of the congregation have fainted from the stuffy atmosphere of the buildings. Only recently in a west end church of the city of Toronto I was an eye witness to that sort of thing

the service had only just commenced and everyone apparently felt the discomfort of the badly ventilated place—when two ladies fainted and were taken into the vestry by the wardens—then the windows were opened to admit fresh air. The fresh air came in with a mighty rush which caused a great number of the worshippers to look askance and to draw their garments closer around them, in fact I noticed two gentlemen turn up their coat collars during the prayers ; needless to say the service was not so enjoyable in consequence. We often catch severe colds coming out from churches, concert rooms, public buildings, theatres, etc., from that very cause.

Dwelling houses, too, suffer from lack of proper ventilation. It has often been remarked that we are apt to prize but lightly what we possess in abundance, and it is a fact that cannot he denied that the two most important foods on which human life depends, viz., pure air and pure water, are by the great majority of us least esteemed. These two foods, more especially the former, are so abundant that we need pay very little attention to obtain them. We should recognize the importance then of supplying every building and habitual dwelling with proper ventilation. In thousands of houses in our great cities the most elementary principles of ventilation are systematically ignored.

People who would take the greatest care not to drink polluted water, are yet careless of breathing impure air and seem to forget that one may be quite as dangerous as the other—personally I am of opinion that impure air is really more dangerous than impure water, since the air is taken directly into the lungs and comes in contact with the blood more speedily than water which enters the stomach. I do not propose to write with medical authority at all, but simply from a little observation of my own. I believe that ventilation is an exact science, admitting of exact results, and if everybody could be induced to believe the fact that bad air was detrimental to health ; if the fact of a room being close or stuffy was regarded as disgraceful ; if people refused to attend a badly ventilated place of worship ; then the architects, the builders and the occupiers would soon find means to alter the existing state of things.





FERRO CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION.



A lighthouse of ferro-concrete has just been constructed at Nicolaieff, near Odessa. The height is 131 ft., the diameter at the base 28 ft. and that at the top of the shaft 6ft. 7ins. The service-room which is 14ft. 3ins. in diameter, is corbelled out, and thus overhangs



3 ft. 10 ins, on each side of the tower. For purposes of design the tower was considered as a tube firmly fixed at one end and acted upon by a distributed pressure, due to wind, 56.4 lbs. per. sq. ft. The foundation is sunk only 8 ft. 3 in. below the surface of the ground. The skeleton consists generally of upright rods and of circular rings, the surrounding concrete being mixed in the proportion of 660 lbs. of Portland cement,  cu. yd. of ballast and half' a cubic yard of sharp sand. In order to ensure that the concrete takes a firm hold of the framework the latter is brushed over with grout prior to the concrete being run in. It is claimed that a saving of 40 per cent. is effected by the use of the ferroconcrete. The weight of the building is given as 453 tons, of which 342 tons only represent the weight of the ferro-concrete, whereas the weight of such a lighthouse put up in the ordinary way would be 1,343 tons.

