<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	89



ornament, colouring, or in any other way, as is the case with so many modern buildings in which all enrichment is spread, profusely or sparsely as funds allow, equally over the whole facade."

He deplored the loss of power to rightly value plain surfaces, and showed by means of the lantern how much of the beauty of the work of the past resulted from due appreciation of these.



<article title=" THE LIGHTING OF A HOUSE AND ITS EFFECT

UPON THE DECORATIONS " author="">THE LIGHTING OF A HOUSE AND ITS EFFECT

UPON THE DECORATIONS.



A good part of the usefulness of a house comes at night ; it is then that we most generally throw open our house, so the problem of artificial lighting becomes a very important one. Many houses are ruined by bad lights. You can furnish a room ever so elaborately and make it seem quite bare by having a blaze of lights in the wrong place ; you can seat your guest ever so comfortably, and make his visit a torture by having a glare directly in his eyes ; and you can furnish your room ever so cooly for summer, and then heat it to the boiling point by ill—advised attempts to illuminate.

Fortunately, as it happens, one simple rule rigidly adhered to will bring you safely out of any difficulty.

The light should never shine directly in anyone's eyes. There is, perhaps, only one exception to this rule. At one's dressing table the lights are rightly left bare, for that is the place where one wants to see quite plainly, and where anything cutting off the light would be a hindrance.

Comfort absolutely demands the shaded light, and so does decorative beauty. A mild, soft light is always to be preferred to a glaring white light ; and the shades of the lights are really the easiest way of successfully introducing colour into your scheme of decoration. It is possible to have various colours, but perhaps the best effect is obtained by having all the lights in a room the same colour. A drawing room with all the lights in pink may be made a delightful spot in which women look their best. Red and yellow are good colours, and increase the rich and mellow look of the room in which they are used. A library papered in green, with white woodwork, looks peculiarly restful and studious, with the somewhat old-fashioned whitelined green shades on the reading lamps.

Blue and most greens are to be avoided as giving the room and the people in it a ghastly look. The whole effect of a room can he changed by the colour which lights it.

As to the decorative difference between high and low lighting, anyone who has ever lived in a sparsely furnished room can bear witness. Light a ring of gas jets up near the ceiling, and the whole room looks barren. The ceiling itself becomes the most prominent feature of the room, and its bare expanse dominates the whole apartment. Put your lights down a little lower, and let the lights fall on your rugs and what furniture you have; let a slight dimness in the farthest corners distract too much attention from them, and you will find the room which was formerly barren will take on a comfortable, snug look.

The same rule applies to rooms which are furnished to their fullest capacity; the ceiling is not the feature to be emphasized, and high and unprotected lights are sure to bring about this result. Of course, to this rule there are exceptions. For example, suppose you

are wanting to light a ballroom, the ceiling of which is so high that lights up there are safely out of the range of the eyes. The effect of spaciousness is what you want; the room is to be filled with people, and a clear general view must he possible. In such a case the hard brilliancy of uncovered lights is exactly what is needed.



And for those who can employ electricity there is also a possible lighting from the ceiling. A very successfully lit dining-room in New York has a rich coffered ceiling, In the squares between the cross-beams have been placed four flattened hemispheres of pinkish opalescent glass. Behind these and next the ceiling are electric lights, which diffuse a soft pinkish light all through the room. They are not called upon to do all the illuminating, for around the side walls incandescent lights with pink shades and on the tables candles, similarly protected, furnish light. The effect of the lights on the ceiling is very good. The ceiling itself is rich enough to stand illumination, and high enough to bring the lights out of the immediate range of the eye. But the scheme is rather elaborate, and for the simpler type of house out of the question.



There is very little to be said for the ordinary chandelier, depending from the ceiling's centre. In a hall, where it usually assumes the form of a hanging lantern, it is perhaps at its best. In other rooms it had best he removed. If this cannot be done, at least light all jets and turn them very low, rather than have a flaring jet at one side, while the rest of the chandelier is in hideous uselessness.



<article title=" ARCHITECTS' FEES " author="">ARCHITECTS' FEES.

The American Institute of Architects has lately revised its schedule of minimum fees for professional practice. These are now substantially as follows

For preliminary studies, working drawings, specifications, large scale and full size details, and the general supervision of the work, the minimum charge is 5 per cent. on the cost of the work. By supervision is meant such inspection by himself or his deputy of work in studios, shops and on the building site, as he finds necessary to ascertain whether his drawings, specifications and directions are being carried out. If the constant presence of a superintendent is necessary, the owner is to pay the cost. For new buildings costing less than $l0,000, and for furniture, monuments, decorations and cabinet work the charge is to be 10 per cent. "None of these charges covers alterations and additions to contracts, drawings and specifications nor professional or legal services incidental to negotiations for site, disputed party walls, right of light, measurement of work or failure of contractors ; when such services become necessary, they shall be charged for according to the time and trouble involved." When heating, ventilating, mechanical, electrical and sanitary problems in a building are of such a nature as to require the assistance of a specialist, the owner is to pay for such assistance. The tees are to he paid in the following order On completion of the preliminary sketches, one-fifth of the entire amount ; on completion of working drawings and specifications, two-thirds the remaining two—thirds from time to time.



Only those who have laid a sidewalk can realize the vast difference between work in the abstract and work in the concrete



—Princeton Tiger.

