<doctype type="text">84	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



what he says "is agreed on all hands", that a man does not lose or restrict his right to light by not using the full measure of light that the law permits, asks :—''If the actual user is not the test where the use falls below the standard of what may reasonably be required for the ordinary uses of inhabitancy and business, why (it may he asked) should it he made a test where the use has been of a special or extraordinary character in excess of that standard." And he concludes that the only test of right is a fair standard which, under the titie of a ''supposed standard," is more than once alluded to in these judgments as having been objected o in a former case by one of the judges of the Court of Appeal whose decision in this case these judgements reverse. Lord Davey's final statement seems to be definite enough :—' 'I am of opinion," he sums up, ''that the owner or occupier of the dominant tenement is entitled to the uninterrupted access through his ancient windows of a quantity of light, the measure of which is what is required for the ordinary purposes of inhabitancy or business of the tenement according to the ordinary notions of mankind, and that the question for what purpose he has thought fit to use that light, or the mode in which he finds it convenient to arrange the internal structure of his tenement does not affect the question. The actual user will neither increase nor diminish the right. The single question in these cases is still what it was in the days of Lord Hardwicke and Lord Eldon (whose decisions were given before the Prescription Act), ''whether the obstruction complained of is a nuisance. I do not myself think that this rule is difficult of application in practice." In support of this latter statement which, as applicable everywhere, may perhaps be thought a strong one, his lordship adds :—"The experience of surveyors who are practically conversant with this matter is entitled to great respect ;" and also :—"The rule of 45 degrees is not, of course, a rule of law, and is not applicable in every case. But I agree with Lord Selbourne, 'City of London Brewery Company v. Tennant,' that it may properly be used as PRIMA FACIE evidence."

W.	A. LANGTON.





<article title=" MOISTURE IN WOOD " author="">MOISTURE IN WOOD.

According to M. Deploy, green wood when cut down contains about 45 per cent. of its weight of moisture. In the forests of Central Europe wood cut down in the winter holds at the end of the following summer more than 40 per cent. of water. Wood kept for several years in a dry place retains from 15 to 20 per cent. of water. Wood that has been thoroughly desiccated will, when exposed to air under ordinary circumstances, absorb 5 per cent. of water in the first three days, and will continue to absorb it until it reaches from 14 to 6 per cent. as a normal standard. The amount fluctuates above and below this standard, according to the state of the atmosphere. M. Volette found that by exposing green wood to a temperature of 212 deg. Fahr. it lost 45 per cent. of its weight, which accords with observations of M. Deploy. lie further found that by exposing small prisms of wood ½ in. square and 8 in. long cut out of billets that had been stored for two years to the action of superheated steam for two hours, they lost from 15 to 45 per cent. of their weight, according to the temperature of tile steam which varied from 275 deg. Fahr to 437 deg. Fahr. (125 deg. Centigrade to 225 deg. Centigrade).

	NEW	BUILDING REGULATIONS FOR

TORONTO.

The City Council of Toronto will shortly take up consideration of a new set of regulations to govern the construction of buildings in that city. Meanwhile at the request of the City Architect, the Council have authorized the following amendments to the existing regulations, in order that the replacing of buildings destroyed by the recent fire may he proceeded with —Section 46 of the said By-law is repealed and the following

inserted	in lieu thereof:



"46. No building shall be erected or placed Oil old or new foundations, or on foundations parity new and partly old, unless the same shall he built with main walls of the thickness called for in the following tables, said walls to also comply with the other conditions as to heights and openings as hereafter specified





WALLS FOR BUILDINGS USED AS A Dwelling HOUSE, APARTMENT HOUSE, TENEMENT HOUSE OR LODGING HOUSE.



























































WALLS FOR BUILDINGS USED AS HOTELS, OFFICE BUILDINGS, WAREHOUSES, FACTORY BUILDINGS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS,























































In the foregoing tables of thicknesses of walls the perpendicular distance from the top of joists in one storey to the corresponding point in the next storey is to be understood to mean not mere than 12 feet in the basement or cellar, 19 feet for the ground floor, 16 feet for the first storey, and 15 feet each for all storeys above the first, except the top storey, which may have an additional five feet in height at the highest point. If airy storey exceeds these respective heights the walls of such storey and all the storeys below the same shall be increased one-half brick, or about four and one-half inches more titan the thickness given in the tables, and if basement or cellar walls exceed twelve feet in height they shall, if built with stone, be increased six inches in thickness, and if of brick four and one-half inches in thickness for every additional ten feet or part thereof, in excess of twelve feet.



All cellar or basement walls built of stone or brick shall be laid in cement mortar. If solid buttresses or iron or steel pillars not over 18 feet between centres, with sufficient strength to

