<doctype type="text">172	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



own incapacity to use them—of the tools that are the guardians of these limitations. ' Rivington's,' that famous tome of building construction, whose pyramidal ascent of facts has to be scaled before youthful architects pass Royal Institute examinations, would lose half its value if it were not for the fact of the isolation of the architect's studio, euphemistically termed his office ; but a half-hour in the workshop would save days of fruitless drudgery over its pages." As he says, every hour in the workshop reveals something, or we may go to our studios and copy realistically ; but, given the knack, it always remains easier to cony realistically than to master the limitations of material. It is true also that ideas may be conceived in solitude, but they are brought to birth by co-operation. By coming together creativeness is engendered by the very magnetic affinities that spring up between men.



Academies and exhibitions the agencies of modern times—have had a blighting influence on practical art by encouraging the sensational and unreal. In the old days, the artists of the Italian, German, and Flemish schools produced handicrafts in abundance. As Mr. Yeames, R.A., said some time ago, referring to the drawbacks to art arising from competitions and exhibitions "Then the artist kept a shop, and priest or noble who wished his church or palace decorated went to his shop, and, if satisfied with his skill and pleased with his designs, commissioned him to decorate a chapel in his church or a portion of his palace. The artist's thought was then to bring his work- whether fresco or carved marble, whether Scriptural subject or fountain with Venus and Tritons well into harmony with the surroundings of the place which it was henceforth to occupy, and to make it express not only his own fancies and views on art, but also the feelings and character of the man who gave him the order." Nothing sensational was attempted ; there was a community of thought between the designer, the patron, and the craftsman. All concerned worked in unison there was a harmony between building and ornament, between sculpture and painting, between furniture and vestments. The point chiefly to notice is that exhibitions encourage and foster the unreal and tricky effects of art and draughtmanship, to the detriment of workmanship, material, and texture. In this manner they discourage the practical side of art work. The only corrective to this unreal quality of design is to look at it from the workshop point of view. Under such a system there would he a living tradition in design and workmanship. To the separation of brains and hands we must attribute the present paralysis of art. No one can be so unreasonable as to suppose that there must he no subdivision of labour: the workshop system assumes such a system where designers and craftsmen can learn each from the other, and where there is a helpful co-operation in the carrying Out of a building or a piece of decoration. Technical schools are doing something to train designers to execute their own designs in at least some materials. --The Building News.





The joint weekly luncheons of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects and of the Toronto Engineers' Club have been resumed. They are held in the rooms of the Societies, 94 King Street West, every Tuesday at one o'clock. A cordial invitation is extended to all engineers and architects to attend.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL CLASSES " author="">ARCHITECTURAL CLASSES.



The Mathematical Classes for architectural students conducted by Mr. A. H. Harkness, B.A., last autumn and winter, were resumed in the rooms of the Ontario Association of Architects, 96 King Street west, Toronto, on the evening of Monday, October 10th. Arrangements are being made for a continuance of the studio classes, hut announcement has not yet been made of the date on which they will be resumed. These classes as heretofore will be conducted under the auspices of the joint committee of The Ontario Association of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club. The usual fee of $5.00 covering tuition in both courses will be charged. An invitation is extended to all architectural students and draughtsmen to join.



<article title=" COLOGNE CATHEDRAL " author="">COLOGNE CATHEDRAL.



The present site of one of the finest specimens of gothic architecture in Europe was formerly occupied by a cathedral commenced by Hildebrand, Metropolitan of Cologne, early in the ninth century. Some years later, in common with other churches on the lower Rhine, it was practically demolished by the Normans, and was rebuilt under Williebert, and after twice escaping destruction by fire in the eleventh and twelfth centuries was burnt down in a great conflagration which occurred in 1248.



Soon afterwards the present cathedral was commenced by Conrad of Hochstaden, the design being attributed to Gerhard von Rile, and by 1322 the choir was completed and consecrated. Subsequently the work preceded but slowly, especially after Conrad's death. At the time of the Reformation the work was suspended, and after passing through various vicissitudes, the repairing of the Cathedral was taken in hand early in the nineteenth century, and the building of such portions necessary for the completion of the whole structure.

The Cathedral is cruciform in plan, and is composed of a nave flanked by double aisles, and transept with single aisles ; the outer aisles terminate at the choir, which is surrounded by numerous chapels. The many richly coloured windows add greatly to the imposing effect of the interior.



<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



Experiments have recently been made in Germany to determine the cohesive power of clay, and, if possible, to increase this power in the natural material. Samples of clay mixed with a two per cent. solution of starch, dextrin and tannic acid were stored for six months side by side with samples mixed only with water. The tensile strength was determined in each case after three week's storage and again at the end of six months. Taking the ordinary tensile strength as one, that of the wet clay was found, after three week's storage, to be 1.35, and after six month's storage to be 1.39, Starch and dextrin did not appreciably increase the tensile strength, but tannic acid gave most satisfactory results, showing the tensile strength during the first three weeks to be 1.75 and at the end of six months 3.22.



Two Canadian patents for fireproof construction have recently been granted. The main feature of one is a network of wires or rods, fastened with hooks to supporting beams, and covered with a reticulated material concrete is then placed on top of the beams, rods and this material, and above that are placed alternate layers of felt paper and insulating material, and the floor is laid on top of them. The other patent consists of a fireproof tower containing ventilating shafts, in connection with a system of water-pipes arranged in the ventilating shafts and within recesses in the floor of the building. Other inventions are a device for removing shingles and a tiled flooring.

