<doctype type="text">88	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" WHAT CONSTITUTES BEAUTY IN

 ARCHITECTURE.*

" author="Paker, Barry">WHAT CONSTITUTES BEAUTY IN

 ARCHITECTURE.*

By BARRY PARKER.



Mr. Barry Parker recently delivered a lecture (in two parts) at the Glasgow Exhibition before the International Association for the Advancement of Science, Ark and Education, under the main title of "Wherein Beauty in Architecture lies, " and the sub-title of "Placing of Light and Shade, Detail, Masses and Ornament.

Mr. Parker said that he had been led to the choice of this subject by a feeling which had grown upon him more arid more, year by year, that those interested in the development of the knowledge and perception of truth in art do, in their attempts to help one another, almost invariably miss what is perhaps most important. Anyone setting out to help others to a knowledge of architecture, whether it be to train students with a view to their practising it as a profession or with the aim of guiding others to some understanding of what they see, always approaches his subject from some point of view other than that of trying to show them some main principles or guiding instincts which have led to beautiful results in all styles and periods, and at all times, throughout the history of the art.

He teaches his pupils building construction ; he teaches them architectural drawing ; he teaches them any amount of the history of architecture, its development from styleto style; or even some abstract mathematical systems of proportions, to their infinite and irrevocable loss of ability for any broader grasp. He teaches them the art of planning economically and conveniently ; perhaps even the adaption of the architecture to the climatic conditions of a country, and the habits and mode of life of a race. He will probably go so far as to state that he feels this building to be beautiful and not that, but does he ever attempt to teach wherein lies the beauty of the one and the failure of the other ?

Mr. Parker did not ask that the teacher should point out why the attainment of beauty lies in the recognition of this or that broad principle or aesthetic instinct that would, he said, in most cases, be beyond what it would be fair to ask. But by a thoughtful comparison of many buildings belonging to all styles and all periods he could discover and points out right instincts, always followed, and factors always duly valued in successful work the world over—in fact, wherein the beauty of a building lies.

He went on to point out that this absence of any attempt to create a power to analyse into its constituent elements the beauty of one building, and to see what has led to the absence of beauty in another, was another characteristic of our art training today, which made for the increase of that army of copyists (incapable of the least originality) by which the progress of the art of architecture is so lamentably hindered. For he who has merely seen that one building is beautiful and another not, and has never approached either with any attempt to discover the qualities making for success or failure, will have no idea of doing anything more than reproducing what he has seen to be beautiful as slavishly as the new conditions in which he is placing it will admit. He will have no power to see that he commands the qualities which have made for success.

*Abstract of a lecture recently delivered before the International Association for the Advancement of Science, Arts and Education Reprinted from The Builders' Journal.

By means of a sketch of a window in Florence he had recently made for this purpose, and a photograph of a pulpit in Milan, and another of the Duomo in Florence, he showed how rightly to meet the differences in ornament demanded by considerations of distance from the spectator; how only vulgarity resulted from simple magnifying ornament because it was to he seen from a distance, and only irritation in the beholder by so designing that it could not be properly seen; how a truly happy result could only be got by designing ornament which was to be seen from a distance, simple but refined in detail, avoiding above all things multiplicity of different forms, that it may be easily grasped from a distance and satisfactory on close inspection.

Not the least interesting part of these lectures was that treating of the province of design in bringing into harmony the works of nature to the works of man; the province of design in introducing growing forms among architectural forms, and architectural forms among those of wild nature; the due fusing of the one into the other, and the softening of the abrupt contrast by frankly acknowledged art.

Finally, among the main principles in design which Mr. Barry Parker laid down as forming as it were the framework, he laid great stress on the following "Everything anyone is called upon to design has certain clearly defined requirements, purposes and conditions, and the form must be given it which will best enable it to fulfil these before any other considerations may be entered upon. It is doomed to certain artistic failure if, from mistaken notions of the distates of aesthetics, it is given a form which will make it less able to perform its functions than would some other form; and the ability and inability of the designer is shown in the degree he makes it satisfactory to our aesthetic instincts, while at the same time he enables it to perform its functions as perfectly as possible." He also emphasised that its form must at the same time be one which revealed and explained the construction; not one which attempted to conceal it.

From his want of power to analyse the beauty of his model into its constituent elements he would be certain so to adapt it to its new conditions as to destroy that beauty. Mr. Parker showed on the screen photographs and sketches of many European buildings, pointing out how the disposition and placing of the main masses of light and shade must take precedence of all other questions if beauty, and not entire loss of dignity is to result. He demonstrated the truth of this by showing various examples of buildings where there was no massing of light and shade ; the light was all broken up, and the shade was all broken up and spread in little patches and strips universally over the whole building. He went on to show that to gain beauty it was necessary there should be not merely restraint in the use of detail, and a sense of fitness in the parts selected to be finely detailed, but the right perception of the way in which the detail should be concentrated or grouped. " No truly happy effect ever was or ever can be produced where small and great are disposed universally over the whole surface of a building, and where no thought is given to the enhancing of the light parts and details by opposing them to the massive, the broad and the simple, where all parts are equally enriched, whether greatly or slightly, with mouldings,

