<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NEW CEMENT BRICK MAKING MACHINE." author="">NEW CEMENT BRICK MAKING MACHINE.



The following particulars are given of a machine designed for the manufacture of cement bricks which has lately been introduced into London, Eng. :—It consists of an iron frame provided at one end with a rectangular box, divided into two compartments, the bottom of each being formed by a loose board, supported by a frame attached to the upper end of a mechanical movement, through which vertical motion is imparted to the board. Thus the bottom of each compartment can he raised to the level of the top edge. One side of the rectangular box, as well as the diaphragm parallel thereto, is slotted vertically in such manner as to permit the entrance of parallel knives, which are moved horizontally by means of a lever, and in their final position they divide the two compartments of the rectangular box into ten compartments, each of the size of an ordinary brick. The process of brick making may be thus briefly described :—(1) A supply of mortar, in the proportion of one part Portland cement to three parts sand, is mixed near the machine

(2)	the compartments of the rectangular box are filled with mortar, which is well rammed in so that the corners may be thoroughly filled (3) the horizontally moving knives are drawn into their final position, cutting the mass of mortar into the form of ten bricks

(4)	the knives are drawn back to their original position ; and (5) the lever raising the movable bottoms of the compartments is operated, and the bricks are thereby brought out of the mould and can he carried away to await setting.

(5)	



One of the latest innovations to be practically tested is cement roofing tiles, which are made one foot square and are colored as desired. They are said to be about half the weight of slate tiles and are formed with overlapping ridges which make a roof covered with them absolutely water-tight. Another advantage claimed is that the material may he transported in bulk to the scene of building operations and the tiles moulded as the work



progresses. Experiments have also been made with cement concrete as outside sheathing for buildings with satisfactory results.

<article title=" A NEW PLUMBING DEVICE " author="">A NEW PLUMBING DEVICE.



The James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, Limited, of Toronto, Ont., dealers in plumbing supplies, are now introducing to the trade a novel and sensible device, viz., a folding urinal. This device is both sightly and very compact. The urinal is made of cast aluminum, all the connections and flushing attachments being heavily nickeled, ensuring strength and durability. Where ever this new equipment has been used it has been found to be a decided improvement and a lively demand has already sprung up. The

James Morrison Brass Manufacturing Company, Limited, are making a special proposition on this specialty to dealers throughout the Dominion and will he pleased to furnish information concerning the device to anyone sufficiently interested to write them.





A demand of assignment is reported to have been laid upon Brunet. & Desjardins, brick manufacturers, Montreal.

Mrs. Thomas Beauvais has registered as proprietress of the business of Thomas Beauvais & Company, plasterers, Montreal.

The Richmondt Conduit and Manufacturing company limited Toronto Richmondt Electro-Galvanized and Navalite Conduit tubing and settings

Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto Wrought Iron Fire Dogs

 