<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	127



LIST OF' BRITISH FIRMS WANTING CANADIAN

AGENTS.

Fenning & Co., Slater Hall Court, London E.C., marble exporters.

Charles E. Gittins & Co., Birmingham, locks and builders' hardware.

Williams Bros. & Co., Chester, Eng., wrought iron sashes, metal casements, leaded and stained glass, general hardware merchants.

Patent Stone Dressing Tool Co., Ltd., Sheffield, Eng., mfrs. of tools for stone and marble dressing.

Lee Howl & Co., Ltd., in Cannon St., London, E.C., mfrs. pumps and pumping machinery.

Glenyards Fire-Clay Co., Ltd., Bonnybridge, Scotland, fire bricks for all purposes.

Thos. M. Camm, stained glass, plastic relief, ecclesiastical fittings, Smethwick, nr. Birmingham, Eng.

Major & Co., Ltd., Hull, Eng., preservative for wood, stone and brick.

The Newellite Glass Tile Co., Cannon St., London, E.C. Silicate-of-Lime Stone, Ltd., Victoria St., westminster, S.W., mfrs. of silicate-of-lime stone

Sam Deard, Ltd., old Broad St., London, E.C., Patent glazing. The Velvril Co., Ltd,, Bridge Street, London, E.G., mfrs.

Velvril paint.

London Tablet Co., Sydenham, London, S.E., Wall and ceiling covering.

Sissons Bros. & Co., Ltd., Hull, Eng., paints, colors and varnishes.

The ElIky Patent Bath Syndicate, Ltd., London, E.G. Mather & PlaIt, Ltd., Manchester, patent sewerage distributor and water softening apparatus.

Mellowes & Co., Ltd,, Sheffield, Mellowes Eclipse Glazing System.

The Wouldham Cement Co., Ltd.,' 35 Gt. St. Helens, London, E.G.

E.	Freeman, 20 Bucklersbury, London, E.C.

Canadian firms in a position to handle successfully the goods of any of the above British exporters, should communicate with them direct, mentioning the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



The Canadian Bridge company limited steel buildings roof trusses Walkerville Ontario

The Canadian Office and School Furniture company limited Preston Ontario

Canadian Contractors Hand-book and Estimator The C.H. Mortimer Publishing company of 









PLASTERERS' PRICES.



The Plasterers' Section of the Toronto Builders' Exchange have recently adopted and issued in printed form the following schedule of prices and rules of measurement, based on the existing prices of material and labor:

RULES OF MEASUREMENT. —— Rendering, lathing, plastering, deafening and limewhiting measured by superficial yard ; all measurements taken full and per cent. allowed from total for openings.

For circular work allow double measurement.

For domes and groins allow three measurements.

Cornices, mouldings, beams, etc., measured by square feet. Circular work measured double.

Coves, angles, beads, metal angles, jambs and enriched members measured per foot run.

In case of deductions from contracted work, an allowance to be made to contractor of 15 per cent. for loss of profit. This rule only applies where total amount of work done is less than amount contracted for.

Dubbing out to be charged where plaster exceeds three-quarters of one inch in thickness.

Allowance for hoisting charges to be made for all work over two stories in height.

Heaters, fuel and attendance, where not specified, to be charged for.

TorontoLimited