<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE " author="">CORRESPONDENCE____

<article title=" WINNIPEG'S BUILDING RECORD " author="">WINNIPEG'S BUILDING RECORD,



WINNIPEG, MAN., Oct. 31st, 1904.



To the Editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER:



SIR,—In your issue for this month, in two separate places (Page 153 "Building in the West" and page 165 "Winnipeg Letter ") you intimate that up to date Winnipeg beats all other cities on this continent as to its this year's building valuation. Your Winnipeg letter says :—" New York comes second and Chicago a poor third." I think your statements are entirely incorrect. The error was originated here and I believe you will find on enquiry, that the building figures for the American cities for one month were compared with 1904 total for Winnipeg at the time the error was made—tna is several weeks since. Speaking from memory, figures for several American cities compared with Winnipeg, show that New York, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, Boston, St. Louis and Seattle were all ahead of Winnipeg. The 3½ millions, quoted by our papers here as (on the authority of our building inspector) Chicago's years total to that date' were for the month of August only.

I have probably as high opinion as to Winnipeg's legitimate growth as any one here, and I feel sure that compared as to present size with other cities, Winnipeg has this year made a greater percentage of legitimate solid growth than any other city on this continent. The exaggerated, in fact entirely untrue, statement, I allude to, is calculated to do us harm, as it can be so easily seen that it is grossly untrue, and with the liability to have perfectly true accounts as to our wonderful growth taken as untrue. Neither Winnipeg as a city or our Province of Manitoba require such bolstering up. Nothing will do us more good than the dissemination of the bare actual truth. We have "the goods" all right, and if we can only get the buyers here they can easily see

for themselves that we are bound to go ahead with a rapid but steady growth. Trusting you will excuse such a long letter.

I remain, yours truly,

AN ENGLISHMAN, WHO HAS BEEN HERE OVER 28 YEARS.







<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES." author="">BUSINESS NOTES.

The Taylor-Forbes Company, of Guelph, Ont., have announced their intention to shortly commence the manufacture of steam and hot water radiators, hot water heating boilers, and a complete line of steam fitters' supplies. The president of the company, Mr. John M. Taylor, was for many years manager of the Dominion Radiator Company and is thoroughly familiar with manufacturing methods and the requirements of the market for this line of goods. He has also associated with him in his new undertaking some 'members of his former staff whose special knowledge should further tend to ensure success.

Builders and others will probably be interested in a patent screwless door knob that has recently been put on the market. The principle employed is the use of an ordinary square bar with a knob fitted solid on one end. The other end which is square but threaded on the corners, fits into a square hole in the other knob ; after first passing through a ferrule or sleeve which is also threaded on the inside. This sleeve—which is permitted to turn loose on the door knob-—is however prevented from getting away from the knob by means of a bead. The sleeve thus acts as a checknut on the bar and by it the knob can be adjusted to the one hundredth part of an inch. The inventor claims this door knob cannot work loose by constant use, thereby doing away with the frequent loss of screws. A new company under the name of the Imperial Hardware Manufacturing .Co. has been formed in Toronto, for the purpose of making this knob. They also intend manufacturing locks and other lines of builders' hardware. Their office is at 23 Adelaide Street W.



The death occurred in Paris at the age of 70, of M. Augnste Bartholdi, the sculptor, whose " Lion de Belfort" and " Liberte Eclairant le Monde" have made his fame in two continents. He began life as an architect, and his training in the principles of that art tended to give to all his work in sculpture their well-known monumental character. M. Bartholdi's master in sculpture was Soitoux, and his first exhibit at the Saon was "A Good Samaritan," in 1853 but the work that first attracted attention was the " Martin Schongauer" fountain in the court of the ancient convent of the Ursulines in his native town. The colossal statue of Liberty in the harbour at New York, the largest bronze statue in the world, he conceived in America, and to it devoted 15 years of his life.

Part of Wanamaker's new building in the block bounded by Broadway, Fourth avenue, Eighth and Ninth streets, New York, will be finished soon. Fourteen stories high, with a subway station in the basement, the building as completed will be the largest structure of its kind in the world. The total floor area will be 1,033,416 feet. The cost was $3,500,000.

Fourteen thousand tons of steel have been used. The exterior masonry is Indiana limestone and semi-glazed white terra cotta, and the interior will be finished in mahogany. Twenty-one passenger elevators will handle shoppers, eleven will be devoted to freight, and a great central court, sixty-two feet square, will extend from the second to the eighth floors. A music-room and auditorium has been provided with a seating capacity of 1,500, a fully equipped stage and a pipe organ. Wanamaker's old store, the famous A. T. Stewart building, will be retained for women's apparel, dry goods, fancy goods, books and jewelry, while the new structure will have the departments devoted to men's and children's clothing, pianos, house furnishings, furniture and carpets. The upper floors will be utilized for ware-rooms and manufacturing purposes.



The Metallic Roofing Company limited Toronto Fire-proof Glass Windows 