<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	205



<article title=" MR. JOSEPH CONNALLY " author="">MR. JOSEPH CONNALLY.

Mr. Connolly's death, on Dec. 13, closes what was, until the last two or three years, a very active architectural career in Ontario. Mr. Connolly was in his 65th year. He was born in Limerick, but passed most of his life in this country. He was a member of the Irish Royal Institute of Architects, and was one of the most accomplished of Canadian architects. He was trained in the office of Mr. McCarthy, of Dublin, who held a similar position among Irish architects to that occupied by Sir Gilbert Scott in England. After serving for a time as Mr. McCarthy's chief assistant, and subsequently making a tour upon the continent for the sake of study, Mr. Connolly began practice in Limerick. He did not, however, remain long there, but came to Canada, and soon acquired the special practice for the Roman Catholic church which was his life's work, and which enabled him to continue always (excepting upon one or two occasions) to design in the style in which he was trained and in which he worked with freedom and originality. Besides a great deal in the way of alterations, additions and improvements to Roman Catholic churches and institutions, including the additions to St. Michael's Cathedral, in Toronto, and its decorations, the following buildings were his work: -In Toronto The Chapel of St. Joseph's Convent.

The south wing and Chapel of the House of Providence.



St. Paul's Church (Italian Romanesque.)

The Sunnyside Orphanage.

Some Roman Catholic Schools.

St.. Mary's Church (his last work.)



In Kingston The new front and tower of the Cathedral and several churches.



In :	The remodeling of St. Mary's Cathedral. St. Patrick's Church.



The James Street Baptist Church.



In London St. Peter's Cathedral and many Roman Catholic churches in the diocese.



The Franciscan Church in Chatham.



The Jesuit Church in Guelph.



Churches in Prescott, Kemptville, Tweed, Kincora, Formosa, Sault Ste Marie, Caledon, Arthur and many others, including St. Michael's church in Belleville, the destruction of which the other day was the cause of so many lamentations in Belleville.





An American Forest Congress will be held at Washington on Jan. 2-6, 1905, under the auspices of the American Forestry Association. Its purpose will be to establish a broader understanding of the forest in its relation to the great industries depending on it to advance the conservative use of forest resources for both the present and the future need of these industries ; and to stimulate and unite all efforts to perpetuate the forest as a permanent resource of the nation. This purpose is one which deserves the hearty support of engineers and architects, for the increasing cost of timber indicates that the time is soon at hand when forestry will become one of the most imperatively needed callings in the country. Anything that can he done to spread an appreciation of its importance deserves hearty support. The secretary of the Congress is Mr. W. L. Hall, Atlantic Building, Washington.

<article title=" MOVING AND ERECTING LARGE GRANITE

COLUMNS.

" author="">MOVING AND ERECTING LARGE GRANITE

COLUMNS.

Around the altar of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, there is to be a semicircular row of eight granite columns 6 ft. in diameter and 54 ft. in height. Each column is made in two pieces, the lower one being 36 ft. long and weighing 90 tons. The upper one is seated without doweling on its flat top, has a length of 18 ft. and weighs 40 tons. The columns were quarried and cut at the Bodwell Granite Co.'s Fox Island quarries at Vinalhaven, Me. At first it was intended to make them monolithic and no special difficulty was experienced in quarrying full-length slabs from a stratum of about the required thickness. These were hand-dressed approximately cylindrical and the first one was successfully turned in the lathe but broke while being polished. The break was attributed to torsion and for the second column power was applied at both ends of the lathe. Notwithstanding this arrangement, the column broke during the roughing. It was then suggested that the trouble lay with the excessive bending stresses due to the very long unsupported length and a center support was provided for the third column. This column broke more quickly than either of its predecessors and the attempt to make them monolithic was then abandoned.

The shorter pieces were turned and polished without difficulty and were then enclosed in cylindrical cases made with 3 X 4 in. steel-hooped wooden staves set close together and secured to circular end pieces. They were loaded on barges, two complete columns to each, and were towed to New York. Skids were arranged from the deck to the shore and several turns of wire cable were taken around the middle of the column. One end was made fast to a hoisting engine and the free end was kept tight as the rope was overhauled and rolled the column easily to shore. Each piece was loaded on a special wagon and transported over a mile through tile city streets and up a considerable grade to the site.

The wagon was built in Maine expressly for use on this work and is of simple and massive construction. It consists essentially of two pairs of wheels, two longitudinal beams and two cradles on the axles, and is built entirely of wood except the axles, tires and a few bolts and small braces. The 10 x 12-in. longitudinal timbers are 30 ft. long, are 3½ ft. apart on centers and overhang the front and rear axles about 2 ft. and 5 ft., respectively. The 8 x 8-in, rear axle and the 7 x 7-in. front axle each has six U-bolts fastening a solid 10 x 14-in wooden bolster to the upper side. On the front axle the bolster supports a horizontal wooden turntable platform or fifth wheel, on which the longitudinal timbers are seated. At the rear end they are seated directly on the bolster. Solid fillers are put on the axles between and above the longitudinals and are concaved on the upper surface to a radius of 3 ft. to receive the columns which are thus supported about 4 ft. clear of the pavement.

The rear wheels are about ft. and the front wheels about 3 ft. in diameter, all of them being 20 in. thick and made with seven thicknesses of planed white oak plank. Each thickness is made of sixteen sectors in the large wheel and twelve sectors in the small wheel, bolted together and breaking joints in adjacent thicknesses. A steel disc is bolted to the center of the wheel on each side and through it and the solid planks a hole was bored to fit the axle, so that the bearing of the latter was on the ends of the fibers. The tires consist of four x I-in. welded rings sunk on each wheel. The rear wheels are provided with a break shoe operated by a screw, but it was seldom necessary use this, most purposes being served by a transverse timber chained to the axle and dragging on the ground close to the wheels but clear of them so long as the wagon advances. If the wagon tends to move backwards, the timber immediately serves to chock the  wheels.

The wagon was hauled by a six-part manilla rope tackle which had a clevis attachment to a sheave set in

