<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	149











<article title=" NORTHWEST NOTES " author="">NORTHWEST NOTES





Branch Office of The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER,



310 McIntyre Block, WINNIPEG, September 12, 1Q04.

	WINNIPEG	BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.



The Exchange held its fifth monthly meeting on the evening of the 6th inst. and had a record turnout. The meeting proved a very interesting one and considerable business was transacted.

New members continue to be brought in, nine names being added to the list at this meeting.

A number of enquiries were received from outside points regarding business here. One from Toronto touching on the question of laborers' wages was discussed.

One important motion passed was to the effect that no member of the Exchange should sign any form of contract other than that approved by the Exchange—"The Uniform Contract." Any member violating this resolution will be subject to the penalty imposed in the by-laws, providing among other things for expulsion from membership.

Another motion passed was to the effect that no member of the Exchange should figure on any contract where another member had work in the same line unfinished without the consent of the first contractor.

An interesting paper was read on "Sentiment in Building" by Mr. E. S. Estlin.

Altogether the meeting was very satisfactory and showed that the Exchange is rapidly getting into shape and doing good work.

BUILDING OPERATIONS.



That the building trade is still very brisk is evident by the large number of building permits issued during August, viz., 181. There are still a large number of houses to he built before the season closes. The total amount of building so far this year has reached about 7½ million dollars being by far the heaviest season Winnipeg ever had.

Yet with all the increase there has been in houses there seems to be as great a scarcity as ever of houses for rent, and rents remain much higher than they were last year. This speaks well for the increase in the population of the city. One needs to take a drive over the city to realize the vast amount of building that has been done this year. In all parts—north, south, east and west—houses have gone up and new streets have been opened. In Fort Rouge, the favorite residential part of the city, this improvement is especially noticeable.

Numerous wholesale merchants who have been increasing their accommodation are getting their buildings near completion, although no doubt it will be the end of the year before the finishing work is all done. There is hardly a wholesale building in the city that has not had two or three stories added to it—a proof that the original builders anticipated a great growth in the wholesale trade of Winnipeg and prepared the foundations in the first place so that additions could safely he added to their buildings.

A very interesting and busy scene is the work on the new subway on Main street at tile C.P.R. station. Work here is progressing very rapidly. The cement and concrete walls and piers are almost finished, and a large number of supports for the concrete arches have been placed. The excavating of the roadway is finished and the electric street railway tracks have been run as far down as possible so that the through car service with the north end of the city maybe quickly established. The C.P.R track has to be raised yet as it is not at its full height, but that will be done quickly when the time conies.

The contractors found that the excavating took more time than such work usually takes as the steam shovels usually used for this class of work could not be employed in the tough clay here which had therefore to be dug Out by hand which makes it a much slower and more expensive process.

Eastern contractors putting in tenders for work in the west would do well to bear in mind the great difference t-here is in the soil in the west, the tough clay taking much more time to excavate. Other peculiar differences exist which add to the expense of working.

A RECORD FLAG POLE.



A flag pole designed to be placed on the top of the new Union Bank building is the longest ever brought into Winnipeg. It was imported from Washington Territory by the Sprague Lumber Company. It is 86 feet 11 inches long, and taffers from 12 x 12 inches at the butt to 7 x 7 inches at the point.

PERSONAL.



Mr. Herbert H. New is the latest addition to the list of architects in Winnipeg, where he has established an office in Molsons Bank building. Mr. New has recently arrived from Boston where he was engaged with the well known firm of C. & H. Blackall. lie is much impressed with the prospects of Winnipeg.

Mr. H. B. Rugh, who had just taken an office at 367 Main street, Winnipeg, as our last issue went to press, is now settled and has already submitted some attractive drawings, and is on the eve of starting his first commission.

BRICK MAKING AT BRANDON.



The Brandon Brick and Lumber Company, Ltd., which was incorporated several months ago with a capital of $100,000, is on the eve of completing the installment of their plant, and expect to be in full operation very shortly. This company have purchased the right of the " Huennekes System" for Western Canada. The product will be a dry pressed brick of sand and lime, baked in a chemical steam cylinder, the special advantage claimed being the production of a brick of a stone like character at a moderate cost.

The sand is first passed through a drying machine, the heat for which is supplied by the exhaust steam from the boiler. It is then carried by a band conveyor into a tubular grinder at the entrance of which is a unique apparatus which acts as a measuring or weighing machine and at this point the correct quantity of lime is admitted, to mix with the sand passing into the grinder. From this machine the two materials are conveyed into a mixing machine where a sufficient quantity of water is added to slack the lime. From thence the material is elevated to a storage receptacle immediately over the brick press of sufficient capacity to hold one day's working, the mixing of one (lay being held over until the following.

The "Press" has 3 moulds and has a working capacity of 15,000 bricks in a day of 10 hours.

After passing through the " Press" the dry brick is wheeled on trucks into the immense cylinder, which measures 62 feet in length by 6 feet diameter, provided with a steaming apparatus, with small perforations the whole length of the cylinder; into this cylinder the bricks are placed and the steam is applied at a

pressure of 100 to 125 lbs.; thus, steam bakes the brick there is a small " reservoir " at a certain point in the steam fittings, into which is placed a chemical mixture which has the effect of adding to the steam as it passes through the properties which give to the brick its special hardness. The company is expecting to do a very large business, as they have a large supply of sand available in the district, at a minimum cost of production.

The directors of the company are :—Dr. McDiairned, Mr. H. Sampson, Mi'. J. Clark, Mr. H. A. Rose, Mr. A. R. McDiarned.

MANITOBA'S STONE SUPPLY.



The present season will probably close as the "record " season in Winnipeg's building, but as pointed out in previous issues, many more buildings would have been completed, had there been available a more plentiful supply of material.

Undoubtedly one of the main causes of this lack lies in tile fact that supplies have to he drawn from outside, and in many cases from far distant points. It was therefore welcome news that there was evidence of all unusual quantity of good material in the shape of lime stone within easy reach of the city. It was to demonstrate this that the Garson Quarry Company, Limited, chartered a special train on Saturday, August 27th, and sent out invitations to all interested in the building trades, to visit their  Tyndall quarries, an invitation which resulted in a goodly array

of prominent Winnipeg building men sallying forth prospecting.

