<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

VOL. XVII.—No. 196.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

House in Delaware Avenue, Toronto.—R. J. Edwards, Architect.

House in Chestnut Park, Toronto.—Langley & Langley, Architects.

Stable.—Beaumont Jarvis, Architect.

Banking Room. Bank of British North America, Toronto.- - Burke & Horwood, Architects.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Portion of Main Facade, Palazzo di Brera, Milan.—Measured and Drawn by Mr. Cecil Burgess.

APRIL, 1904.

ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Views of Toronto Fire.





CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	- -	-	-	- -	65 Province of Quebec Association of Architect -	-	74-75-76

The Toronto Fire	-	-	-	- -	66 By the Way	-	-	-	77

Lessons from the South Kensington Museum	- -	67-68 A New Flooring Material	-	.	79

The Fink Roof Truss by Graphical Statics	. - 69 Mechanics' Lien Law	-	.	-	-	80

The Architect Before the Law	-	.	-	70-71-72	Personal - - -	 -	 -	 .	80

Montreal Correspondence			  .	73	Arbitration of Trade Disputes	-	-	-	ix





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	" EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

" S. H. TOWNSEND,

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect, Collingwood, Ont.





<article title=" Another Combine " author="">Another Combine.

The manufacturers of builder' hardware in the United States are reported to have come to an

understanding whereby all the designs have been classified and priced. It is said that the better goods are to be advanced from 25 to 50 per cent. at once, and that a 10 per cent. advance on all goods is slated for the near future.

had not visited the site and did not know its exact location on the street. We wondered how far these houses when built would prove satisfactory to the owner and future occupants. Architects young and old should bear in mind that a careful study of the site is the first requisite to the production of a successful building, and is therefore a duty which they owe to themselves as well as to their clients.



<article title=" Students' Competition." author="">Students' Competition.





























<article title=" The Law Affecting Architects and Contractors " author="">The Law Affecting Architects and Contractors.

A considerable number of architects and architectural students visited and inspected the exhibition at our Montreal office of drawings submitted in our recent students' competition. Drawings submitted in future competitions will in like manner be exhibited in Montreal, in the hope that they may awaken interest and a spirit of emulation among students of architecture in that city.



Architects and contractors, especially those who now or in the future may have to do with the

erection of buildings in the Province of Quebec, may with profit read the series of' lectures by Mr. J. S. Archibald delivered before the P.O.A.A., publication of which is commenced in the present number. These lectures deal in a very clear and concise manner with the legal responsibilities of architects and contractors under the Civil Code of the Province of Quebec.



We were much struck with the remark of a young architect while showing the plans which

he was preparing for some new houses, that he

<article title=" The Study of Building

Sites.

" author="">The Study of Building

Sites.

<article title=" Cement Construction " author="">Cement Construction.

Several articles are in course of preparation for our May number treating of the physical properties of cement, methods of cement testing and using cement in construction. Particular reference will be made to methods of reinforcing concrete with steel. In view of the truly wonderful progress which is taking place in the use of cement for construction purposes and the certainty that the material will come into more general use in the future, a consideration of the subject at some length in these columns seems advisable and likely to be of interest and value to our readers.





The experience of last winter

should lead to the adoption by

Toronto architects, engineers and contractors of a new formula to govern the depth to which foundations should be carried in order to escape frost. The practice until this year was to regard 3 feet 6 inches as the utmost limit of depth necessary to ensure safety. This theory has been dispelled by the extreme frost of last winter, which in some instances caused pipes to freeze at a depth of five feet below the street surface. In Montreal,

<article title=" Safety From Frost." author="">Safety From Frost.

