<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



The twin central towers on the Machinery Palace at the

World's Fair are 265 feet high.



The carpenters and joiners of Quebec, are demanding an

eight hour day and 25 cents per hour.



Building permits to the value of $300,000 have been issued in Vancouver this year. An active season is looked for, the Building Inspectators estimate being an expenditure of $2,000,000 as compared with $1,500,000 last year. A large sum will he spent on the construction of houses, the demand for which greatly exceeds the supply.

One of the twelve massive bronze cornices which are being made for Senator William A. (larks $5,000,000 residence in New York City, and two bronze statues for the same structure, have reached the World's Fair for exhibition. The cornices are thirteen feet high and eight feet in width. The style of architecture is Louis XVI. The value of the twelve pieces is $100,000. The statues are two striking pieces in bronze by George Gray Barbara and are entitled "God Pan" and The Hewer." Each is cast in a single piece.





<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



The Richter Manufacturing Company, of Tenalfy, N.J.,

manufactures of burlaps, propose to establish a branch factory



in Canada.



The Canadian Commercial agent at Sydney reports that in the Australian markets there should be a good opening for heating apparatus. He thinks that in churches, schools and shops beyond the coast line a manufacturer would find a good trade if considerable capital were forthcoming to ensure an ultimately profitable business.

From the British Clayworker it is learned that Messrs. James Buchanan and Son, brick machinery manufacturers, of Liverpool, have received an important order for the entire plant and machinery and other accessories, for anew and large brickworks for Canada. The machinery is intended to treat shales, fire-clay, also surface clay, for making common, buff, red-facing bricks, also machine and hand-made fire-bricks on four different processes, to suit the different materials.



Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of Japan and Varnish

Luxfer Prism Company, Limited Toronto Mosaic Glass Marble Window

