<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder





XOL. XVII.— No. 202. OCTOBER, 1904.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Cottage at Brandon, Man.—W. Nicholson Lailey, Architect.

House for Mr. Sanford Evans, Winnipeg, Man.—George Brown, Architect.

Fireplace, House in Queen's Park, Toronto.—Sproatt & Rolph, Architects.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

House in Queen's Park, Toronto---Sproatt & Rolph, architects.

Stair Hall, House in Queen's Park, Toronto——Sproatt & Rolph, architects.



CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	-	-	-	- 161-162

Opening Lecture of the Department or Architecture, Mc

	Gill University	-	-	- 

Ventilation	-	- -	165

The Architectural Association and Its Work	- -

Ferro-Concrete Construction	- .	-

By the Way	-	-	.	-	- -	166

Cement for the Northwest	—	—	— —	166

Montreal Notes	-	-	-	- 

Church Heating and Ventilation	-	- 

Some Notes on Motor Houses	-	- -	168

Chains Used in Building Construction	-	-	-	169

Design and Craftsmanship	-	-	-	170-171

Architectural Classes	-	-	-	.	-

Cologne Cathedral	- -	- -	-	172

Northwest Notes	- -	- -	-	173

Difficulties and Methods of Plastering- in Winter	- 174-175

German Regulations for Reinforced Concrete	- - ix

The Action of Lightning on	Buildings				-		-	x-xi

The Apprenticeship Question		-		-		-		- xii

Armored Concrete Vaults	-		-		-		-	xiii

New Cement Brick Making	Machine				-		-	xiii

A New Plumbing Device	-		-		-		-	xiii

Cement Building Stone -		-		-				- xiv

Business Notes - - - -						-		xiv





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

S.	H. TOWNSEND,

" Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto.

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Out.





<article title=" REMOVAL NOTICE." author="">REMOVAL NOTICE.



On the first of November, 1904, the Winnipeg office of this Journal will be removed to Rooms 720 and 721 of the new Union Bank Building. This building, which is just nearing completion, is thoroughly fireproof and in construction and equipment is the equal of any on the continent.

A standing invitation is given readers and friends of the Journal to call when in Winnipeg. Any possible information or assistance will be gladly furnished them.



The large trade which a few years ago was being done in Great Britain by Belgian and

German manufacturers of steel joists and girders, is reported to have been killed as the result of tests and inspection to which the material was subjected by users in Great Britain, The trade is now in the hands of British firms whose product is not so cheap, but is uniform and reliable in quality.

Belgian vs. British Structural Steel.

<article title=" Building In the West " author="">Building In the West

years of age, and no operator be engaged without first having a certificate as to competency from the building inspector."



Several Toronto contractors are finding a profitable field of operations in Winnipeg, where building is more active than in any other city on the continent. The value of building permits issued for the nine months ending September 30th, was in round figures $8,000,000, a sum in excess of the expenditure for this purpose in any other city in the United States or Canada, not excepting New York. In spite of this large expenditure, it has not been possible to meet the demand for houses. During the past summer a considerable number of families lived in tents. Some of these have beet) unable to secure other accommodation, and are at a loss to know where to find shelter during the coming winter.

<article title=" Safety of

Elevators

" author="">Safety of

Elevators

The Coroners' Jury appointed to enquire into the circumstances attending the death of Dr. McPhee, of Ottawa, who was recently crushed in an elevator, returned with their verdict of accidental death the following recommendation :—' 'We would recommend that the city by-law governing elevator operators he changed, so that no operator be less than eighteen

<article title=" Fire-Proofed"

Wood.

" author="">Fire-Proofed"

Wood.

The Mayor of New York as the result of strong pressure has withheld ratification of the ordinance

recently approved by the Board of Aldermen of that city compelling the use of fire-proof trim in the erection of new buildings above 75 feet in height. Builders asserted that the ordinance would he valueless except to the

