<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" CEMENT BUILDING STONE " author="">CEMENT BUILDING STONE.



A new company, under the name of the Cement & Stone Building Co., has been formed recently, in Toronto, for the manufacture and sale of cement building stone and machines for making the same.

Each machine or mould requires two men and one boy to operate it and has an average output of 180 stones per day of nine hours. Each stone measure 18 in. x 9in x 8 3/4 in. and works in perfectly with brick. The stones are hollow and are also grooved at each end, giving another space between each stone. This forms a honeycomb like air space all through the wall, permitting a constant circulation of air to all parts of the wall; making it absolutely frost and damp proof, thereby doing away with the necessity of lathing and strapping prior to plastering. By simply adding coloring to the sand and cement while mixing it. stones of any color desired can he produced. One week after a stone has been moulded it is ready for the builder. During a recent test one of these blocks, eight days old, is reported to have successfully withstood a pressure of 20,000 pounds.

The machines for making these stones can be purchased from this company by the builder or contractor and set up on the site of the building being erected. The Cement Stone & Building Co. are a stock company with a capital of $50,000. Their office and works are at present located at the corner of Abell and Queen St. West.



<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">BUSINESS NOTES.

A new company under the name of the Victor Varnish Co., has been formed in Toronto. They have bought the factory and plant of the Robertson Varnish Co., Limited, 400 Eastern Avenue, and are doing business at that address. The aim of the new company is to put a superior qualify of varnish on the market. Mr. Jno. Fennell, of Berlin, is the president, and Mr. E. J. Stewart, of Toronto, manager.

The Winnipeg Ceiling & Roofing Co. is situated in Fort Rouge, on the Canada Northern Railroad, and have a new factory for the manufacture of steel roofing, siding and ceiling material. It has been in operation about tour months and is doing considerable business already. They manufacture steel ceilings, roofing, siding, corrugated iron and fire-proof window shutters. metal cornices, etc. The material is received in sheet steel plates and is then shaped and designed for whatever purpose it is required for.



Berry Brothers, Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of every grade of varish and japan

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto Marble Mosaic Floors