<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" DIAMOND SAWS IN SLATE QUARRIES.

" author="">DIAMOND SAWS IN SLATE QUARRIES.



Probably the most expensive saws in use anywhere in the world are those in the factories of Pennsylvania where various articles are manufactured of slate, says the Philadelphia Ledger. In one of these factories there are 300 horizontal saws, 12 feet in length, each of which is furnished with seventy-five cutting diamonds, each saw being worth $5,000. The slate land which furnishes the material for these costly saws to work upon was once so little valued that the tract upon which the famous Chapman quarry in Pennsylvania is situated was sold for a pint of whiskey. Its subsequent owners have taken millions of dollars from the land.

The most valuable slate deposits in the world are found in the central and eastern parts of Pennsylvania. In the neighborhood of the Pennsylvania quarries there are houses whose walls are entirely of slate. The blocks of which they are made are smoothly sawed, and are certainly most substantial. When slate is blasted in the quarries the rough slabs are taken to the shanties of the "splitters." The stone forms naturally the layers, and the "splitter," following the grain or ribbon" with his large chisel, separates the blocks into strips. Then these strips are passed through a trimming machine, where by the blows of a heavy knife they are cut into rectangular "shingles." Then they are piled up into "squares," ready to be used for roofing purposes.

When slate is cut up for use in other ways the procedure differs. The huge horizontal saw, with its scores of diamonds in the factory, is called into play it is lowered upon one of the blocks of slate by a ratchet at the rate of a quarter of an inch a minute. The saw would cut through iron or steel at the same rate. The workmen play a stream of water upon the slate to keep it cool, and wash the dust from the cut. After the sawing the block is planed by being moved back and forth by machinery under a firmly fixed chisel. It is afterwards polished, much as marble and granite are.





<article title=" BUILDING SAND " author="">BUILDING SAND.



There are three kinds of sand used in building, says a writer in Building News, —namely, Pit, River, and Sea Sand, all of which were ordinarily produced by the act

·on of running water on rock of some kind. The process was something like this:—At first large blocks of stone were detached from their beds by river currents, or from cliffs by breakers along some sea coast. These angular blocks were ground against each other until they became rounded boulders, the waste being sand; this grinding action being continuous, the boulders were gradually worn down, and in course of time became shingle, and finally the shingle itself was rolled and ground until the whole become sand. Sand will necessarily be of the same mineralogical character as the rock from which it was derived, the waste of a granite rock being sand with grains of quartz, felspar, and mica ; that of a hard limestone rock grains of pure limestone, whilst soft rocks like chalk yield no grains, for constant rolling and attrition in water convert them ultimately into calcareous mud. Nature sometimes reverses this process, converting loose sands into sandstones, and as many such derivative rocks have been worn down and converted into sand it is not possible to say how often or how long the same materials have

previously existed as loose sand or as compact sandstone. It is a well-ascertained fact that many beds of the New Red Sandstone are built up with sands the grains of which are spherical, a shape they could only have attained by being windblown in a dry state across some desert, or long a sea-shore. Water-worn quartz sands are never so round in the grain as those produced by a sand-blast. All sandstones and grits—in fact, all non- calcareous sedimentary rocks—are built up with materials originally derived from the breaking up by chemical and mechanical agencies of granitic and schistose rocks, the substances so obtained washed, sorted, and deposited by running water, or held in solution by it form the whole bulk of all our sands and sandstones.

The questions suggested by a visit to any sandpit are—(1) Of what mineral, or minerals, is this sand composed? (2) From what kind of rock was it derived? (3) Where was the parent rock situated? (4) To what geological formation did it belong? (5) How did this sand come here? (6) Is it sharp and angular? (7) and finally (8) Is it clean? The two last questions affect its value for building purposes, the first five do not, and are of interest chiefly to the mineralogist and geologist.



<article title=" HOW TO GET SPEEDY BRICKLAYING " author="">HOW TO GET SPEEDY BRICKLAYING.



If you want brickwork executed at a great rate, says Mr. <person>Charles Heathcote</person>, F.R.I.B. A., in a comparison of English and American methods of building, have heaps of material ready and put on every man you can. Pick out and keep the best men—discharge the others ; and to entice the best men to your work, and to spin out all they know, make it worth their while to stop by paying 10 per cent. more wages give bonuses for work executed against time, and have plenty of superintendents and foremen. It may not be the best finished, for perhaps this is not necessary, but we are talking of speed and how to obtain it.

A great feature in the speed of bricklaying is the kind of foreman employed. It he be a man of ability, understanding his work, and with sufficient will power to have the work carried out as it should be, and retaining only the competent workers, the work progresses satisfactorily.



<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.



Bricks in Cape Town, South Africa, are reported to cost from $22.50 to $27.50 per thousand. It is stated in "Consular Reports for February that they are poorly made that they have to be plastered with stucco to keep them from being destroyed by thc action of the weather. These bricks are usually 2½x4½x9 inches in size.

Under a law passed in 1899 contractors for public works in France are subject to restrictions as to the length of the days' work and the minimum wages to be paid the workmen. They must be governed by the standard of wages prevailing in the locality in which the works are to be carried out. A similar law governs contractors under contract with the Canadian govern-merit. In Paris, like other capitals, a higher rate of wages is paid than in any of the towns in the country. Masons receive

franc per hour, plasterers 1.10 franc, stone polishers 1.20, an4 stucco-workers 1.50. The workers in plaster are highly skilled, The wages are somewhat lowered by the fact that on the continent employers frequently give gratuities, prizes, etc., to their employees. During the past century there has been a continuous rise in Paris, as is shown by the following approximate figures— In 1806 a carpenter's pay per hour was .30 franc ; in 1852 it had become .50 franc, and in 1899 .90 franc. Masons and stone-cutters were paid .32 franc per hour in 1806, .41 franc in 1852, and .75 franc in 1899.

