<doctype type="text">14	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION." author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



 [Communications

 sent to this department must be addressed to the  editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries, neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance,]







A Montreal subscriber writes I have had a great deal of difficulty in lettering on windows in cold weather











































on account of the glass sweating. Is there any preparation that might he applied to the glass that would not affect the paint or gold leaf, but would keep the glass in a condition to work on

ANs. —Polish glass first with whiting until perfectly dry, then dip a clean rag into alcohol and rub until dry, lay on

varnish, then put gold leaf as desired, polish and coat over with varnish or thin asphaltum. Keep oil lamps burning in window so as to dry up damp while doing the work.



From "Builder" :—I am in want of some good method of "deafening" floors and studded partitions, and would be thankful if you would give me some advice on the subject.

ANS—In our opinion the best method of deafening, all things taken into consideration, is as follows Line up the joists and after they are well and fit mly bridged cover with planed and jointed boards. Do all plastering and other rough work in the rooms that have to be deafened; clean off the floor, seeing that all lime spots are removed or killed ; then lay on this floor a layer of medium thick felt, marking the lines of the joists.

When the felting is all done, place ½ inch strips of pine or spruce over the line of joists, the strips to be about 2 inches or more in width. Nail these strips on the joists with flat headed wire nails of proper length then on the top of these strips lay strips of heavy felt

ing about 3 inches wide. On these strips lay the floor, and if the work be well done the noise of a brass band will hardly penetrate through to the other side. This method may be adopted in deafening walls and floors of bathrooms, or in special walls in hospitals, and many other places. It also acts as a non-conductor of heat or cold, and for these reasons might be used where deafening was no object, but where the regulation of temperature was of much importance. It often happens that a soil pipe, leading down from a water closet, or bathroom, is placed in some position that the noise from it is disagreeable and annoying. If in the wall between studding the sound may be deafened by building brick work and mortar around it, or packing mineral wool or eel grass around it. If the soil pipe should happen to be exposed either in a hallway or in some room it had better be boxed in with a square box, leaving an inch or so all around clear of the pipe; then fill in the box from top to bottom, with a mixture of lime, sand and plaster of paris, in about equal parts, or with good lime and hair mortar, and the noise will make no further trouble in that room or hall. In some places, we believe, it is the practice to take sawdust, steep it in lime whitewash, and then spread it out in the sun to dry, and use it for deafening in both walls and floors. This makes a very healthy filling and is proof against insects, rats, mice and fire. Planing mill shavings treated the same way also make a good non-conductor of sound, and may be used with effect for packing about soil pipes or in partitions or floors.





From "The Nor West" :—I am a regular subscriber to The Canadian Architect and Builder, and would like to ask through its pages for an illustration showing a























































method of finishing a window on the outside of a rubble masonry wall ; I mean of course, vertical rubble work.

ANs. We do not exactly grasp the requirements of our correspondent but in answer, we illustrate, Fig. 1, a plain window set in a straight vertical coursed rubble

