<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	63



When properly built of brick or stone with loose joints, with drain tiles to distribute the water, leaving behind the solid matter which should be removed when necessary, we will find the sanitary arrangements equal to our city sewerage system.

The improvements of water closets have been remarkable, thanks to our manufacturers and the healthy competition amongst us to introduce to our customers the very best appliances. The syphon water closet takes first place to date. The energy of the flush is exerted without loss under atmospheric pressure it

produces complete syphonage. In the washout closet before the rap is reached much of the energy is wasted. Water closets constructed in basements should be arranged with a due regard to the effects of the sun, for there is no disinfectant so sure as sunlight and ventilation. Local vents should always be connect-

ed directly with the closet bowl to bc of the most practical benefit, and where it connects with the chimney it should run into a piece of iron pipe as galvanized iron in time will become rusted.

A great source of trouble in our homes which we fail to he conscious of is thc refrigerator. Into it is placed the important things of life and it is surprising how little attention is paid to the proper disposal of the waste water. It should he conducted into an open pan or sink, placed some distance from the en of the waste pipe, with a good air space. This fixture properly trapped and ventilated and supplied with faucet would remove a great source of unpleasantness.

House drainage at the present time consists of two parts, soil and waste pipe above ground and tile drains under ground.



The Canadian Bridge Company limited Walkerville Ontario Steel buildings roof trusses

The Martel-Stewart Company Montreal Signs window shades and office directories

T.A. Morrison and Company Montreal Pressed bricks

Canadian Contractors Hand-Book and Estimator. Toronto Montreal 

The Cumberland County Quarries Amherst Nova Scotia Northport Red River Philip Grey

Toronto Contracting and Paving Company Limited Toronto General Contractors

The Vokes Hardware Company limited Toronto 