<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



guides, that no force would move it beyond the point it had reached.

The smoke and hot air therefore having no issue from above the stage, continued to pour through the proscenium arch into the auditorium side of the building where it is probable and consoling to think that the audience were asphyxiated before the flames, had time to reach them.



The commissioners insist that had there been over the stage end of the building a proper exit for the heated gases, they would have risen vertically to egress through the same without any tendency to invade the auditorium to seek an exit on that side of the procenium wall or wall of separation between the stage and auditory.



This then, of all the possible solutions of probable escape with one's life from a theatre where the stage is on fire (arid there is not the least tendency of the fire starting on the auditorium side of the curtain) the true and only one independently of all other facilities of exit as recommended by the New Zealand architect— is the existence, above the stage, of such an opening as would allow of the smoke and gases passing Out direct into the atmosphere, without any tendency whatever to take any other direction.



Of course the opening in the roof, and especially in such a climate as Canada, must be closed to keep the cold out and prevent loss at heat but this could easily be managed by topping it with a ridge roof of such an acute angle (say 60° at apex) as to cause snow to fall off it, and the opposite flaps or shutters of which would be worked from the stage floor level of the building by wire ropes or even by hempen ones passing down along the walls through iron conductor tubes to prevent the possibility of the ropes themselves being burned by the burning scenery.



In 1854, when the writer designed the Quebec theatre "Academy of Music," asbestos was, so to say, unknown, and there was to have been a solid screen of iron, for raising which bodily there had been provided sufficient height in the rooting above the stage.



This screen or curtain, to disguise or dissimulate it, was to have been covered with mirror in vertical strips of say 3 to 5 ft. in width held in position by silvered sash base riveted to the body of the screen.



Such a curtain reflecting, when down, the whole audience, would have had a fine effect, and at any rate, of whatever na-



ture, such a cut-fire screen should be at hand in all theatres and a cut-fire wall extending from the very foundations to above roof of building, with no other opening than the proscenium arch, or iron doors to other openings through it, if indispensable.



In conclusion, as any additional precaution can never be "de trop" and on this head, it may be remarked that in rebuilding the theatre at Antwerp, Belgium, destroyed by tire some to or more years ago, a recommendation made by tire writer in a paper of his read before the Society of Architects of Canada in 1888, was carried out, and each of the five tiers of surrounding galleries above dress circle level was provided with exterior iron balconies and some 25 doors or exits, 125 in all, leading thereto with outer iron stairs from each tier down to ground level ; this allowing of emptying the building of its inmates in less than half a minute of time while, of course, the stage end of the edifice is also amply provided with issues to the same effect.



CHAS. BAILLARGE.



Mr. Baillarge's suggestion strikes at the root of the danger in theatres. The difficulty of a large opening which must be kept closed and yet must be thrown open in an instant is no doubt as susceptible of solution by automatic action as is the operation of the ordinary fire door. No matter how heavy the doors of the opening may be, if they are hung on pivots it is but a little weight that would make the difference between the balance that keeps them shut and the balance that throws them open.- -En. CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.





<article title=" A QUESTION OF FEES " author="">A QUESTION OF FEES.



An Ontario architect writes as follows



The writer wishes to obtain a recognised schedule in pamphlet or book form of the fees that architects are entitled to for full and partial services as architects. Also wish to ask what is usually understood by the profession as full professional services. Does it mean constant attendance at the building during construction, if not, how often would any representative of the firm be required to visit the works to comply with the term full processional services to their client, in the absence of any special

agreement     A large portion of the proposed scheme was abandoned. Are the architects entitled to collect the usual proportion of fees for plans, specifications, details, surveys and measurements. Also the obtaining of proposals from contractors for the same. In this locality the custom has been to collect 5021624f the full fees customary.



Answer.—In reply to your letter of November 24, asking for information about architects fees and services : The only Ontario tariff is that of the Ontario Association of Architects, which we cannot very well procure for you if you are not a member of the Association, and indeed it would be of no service to you unless you are. Tire only scale of charges recognizable by a court of law in a case of a disputed fee, where there has been no preliminary agreement, is the scale which has been in use by the architect or the body to which he belongs; the presumption being that there was a tacit acceptance by both parties of what is customary in that neighbourhood or known to be the previous custom of the architect. You have a right therefore to claim for your work what you have been accustomed to charge; or, in case of discontinued work, for that proportion of the fee which you have been accustomed to charge for the proportion of the work done. On this head the schedule of the Ontario Association reads: "For partial service or in case of the abandon-merit or suspension of tile work, the charge for' partial service is as follows Preliminary studies, 1-5 of the full commission. Preliminary studies and general drawings and specifications sufficient for estimate arid contract, 1-2 of the lull commission. Preliminary studies, general drawings specifications and details, .4-5 of the full commission. For superintendence alone, 2-5 of the full commission for the work to be superintended.' Tins is generally considered to divide the fee into parts fairly proportionate to the amount of work set off against each part.



As to superintendence there is no way of measuring it except by efficiency. The intention in superintendence is to see that a work is being carried out in conformity with the design, specifications and directions, so that the work is as suitable for its purpose as it was intended to be arid to watch its progress with a view to certifying correctly tire payments that are due as the work progresses. The architect, in tile absence of a more definite arrangement, is supposed In judge for himself when and how often visits should be made for these purposes, and tire only proof of his neglect will be in results.





<article title=" A QUESTION ABOUT VENTILATION." author="">A QUESTION ABOUT VENTILATION.



A correspondent asks for information as to recent methods of ventilation

Answer.—A reply to your request for information as to recent methods of ventilation is a matter far beyond the scope of a letter. There can hardly be said to he new methods, only new contrivances for carrying out the one old arid only method —the application of power to move the air. Of these contrivances the simplest is beat, amid, inasmuch as ventilation is usually required during the winter months, the application of heat is with-in the compass of everybody building in this country. Ventilation and beating should be studied together as one scheme, calculated in mutual relation ; but this requires science, and to that end study, for which purpose an excellent book is Heating and Ventilation by Professor Carpenter of Cornell University. It is published by John Wiley & Sons, New York, and the catalogue price is $4.00.







<article title=" AN ENGINEERING FAMILY " author="">AN ENGINEERING FAMILY.

The City of Quebec has appointed Mr. W. D. Baillarge to the office of City Engineer ; the place his father, Mr. Charles Baillarge, filled, with so much distinction, for 33 years.







Tire United States Government through the Bureau of Forestry is carrying on some interesting experiments in order to determine the rate at which different kinds of timber will season. Certain kinds of timber it is known, are improved by being soaked in water for different periods of time, but the chemical or physical changes which occur are riot fully understood, with the result that the best economic usage of lumber is largely a matter of accident. The enquiry referred to may prove highly valuable in discovering means for tire arrest of decay, the best utilization of certain parts of the tree, and so fort hi.

