<doctype type="text">44	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



universal 5 per cent. for first-class work, regardless of size, and 10 per cent. on fittings, etc., and reminding the Council of last year that this matter had been handed to them to deal with and that nothing had yet been done. Mr. Doran explained that the Council and members of the Association were as strongly opposed to points in the present tariff as Mr. Maxwell but that they felt some tariff legally recognized was better than none and that it was not desirable to ask for legislation every year. After an animated discussion in which Messrs. Baillarge and Vanier took part a motion was adopted, proposed by Mr. Venue seconded by Mr. Brown, "That without recognizing the assertion of Mr. Maxwell that the Council paid no attention to the question of amendments to the tariff ; that the said letter be referred to the Council with instruction to study the question and to report at the next annual meeting."

Mr. Venue, seconded by Mr. Archibald, then brought in a scheme of awarding medals to various classes of work with a view to stimulating artistic effort and rewarding skill. The scheme dealt with domestic, public and ecclesiastical awards of merit, the former being that on which most stress was laid, as Mr. Venue deplored the condition of domestic work in the towns of the province generally. Mr. Berlinguet criticised the scheme and Mr. Lemay spoke in support of it, after which the question was remitted to the Council to be given effect to.

Mr. Venne, seconded by Mr. Tanguay, called the attention of the Association to the state of competition management in the Province which gave rise to many misunderstandings and proposed that the Council make a study of the customs of other countries in this connection and frame a set of by-laws calculated to prevent abuses as far as possible.

Mr. Lacroix next called the attention of the Association to the unprofessional practices which appear still to obtain in the province with regard to rate cutting and the preparation of plans tree as means of canvassing for work. Mr. Berlinguet did not agree with the first speaker that it was possible to draw a hard and fast line with one's clients to whom an architect may justifiably desire to do a favor, though against competitive rate cutting he felt as strongly as any one present. Mr. Venue quoted a case in which when a building was burnt down 21 sets of drawings were supplied to the owner by members of the profession unsolicited. The sentiment of the meeting was wholly against such practices.

Mr. Chausse, seconded by Mr. Vanier, moved that a special committee be appointed by the Council to amend the charter and by-laws relative to the election of office bearers and to report at the next general meeting. This was agreed to.

Mr. Chausse moved that a year book be issued containing the charter, by-laws, calendar, tariff code, and papers read before the Association. Mr. Archibald seconded the motion provided " if means could be found" were inserted, as he said the financial state of the Association was the only drawback to such a scheme. Messrs. Brown, Baillarge and Karch supported the idea and the motion as amended was remitted to the Council to be dealt with.

Mr. Chausse, seconded by Mr. La Rochelle moved that a badge be designed and worn by members. After some discussion of a desultory nature the matter was dropped.

Mr. Karch proposed that the Council take action to urge on the Government the necessity of legislative measures for the arbitration of trade disputes. The proposal failed to find support.

Votes of thanks were then moved, seconded, and heartily accorded to last year's Council for their labors, to Mr. Larochelle and Mr. Finley for acting as scrutineers, and to the management of the hotel for the use of the Empire Room for the Exhibition,

The president then complimented the Association on the exhibition which had been got together and reviewed the work of the coming session.

Mr. Venue, seconded by Mr. Archibald, moved that the next annual general meeting be held at Montreal.

This was all the business.



<article title=" P. Q. A. A. EXHIBITION " author="">P. Q. A. A. EXHIBITION.

The exhibition of architectural work displayed on the walls of the Empire Room at the Chateau Frontenac, Quebec, in connection with the P. Q. A. A. Conference, while presenting some features of interest, is on the whole disappointing when one thinks of the glorious building traditions of ancient France which in this province one might still hope to find manifesting themselves either as survivals or as revivals. Domestic work was all but absent of public buildings there was little to be seen city offices were fairly numerous and represented the best body of work, while though there was much church work it was not of a high order of merit. 'raking the church work generally the classic examples were far ahead of the Gothic efforts. A tendency is to be noted in a good many of the church designs to lavish all the ornament and embellishment on the Western facade and to carry Out the rest of the building in the baldest way.

From Mr. Vanier's office there were several drawings and photographs. The Classic Church of St. Jean Baptiste, Montreal, though open to criticism on the score above alluded to shows some sound scholarship. It is a pity that the porch had not a deeper projection and that the lantern on top of the dome is so very small the octagonal flanking turrets at the west end are very satisfactory. There is a considerable feeling for pic-

turesque grouping in the Hotels de Ville designed in the Francois I style from the same office.

Mr. Payette shows us a dainty set of drawings for a romantic house in brick and stone with a half timbered third storey and picturesque pavilion roofs with sweeping bell casts.

Mr. Venne presents a clever pencil drawing for a library facade in what may be called the Ecole des Beaux Arts style of French classic. The design would be the better of more weight at the angles of the projecting centre where there is no abutment worth mentioning for the heavily rusticated arches of the window openings.

Mr. Resther exhibits a drawing for the great Pension at de Ste. Nom de Marie, Outremont, in a somewhat stereotyped classic style but a sound building nevertheless.

Messrs. Finley & Spence have a perspective of the Guardian

Building, Montreal, a somewhat ornate city building and a very

beautiful drawing illustrating a design for the City and District

Savings Bank. 'I he design for the Montreal Athletic Association

Club House appears less refined than the rest of their work.

Messrs. Hutchison & Wood illustrate the London, Liverpool & Globe Building, Montreal. As a whole this building is a happy solution to the '' city building '' problem, but it is not improved by the very coarse decorations with which it is adorned.

Mr. Baillarge exhibits an old scheme for a Parliament House dating from about 1660. The elevation shows a great Corinthian colonnaded facade, reminiscent of the Louvre. He also shows decorative designs in which a sincere and successful effort to design ornament with some symbolical meaning is manifest.

Mr. Tanguay's project for a great Late Romanesque Cathedral church at St. Hyacynthe is striking. The fleche of a very late Gothic character is hardly in tune with the rest.

Messrs. Staveley and Staveley show a block of houses for Park Avenue which is one of the soundest pieces of design exhibited.

Dr. Doran illustrates the Catholic High School, Montreal, recently completed, and a design for a Bank in a pure classic Ionic

Mr. Venue has some church work in which the detailing shows much thought and some bold originality.

Mr. Stone shows some severe office buildings, in which breadth is the main element of charm and very refreshing and bold they are in these all too ornamental days.

Mr. Taylor's branch banks in a pure classic style come somewhat as a surprise to those accustomed to his work on a Byzantine basis. He also submits some charming student sketches of Italian clock towers and belfrys and photographs of the triumphal arches he designed to celebrate the visit of the Duke of York.

Mr. D. R. Brown has a perspective design of the Olivet Baptist Chapel, Montreal, a building what may be called Modern Gothic style in brick and stone and certainly the best example of Gothic architecture in that City, the amended design being a decided improvement on this first sketch.

Messrs. Saxe & Archibald show an elevation of the Bellview Flats, Montreal, a tall apartment building in yellow and red brick and some picturesque cottages at Westmount.





<article title=" CORRECTION

" author="">CORRECTION

The illustrations of Ospedale Maggiore, Milan, and Mosaic

Pavement, Raverina, printed in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND

BUILDER for January, were reproduced from drawings by Mr.

Cecil Burgess, but were wrongly credited to Prof. Nobbs.

We are indebted to Mr. Burgess for the following descriptions:

OSPEDALE MAGGIORE

The Ospedale Maggiore or Great Hospital of Milan is one of the most interesting architectural works in that city. It is one of the largest as well as one of the oldest institutions of the kind in the world. The principal facade of the building belongs to the middle of the 15th century at which time the hospital was founded. Of nine courtyards which the buildings enclose the largest and most splendid is the immense central one over 200 feet square, built, by Ricchini in the early part of the 17th century. A portion of this courtyard is here illustrated. It is entirely surrounded on the ground level by an open loggia, or wide vaulted passage, presenting to the courtyard an arcade of 17 arches on each side. The first floor consists of somewhat similar loggia, portions of which, however, are enclosed by a screen wall with beautifully designed windows.

The materials are remarkable. The pillars on both stages are monoliths of grey granite, with granite bases and terra cotta capitals. The plain wall surfaces are of brick, plastered and coloured yellow. The molded and decorated work is all of pale red terra cotta which, though more than two centuries and a half old, is in perfect preservation. The modelled panels of both upper and lower friezes contain a wonderful variety of design. It is difficult to detect repetitions. The first floor windows have sparred wooden shutters. The crowning entablature which is proportioned to the total height of the facade is designed with consoles dividing the frieze into panels and giving support to the large modillions of the cornice.

This is probably the most important work of the Renaissance executed in terra cotta. Not far from Milan tire cloisters of the Certosa, of Paira, give a splendid example of mediaeval terra cotta work. The earliest part of the Milan Hospital is also a fine example of terra cotta work of a curiously transitional character.

PAVEMENT AT RAVENNA

This marble pavement of Roman workmanship was found in near the Basilica of St. Appolinare in Classe, a few miles

from Ravenna, and is now preserved in the Accademia delle Belle Arte in Ravenna. The vase below the peacock is a fragment of a Byzantine mosaic which has been inserted into the old Roman one.

