<doctype type="text">70	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE ARCHITECT BEFORE THE LAW.*" author="Archibald, S. G.">THE ARCHITECT BEFORE THE LAW.*



By S. G. Archibald, Advocate.

Your President has asked me to give a course of three lectures before this Association on the subject of the Architect Before the Law, a subject as interesting as broad. It will not be my aim to cover the whole subject in detail, nor would it 1)e possible for me to do so. I shall endeavor, therefore, to give you as complete an idea as I can, in the time at our disposal, of certain of the more important and vital questions with which architects have to deal in the daily practice of their profession, and I propose to begin with the question of the ten-year guarantee to which architects and builders arc subjected.

An architect before the law is one who makes the plans and specifications for a building and who directs work, whose execution is entrusted either to a contractor or to workmen. The profession is, perhaps, the oldest of all

professions. When Adam delved and Eve span, I presume Adam was his own architect ; and when Noah built the ark, I presume, also, he was his own architect under the guiding hand of Providence. Since then architecture has advanced with advancing civilization and with its advance the law in respect thereto has become gradually more and more complete, more and more crystallized by commentators and judical decisions. Our own law is that of the French law before the Code Napoleon, although that Code differs but slightly from ours on the subject.

The Architect must not only be an artist, lie must be a "savant" as well. Mathematics, Mechanics, Physics, Geometry, Geology and Law must all be his in greater or less measure. For as Desgodets says, he cannot lay the foundation of a building if he does not know what ought to be observed between neighbors with regard to fences, wells closets, cess-pools and so forth he cannot erect it, unless he knows how he should place direct and side views, customary views and those of servitudes and how lie should place chimneys, hearths, furnaces, and galleries, an(I what contribution each neighbor ought to make to the mitoyen wall. He cannot cover it, unless he knows on what side and how, lie must drain off the water and finally he cannot tear it down unless he knows the pre— cautionary measures which he must take with regard to the neighbors, who are always ready, at the least fault, to seek reparation from the proprietor. Tic might have added, that without some knowledge of the law of privilege, he will not know how to protect himself in respect of his payment for work done upon the building. In addition to this theoretic knowledge, his artistic sense must be highly developed, while on the other hand the range of his practical work-a-day knowledge must be almost. unlimited.

As I have said, we will consider this evening tile question of the ten-year guarantee.'' The nature 01 the contract entered into between the proprietor and the architect is one of "louage d'ouvrage'' or lease and hire and work—a contract by which one of the parties agrees to do something for the other in consideration of a certain price. Thus the architect leases his work represented by the plans and specifications and by his time and attention if he also directs the construction. Now, as a rule, and as a matter of common law, the reception by the proprietor of work done releases the workman in respect of that particular work, in the absence of fraud on his part but our law governing architects in this regard is found in Articles 1688 and 2259 of thc Civil Code of Lower Canada which derogate from the common law and are as follows:

(1688) If a building perish in whole or in part within ten years from a defect in construction, or even from the unfavorable nature of the ground the architect superintending the work, and the builder are jointly and severally liable for the loss and 2259 says, "after ten years, architects and contractors are discharged from the warranty of the work they have done or directed. "=

While at first sight this guarantee may seem to some unduly severe, yet reflection will lead to the conviction that it is a most salutary measure. In passing this law

* A series of lectures prepared for and delivered before the Province or Quebec Association of Architects 1903. and published by permission.

fin the Province of Quebec.

the Legislature had a three-fold object: —the proprietor was to be protected against his own ignorance, the architect and builder against their carelessness and neglect by means of this wholesome threat, and the public from the danger to which it might he exposed from the ignorance of the former and the carelessness of thc latter. We thus see that not only are private interests at stake, but also public order, and this principle will be found the very fountain and source of the architect's weighty responsibility.

What structures does the Code refer to when it says in Article 1688, ''if a building perish," and in Article 2259— that architects arc discharged from the work they have done or directed. Taking these two articles together, the Courts in France have decided that any habitation, no matter how small, for men or animals, would be considered a building. Greater repairs, modification of old buildings which would affect the solidity of the main building, the establishment of a well, of a bridge, of a terrace wall, or of chimneys have all been held by French authors to he works subject to this guarantee. Accessory works not affecting the solidity of the structure itself, would, however, not come under this heading. The question of fact in each particular case must be decided by the Court on its merits, but this guiding principle must prevail, that there is only a guarantee in respect of immovable constructions, and where time alone will discover the defects thereof.

Now, what classes of people are subject to this guarantee? Evidently not the manual laborer who only leases his services. There is no "lien die droit" between him and the owner and his liability, if any ever attaches to him, is that of the general law, that everyone is responsible for his own fault. On the other hand, the lessor of work, whose object is an immoveable is liable to this guarantee and these lessors are architects, builders and civil engineers. Under Article 1696 masons, carpenters and other workmen who undertake work by contract for a fixed price are subject to the rules prescribed in t his section. They are regarded as contractors with respect to such work. The position of the sub-contractor has been the subject of a good deal of discussion and the French authors are divided upon the subject. . Those who maintain that, as there is no "lien" between the proprietor all (1 sub—contractor, he should not be subjected to this guarantee, have the weight or jurisprudence on their side. And indeed if this were not so the principle of public order would he violated inasmuch as persons without skill and without experience would take contracts with the sole object of sub—letting them. Such a system would result to the advantage of the careless and ignorant builder, and it would multiply litigation in multiplying sub-contracts Generally speaking, therefore, we may say that those only are subject to this guarantee who have undertaken directly with the owner either the conduct or the construction of an immoveable or of an integral l)art thereof.

The architect with respect to the proprietor may occupy two different positions, and his responsibility will vary accordingly. He may only furnish the plans and specifications—or lie may, in addition, direct and control the work. What then will be the extent of his guarantee where he only furnishes the plans and specifications? With regard to the plans it is evident that he can only warrant them in so far as they have been faithfully followed. His liability therefor, will only he for defects which are the necessary consequence of the plans which he has drawn or of the specifications which he has given. Supposing that for motives of economy the proprietor himself employs the workmen to execute plans furnished by an architect, and after the building has been constructed some five or six years, it threatens to Fall down. The proprietor, in order to exercise a recourse against the architect would require to prove that the plans and specifications had been followed, and that the defect lay in them and not in the construction—such a defeat, for example, as a weak foundation or insufficient beams and so forth.

So also with respect to the material, the architect will only he liable for the mature of the material which he spe

