<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" NOTES." author="">NOTES.



Canadian exports to South Africa last year amounted to $1,931,541. For the calendar year of 1902 the imports of the South African colonies amounted to $242,000,000, the United States sending goods in that year to the extent of $221,000,000. With the aid of the preference and the direct line of steamers lately established between the Dominion and South Africa, Canada ought to successfully compete with the United States in such articles as bicycles, flour, chairs, agricultural implements, cotton, lumber, doors, sashes, blinds, household furniture, dairy products, musical instruments, carriages and h mess, hay, condensed milk and provisions.

A recent writer makes the following comments on the subject of lead roofs :—In a steep pitch roof, and which shows conspicuously against the sky, lead is hardly suitable, unless the building is lofty and monumental. When the roof is flattish and not conspicuous, lead is undoubtedly the best material for the purpose. It is particularly suited for roofs of a highly decorated nature. Special devices are used to keep the lead from creeping. In order that the lead should resist the action of the atmosphere as much as possible it is best to make the sheet from scrap, which gives a metal better suited for this purpose. Pure lead soon becomes covered with a white coating, but lead which contains a small amount of tin or antimony does not corrode as readily. Scrap lead is sure to contain considerable of these metals and so gives a better material than the pure lead.





<article title=" BUSINESS NOTES " author="">BUSINESS NOTES.



Under the enterprising management of their new president. Mr. Albert J. Pitkin, the Montreal Locomotive & Machine Company, Limited, are securing large orders for building locomotives for the Canadian Pacific, the Grand Trunk, the Quebec Central, and other Canadian railways. In view of the extensive demands made upon the company's plants the directors have authorized an increased expenditure of $400,000 for the purchase of new tools and equipment, the enlargement of the buildings and the construction of a new hotel on the property.



Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ontario Manufacturers of every grade of varnish and Japan

Luxfer Prism Company, Limited Toronto Marble Mosaic Floors