<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Competitive Design for Golf Club House.—Geo. W. Gouinlock, Architect.

Old Scotch Chair in a Glasgow Painter's Studio.

House in Brunswick Avenue, Toronto.—Bond & Smith, Architects.

Durham Castle Staircase.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Sketches of Old Buildings in Montreal by "Gargoyle' and Mr. Cecil Burgess.





ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT.

Views of Recent Toronto Fire.

Portraits of Officers of Winnipeg Builders' Exchange.

May, 1904.

CONTENTS

Editorial - - - - - -	81-82 Architects' Fees - - - - - Ancient Lights - - - - - - 83 Mural Decoration - - - - 90-91.92

New Building Regulations for Toronto - -	84-93 Notes from Quebec - - - - - - 93

Personal - - -	-	  -	  -		-	85	Montreal Letter -	-	 _		_			-	95-96

Winnipeg Builders' Exchange		-	-	-	 -	86	The "Ellkay" Bathroom		-	-		-	-		- ix

The Toronto Fire	-	-	-	-	- 87 Crystal Booth at the St. Louis Exposition	-	-	x

What Constitutes Beauty in Architecture	- —	-	88	The Ontario	Association of Architects	—	— 

Lighting of a House and its Effect Upon the Decorations	89 Report on the Baltimore Fire -	-	-	-	xii





SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.

MR. W. A. LANGTON, Architect, London, Eng.

	EDMUND BURKE,	"	Toronto.

S.	H. TOWNSEND, "

Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, Montreal.

FREDERICK G. TODD, Landscape Architect, Montreal

W.	H. ELLIOTT, Toronto. 

A.	F. DUNLOP, R.C.A., Architect, Montreal.

FRED. T. HODGSON, Architect. Collingwood, Ont.





Publication Deferred.

<article title=" OUR WINNIPEG OFFICE " author="">OUR WINNIPEG OFFICE.



The publishers of this Journal have recently opened a branch office at No. 310 McIntyre Block, Winnipeg. A resident representative has been appointed who will be exclusively employed in advancing the circulation of this Journal and in keeping our readers informed regarding the latest developments throughout the west. The kind co-operation of our friends in the west is solicited in behalf of the success of this enterprise.





The demands of other matter upon our space compels us to defer to a future issue publication of a number of specially prepared articles on cement construction intended for this number.



The variety of interpretations put

upon the British Workmen's

Compensation Act is such that contractors are kept in a state of constant anxiety and uncertainty with regard to their liability under the Act for damages to workmen. One of the latest decisions awards damages to a workman upon whom a wall fell while engaged in eating his lunch. The fact that usually this workman went home for his lunch, and that had he followed his usual practice he could not have been said to have been injured while engaged in his usual employment, seems to have had no weight with the court.

<article title=" Workmen's Compensation Act." author="">Workmen's Compensation Act.

<article title=" War and Linseed Oil.

" author="">War and Linseed Oil.

A curious illustration of the many unexpected influences which may affect the prices of commodities

in everyday use, is afforded by the present war between Russia and Japan. As is well known in consequence of this war the price of wheat has advanced to the highest point reached in many years. This has led to an increase in the area sown to wheat and a decrease in the area sown to flax. In the Dakotas the reduction in the flax acreage is placed at 50 per cent. As a result linseed oil, the product of flax, and the basic material of all good paint, seems destined to he high in price. This in turn will aggravate the evil of paint adulteration. with which everybody wanting to secure a good and lasting quality of work has had to contend for some years past.



When last year the City Council of Toronto, at the instance of the labor unions, passed an amendment to the building by-laws compelling contractors to lay down temporary floors at every storey of buildings under construction, the new regulation was regarded by architects and contractors as a hardship, involving unnecessary expense and trouble. Its necessity was, however, shown by the death of a workman in Montreal the other day, who in attempting to cross from one side of a building to the other stepped on the end of a plank

<article title=" Protection of Workmen.

" author="">Protection of Workmen.

