<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	19



<article title="" author="Watson, Charles D.">DECORATIVE CEMENT PRODUCTS.

BY CHARLES D. WATSON.



In the history of the development and use of building material the nineteenth century might well be termed the experimental age or Portland cement, but the beginning of the twentieth will surely mark the age of cement construction. Bridges, foundations, pavements, viaducts, tunnels, breakwaters, piers, reservoirs and houses are now being built of cement



































DETAILS ON IVEY WAREHOUSE AND ST. CATHARINES LIBRARY.





and its rapid advancement bids fair to fulfill what once seemed a marvellous prediction that "the house or the future will be poured or moulded in forms and the average man will select his house from standard designs as he now selects his furniture." What has long been called the building material of the future has become the material of the present.

No small portion of this rapid development of uses of Portland cement for building has been the advancement made in the manufacture of plain and ornamental cement stone.

That stone was manufactured long before the records of history is shown by the discovery of artificial stone vessels in the ancient ruins of the prehistoric mound builders. Their stoneware is supposed to have been made by pulverizing lime rock which when moistened with water, was moulded into the desired shape, set in the sun and being continually sprinkled with water the chemical action took place, the vessel became hard and at last formed a stone which has stood the test of ages and remains to-day as a striking example of the durability of cement products.

We have plenty of evidence that the Romans knew the value of concrete and wherever they have employed it in building it has demonstrated its superiority over natural stone under similar conditions. The whole of the dome of the Pantheon with its 142 ft. span is of cement concrete. The inside lining of one of the Grecian temples is of cement concrete, while the facing was of stone the latter has long since given up its struggle with the elements, but the concrete which was intended to play the minor part stands as smooth and solid as when made. A Roman aqueduct lined with cement built in the first century has been preserved in perfect condition for the past twenty centuries.

We have reason to believe that even the pyramids which have so long stood as an example of the marvelous work of a race who could perform feats in engi

*Chief Engineer <firm>Roman Stone Co</firm>., Limited, Toronto, Ont.

neering that no man is able to explain, are made merely of separate blocks of concrete.

From the fall of Rome until the dawn of the nineteenth century the use or cement was apparently little known except for cement mortars. With the discovery of Portland cement a material was again produced which made satisfactory concrete and from that time to the present day cement stone has made rapid progress, especially in Europe, where it has reached a high stage or perfection and takes high rank among the industries of England, Germany, France, and Belgium. In the year 1902 one firm alone in Germany manufactured $1,080,000 worth or cement products including plain and ornamental building stone, sewer pipe, statuary, park ornaments, etc. The company have four large plants and employ an average of 2,500 men per year. In many parts of England cement stone is extensively used and large plants are now engaged in its manufacture.

The use of cement stone in America has until recent years been less marked, due in great part to the abundance of other cheaper building material. The last decade has shown a remarkable advancement in the manufacture of stone. One of the oldest examples of this construction is the house of W. E. Ward at Port Chester, N. Y., built a quarter of a century ago and which stands in perfect preservation today. Perhaps the earliest work of any magnitude were the great hotels of























































WAREHOUSE, WELLINGTON STREET WEST, TORONTO.





Florida and California and the Pompeiia at Saratoga, N. Y. Many difficulties were met in cement construction in its early stages through ignorance of the use of Portland cement and this class of construction gained for itself the name of being very unreliable. Continued experiments and improvements in methods have to a great extent offset this feeling until now it can safely be said to be a thoroughly established enterprise which is destined to work a revolution in building construction. The business has increased from a few isolated

