<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	53



place, alto boys are usually too tall for the boys' row and had better sit with the men ; and secondly, the back seats are not likely to be filled except on festivals. The two front seats on each side, which would mean 10 men and 14 boys, would be enough for ordinary use.

The three seat arrangement is otherwise an advantage in reducing the depth of the chancel. It will permit the allowance of due spaciousness at the east end.

There ought to be no suspicion of narrowness in

in the latter, which costs nothing, deep reveals seem necessary; and these are the natural result of the hollow walls which are the churchwarden's friend and the coal dealer's enemy. As for the roof, it is not impossible to give a roof architectural character without great cost, but we are not so confident as formerly that this can be done merely by displaying its architectural essence. The real truth is that an acceptable open timber roof is acceptable only from its superfluity. The



























































































FIG. 4.—View LOOKING EAST.



front of the communion rail or within it, and abundant room must he left for this.

The depth thus given to the choir is one bay of the roof; and the walls of the organ chamber and vestry take the place of buttresses. To make the vestry gable not wider than a bay, the church can be entered under a long slope masked by a gabled porch.

Here then is a church seating 250 and, if one can rust study from a model different enough to make some guessing necessary, both convenient and economical ; that is to say, as far as the latter point is concerned, the walling is simple and dignity may depend merely on roof and windows. Apart from proportion

gothic revivalists who displayed scientific trussing have left roofs that are anything but acceptable. The safest bottom idea to have is continuity of surface. Vaulted rooms and such perpendicular roofs as that of Grawsworth are one in this respect, and indeed an open roof with trusses four times as many as is necessary or four times as heavy as is necessary is not far removed from the same feeling. If pitched rather than flat, crossed by heavy construction members and recessed or double recessed, its continuity is still the leading idea if the nature of the transverse supports is not entirely revealed and the attention directed to them. I would then try this as a way -- a way for which wood and plaster would suffice —to accomplish for this church a roof that would be both dignified and economical.

W.	A. LANGTON.

