<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



long use only can he discover the marvellously sympathetic qualities of thick black ink and white paper.



Especially is this so when we consider the double motive with which the student bends over his board. His success on the lower rungs of the professional ladder depends entirely on his being able to he of use in the draughting room while the only way in which he can assimilate any idea of what architectural details, or for that matter, anything else Architectural is like, or how big things should be, is by drawing them as they are,—plan, elevation and section, even of an acanthus leaf. That is the only way I know of becoming heir to the least morsel of the glorious heritage of tradition in our art.

Mr. Kipling has told us that there are " More than thirty ways of constructing tribal lays and every single

—one of them is right." The analogy which exists among the arts here breaks down a little. There are many ways of rendering Architecture and a great many are wrong, but happily we need only deal here with some of the right ways.

The remainder of this paper will practically amount to a comparison between the methods of the students of the R. I. B. A. and the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris and I venture to hope the meeting will agree with me that the ideal lies between the two.

Before plunging into technical questions of rendering it is worth while pointing out that a fashion in drawing is very apt to lead to a fashion in designing. I will challenge any man who has worked in an architect's office to look at some of the new buildings in Glasgow and not feel his nostrils assailed by the delicate aroma of tracing paper and seem to hear the rip of the pencil up the T square and the rattle of the sets. The technique pervading these and many more designs of the Art Nouveau adherents is not the rational technique of stone or even steel. It is the technique of the draughtsman and his tools not of the builder. It is as if a sculptor modelling in wax for bronze had forgot the nature of bronze in his enthusiasm for his wax.

Coming now to questions of practical draughtsmanship, the due relation of accuracy and speed must he considered. Inaccuracy is as inexcusable in a draughtsman as sheep killing in a collie dog. In the training of draughtsmen it is absolutely fatal to develop the over painstaking kind of drawing which encourages slow, I would almost say lazy, habits. It is here that method in setting about one's work tells. Accuracy and speed are not inconsistent in drawing any more than in whist and it takes both qualities as we all know to make a man worth a salary. This is an important point in considering methods of rendering.

As the object of all our drawing is to present a building as truly as possible in accordance with limitations imposed by scale and medium—ink, soft pencil or wash—we find certain conditions amounting to conventions imposed upon us which it were inartistic not to recognize.

An outline drawing in ink (such as is demanded by the conditions of most competitions in England) must of necessity ignore all question of local colour and shades and shadows and yet if it fails to convey the idea of mass it is wholly futile. The heavy lining in of the boundary lines of nearer masses and the thin lining in of all jointing are tricks which in inexpert hands lead to strange results, but a marvellous amount

may be expressed by this means concerning the mass, texture and scale of the work. A great mistake is often made by giving undue prominence to the jointing while the practice of jointing little bits here arid there is well enough on a working drawing but very distracting on a draught which seeks to show a committee or a client what is proposed, as there are no outlines of parts on a building as seen, arid if we adopt the convention of showing the forms of things by this convenient means the jointing which is subsidiary and does consist of lines should be rendered with a line of very different quality--thin, in pale ink, or pencil, as opposed to stout lines to show form. Some beautiful drawing of Neo Greek work appeared a couple of years ago in the "American Architect" in which these principles were observed.

In making two lines do the work of three and express the effect of a moulding, a good deal of insight is often required. The practice of breaking the inner lines of a moulding has much to recommend it as long as it does not become a mere habit or trick instead of a means of expressing the several groups or orders or separate pieces of which a moulding is made up. To line in the top and left side of all panel moulds and leave the bottom and right side open, is a convention to impart shadow too crude to be encouraged. It is little better than the old back lining to my mind.

In lining in the freehand work of caps or the enrichments of mouldings, good steady penmanship, without variation in thickness is to be aimed at, for a drawing in line once started must be homogeneous or the different parts in close proximity will appear nearer or further according to the amount of ink lavished upon them.

The fashion of drawing all freehand work in with a tremulous or loose line on the ground that hand work should contrast with mechanical work and that error in a shaky line is not so apparent as in a clean sweep, has, I think been followed too much. I do not recommend any one who has the faculty for drawing clean to a small scale, to draw shakily on purpose—it might easily demoralize the sense for refinement in the scale of detail.

I have here a sketch of Beverley Towers lined in with a laboriously shaky line. There is much charm about the drawing; the effect is quaint and the value of things stunningly well attained, but supposing a man can sketch in the direct way that Mr. Blomfield did for his book on the "Renaissance in England" he should not affect the studiously shaky line in ink over a careful pencil drawing.

As draughtsmanship is one of the lesser arts in which individual style has really no great scope, we find extremes of mannerism manifesting themselves instead. The self consciously loosehanded style is well exemplified in the drawing of the famous font in Siena. There is a little too much sleight of hand and not enough sympathy for the peculiar character of cincocento carving to be thoroughly commendable, but the fact is patent that Mr. Fulton is possessed of a rapid and business like way of putting down approximate facts. This is an example of extreme, not typical English drawing, and it is unnecessary to say that no academic draughtsman can see much virtue in it, but your academic draughts-man errs quite as much the other way. When mannerism in draughtsmanship of whatever kind gets the

