<doctype type="text">174	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ings anywhere. The floors generally are of birch. The walls even in the little operating rooms are entirely of hard plaster, with all angles rounded and the junctions with the floors effected by cavettos without fillet. A number of the private wards in the diphtheria pavilion are separated from one another and from the corridor by glazed partitions for facility in supervision. The ward nurses' rooms adjoining the wards are in a similar manner arranged with glazed partitions between them and the wards. Warmed and purified air is impelled into all the rooms through ventilating shafts from a central system. These shafts generally find their place in the ceilings of the corridors and deliver the air into the rooms at a high level. In the small rooms the outlets are at a low level—in the larger they are both high and low and the extraction is by means of fans connected with ventilators in the roofs. The whole of the sewage is disinfected in a large underground tank before being run into the public sewage system. Messrs. Marchand and Haskell are the architects.

The Protestant Hospital for contagious diseases, above referred to, is also being hastened to completion, with a view to being opened at the beginning of next year. The Alexandra Hospital, as it is called, is situated at Point St. Charles, and considerable difficulty and delay were encountered at the start owing to the natural drawbacks of the site. The cost is stated at $250,000 and great efforts are being made in order that the new buildings may be opened free of debt.

A great majority of the permits for building issued in and around Montreal are classed under the heading of ''tenements." In most cases these are merely erections of about twenty-five feet frontage on a site one hundred feet deep, more or less, and having a separate dwelling on each of two or three stories. It is the fashion to obtain access to the first of the upper floors if not also to the second, by means of external stairs not necessarily of any great beauty of design. The desirability of this arrangement is obvious for it is naturally preferable to encumber your neighbours drawing-room windows with your front stair rather than to have that stair taking up space inside your own house and incidentally in his also. The terms on which these lots are sold generally provide for the building line being set back so many feet from the street, but they do not say anything about outside stairs. Hence the surprising development of this picturesque feature. Recently some of the proprietors in the town of St. Louis have been petitioning their Council to take steps to oblige proprietors in future to construct such houses with stairs inside instead of outside.

In the Westmount Council also the question of ''flatted" houses has been the occasion of some hard thinking lately. Here the apartment house as such has been meeting severe condemnation and by-laws are proposed to prevent their being built at all as being "unsightly and generally unsanitary." A resolution of the Council, on the 6th November, declared that flats or apartments where the number of cubic feet of air was insufficient are a public nuisance and dangerous to health, and that the town engineer should be directed not to grant to persons wishing to erect such buildings the proper sewer connections. Where the aggregate floor space of a building was greater than the superficial area of the lot on which it was erected the build

ing should be considered a public nuisance. A notice of motion was given for changing the by-law on the subject.

The demand for department houses in the city of Montreal, however, is a very real one and cannot be repressed altogether in the manner such a resolution would suggest. The floor space allowed, according to the resolution, seems absurdly low, but there can be no doubt that the subject of the proper regulation of the apartment house is one of vital interest to the city at the present moment. An evidence of this from an entirely different point of view may be found in a lecture which was delivered to the Nomad Club on the 8th of November by Mr. Roswell Fisher. The title of the address was 'Homes of the Future,' and the lecturer took the view that, in the inevitable course of evolution, the apartment house was destined to be the home of the future, and, for this reason, was destined also to much higher development than it has at present reached. The nature of this development, in Mr. Fisher's opinion, was to take the form of large apartment houses provided with common gymnasia, ball rooms, club rooms, hospital service, etc. Now it is true that, even amongst the audience before which these views were expressed, a good deal of disapproval was met, but nevertheless the occasion shows another side to this question which thoughtful, practical men may be found willing to entertain and discuss.

This is a subject one would like to hear discussed by such a body of practical men as the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, but on this as on all other matters of public interest in the architectural domain, that body displays singular quiesence. Whilst all around are discussing these things it alone is dumb. One unfortunate consequence of this taciturnity is that, as has been pointed out in these notes on other occasions, it meets with its natural reward by being in turn completely ignored by a public whose interests it does not take the trouble to discuss. The competition for the mountain outlook was a case in point another ma)' be found in the amended building by-laws lately issued by the city. These amendments have been drawn up with reference to the P. Q. A. A., no suggestions or opinions regarding them being asked or given. What public interests then does this association serve?

CONCORDIA SALUS.





<article title=" SKETCH CLUB. MONTREAL Q. A. A." author="">

SKETCH CLUB. MONTREAL Q. A. A.

On the 18th of October the first Sketch Club Designing evening of the session was held. Mr. W. S. Maxwell was in charge and set the subject which was a "Memorial to an Architect", The conditions were as follows: "In a side-chapel measuring sixteen feet

square, in an English Renaissance Church of a provincial town, it is desired to place a memorial to a distinguished architect. This memorial is to provide in some suitable manner an evident receptacle for the ashes of the Architect, whose body is supposed to have been cremated. The memorial is to be isolated from the wall." Two hours was the time allowed for the preparation of the sketches which the members handed to the Secretary before leaving the room.

At the club meeting on the evening of the 1st November the sketches were exhibited and the committee's award announced, Mr. McLaren's design being placed first. In the absence of Mr. Maxwell, who was ill

