<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	-	-	-	-	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.

VOL. XVIII. No. 210.

JUNE, 1905.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Hall in No. 500 Wilbrod Street, Ottawa. Mr. J. W. H. Watts, R.C.A., Architect

Staircase in No. 500 Wilbrod Street, Ottawa.—Mr. J. W. H. Watts, R.C.A., Architect.

Bishop's Court Apartment Building, Montreal.—Messrs. Saxe & Archibald, Architects.

ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

No. 500 Wilbrod Street, Ottawa.—Mr. J. W. H. Watts, R. C. A., Architect.

Station at Bismarck, North Dakota, for the Northern Pacific R, R. --Messrs Reed & Stem, Architects, St. Paul, Minn.





CONTENTS

Editorial -	-		-	-		-	- 81-82

The Garden Front		-	 -		- 

Hamilton Convention of Master Painters and Decorators - 84

Our Illustrations —	—		—		—	—	—		—

Books -		-		-		-	- -

Lightning Research		-		-		-	-		  86

Investigation for the Improved Use of Concrete	-	86

Sky Scraper Churches	-	-	-	-	-	87

A Perfect Sewerage System for Rural Homes, Schools and

	Factories	-	-	- -	-	- 88-89

 Intercommunication	—	— —	90

Garden Architecture	-	- -	-	-	91

A Utopian Hotel Bedroom	— —	— —	92

 The New York Building Failures		-	-	-	92

Moving Platform Subway	- -	-	-	92

Montreal	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	93

Utilization of Sky Scraper Roofs	.	-	- 93

The Underwriters View of Some Failures of Construction — 94

The Rowton Houses	- -	. -	- 94

A New Style of Stove	-	- -	- 94

Profitable Treatment of Sewage	- -	-	- 94

Personal	-	-	-	- -	-	96

Retroactivity in Building By-Laws	- —	-	ix

Inspect Fire Appliances when Installed	- -	-	ix

Competitive Prize Essays on Hydraulic Cement	-	x-xi

Licensing Architects	-	-	-	- -	xii

Mr. William Simmons -	— —	-	- xii

Mr. John D. Warwick		-	 -		-		-	 -	xii

Old Glass -	-		-	-		-		- -	xiii

Mechanics Lien for Wages in British Columbia	- xiv

Arbitration	-	—	-	-	—	- xv



<article title=" OUR VANCOUVER OFFICE.

" author="">OUR VANCOUVER OFFICE.



The publishers of this Journal have recently established an office in Vancouver for the purpose of looking after more carefully the interests of subscribers and advertisers in British Columbia. This office is located at 536 Hastings Street, Suite 3, opposite Molson's Bank, and is in charge of Mr. G. A. Gall, who will be pleased to meet any of the friends of this Journal, and to serve their interests in any possible way.







<article title=" Free Plans for

Cottages

" author="">Free Plans for

Cottages

The Commercial Club of Indianapolis has applied to the architects of the city requesting each



to furnish the Club with plans and specifications for a small house that could he built for from $1,000 to $1,500. The plans are to be given all possible publicity to insure their use, and printed copies of them, filed at the Commercial Club, will be furnished for everyone who applies for them and pays a nominal fee to cover the cost of their printing. It is expected that the architects will respond favorably as a matter of public spirit and, with the plans thus furnished available, cottages will both serve the purpose of their owners much better than they do now, and will also contribute to the architectural beauty of the city. In order that

<article title=" The Sanitariness of Beauty." author="">The Sanitariness of Beauty.

they may do the latter it will be necessary for the architects to lay aside ambition and, if the competition feeling comes over them, feel that they are competing for the beauty of simplicity.



The Lancet sees in the adoption of a forced draught for destructors in London a presage of the

abandonment 01 tall chimneys for factories and of a smokeless London. One would expect the rest of the article to be chiefly concerned with the delights of cleanness and fresh air, both matters of interest to Englishmen. But not at all. The gain in health that the Lancet looks for is to come through the eye ; from seeing more beauty, or at any rate less ugliness. The Lancet does not positively say that the sight of beauty is tonic, but it does say that the sight of ugliness is depressing. "Few will deny," it says, "that a prospect can be, so to speak, noisome to the eye, and, when the harmony of prospect is ruthlessly disturbed the eye that detects it transmits a feeling of pain to the whole system. 'It gels on one's nerves,' we say of an ugly sight as of an ugly sound, and the expression has a substratum of physiological truth.' So here is en-

