<doctype type="text">94	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



has required special thought is a machine on which they take walking exercise.

Manifestly, it would be a nuisance to take the dogs all the way down to the street for their walks, and if turned out on the roof they would do more sleeping than walking. The machine is merely a treadmill, such as dogs may often be seen working to furnish power for churns or small cider presses, and it is usually regulated so that 50 minutes of the machine is equal to a walk of a mile. Each dog, however, only gets 20 minutes on the treadmill a day and, besides, the walking exercise, the work is deemed good to square the shoulders and broaden the chests of the bulldogs. The dogs do their stint of work cheerfully and as though they liked it ; in fact, they would much prefer to jog along on the machine than he shut up in their boxes.

 Architect and Builder's Journal.





<article title=" THE UNDERWRITERS' VIEW OF SOME FAILURES OF CONSTRUCTION." author="Cabot, Elliott F.">THE UNDERWRITERS' VIEW OF SOME FAILURES OF CONSTRUCTION.



In presenting to you the problem of this evening's talk I shall not try to touch upon every point in which construction may be said to have failed and the point— of-view is perhaps more correctly described as that of the insurance—engineer than that of underwriter. I should have chosen the term ''insurance-engineer" rather than 'underwriter'' were it not for the fact that the insurance—engineer as a factor in our improved knowledge of construction is comparatively new, and that to most people, the term fire underwriter expresses more definitely the idea I am here to represent.

Of the types of construction which have been most prominent of late in the minds of the public there are to which probably are to—day better known than others. These are 'mill' construction so—called because it was supposed at least to be patterned on the standard of the best types of construction for manufacturing—plants —and the so—called ''fireproof" construction.

Both of these types have been presented to the public as panaceas for the enormous fire—loss of this country (a destruction of property which is as truly a loss as if the money value represented by it had been thrown into the sea), and both of them have, in some forms of their development, failed entirely to prevent this loss.

The reasons for these failures are matters of careful study by active-minded men, trained for the purpose, and once understood will be as surely overcome as other engineering problems have been.

In the case of the so-called ''mill" construction the error seems to have been two-fold: First, in the application of this construction to work for which it was not intended and secondly, in a failure to carry out fully and properly the principles upon which this form of construction was based.

This type of building was originally designed to cover in and protect from the weather large manufacturing establishments in which strength not beauty was the leading requisite. It was designed to remedy certain defects which had appeared in the earlier type of building used for manufacturing purposes such as concealed hollows in walls and floors, unduly combustible roofs and passages for fire, but not for firemen, from one part of the building to another ; and it did overcome such difficulties to a very reasonable extent. It also improved the lighting, heating and ventilation of buildings for such work, and, in combination with the probable contents and the very excellent fire— fighting apparatus which was provided, succeeded largely in furnishing a satisfactory substitute (for mill  building) for the ''combustible architecture'' which has

preceded it. It must, however, be kept in mind that to the city building

compared	to be used for the

''storage and sale of merchandise" the mill, even the cotton—mill, contains but little combustible contents and that the mill though often containing large unbroken floor-areas is of comparatively slight height.

 When, therefore, the success of this construction

*	A paper by Mr. F'. Elliott Cabot, Assistant Secretary of the Boston Board of

Fire Underwriters, read before the Boston Society of Architects.

(which was really the First work of the insurance—engineer) in reducing the fire-loss in mills brought it to public notice, and the attempt was made to adapt it for use in stores and warehouses no adequate provision was made for the changed conditions. The requirements of trade called for offices and counting—rooms; they were partitioned oft with hard—pine sheathing. The shape and size of city lots made it difficult to put the stairways and elevator—shafts in separate brick towers, as they are in the best built mills, so the stairways and elevators were put inside the main walls of the building and were left unenclosed or only partially cut off. The desire to have attractive salesrooms led to the use of varnish in place of plain wood, or better still, well whitewashed surfaces. The necessary crowding together of buildings in cities makes thorough protection of outside openings most important. But shutters interfere with light, and require attention which, with

out	was not	red, so shutters

	mill discipline,	easily security

were neglected or often omitted.

The use of such buildings to house several tenants under one roof made t he mill discipline impossible and increased materially the danger of fire from rubbish, from careless use of matches, from many other well known causes. The lack of skilled mechanics as a part of the working force of such a building was no doubt a reason that proper fire—fighting facilities, as a part of the equipment of the building, were not more commonly provided. In short there was an attempt to use ''mill'' construction for warehouses and stores without keeping in mind its essential features, which briefly are : No ''vertical openings," no ''concealed spaces,'' the minimum of ''combustible finish,'' with ample facilities for extinguishing tire at its discovery, and ample protection from outside exposure. Under these circumstances it is not surprising that ''mill'' construction did not for city warehouses fulfill all expectations. Yet I do not feel that the construction was to blame, but the use made of it. Railroad semaphores are a necessary part of railroad equipment, and especially so in these days of fast trains, vet I once heard a first—class engine driver say that ''they got. in the way like thunder when you wanted to make time," and I fear that this is the feeling of many merchants and owners of buildings as to the essentials of mill construction.

In the case of '' Fireproof " construction, difficulty seems to have come from a different cause. As in many other matters, the American tendency to go to extremes has resulted in undertaking the construction of enormous buildings, limited only by the strength of materials as to height and by the ground available as to area. In constructing such vast buildings, it has been assumed that because a material would not, under ordinary conditions burn, it was therefore '' fireproof " or at least reasonably '' fire- resisting." The enormous expense required by such construction has led to economies which have proved dangerous and to methods which fire has tried and found wanting. No one who saw the U. S. Government Warehouse, at Baltimore, soon after the awful conflagration of last year, can have any doubt that it is possible to build a warehouse of reasonable size which would even under the terrible strain of such fire as that, be a protection to the merchandise. within its walls. If it had not been for the alt alteration in its original form made necessary by the introduction of a modern elevator, I doubt whether the expense of repairing that building would have been more than the cost of glass for t he windows and a little paint amid putty.

It may be said that this building was not exposed to the extreme test of those awful hours. Yet buildings all round it were totally wrecked, and it stands to—day

in practically its original form, except in the substitution of brick for granite for its interior columns.

And this leads me to a digression from the main thread of my argument. For thirty years every engineer,

	architect, every builder

	every	-	of repute, has

known that stone, especially granite amid marble, while not in themselves combustible, are destroyed by fire

