The Canadian Architect and Builder

<doctype type="colophon;text;contents">

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	- -	- -	-	-	EDITOR.

	OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING,	TORONTO, CANADA.



VOL. XVIII.—No. 206.

FEBRUARY, 1905.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

C.	A. & 13. Students Competition.

Blackwell's Island Bridge, East River, New York---Messrs. Palmer & Hornbostel, Architects, New York.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Section Showing Station in Anchorage of Manhattan Bridge, East River, New York.—Messrs. Palmer & Hornbostel, Architects, New York.

Church at Cohasset—By Messrs. Cram, Goodhue & Ferguson, Boston.

Drawing by Mr. Wilson Eyre in Eighteen Club Exhibition, Toronto.





CONTENTS



Editorial	-	- -	-	-	- -	17

Seventh International	Congress of Architects	- 

Drawing at the Eighteen Club Exhibition, Toronto	-	'9

The Simplification of Plumbing	- -	- - 20-21-22

Students Competition Award	-	-	- -	- 23

Ontario Association of Architects Convention	-	- 24-25

Province of Quebec Association	of Architects - 26-27-28-29-30

Standard Size of Brick	-	-	  -	-		-	31

New Pavilion for Toronto	-	-	  -		-	-	31

New Post Office at Toronto		-  	 -  	-  	- .  	-  	31

Legal - .		- 	- . 				ix

Steel Radiators -	-	-	 -	.			ix

Pickling Steel -	-	  -	 .	 -	 -	 -	ix

The Cost of Building..		-	-	-	-	-	ix

Industrial Accidents	- -	- -	- x

English Rulings	-	- -	- -	- x

One hundred and Twenty-Five Storey Structure	- -	x

Wire Wound Wooden Pipe	-	-	- -	- xi

The Fire Waste -	-		-	-	-	xii

California Excursion -		-		— 	- 	xii

German Strike Affects Canada	-		-	-	 -	xiii

The House Problem in Montreal		-		- 	- 	xiii

Household Uses for Electricity	-			-	 -	xiv



<article title=" P.Q.A.A. Code for

Competitions " author="">P.Q.A.A. Code for

Competitions.

Old as the discussion on the subject of competitions is, it has still a practical bearing as long

as there are competitions, for they are always imperfect. The Province of Quebec Association has made a contribution to it in the " Code for the Conduct of Architectural Competition agreed to at their recent Convention. They take what seems like a step backwards, in declaring the " limited " competition less commendable than the "open." The ground taken is liberal—that it serves the promoters, purpose less well. But that has also been the ground of the objection usually made to open competitions. It is more possible to get the best men to compete in an invited (and paid) competition. But the P.Q.A.A. have endeavored to give the open competition a better character by stipulating, first, that the Assessor is the proper person to fix the amount of the prizes—so that there is a better chance of the prizes being fairly remunerative—and, secondly, requiring that the first prize shall not be merged in the commission for carrying out the work, but shall be given in addition to the proper fees for this service. There is precedent for this ; and it has reason on its side, for competition drawings do not take the place of working drawings. The whole process has to be gone through again, in different style, and usually altered in form. The successful competitor, in fact, though he gets the commission, has to pay heavily out of it for the expenses of the competition. If, as seems inevitable, every step in the

Vacuum Cleaning.

process of making competitions attractive has to be made by the profession which hates them, this is a good step to make ; and the public, which benefits, had better recognize it as such.



Like all good things, this invention is obtaining continually

wider application. In London, which is probably the cleanest city in the world, both indoors and out of doors, the vacuum cleaning machine is to be seen continually, throbbing at the front door of flats and residences ; and, for the cleaning of the large interiors of public buildings, the system seems especially designed. Formerly the cleaning of a cathedral meant displacing with long mops as much dust as could be touched, and gathering up as much of it as reached the floor. The vacuum tubes are much more thorough, as they can reach wherever the mop could reach and enter the crevices better; and the dust does not appear at all—except in a closed receptacle in the machine outside the building.

New York finds the particular application of the vacuum cleaner, characteristically, in the office building. In the new Times Building all the rooms are piped to the machine in the cellar. Appliances for all cleaning purposes—sweeping floors, taking dust out of corners, from narrow spaces under furniture, from chairs and tables and even clothes—are on hand, and can be fitted to the pipe system as easily as the parts of a fishing rod are fitted together ; and a signal

