<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE NEW GRAND CENTRAL STATION,

NEW YORK.

" author="">THE NEW GRAND CENTRAL STATION,

NEW YORK.

j N	the views presented herewith are shown the architects' sketches for this great building, one showing

the exterior, the other a sectional view of the interior and the station platforms on different levels.

This building, which includes the station proper, offices of the company, post office and express office, will cover the blocks lying between Vanderbilt and Lexington avenues from Forty-fifth to Forty-third street, inclusive, and the block fronting on Forty-second street between Vanderbilt avenue and Depew Place. The main architectural features are governed





















































T

HE imposing main entrance to the station on Forty-second street is composed architecturally of three massive arches, each 33 feet wide and 60 feet in height. On entering, the passenger will find himself in a vast ticket lobby, 90 feet in width by 300 feet in length. In the centre of this building will be a long oval structure, containing the ticket offices. To the right of this and forming part of the main lobby, will be the outgoing baggage room. On the opposite side of the lobby the passengers will leave the ticket lobby through three main arches, corresponding to the entrance arches, and enter a broad gallery, which runs around three sides of the grand concourse. The ticket lobby and this gallery, it should be understood, are at street level, From the gallery passengers will descend

strictly by the ground plan, the dominant architectural elements being determined in every case by the structural engineering necessities of the station. The southerly facade will stretch for 300 feet on Forty-second street, and the westerly facade will reach for 68o feet on Vanderbilt avenue. The building will extend 625 feet on Forty-fifth street, 400 feet on Lexington avenue, 275 feet on Forty-fourth street, and 260 feet on Depew Place. The southerly half of the building encloses the station proper, this portion extending as far north as the northerly side of the great arched roof, seen in the perspective view. The northerly part of the building is given up to the offices of the company.





















































by four broad staircases, each 25 feet in width, to the floor of the grand concourse, which, by the way, is considerably the largest of its kind in the world. Its width is 160 feet, its length 476 feet, and the height from the floor to the top of the domed roof is 150 feet. The noble arched and domed roof of the concourse will extend entirely across the full width of the station building, a distance of 300 feet, or from Vanderbilt avenue to Depew Place; but the concourse floor will be carried westerly under Vanderbilt avenue for a distance of 170 feet. Back of the concourse, and located under the ticket lobby, will be the main waiting room, which will have twice the area of the waiting room of the present station. Surrounding it will be several retiring rooms, telephone and telegraph booths, and







































	Tickes Lobby, 90 X	feet

	Suburban Loop	        Waiting Rooms

		Suburban passages to N. Y. Subway and street

LONGITUDINAL SECTION THROUGH THE NEW GRAND CENTRAL STATION NEW YORK, SHOWING THE TWO TIERS OF TRACKS

 & Wetmore and Reed Stem Architects