<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	119



and marsh gas. Wind, rain and frost all compress it, and, if a cellar is not properly protected, it constitutes an area of diminished pressure into which the ground air passes and thence into the house above. So the precautions necessary in building a country house begin at the beginning.

The hook is not long and its matter will not he new having good knowledge of 

to persons	a sanitation, hut

the points to be considered are brought together in a manner that has the merit of being very readable.

<article title=" SAND-LIME BRICK " author="">

SAND-LIME BRICK.

The use of Sand-Lime brick is not Precisely a new idea. Brick made by a similar process have been made in Germany for some time and are said to have been used for government buildings ; which (in Germany) is a mark of excellence. The strength and durability

of

lime mortar are already known to be equal to that of brick. The old brick buildings in Spain have 2 inch bricks and inch joints so that they are one—third built of sand and lime. The writer has stood upon the springing of a Roman barrel vault of stone which, though the crown has fallen long ago, still holds up, and overhangs the perpendicular by means of the tenacity of its mortar.

Mr. H. C. Duerr, Secretary of an Association formed in the interest of the Sand-Lime brick industry, gives this account of the process of manufacture.

''The process of manufacturing Sand-Lime Bricks is very interesting and illustrates the value of science in shortening Nature's methods. Chemically these bricks reasonable Indian Sandstone, but they are free from the flaws and fissures which make stone perishable when sudden contraction and expansion take place through climatic changes or conflagration. The materials are pure sand silicate and high calcium lime, which acts as the bond. These ingredients are thoroughly mixed until every particle of sand is coated with lime, and as the sand is graded in size, the interstices are filled when the mixture is put under a heavy pressure in the moulds. The bricks are piled on cars and run into a hardening cylinder where the pressure is 150 pounds from ten to twelve hours. As soon as the bricks are cool they possess a clear metallic ring and are ready to be laid at once in the wall. The entire process does not require more than 24 hours. These bricks, like some quarried stone, grow harder in time as they remain exposed to the air, for the chemical union of the ingredients continues its process for some time."

The best Sand-Lime bricks are low in porosity and there has already been a fire in a large furniture warehouse built with them which left the walls standing with the same appearance (in a photographic illustration) as if they had been built of clay brick.

The brick find favour with the contractors because they are uniform in size, as they are all pressed in moulds and are not expanded, contracted or warped in the process of manufacture. The evenness of size makes building and bonding the easier.

They are said, by the writer quoted above, to ''possess unlimited possibilities, from an architectural standpoint, because they can be made of any colour and shade". We may wait for more certain demonstration of this. The permanent building colours that we know of, in brick and terra—cotta, are the result of colouring matter in chemical combination with the material before the application of heat. A mechanical mixture has not

the same certainty of result. In the application of colouring matter to the formation of concrete promise has so far resulted in nothing. In the meantime the natural colour of the Sand-Lime brick is said to nearly approach that of Indiana limestone, and that sounds like good architectural colour. For stonework the lightest coloured stone is best as it gives full value to planes and to details. Brick is rather a question of mass, but the shadows still have value, and a light colour is associated in our minds with dignified architect ore.

What the special liability to imperfection is in Sand-lime brick has not yet. been made public, but there must be chances of irregularity in an artificial product of sand and lime against which it is necessary to guard. Prof. Ira H. Woolson, of Columbia University, has been making experiments on behalf of the Bureau of Buildings of New York, which cover not only this material but various artificial stone products and concrete bricks, and has arranged his results in the form of a specification of tests which (as it conies to us in an exchange) we have printed below. The disadvantage of the artificial building materials is the necessity of tests of a rather elaborate nature but there is no other way to certainty.



<article title=" RULES FOR THE TESTING OF NEW MATERIALS IN CONSTRUCTION " author="">RULES FOR THE TESTING OF NEW MATERIALS IN CONSTRUCTION.

The Bureau of Buildings of the Borough of Manhattan, have gone into an investigation as to what specifications should govern in the acceptance. of the newer building materials. This was made necessary by the introduction of such new materials as sand brick, cement brick and hollow concrete blocks. Common building brick having been accepted as having sufficient strength, they were taken as the basis on which to fix the specifications and the bureau proceeded to find what strengths were indicated by the common building brick. Therefore the series of tests were carried out try Professor Ira H. Woolson, Adjunct Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Columbia University, New York City, with a view to determining such factors as were necessary to the selection of proper specifications. The method of operation arid details of tire test were recently published in Engineering News.

Prof. Woolson finds as a result of these tests that figures for transverse strength given in engineering books, show results from 20 to 50 per cent, too high. There also seems to be no conformity between the transverse and crushing strength. or between strength and absorption. The crushing strength of common brick, as represented by the product of the Hudson River Valley, is close to 4,000 pounds tier square inch. When crushed wet, this figure is always lower from 10 to 45 per cent. For absorption tests, Prof. Woolson recommends only partial immersion. He also recommends that the methods of testing bricks should be standardized, so that results will be comparable.



As a result of the above tests, the following regulations have been formulated by R. P. Miller, chief engineer of the Bureau of Buildings, and approved by Isaac A. Hooper, superintendent of buildings, Borough of Manhattan, New York City:



(r)	The regulations are to apply to all such new materials as are used in building construction, in the same manner arid for the same purposes as natural stories, brick arid concrete are now authorized by the building code.



(2)	Before any such material is used in buildings, an application for its use arid for a test of the same must he tiled with the superintendent of buildings. A description of the material and a brief outline of its manufacture must be embodied in the application.



(3)	The material must be subjected to the followed tests Transverse, compression, absorption, freezing arid fire. Addition— at tests may be called for when, in the judgement of the superintendent, the same may be necessary. All such tests must be made at some laboratory of recognized standing', under the supervision of the engineer of tire Bureau of Buildings. The tests will be made at the expense of the applicant.



(4)	The results of the tests, whether satisfactory or riot, must

