<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	57



money would indeed facilitate any building operation Let us hope that this may soon be the case.

It is not the province of the architect to formulate the financial scheme or to place the securities of the project. He may be called upon to design a new building, introducing features which will make it superior to its competitors. He is usually expected to prepare preliminary plans, specifications, and to give an estimate cost of building, carrying charges and operating expenses in the shortest possible time. He should theoretically not put in anything that is not of use. He should at the same time make his building pleasing to the public, without adding necessarily to the cost.

Assume. for instance, that it is proposed to finance the construction of a high office building in some great centre. To insure a good income, the requirements, above the first and second storey, would probably be to have as many windows as possible, not too large to be easily operated and vet as 

large as practicable.

Each window would he separated from each other window, preferably by masonry, as it is advisable to have as little steel as possible exposed to the elements, but steel thoroughly covered with cement masonry is supposed not to deteriorate.

Projections over adjoining property should be dispensed with to avoid legal complications. Many title guarantee companies discriminate against such encroachments. A large cornice is a disadvantage to windows under it.

Therefore, the requirements which confront the architect are a flat wall pierced with windows at equal intervals, like a waffle iron, and not even relieved by a large projection.

Although this is a very difficult proposition, it is certainly a very interesting one.

The high building is essentially American. it is a new proposition and requires more originality to solve than a problem where sonic historic example from the Old World may be taken as a prototype

Would it not seem as if these requirements might best be met by the application of' colors? If some one would use bright colored terra cotta, for example, omitting large projections, but with a handsome sky line, make a beautiful building, he would indeed deserve the thanks of the community. For the skyscraper has come to stay, and the business centres of our large cities will be rebuilt.

The Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Romanesque, and Gothic architects all felt the want of color and used it, and although color had perhaps better not be suggested by an architect until he is quite sure that he will he employed, it seems to be a subject for serious consideration.

It is of the greatest importance to have the description of a proposition as brief as possible, but covering all the points. A resume of the specifications is of great benefit.





<article title=" THE IDEAL HOUSE." author="">THE IDEAL HOUSE.

Lecturing in Philadelphia, Dr. Robert Ellis Thompson described the city house of the future. He said it would contain no stoves. Cooking will he done by power, the building will be heated from a central plant, elevators will run from cellar to garret, and breakfast, lunch, and dinner will be supplied from a cooperative centre. The era of scientific cooking on the co-operative plan has been inaugurated in Bergen, Norway, where for nearly a generation cooking has been banished from the home, and all receive their meals from co-operative centres.

Not only will the house of the future he cleaned by power, hut the dust will he removed by a pneumatic exhaust system. Streets will he cleaned in like mantier, and the dust and dirt will he carried away into the country, so that country people may vet visit the cities for a breath of fresh air.





Hospital Nurse These new patent fire escapes are great blessings." ' Hospital Doctor " Indeed they are. It is much easier to cure fractures than burns.

OUR HOMES TO WARM

The man who strives, at the expense of his coal pile and peace of mind to maintain a temperature of 68 or 70 degrees in his home incurs a needless waste and endangers his health is the conclusion of Dr. Henry Mitchell Smith, a Brooklyn physician. Dr. Smith has spent years in the study and observation of the effect of an over-heated and over-dry indoor atmosphere upon the health, and has come to the conclusion that what is needed when the thermometer registers say, 65 degrees, is not more heat, but more moisture in the air. When it is taken into account that 25 per cent. of the cost of heating is expended in raising a temperature from 60 to 70 degrees, it will he seen that Dr. Smith has solved a great economic problem, as well as pointing a way to the preservation of health. A moment's thought recalls the fact that we often sit out of doors in the spring and summer with perfect comfort at a temperature that would cause us to shiver in our rooms in winter. These widely different conditions Dr. Smith attributes to the presence of humidity in the one instance and its absence in the other.

Dr. Smith has so repeatedly demonstrated the fact that an indoor temperature of 65 degrees is more balmy and agreeable than a much higher temperature, provided there is sufficient humidity that, lie declares, it should be a cardinal rule that if a room at 68 degrees is not warm enough for any healthy person it is because the relative humidity is too low, and in such a case the proper procedure is to raise the relative humidity not the temperature. lie recommends that every household should have a hygrometer, or moisture indicator, and that water should he evaporated in rooms in sufficient amount to secure a relative humidity of about 60 per cent. In the absence of the hygrometer a simple test will he to evaporate a sufficient amount of moisture to make the room comfortable at 65 or 68 degrees.

One point emphasized by Dr. Smith is that every time we step out of our houses during the winter season we pass from an atmosphere with a relative humidity of about 30 per cent. into one with a relative humidity of, on an average, 70 per cent. '' Such a sharp and violent contrast must be productive of harm, particularly to the delicate mucous membranes of the upper air passages.

The remedy is to maintain the indoor humidity at the proper point —between 60 and 70 per cent.





<article title=" THE CAMPANILE, VENICE " author="">THE CAMPANILE, VENICE.

The committee entrusted with the superintendence of the work in connection with the re-erection of St. Mark's Campanile, says the correspondent of the Glasgow Herald, has published particulars of the progress made during the past year. The report states that, during 1904, 3076 trunks of larch trees, having an average diameter of eight inche sand length of from 12 to 13 feet, have been driven into the ground around the old foundations, which have been thus strengthened sufficiently to bear a load of 16,000 tons and support a pressure of 4.82 tons to the square foot. Larch trees have been used in preference to oak, as their trunks are straighter. The spaces between these piles have been filled up with cement and stones, the whole forming a solid and reliable base on which to raise the superstructure. This foundation has been further strengthened by placing above it a further row of piles laid lengthwise and covered with cement. Up to the present the total expenses connected with the work amount to 115,588 lire (or about 46231.), 79,914 lire having been spent during 1904 and 36,674 lire in the preceding year. Still greater precautions are to be taken to insure the stability of the new structure, and it is estimated that before the base is considered thoroughly reliable a sum approximating 8000/. will have been expended.





Messrs. Stewart & Langley, contractors, of Niagara Falls, Ont., recently constructed in twenty-eight days 471 cubic yards

12 inch concrete walling for the now chemical works at Longford, Ont., of which Mr. F. D. Pitt, of Niagara Falls, is the architect. This may well be considered rapid work.

