<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	79

system of apprenticeship and employment, so as to prevent as far as practicable, the evil growing out of deficient training in the responsible duties of selecting, arranging and fitting up materials, relating to thc hydraulic and sanitary condition of dwellings, public and private institutions to create and maintain a sanitary code at as high a standard as the progress of science, (chemical, philosophical and mechanical knowledge)

teaches and we agree to carry forth, with tireless zeal, thc work to which thc above language relates.



It was decided to hold the next convention in Victoria on Good Friday, 1906, and to have the Provincial Association represented by two delegates at the National Convention to be held in Winnipeg in July this year.

A pleasing feature of the first day was a banquet tendered the visiting delegates by the Vancouver Master Plumbers and at the close of the convention a hearty vote of thanks was tendered the local association for its hospitable entertainment of the delegates. A hearty vote of thanks was also accorded the president for the able manner in which he had presided over the business of the Convention.

Following the close of the meeting the delegates were treated to an auto ride through the city and park by the supply firm, Robertson-Godson Co.



<article title=" COLONIAL CONTRACTS " author="">COLONIAL CONTRACTS.

It is often pointed out that our self-governing Colonies are our best customers. They are, however, by no means as good customers to us as they might be, and no obstacles which lie in the way ought to be left unattacked until they are absolutely removed. One of these is thc want of facilities given to the contractor on this side to gain the fullest particulars of works forthcoming in the Colonies. It is not that machinery is lacking which would enable the necessary information to be made available to all whom it may concern. The Colonies possess in London admirable officers in their agents-general, and most of these have also an inspecting engineer attached to them. We may say at once that no blame is attributed to these gentlemen. We have invariably found them most courteous arid most willing to leave no means untried to give the fullest information at their command. The fault lies on the other side of the water. The respective governments prefer to keep a dog and a valuable dog at that—and do all the barking themselves. When contracts for construction of railways or trainways, or bridges, or for materials are required, tenders are invited in a Local Government Gazelle, which practically nobody sees in England, and just sometimes there appears a notice at the bottom of the advertisement stating that a copy of the specifications may be seen at the office of the Agent-General. As little of the material required is manufactured in London itself, and as most specifications are of such an intricate nature that a firm proposing to tender would wish, and would require, to take away a copy, and refer to it over and over again while preparing their tender, the least that could be expected is that copies should be obtainable here at a reasonable price by all bona fide contractors. It is all very well to say that all big firms have agents in the capitals of our large colonies. If the governments we refer to desire by these means to compel firms who wish to do business with them to establish agencies in the Colonies, all we can say is that such a policy is a short-sighted and penny-wise pound-foolish one. The benefits conferred upon the Few agencies which may happen to he in the Colon)' and able to undertake the special work in question, which may be narrowed down often to one, or if not to two or three who will combine, can only mean that the governments will have to pay a higher price for what they want than would be the case if the competition had been made more widely known, and this will outweigh any minor advantages accruing from the agency itself. In the second place, this only affects

large houses, and the small man ought to have a chance as well. But this is by no means all. The worst feature of the proceedings is that, while our contractors and manufacturers are left to grope in the dark, our Continental competitors arc placed in a much better position. As soon as these specifications are obtainable in the Colonies, the German, Belgian, and other commercial agents attached to the various consulates obtain a copy and send them, sometimes wire them, to their headquarters. The German, Belgian, etc., competitor can go into the commercial museum of his town and see the specifications, and for a few pence he can get a typewritten copy. These museums are generally worked on a particular plan, the peculiarity of which strikes one very forcibly when it is contrasted with our methods. When we have any information we trumpet it about for the benefit of the world at large, so that everyone might come and help himself. When a foreign publication, say, for instance, one of those emanating from the museums of which we have spoken above, wishes to give a tip about a forthcoming contract, they take very particular care to restrict the information closely to their own countrymen, and the announcements are worded somewhat like this "A telephone system is to be established in one of the islands of the Mediterranean, and intending tenderers who are citizens of this Country may obtain full information at the museum." We see similar announcements very frequently, always mingled with two regrets -the first, that we are not able to give our readers the information they require ; and the second, that our methods do compare so unfavorably with those of others. We hear so much talk about more or less intricate aspects of the fiscal question by people who understand them more or less—generally less—and who are more or less disinterested also, we are afraid, generally less—and the differential value of the gold standard, and the merits of giving long over-sea credits and other words, and words and nothing but words, until we are sick and tired of it, and do long for the interspersion of a few grains of common-sense and a little more practical method of dealing with our commercial problems.

The (London) Contract Journal.



THE DEVIL'S DOOR.

A writer in the Western Times records that at Mulion Church, Cornwall, a devil's door exists. Mr. Harry Hems says in reference to this There are hundreds of old churches where these doors occur. All ecclesiastical edifices rejoicing in the possession of a south door, with a northern one immediately opposite to it, own a devil's door, i.e., the north one. It has been the custom ever since our Norman ancestors, after the Conquest, first introduced fonts into this country to place the font in the centre of the western end of the nave, immediately midway between these two doors. When a christening took place both doors were invariably opened, and at the sign of the Cross the Holy Spirit entered by the south door and his Satanic Majesty took a hasty departure through the north ! It was For this reason that in the good old times no decent Christian cared to rest his bones in the northern portion of the churchyard a part of God's Acre reserved, as a rule, for suicides and other such-like unfortunates.



AM ER I CAN RADIATOR COMPANY IN CANADA.



The American Radiator Company has recently acquired the foundry plant of the Cockshutt Plow Company, at Brantford, Ontario, The Company will rapidly remodel these works with a view to making therein suitable lines of IDEAL Steam and Water Boilers, for which a good demand already exists throughout the Dominion, largely due to extensive advertising. The Company will not for the present manufacture Radiators there.

The continually expanding unity in commercial affairs now developing between the States and the Provinces, and thc similarity of demand and trade conditions all combine to justify the expectation that the American Radiator Company can prove the broadest application of its title and policies on Canadian soil, as well as it is doing in the United States.



Mr. J. M. Gander, plasterer and contractor, of Toronto, is paying a visit to England, after an absence of eighteen years.

