<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	107



Then again, how can the girder, with its load of beams and their loads, transmit its load to the column, when the shear members imbedded in it are depending upon the adhesion of the concrete to the steel, to resist the enormous shearing strains at the end of the girder. These points are brought out merely to emphasize the necessity of consistency in the design of reinforced concrete.

The chords must he of sufficient strength, and they must be properly secured, or they will not do their duty. The web or shear members must also be of sufficient strength, and they must he properly fastened to the chords, or they will be a menace to the structure, from the fact that they give a false sense of security.

The use of reinforced concrete has progressed so rapidly that except among technical men who have devoted special study to the subject, there is a lack of knowledge decidedly to the advantage of the material. Even among architects, the men who have to specify its use and who must determine the relative values of the various systems, there is so little real knowledge of the subject, that. they are inclined to waive all responsibility and try to make the construction stand up by placing the contractor under a bond.

It is. needless to say that the less real knowledge .a fire-proofing company may have of the subject, the more willing it will be to sign a guarantee, imbuing its system with supernatural powers, and blinding the eyes of the owner, with a money security, to t he possibility of a collapse which may send him and his associates into eternity. What good will a bond do them ? It may replace the building. It surely will not replace the loss of life due to incompetent design. Why should an owner consent to place himself and his associates under the shadow of a reckless design It is for two reasons, the love of the almighty dollar and the lack of the risk being taken.

appreciation 

Two fireproofers may be asked in a general way, ''What does your system of fireproofing cost per

square foot ?" The answers, because of the variation, are surprise to the owner. One man quotes a standard price. He uses the same construction regardless of span or capacity, and offers to give a bond that his floor will have the required strength. The other takes more time to consider, figures out accurately the quantities of materials required to do the work in a scientific manner and quotes a price consistent with the design. The work is awarded to the first , lie being the lower bidder, and the owner moves his business into quarters which are a continual menace to public safety. He is simply letting apples be shot off his head and feeling that he will not be hit because the marksman has had pretty fair success picking apples heretofore, and he has put up a bond to shoot straight this time.

In talking to an architect a few days ago, the writer dropped a few remarks about the probabilities of a collapse in concrete-steel construction and the desperate chances some people are taking. ''Well," said the architect, ''you are the last person on earth I expected to hear talking that way," and he spoke the truth. He has had concrete-steel men pumping concrete impossibilities his way until he expects them all to be prevaricators of the rankest nature.

Concrete is subject to all of the faults of building materials and a few more. Every ingredient must be perfect. Mixing and placing must be perfect. It must have the time to acquire its strength Any one

proper 

of these points failing it is no better than so much mud. The question arises, if a material, hazardous in itself, must be used, should not. the reinforcement be placed in such a way as to reduce to a minimum the possibility of a collapse? There can be but one answer; do the reasonable thing; supply in steel what is lacking in the concrete, and do it consistently throughout the design from the centre of the slab to the base plate.

Concrete—steel is like all other good things. It is common sense from the beginning to the end. If reason calls for a certain thickness of slab then it should be used, for to cut down in so essential a feature is taking

a responsibility for the lives of others. If common sense says, place reinforcement here or there, then it should he so placed in spite of the cost in excess of that design neglecting it. A prominent engineer once said to the writer, ' If your design does not look to you symmetrical, common sense, logical, consistent, then keep on until you get it. '' Every word was true and it has been the greatest aid in the design of structures, to feel when the conditions were attained, a kind of self— satisfied confidence that the design would fulfill the conditions of those words.

In consideration of the conditions outlined, what is the owner to do in regard to the fireproofing of his building? In the first place he is to realize that the fireproofing is the most important part of the construe— tion, without exception, upon which it is his lot to pass.

In the second place he, in conjunction with the architect, should settle beyond a doubt the exact form of construction which he proposes to pay for.

Far too often is a general contract signed in which no provision is made in regard to the fireproofing to be used other than that it should fulfill certain tests, when with proper attention the best might be had without additional cost. The result is, that the contractor not being hound to any particular system, is free to take such bids as he sees fit. The well-designed system, upon which he may have originally based his hid, is unable to meet the price of reckless competition and it is crowded out to give its place to one deficient. in thickness of slab, or quantity and correct design of reinforcement.

The reputation of the architect and his own personal interests demand in every way, that only such a system be used as is fully consistent with the requirements imposed upon it and above all things, when an owner buys fireproofing, he ought to get what he wants, for it is his head it is going to hang over.

Summing up, the following points may be noted as worthy of thought

A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. No matter how strong the longitudinal reinforcement is, the shear member may prove the weak link causing the wreck of the whole. Be consistent from the load to the support.

A bond will not contribute to the strength of the design, nor will the fact that one panel has stood a strenuous test be any criterion that the next will do the same, if the design is not logical and consistent throughout.

The man who wants the best must select it for himself when lie pays the price, or he will get a substitute, carrying with it a continual menace to business and human life.

The importance of the reinforced concrete work as a part of the entire structure has been considered. The architect and owner may fully realize the necessity of good designing in reinforced concrete as well as in other materials, but the question arises in their minds, ''If this work is to be done by companies designing under patented systems, and is to he entirely a work of specialty, how are we to get the desired results?

The first thing of importance for the architect to consider, is the specification. It lies within his power to lay down certain rules, which designers, in submitting their schemes, must adhere to. In order. to make consistent specifications, however, something of a knowledge of the subject is absolutely necessary. Requirements should be made in such a general way as not to exclude good systems of construction in favor of any particular one, but they should not he so general as to allow the indiscriminate figuring of those companies

	to	.	 inconsistent

 known submit habitually design with engineering principles.



One of the first matters for consideration should be that the concrete—steel designer will have the liberty of designing the reinforced concrete portions of the work in such a way as is most consistent with his system. He shall submit details sufficient to illustrate his method of construction and furnish a specification clearly setting forth the thickness of the slabs and the

