<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	173



MONTREAL NOTES.<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="Salus, Concordia">

The contagious diseases pavilions of the Hospital of Notre Dame, known under the name of St. Paul's Hospital, have now been formally opened. The consecration of the buildings by Archbishop Bruchesi took place on the 29th of October and for some days thereafter the buildings were thrown open to public inspection. They are situated close to Sherbrooke Street on the east side of Lafontaine Park. This is one of two hospital the one Protestant the other Catholic to-

ings which are finished have a neat and cheerful appearance, with low pitched slated roofs overhanging broadly at the eaves in a picturesque way. The walls are faced with brick made of sand and lime which is having considerable vogue in Montreal just now. The brick is of a pleasant grey color, and is soft and pliable, though it is said to harden with time. In this case the surface has been diversified in places by the introduction of bricks of a darker tint in a not too worrying lattice pattern.

































































































wards which the city has undertaken to contribute during twenty five years an annual subsidy of fifteen thousand dollars each. The main building or new Hospital of Notre Dame proper is intended for general cases. This part of the work is still in course of erection whilst the contagious diseases portion of St. Paul's Hospital, standing on the opposite side of Maisonneuve Street, is now in operation. A tunnel under the street connects the two buildings. The main kitchen is in the basement of the general hospital. The build

The St. Paul's Hospital accommodates one hundred patients and has cost $225,000. Diphtheria, scarlet fever and measles alone are treated. The buildings have been finished with severe simplicity, and it has not been found possible with the means available to adopt a fireproof construction, a fact much to be regretted in an institution of the kind, In the Administrative building as well as in the various pavilions simplicity is the ideal striven for. The doors are flush paneled. There are no architraves and no mold

