<doctype type="text">104	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



system for a sufficient length of time to thoroughly heat the building before the fresh air inlets are opened and the breathing process of the building is begun. All toilet rooms are separately ventilated to a stack that is kept heated at all times.

The average cost for heating and ventilation by this method for the last two firing seasons, with soft coal at $1.88 per ton, has been 36.1 per cent. per pupil.

dors are paved with granitic mosaic, with six-inch borders and bases of marble, or are of narrow maple flooring closely laid.

Basement floors are of granitoid or cement, with an asphalt finish in toilet rooms. Class rooms are floored with closely laid maple flooring. Such woodwork as is used is of quartered oak and simple in design.

All class room doors open into corridors in the line

















































All outer and interior bearing walls are of hard brick laid in Portland cement mortar. Interior non-bearing partition walls are of hollow tile, and the buildings are plastered with cement or hard plaster. The interior framing is of steel girders and floor beams, the spans varying from 10 feet to 12 feet. Floors are constructed with a system of concrete and metal. Some of the later buildings have floors constructed entirely of armored concrete.

All stairways are of iron or armored concrete five

of direct travel to the exits, and are leather-covered and equipped with floor hinges.

The plumbing is of the most approved sanitary type, and is installed like the balance of the work, under a system of rigid inspection. The water closets are installed in a series of automatic flushing ranges, the frequency of the flush being regulated by the flow of water into the flush tank. Each closet is vented at the closet seat through a 1-inch by 6-inch vent opening.

'[he urinals have marble partitioned stalls ; are automatically flushed the same as the water closets, and















































feet wide ; the wearing surface of the treads are covered with asphaltum, which renders them noiseless and non-slipping. The roofs where pitched, are covered with slate or tile, cemented and nailed to concrete or sheathing. Flat roofs are cemented and covered with composition roofing. Gutters are lined with vitreous tile bedded in asphaltum, or are of copper, copper being also used for the downspouts. Corn-

are vented through an opening along the base at the floor. The vent ducts from water closets and urinals are connected to a heated stack, the fresh air, after making the circuit of the room, passing out through the fixtures themselves through these vent ducts to the stack.

<article title=" EQUIPMENT." author="">EQUIPMENT.



Class rooms are equipped with natural slate black

