<doctype type="text">56	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MODERN METHODS OF FINANCING

BUILDING OPERATIONS.*

" author="Russell, Charles W.">MODERN METHODS OF FINANCING

BUILDING OPERATIONS.*

By CHARLES W. RUSSELL, of Clinton & Russell, New York.



The methods of financing building operations vary in different places. In New York many schemes have been adopted for a while, to give place at length to other methods.

For example, when apartment houses were first introduced they became very popular. Then what was known as the co-operative apartment house scheme was invented. The promoters would get the refusal of a piece of land, have plans drawn and organize a company of people who wanted homes. The plan was to give the owner of a certain amount of stock a perpetual lease of an apartment (very similar to the custom an in Venice of different floors in a building belonging to different owners.) A great many large apartment houses were built on this scheme, but after one notable instance, in which the mortgage was foreclosed and the stockholders wiped out, this method was abandoned.

Formerly much of New York city was built on leasehold property, and many of the finest stores are on leased land, such as A. T. Stewart's (now John Wanamaker's), Tiffany & Co., Union Square; W. J. Sloane, and others. But at the present time very little is loaned on leasehold, and it is almost impossible to finance a large proposition in New York, if the fee of land is not included.

This is not the case in Chicago, where many years



large and high buildings are on leased ground.

Most of the dwellings in the large cities of the world have been built by operators building rows of similar houses and selling them separately. This form of operation appeals to a large number. Men of small capital can start in a small way, and by investing their profits in more houses often build whole neighborhoods. They are usually successful during rising markets. Of course, houses reproduced a number of times can be built more cheaply than separate houses.

The plan of finance is often to employ an "architect" to make the plans of one house. A loan is then procured, and the different subcontractors are induced to wait for their final payments until some of the houses are sold.

But there are many builders who built very good houses to sell, in New York, and a large number of fire-proof residences have been built and sold, and not a few have brought between one hundred thousand and two hundred thousand dollars each in the last few years. There are very few private residences built at present on Manhattan Island, apartment houses being the vogue.

In the financing of a building operation, the promoter has usually to provide the difference between the amount of money that can be borrowed on the enter-p rise and the cost of it. The permanent loan is usually made by a financial institution on a conservative basis, loaning only 50 or 60 per cent. of the value of the enterprise at a low rate of interest. If the conservative institutions decide for certain reasons not to loan money, there is very little promoting done until they wish to again loan. Of course, there is a great deal of money loaned by private individuals, but their loans are generally of smaller amounts.

There are institutions which make a business of loaning and selling the mortgages to private individuals. Thus, the financial institutions have the first claim on most enterprises. They decide whether there will be an active business or not. If they are desirous of loaning, there are always operators who are anxious to promote enterprises.

As the size of operations in this country has increased to enormous proportions, so have construction companies, been formed with very large capital. Some of these have increased their scope until now they will underwrite the mortgage and assist in financing the whole operation and build the building. This class of operation is almost exclusively confined to central and staple property.

* Paper read at the 38th Annual Convention A. L. A., Washington, D. C.

A popular mode of procedure for men who wish to operate in real estate, is to form a company, usually called a realty company, and for each particular building operation a subsidiary company is formed by the parent company, which method, under the laws of the State of New York, eliminates the element of personal liability of the stockholders.

There is a large field for these realty companies, managed on conservative lines, and they are of great advantage to people who are forced to improve their property. It may be that their buildings are too poor to compete with new neighbors, or too old, or that they have been destroyed by fire, etc., or for other reasons. For example, a man has a piece of property in a business centre which he is forced to sell or improve, and which is appraised at, say, $1,000,000; it does not carry itself, and there is not a ready sale for it at that price. A realty company might make the following proposition, viz.: To erect on it a building costing, say, $1,000,000; to pay him for his land $600,000 in cash and $400,000 in second mortgage bonds of the company. The realty company would borrow from a financial institution, say, $600,000 on the land, and say $500,000 on the building as it progresses. After paying the owner $600,000, they would have $500,000 in cash for the building, and the stockholders would have to put in the balance, $500,000, and own the equity. In some instances the company issues no second mortgage bonds, but only stock.

There are many men who are forced to sell or improve their property, and while they have not the means to improve it themselves, they would prefer to keep an interest in it to selling it altogether, and they also feel that the experts in the realty company know better than they what the nature of the improvement should be. Perhaps the owners are not in this country, or perhaps they are not in a position to wish to take much trouble in posting themselves as to the requirements.

Some proposition like the above, in which they retain stock, naturally appeals to them. Of course, if the realty company puts in very little cash, it may prove a poor operation for the owner of the land, as he is taking most of the risk, and had better get most of the profits.

The financing of large building operations has been tried on very much the same lines as railroads are financed, that is, issuing bonds and stock in shares of, say, $100 each. Also large operations have been put through in Boston, I am told, by selling only stock in small shares without the property being bonded, and again other large operations have successfully carried out by selling first mortgage bonds in small amounts. The stock in such an instance representing no payment in cash, but professing to represent the earning power over expenses.

These plans have not been popular in New York.

Real estate has increased so much in value in large cities that it would not be possible for most men to invest in it if it were not through these companies. While formerly only the rich were able to participate in large enterprises, now, through the large corporations, the people can be interested in all the great enterprises of the country.

Building loan operations in great numbers have been started for persons who wished to build homes. Under their plan the tenant gets the property upon the payment of a very small equity. He then, n lieu of rent, may pay off each month a small portion of the mortgage, in addition to the carrying charges.

The question How much will a building cost? and When will it be finished? are of the greatest importance to the financier. These questions depend largely upon the labor conditions, on which subject the architect and his client, the owner, are not usually given a chance to he heard, although the owner is the greatest sufferer from strikes and lockouts. His interest account is going on all the while, and he has very much more at stake than the builder.

A company that could give a guarantee to finish a building at a certain time for a certain amount of

