<doctype type="text">146	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" Made In Berlin " author="">

Made In Berlin.

certain rooms. But an ordinary mind rebels against too much concentration of mood in rooms. We do not as a matter of fact get into moods much now-a-days. Our fore-fathers felt the moods genuinely; they were more child-like than we are, and mottoes taken from their writings ring false now-a-days if applied to ourselves. There is not much revelry in dining-rooms now. We are sober even in our eating and never get properly drunk at all. Our dining-rooms are places where we talk, and incidentally are fed. Our libraries are working places for those who use books and smoking places for those who do not. None but a prig would inscribe a library with sentimental and vain-glorious exclamations about his love for books in themselves. It is the end for which a man uses his books that will furnish the mottoes that inspire or sustain him; mottoes which he likes to have before his eyes. In a general way the proper mottoes for decoration are those which people select for themselves and it is to be feared that the best of these will never be put up. It is the exceptional person who can express himself truly, so as to meet the eyes of other people but without regard to them in his mind.



A really remarkable exhibition called the "Made in Berlin Exhibition" has been held during

the current month at Berlin, Out. It consists entirely of articles manufactured in the town, and the variety, for a town of 11,000 inhabitants, is surprising. Sixty-five varieties of manufacture are estimated. Doubtless some of them are varieties made by the same house. But a rough list, made at the exhibition, is striking. Leather and furniture come foremost, the two original industries. The sole leather now reaches England, and there is a furniture house that turns out designs as good as anything imported from the Michigan factories. Then there are office and shop fittings, pivoted bins, wooden ware, brooms, felted boots and shoes, rubber goods, buttons of all kinds, machinery of several kinds, gasoline engines, water motors, boilers, furnaces, pumps, automobiles, and bicycles, refrigerators, pianos, mattresses, trunks and leather articles, clocks, electric meters, suspenders, furs, boots, clothing of several kinds, besides beet sugar, beer, cigars, confectionery, biscuits &c. With all this industry, the general impression made by the town upon a visitor is rather of a pleasant place to live in than of a manufacturing town. It is a town of neat houses on good streets that are well kept, boulevarded generally, with granolithic sidewalks and an abundance, perhaps an over abundance, of trees. Every house, no matter how small, has ground about it; the large houses have extensive lawns, usually concealed from the street only by the number of trees which surround them. Chimneys are not a feature of the town. Instead there are the towers of several large churches. And the country about is beautiful. As a typical Canadian manufacturing town, the place is one of which Canadians may be proud. How much of its prosperity is due to the industrious German character of its inhabitants, how much to the accident of its position in the midst of a fertile agricultural country, one cannot say. Both conditions, no doubt, contribute, and, as both industry and fertility are common qualities in this country, Berlin may be taken as a type of what a Canadian manufacturing town may be made.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

COMPETITION FOR STUDENTS, A HOUSE OF SMALL COST IN COUNTRY TOWN.

<article title=" COMPETITION FOR STUDENTS, A HOUSE OF SMALL COST IN COUNTRY TOWN " author="">

The small house is a fertile and a useful theme for study in this country. That it is susceptible of many solutions is shown by the variety of designs recently furnished in England for a cottage of a given number of living rooms and bedrooms. These designs are suggestive of the sort of thing required for the small houses of a country town here but they require adaptation and some expansion. It is this adaptation and expansion that is proposed as the subject of this competition. It is not however an expansion of the plans, reprinted in this and the last two numbers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, that is required so much as an expansion of the theme a six-roomed house. That is the problem in both cases, but the English cottage is intended for an agricultural labourer, ours is intended for a mechanic, and the cost should be about $1500, or twice that proposed for the English cottage. It must be borne in mind, however, that English prices are not our prices, and that the exhibition cottages are all said to be over the proposed cost, except when erected, as they were for this exhibition, at cost price.

It is proposed to place the six-roomed cottage for this competition on a lot of 40 ft. frontage by 100 ft. depth, situated on the west side of a north and south road. The house will be supplied with water and have sewer connection.

The drawings required are The two floor plans elevations of the front, rear and one end; a perspective view, showing the front and that end which is not shown in elevation.

The drawings are to be arranged neatly on one sheet having the proportions of 8 to 12. The scale is to be not merely noted but drawn. A brief description of material used is to accompany the drawing.

Both drawing and description are to be marked by a cipher or nomme de plume. The author's name is to be enclosed in a sealed envelope similarly marked. The three communications—drawing, description and sealed envelope—are to be parceled together under one cover marked "Drawing for Canadian Architect and Builder Competition," and sent to the C. H. Mortimer Publishing Company, Confederation Life Building, Toronto, on or before February 1st, 1906.

Judgment of the sketches will be made by a committee composed of members of the Ontario Association of Architects and of the Eighteen Club of Toronto. The following prizes are offered First, $15 ; second, $5 ; third, one year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Architects' Edition.



The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is to have the right to reproduce any or all of the drawings.



<article title=" TORONTO CHAPTER, O.A.A." author="">

TORONTO CHAPTER, O.A.A.

The regular Tuesday luncheon of the Toronto Chapter of the Ontario Association of Architects, started again, after the long vacation, on the 3rd October. At the first luncheon a committee was appointed to wait on the Board of Control in reference to the conditions of competition for the new public library. As a result of this committee's work, the preliminary draft of the conditions has been referred back and it is to be hoped that more accents the conditions will be prepared.

