<doctype type="text">154	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Many of the buildings now being erected have basements going down to the level of this tunnel. A great deal of the clay excavated in foundations of buildings is now taken out to the lake through this tunnel, saving the teaming of it through the streets.

While most of the large warehouses along the river are on piles and a few in the business center rest on piles, yet a very large percentage of the buildings put up in the past five or six years rest on concrete caissons. Concrete wells would be a better name, as they are simply holes dug just as ordinary wells are and filled with concrete. These were first used in Chicago in the Stock Exchange erected in 1892, hut two years before this the City Hall in Kansas City was built upon steel shells going down to rock, excavated and filled up with hard brick laid in Portland cement. Excessive loads were carried on Z-bar columns passing through the centres of the piers and going down to rock. The site of the building was formerly a ravine between abrupt bluffs. These had been so cut away and leveled as to leave a 50-ft. filling of rubbish under two-thirds of the building and a solid clay bank under thc other third. The fill was made by its use as a public dump. This is the first building I know of to make use of this kind of foundation.

The concrete wells as now built are put down 4 or 5 ft. and then lined with wooden lagging 2 to 3 in. thick, tongued and grooved, and either 4 ft. or 5 ft. 4 in. long. Each section of this lagging is held in place by two steel bars, generally 4 in. wide by 34 in. thick, made semi-circular, in two pieces turned up at thc ends, so they can be bolted together. If the ground is unusually soft three rings are used in each section, and the sections are made shorter. When the first section is lined a new section is dug and lined up, and so on down to the hard clay 6o or 70 ft., or to the rock, as the case may be.

Where the wells are only carried down to the hard clay they are belled out at the bottom to twice the diameter of the shaft, but if carried down to the rock, which is the better way, they are not belied. When the holes are excavated to the bottom thc concreting is begun and the rings are taken out as the work of filling progresses. Sometimes the lagging is also taken out, but this is not done as a general thing. When soft, swelling clay is found, or where the well is close to a high building previously erected on spread footings, both the rings and lagging are left in as a means of safety.

It is sometimes necessary to use iron shells for lagging for a portion of the distance. In the Chicago Edison building recently erected at the corner of Market and Washington Sts. a very soft sand stratum full of water was discovered at a depth of 85 ft. it might also be called quicksand. It was necessary to get iron shells and drive them down ahead of the digging, as that was the only way the water could be kept out by the pumps.

These wells do not settle in themselves, still they cause some settlement to adjoining buildings. This is due to the impossibility of digging the clay so that the lagging will fit close to it. There are bound to be vacant spaces back of the lagging which will be filled up later by the earth pressure, and this movement will show itself in the settlement of the foundations of the buildings close 1w. Slight settlements in a building across a 40 ft. street have been known to occur, presumably from this cause.

With spread footings the maximum load on the clay was 3,500 lb. per square foot, generally a load of 3,000 lb. per foot was used. Concrete wells are proportioned for a load of 40,000 to 45,000 lb. per square foot at the top. This means for a belled well, about 14,000 lb. per square foot on the clay and about 60,000 lbs. per square foot if it is carried down to rock. For piles the maximum load allowed by the city ordinance is 25 tons per pile, but generally the load docs not exceed 20 tons per pile, although 50-ft piles, driven to a stand, are good for 50 tons.

One great advantage of concrete wells is that they

can be constructed before the old building is taken down. When Schlesinger & May built their corner store on State & Madison Sts. all the wells for the new building were put in without the crowds in the store knowing anything about it, and the crowds were unusually great, as the work was done during the Christmas shopping season. Of course, part of the basement had to be given up, but all the dirt excavated was hauled away at night.

At the present time wells are being sunk in the basement of a five story building at the corner of Monroe and LaSalle Sts., which had been occupied up to May 1st, when the building was torn down to make way for We Northern Trust Bank building. This saves from 30 to 6o days in erecting the building, a very important item.

Another form of foundations which has not been mentioned is concrete piling in places where wooden piles or spread footings cannot be used and concrete wells are too expensive. Wooden piles have to he cut off at or below datum, which is 14 to 15 feet below the surface of the ground. This is all right where there arc basements, but in some cases a basement is not required. Then, if wooden piles are used, the footings will have to be excavated to datum, the piles driven and cut off at datum or lower, and a stone or concrete pier built up to the basement floor. This is very expensive. 



A good example is the power house recently erected by time Union Electric Co. at Dubuque, Iowa, The site is on the bank of the Mississippi River, on sand. No basement was required. The variation of the gauge of the river at that point is about 2212 ft., and the ground at that point was about the level of high water. Spread footings were out of the question, and if wooden piles were used the piers would have to be excavated to a depth of 22'2 ft. This was equally out of the question, but concrete piles solved the difficulty.

One of the most interesting and very often one of the most difficult problems in the constructional design of a tall building is the foundation for the party wall. An example is the Great Northern Theatre and hotel building running from Jackson to Quincy and adjoining the Great Northern Hotel on the cast. The east wall is a party wall, with foundations 22 in. wide. The theatre is in the center of the east building, and its walls, running east and west and carrying the walls of the building above the theater, weigh 6o tons per linear foot.

The problem was to take care of this wall where it ran over the east side of the party wall and joined the wall. It was done by cutting through the party wall, and putting in girders parallel to the theatre walls and supporting them. These girders were supported on 30-ton jack screws, and as the now building settled the screws were run down to keep the girders level. In addition to the two theater walls there were four other points where the new building joined the party wall, and these were also put on screws. The theater building is about 10 years old, and the screws are still being watched. When the settlement has stopped the jacks will be imbedded in concrete.

In the case of the Journal building there was no party wall contact on either side. It was, therefore necessary to keep entirely on the lot. There are four columns in a row traversely, and these columns rest on double cantilever girders the full width of the lot, 41 ft., and these rest on piles which it was not necessary to drive closer than 6 to 7 ft. from the walls of the adjoining buildings.

One of the earlier examples of cantilever girders is the Rand-McNally building erected in 1889. This building is on spread foundations. While party walls were desirable when spread footings were used, the contrary is thc case now that concrete wells are in such general use. The wells can be kept entirely on the property, and cantilever girders in thc foundation will allow the columns to be put close to the lot line. In the Chicago & Northwestern office building there are cantilever girders in the foundations weighing over 26 tons apiece.

