<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

ROYAL CANADIAN YACHT CLUB HOUSE, ON THE ISLAND,

<article title=" ROYAL CANADIAN YACHT CLUB HOUSE, ON THE ISLAND " author="">

TORONTO.—MESSRS. SPROATT AND ROLPH, ARCHITECTS



The plans of this building, reproduced in our illustration sheets, were intended to be reduced one half, but are a little over ft. to 1/16 in. The Yacht Club grounds on the Island consist essentially of' a perfectly level bowling green fringed with trees, lying, not many feet above the water level, between the front of the island, on Toronto Bay, and one of the lagoons which run up into the island, on the bay side and give it such an extent of shore line and of water surface in its interior. In every direction there arc beautiful views ; so much so that in order to give a full conception of the Club House, site and all, it would be necessary to devote as much illustration space to views from the Club House as to the building itself.

The question of placing the house on the grounds was not without complications. The architects, in their original sketch placed the building with its back on the lagoon (which is to the left of our views) and the front facing the bay, looking over the bowling green to a panoramic view of Toronto across the water, with the yachts in the foreground to give perspective to its distant masses. This was abstractly the right position and pleased the yachtsmen ; but the bowlers, who are important users of the club, thought it desirable to have the building placed so as to give more space to the bowling green and let the verandahs overlook its length. The building is thus placed end on to the bay and fronts upon the greatest extent of lawn. This site gives the building the best chance to be seen to advantage from the land, and it extends its length across the end of the lawn with great dignity. The essential excellence of Mr. Sproatt's design is the way in which he has avoided the scaffold appearance of a double verandah by treating the verandah solidly in detail, and by bringing forward to its face the central motive of the porch and the substantial end pavilions. The verandah is the building ; and it ought to be so, for the building is meant only for summer habitation. It is worth noting in this connection, that there is no special entrance and nothing in the form of a door. All the windows open down to the floor, and all are equally a means of entrance from the verandahs to the club-rooms which give upon them. The dining room windows, which open down to the floor also, have their exit to a sodded quay about 10 feet wide, which is not shown in the plan but forms the shore line at that part and is the cause of the cant given in plan to the dining room. As may he imagined the dining room has a refreshing look-out for a summer evening. The quay outside the windows. being below the floor level, hardly appears ; only the tree trunks in the foreground give a hint that the water, which fills all the view from the windows does not come up to the wall of the house. There is a picturesque view along this side of the house, and from the end of the dining room which lies on a point of land overlooking the lagoon.

The ladies' room shown above the dining room is for the use of guests. Besides the dinners in summer, one of the great functions of the club is an annual ball, for which the large club room upstairs has a floor prepared. This room, which is 81 ft. long by 25 wide has an open timber roof of queen-

post trusses filled in for enrichment with additional posts. To light and ventilate this roof is the function of the dormer windows on the front. For the sake of economy the roof has neither purlins nor rafters. It consists only of principals and boarding; but the boarding (to carry the span) is 3 inch planks, tongued and grooved. To these the shingling is nailed. The roof and all interior woodwork (including the furniture) has a dead black finish.

To return to the exterior. There is no doubt of its success as a piece of design. Though but just completed it has the extraordinary effect, conveyed by all good work, of belonging to its place and having always been there. But how about the abstract problem, the design of a wooden building? There is no question but that Mr. Sproatt has bilked that question by keeping all the meanness of his wooden walls in the shadow of his massive verandah with its unconstructional stone proportions. The only place where the wooden wall appears is in the subordinate extension for the locker room; and here he has projected a pergolic trellis, as an invitation to the club to train up a vine and let it overhang the clap-boarding, to give some character to a wall which, from the material of its construction, lacks it. The club had better accept this invitation; it will suffice for their purpose. But as a demonstration of how a good designer feels towards wood as an architectural material this expedient amounts to an expression of opinion that it is inadequate.



CHEAP COTTAGES.

<article title=" CHEAP COTTAGES " author="">

We have had applications for designs for cheap cottages and propose to devote a page of our illustration sheets as often as we can to this type of work. It is not easy to procure good designs for cheap houses. The cheap house is neither easy to make attractive nor is its design usually in the hands of men who have the greatest gift in that direction. We are making an effort to get some original designs but in the mean time have received some English designs which deserve fuller notice when we have space. The housing question in England has a rural side which has been causing a good deal of agitation. It costs the agricultural land owner, under the county building laws, more to build a cottage than the labourer can afford to pay in rent. The result is an added impetus to the movement from the country to the towns that is so deplored by Englishmen, and, after the usual correspondence in recognized organs, by means of which the English nation has a way of going into committee of the whole, it was decided that a cottage costing about £150 was the desideratum, and an exhibition of such cottages has been held in the most effective way by building about a hundred of them as permanent structures in the Garden City. From this exhibition we select this month one design which seems practical a pair of cottages by Geoffry Lucas, A.R.I.B.A. The cost in England was about $2,000 for the pair. We should require to raise them a little above the ground and have a partial excavation and a porch. It is highly probable on the other hand that we should omit half the tines, though it would be better to leave them to help the circulation of warm air.

The front rooms are 14' 6" x 10' 6" with a kitchen or living room behind of the same length and 10' 7 1/2" wide. The ingenious arrangement by which the

