<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS

ANNUAL MEETING.



T

HE Association met for its 17th annual meeting, in the Association Rooms, 96 King St. W.,

Toronto, at 2.30 in the afternoon of Jan. 17. The following members were present Messrs.

Bishop, Burke, Coiwell, Currie, Denison, Edwards,

Fairbairn, Gemmell, Gordon, Gray, W. R. Gregg, A.

H.	Gregg, Hall, Helliwell, Kennedy, Langton, H. E.

Moore, Munro, Pearson, Siddall, Simpson, Symons,

Townsend, Wickson, Wright and Woolnough.

There were also about twelve students present, and several other visitors came to hear the papers relating to the Improvement of Cities.

After reading the minutes, the President, Mr. John Gemmell, read the following address

Members of the Ontario Association of Architects

We are here assembled to hold the Seventeenth Annual Convention of the Association. That we have preserved our corporate existence for so long a period is a matter for mutual congratulations and this vitality we trust is evidence that ours is a necessary institution, working for good in stimulating a friendly rivalry among members and enhancing the Architectural profession in the estimation of the community.

That a number of architects of recognized ability have withheld their support from thc association, is an attitude on their part very much to be deplored and calculated to retard realization of the plans we may entertain in communion for the advancement of Architecture.

As difference of opinion upon the wisdom of Legislation, restricting the use of the term architect, is given as the cause of this divergence of view, I would say that this is no longer looked upon as the aim of the association, but that the evolution by emulation and training of a higher type of Architect may be the distinguishing mark of Members of the Association.

Is it not only too apparent that the standard of Architecture is endangered by the democracy of our age which may be working out the happiness of the greatest number, but which fosters a self-sufficiency impatient of higher culture and alien to an aristocracy of art making only for a dead level of creature comforts, should this not urge upon us who know and cherish higher ideals to range with unbroken front, that the forces working for the higher education of our future Architects may no longer be weakened by division.

If there ever was a time for those trained in a proper way in Architecture to stand united it is now which are days of superficial culture by inadequately equipped Technical and Correspondence Schools. l)o not most modern manufacturers and alas much of the building vividly portray that little knowledge of art which is more hopeless than the natural instincts of the savage.

Lastly I would mention as one of the strongest incentives to combined association a phase of building operations recently introduced here—the letting of contracts to Building Companies who undertake everything including the preparation of plans. How they have persuaded business men to enter into such an arrangement where self-interest holds all the cards—I do not know. The issue, however, to us is that, were the practice to become universal, we should indeed be deposed from our honorable judicial estate and reduced to the position of draughtsmen, not that valued assistant kindred intelligence, but the servant of inappreciative Commercialism.

The outside members will pardon reference to our vivid local experience—the great Toronto fire. To a year that commenced auspiciously, was added its burdens so that 1904 brought perhaps the greatest material prosperity Toronto architects have ever experienced.

The only drag on progress was that the supply of materials became inadequate, prices rose and labor made its customary blunder, wasting months of valuable time. I say blunder because we now see labor of all kinds being paid more than the strike demands, although the workmen were defeated.

The fire has been called a calamity but there is evident on the part of all a desire to make sweet use of the adversity.

To those who remember the disagreeable picture that the

rears of the warehouses on the south side of Front St. presented toward the Bay--It will be easy to imagine how much time appearance of the city will be enhanced if our architects do their very best in designing the great warehouses which are to face the south on the high level of the north side of Front St., with arm uninterrupted view from the water, except by a Grand Union Railway Station in its proper position as the gateway of the city.

And in the matter of the destroyed buildings, were hey not largely those of a smaller city than Toronto has become They called for continuous expenditure in the endeavor to keep suitable, for factory and warehouse, structures which were inadequate, as evidenced by the restorations already accomplished, which are in all cases much more commodious and intended for warehousing greater loads' of merchandise. And also in the separation of factory and warehouse, the former being built further from die centres where land values permit The exercise of some benevolence toward the army of workers—more light, ventilation amid healthful surroundings-- and which incidentally should help

in the equalization of street car traffic—one of our active grievances.

Of the new City by-laws which the fire so quickly brought into the arena, there has been and still is difference of opinion,

	amid	although that of the architects seems to be settling down to

	a conclusion that they are all right, self-interest		may have some

thing to do with this complacency. There is internal evidence that the by-laws are not an adaptation but a transcript of those of' a much larger city than Toronto, and without the scourge of the fire would have been more difficult of inception, leaving room therefore for argument that when conditions have somewhat subsided from our present triumphal march, they may be found too strenuous for our normal condition. Amid that for buildings up to say four stories, consistent with public safety, it should have been acknowledged, that we are still in the tenting stage arid it is a waste of our resources to absorb so much material in comparatively low buildings that in a few years will give place to time permanent structures.

The subject of civic improvement bulks largely in our proceedings this year. Associations such as ours should help iii directing the steps necessary to redeem our cities from the defects inherent in their growth from small places—the discomforts of clothing we have outgrown.

What difficulties of traffic would be solved if our Yonge street were moo feet wide? How little in cost this would have meant, when not so long ago it was cut through the farms.

But regrets are vain if they leach not to repentance arid good works. Have our recent steps towards civic improvement been altogether for the best?

The cost of the library site amid the Garrison Common Park- —will it produce the best results iii this respect ? The special reproach of Toronto's plan is that it is absolutely of the gridiron type. We have in its business centres, no circles, public squares or rounded corners our poverty in these is not now so apparent with our low buildings, but with the higher buildings of the future will be intolerable.

If not therefore too late, should we not urge upon the public and the authorities to make time necessity for a library site provide a public square. If say our unique Queens Park Avenue could be prolonged south and a square seemed opposite Osgoode Hall for the library, would not a most important civic improvement be accomplished, for which we would gladly sacrifice the inaccessible Garrison Park.

The public library to fulfil its mission should be down town—a counter-attraction to the saloon amid the theatres, encouraging a taste for reading in those who have not libraries amid a place of recreation for hours that can be spared from business.

As between the up-town sites, one must wonder at the preference given to the Perkins lot, for although it costs more on is upon an ordinary thoroughfare which will be built on the south side, and the future building will appear no be a mere adjunct to the educational installations there, while the other site fronts on an avenue, in which we are justified in taking pride, being a well-kept avenue of trees—two hundred amid fifty feet wide and nearly running the length of the city from north to south.

Our Registrar fearing that there is more business on the agenda than time allotted for its disposal, has repeatedly counseled me to be brief; therefore, expressing the hope that certain matters which have engaged the attention of the Council may be taken ump before this Convention closes, I will conclude, Gentlemen, by thanking you for the honor done me in my election to the office of president for the last year.



Some comment was caused by the passage where, in speaking of Toronto affairs, the President said that the purchase money for the Garrison Common would have been better expended in clearing a site at the bottom of  Queen's Avenue for the new Public Library. Mr. A. Denison pointed out that the old cry for the preservation of the water front was being met by the purchase of the Garrison Common and there ought to be no complaint made about that purchase, particularly as if it were not purchased there would be great danger of its being occupied by the cattle market.

Mr. H. Simpson said that the cattle market already threatened to be an injury to property in the west, as there was talk of extending it to King St.

Mr. Burke pointed out that this discussion emphasized the need for a plan of the city ; a plan with proposed improvements, so that changes and growth in the city may be made, not in a haphazard way, but all tending together to the gradual production of an approved scheme.

Mr. A. H. Gregg thought Mr. Burke ought to embody his views in the form of a resolution. A plan, among other advantages, would help us to recognize the chances for beauty that we have already created. In the matter of a library site there had not been sufficient weight given to that on the Queen St. Avenue. This avenue, a unique feature in a city rather desolate of such features, and having the Parliament Buildings as a focussing point, is a splendid opportunity for a line of magnificent buildings on either side. There are

