<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title="The Garden Front" author="">THE GARDEN FRONT.

For five months in lie year, it this country pleasure in have some laud about one's house and be able to get out of doors. During the nurse of these months there are days so hot that in sit out of doors, instead of in the house, and if possible to dine out of doors, is the only way to keep reasonably comfortable. The invariableness of the porch or verandah in new houses even of the smallest kind, and the outbreak of additions of this sort to every kind of old house shows that public attention is aroused to lie inadequacy of the old fashioned habit of sitting on the front door steps in hot weather.

tint a porch in the same position, close to the street,

110 great gain specials when the street has rails  upon unit has reached the high development of a

three minute service. Here the porch is not the poetical feature, it might he in a village. It suggests not

the fresh air of suntan errand the quiet of moonlight nights hut tie crude disturbances of the trolley car a rust, and a roar every 01 mute and a half followed by a

 of dust that spreads wide and settles on every. thing.

The proper place for silting out of doors in connection with a city house in at the back. The English house shown iii the cots (taken from an English journal), is an excellent example of the difference between



front and back as a place for out of doors life. to this ease, if anywhere where the house is on a street, the from would he acceptable the neighborhood is suburban, the house set well back from the road, and the

rood is quiet. But boss' much more retired the garden front "is How much mole dignified to live



oat of doors there than in the front, in the face of the public t

The difficulty with us is how to get back the one of the rear of the house for the family, after having for so long detour it to the service department. 

With a basement kitchen the problem is easy, but usage it, a great part of the country is against that than.  S Servants prefer, in a small house, to he penned lip in the smallest possible kitchen, in the rear of the ground floor cattier than have plenty of room in the basement and the possible privilege of outlook on, the front. The trouble is difference of level between the kitchen and the dining room and front doer. And prospective housekeepers will not accept the risk of having a basement kitchen amid finding that they can- not get servants to fill it. That this is, to a great extent necessary apprehension is proved by the smoothness with which domestic affairs continue in the cities which were built before the '' extension kitchen

plan came in, and which constitutes to basement	 kitchens.		In the more modern city of

Toronto also there are certain old families, with old houses and basement kitchens, who are better served

than the	moderns. And in at least one new house,

where the mistress, greatly to ring, incident for a moist kitchen. the result has beet, peace below stairs and happiness above. where they have the whole floor to themselves, and (which is the present point of interest), a verandah in the rear, it, which they calm down overlooking lie garden.

It is storey remembering, as we are apt to think the ground floor kitchen is a modern product from which there is no retreat, that the only thing modern then, it is its application to the town house, such the taste for space grew with the opportunity this country affords and 1 lie English idea of building it rows in a town was

abandoned. We must remember that rows and lie basement kitchen have never gone out in the United States. where the necessity for cotilpactuess cult,,' upon then as curly its the taste for space, and limit when our time comes when the kitchen must be either at front or back (because there is in side) some relief  will come to is from the United States in the form of the high basement.

The American basement is this mud, better than the English , in point of service accommodation, that it is all out of ground amid the servants tile lot in terreil. In point of service again, attendance on life In,, t door is reduced in labour for all calls that do not involve communication afterwards such than living rooms. Otherwise there is not much difference in this point, except until in small houses it is very likely that tie dining room wilt come down stairs and occupy 1 he garden side, transforming the plait thus front an elevated basement in a lowered ground floor, for there stilt probably he a sub-basement for heating.

This is, it effect, what we have to aunt at in the nothing, in our ground floor which hits not descended. If we tire to have the garden front t free for family use the kitchen must come to the front. The servants still not object to that : and it will keep them cheerful, which nobody else will object to.

There are examples of this plan in houses facing north, which thins get tine kitchen in its proper quarter,

