<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	- -	- -	-	EDITOR. MAY, 1905.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILD NG, TORONTO, CANADA.



VOL. XVIII.—No. 209.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

No. 17 Elm Avenue, Toronto—Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett, Architects.

View of Front.

View of Ingle.

Ground Floor Plan.

First Floor Plan.

Church of St. Peter and St. Paul, Fall River, Mass. ---Messrs. Cram, Goodhue & Ferguson, Architects.

Concrete House of Mr. Charles A. Matcham, Allentown, Pa.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Mr. Kivas Tully, I. S. 0., Late Architect to the Province of Ontario.

Side Door of Verona Cathedral.





CONTENTS

Editorial Notes	-	- -	-	-	65-66

Central Heating -		- -		-	-	67

Mr. Kivas Tully -	-	  -	-	 -	 -	68

Humidity in Heated	Houses	 -	-	-	-	68

Our Illustrations -		- -		-	-	69

Mr. Joseph McCausland	—		 —			70

Major Henry A. Gray	- 	 - 	- 	- 	- 	70

Review - -	-	  -	 -	 -	 -	70

Some Notes on a Hying Trip to Washington, Baltimore

	and Philadelphia	— —	— —	— 71—72

Measurements and Prices ; Their Relation to the Master

	Painter	-	-	-	-	-	73

Intercommunication	—	—	—	— 74—75—76

Montreal Junior Architectural Association	- -	77

Montreal Builders' Exchange	-	- -	- 77

Building in Montreal	-	-	-	-	77

British Columbia Plumbers Organize		-		-	  -	78

The Royal Canadian Academy	Exhibition		-		 -	78

Colonial Contracts - - -				-		79

The Devil's Door - - -			-		-	79

American Radiator Company in Canada		-		-	  -	79

Architecture at the S. P. S. -	-		-		 -	80

Skyscrapers in Germany - - -					-	ix

Floated a Brick House Down the Allegheny River					- -	x

 Making Bricks Without Clay -			-			x

A Swede's Impression of America —			—		 —	xi

Why Brick Construction is Costly - -					 -	xii

The Lewis and Clark Exposition —			—		—	xiii

The Hamilton Convention — — —					 —	xiv

Making Tar Paper at Sault Ste. Marie		-		-	  -	xiv

Restriction of' Working hours			Unconstitutional 		— 	xv



<article title=" Atelier at Columbia University " author="">Atelier at Columbia University

<article title=" OUR VANCOUVER OFFICE " author="">OUR VANCOUVER OFFICE.



The publishers of this Journal have recently established an office in Vancouver for the purpose of looking after more carefully the Interests of subscribers and advertisers in British Columbia. This office is located at 536 Hastings Street, Suite 3, opposite Molson's Bank, and is in charge of Mr. G. A. Gall, who will be pleased to meet any of the friends of this Journal, and to serve their interests in any possible way.





The School of Architecture at Columbia. University is adopting the French method of instruction, as an addition to its coarse. Two architects of distinction—Mr. C. F. McKim and Mr. Thomas Hastings—have been appointed as professors to conduct an atelier for the study or architectural problems.





The Princess of Wales, when she

visited Canada in 1901, was

given some specimens of stones which had been got and polished by the Dominion geologist. It occurred to her, after returning to England, that a Canadian industry ought to arise where there were such stones. Eventually it is hard to pick out the facts from the gush of an interview— a Scotch geologist who was struck by a specimen of white marble, appears to have come out and found a hill of statuary marble. There is also sodolite (a decorative Duc stone) and green and white building marbles. The ground is all bought with English money, anti the purchasers promise to establish quarries for the building market. Their idea is to corn-

<article title=" Statuary Marble In

Hastings Co.

" author="">Statuary Marble In

Hastings Co.

<article title=" The	Reduction of  Niagara " author="">The	Reduction of  Niagara

compete with the Belgian market, for which purpose, since labor is cheap in Belgium they must expect to produce cheaply, and perhaps Ontario will find an opportunity for beautification at small cost with her own material. 





The Times, in a special article by William C. Unwin, F.R.S., on the subject of the Niagara

water power, makes calculations which indicate that this generation is likely to see the water going over the Falls reduced to little more than half what it might be. The total utilization of power now projected amounts to 650,000 h.p. The Times correspondent says, ''The whole of the machinery for this development may not. be erected for some time, but that great confidence is felt that it will he required may be inferred from the fact that very costly head works, wheel pits and tail races are being constructed for the full projected amount of power." In view of this prospect Mr. Unwin makes the following calculations ''The mean flow of the Niagara river is about 222,000 cubic feet per second. Suppose, what is about true, that 150.000 h.p. are now daily-utilized, that the mean available fall is 160 ft., and that the efficiency of the turbines is 0.75. Then the daily demand for water is 11.017 cubic feet per second, which is 5 per tent. of the mean flow, or 6 3/4 per cent. of the minimum flow. But if 650,000 h.p. are utilized the demand for water will be 47,710 cubic feet per second, or 21 1/2 per cent. of the mean flow and 30 per cent. of time minimum flow. Obviously, if no alteration of the falls is at present perceptible,

