<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	93



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES." author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

In all directions there continues to be great increase in the volume of work being done in the building world of Montreal. Besides the large apartment houses in the neighborhood of Sherbrooke street—the ''New Sherbrooke" and the ''Grosvenor", both now well under way, and the "Hampton Court" apartments in Mountain street—a great deal is being done to meet the pressing demand for residences of all sorts and grades. As noted in former issues a great number of Banks are erecting branches wherever customers are likely to be attracted, others are vying with one another in offering all sorts of conveniences to their clientéles.



In another sphere, well over a million dollars is being spent on various projects of the Roman Catholic church. The Notre Dame Hospital, now well advanced, will cost, when complete, probably about $160,000. The "Maison-Mére" of the Sisters of the Congregation de Notre Dame, which is just being commenced, is estimated to cost $800,000. This is to be built on the south side of Sherbrooke street, near the head of Atwater avenue, a building of grey pressed brick and Gray Canton sandstone, including a chapel to seat 1000 persons which forms the central Feature of the design. The same firm of Architects, Messrs. Marchand & Haskell, have also designed the Parish Church of St. Cunegonde now being built to replace the old one which was destroyed by fire.



For St. James's Church, at the corner of St. Denis street and St. Catherine street, a new Presbytery is projected, to cost about $32,000. The corner stone has been laid of the new Church of St. Agnes, for English-speaking Roman Catholics, at the corner of St. Denis street and Duluth avenue, of which Alphonse Piche is the architect. It is estimated to cost $25,000. The sum of $40,000 is to be spent on a four-storey school for the Congregation Ste. Croix do St. Laurent in Papineau avenue, and $25,000 on a Home for the Oblat Fathers in Panet street, oear St. Rose.



Of a more commercial character, the largest project recently announced is the proposed now building of the Credit Foncier, Franco-Canadian, to cost about $500,000. The site purchased for this building is that at the north-east corner of St. James street and Cote St. Lambert, measuring 98 feet by 82 and extending to Fortification Lane. It is proposed to erect the now building to a height of 132 feet, in ten stories. The ground floor will be occupied by the Credit Foncier and the upper floors will be let as offices. Gray Canyon sandstone is to be employed For the facings. The Leurs Building in Bleury street is now completed externally and is being got ready For occupation. Farther up-town, in the south-cast corner of Philip's square, the erection has commenced of a Four-storey building from the designs of Messrs. Edward & W. S. Maxwell. The upper stories of this building are to be faced with pressed sand brick trimmed with sandstone, somewhat of an experiment apparently.



The Bell Telephone Co. has arranged to build a now up-town exchange in the upper part of Mountain street—which it is expected to have running next summer—This being placed in a residential street, the design has been made to accord as much as possible with its surroundings.





















































Many changes in St. Catharine street are promised for the near Future, but the only large work at present in progress is the Lindsay Building on the south side of the street a little west or Peel street. There is little of this showing as yet but the work has

commenced. The accompanying view of a portion of St. Catherine street, not Far from the centre of its length, between Bleury street and Alexander street, shows a remnant of the old style. These buildings seem strangely Out of place now, and they illustrate how rapid the development of this street has been. The street cars now race along in front of these shops at an average of one minute intervals day and night; but this is not done for such as these, and their days are numbered.



CONCORDIA SALUS





<article title=" UTILIZATION OF SKYSCRAPER ROOFS " author="">UTILIZATION OF SKYSCRAPER ROOFS.



While the tops of the skyscraper buildings would be fine launching places for aerial ships and flying machines, the record is still a blank regarding any utilization of the lofty spots for such a purpose. Thus far the inventors have sought out perches closer to the ground for their ambitious trial trips. Summer gardens, of the music hail sort and also for the private use of the occupants, are no new thing on the tops of the tall buildings, and it is also well known that the janitors of such buildings often utilize the roof space for kitchen gardens. The latest use of the roofs is as recreation grounds.

On top of one fifth avenue apartment house is a perfectly fitted up squash racquet court, for use in common by the tenants. The building is of wood, with a pitched roof lighted by glass windows, the play court being of the usual size and the building also containing a gallery for spectators. The small space needed for a squash court, approximately 35 x 16 feet, makes it an easy matter to find room for such a building on a roof, and there are several of them in use in the city close to the skyline. The courts are almost invariably enclosed by walls, and at an upper West Side apartment house the space is used for a lawn tennis court in summer and for ice skating in midwinter.

There is no better location possible for pigeon lofts, especially if working homers are kept, than the roof of such a building, and, as the Pigeon and Poultry Breeders' Association demonstrated during their show in Herald Square Hall, the location high in air is an excellent starting place for a distant flight. There are several skyscraper pigeon lofts in town, and at least one amateur fancier of show rabbits keeps his stock on such a roof.

A sporting utilization of another roof in midair is as a kennel. The dogs that have their home there are not toys, or of the small sort at all, but, instead, the inmates are a collection of English bulldogs as well known as winners at the bench shows as any in the country. The kennel is a favorite meeting place of dog owners from out of town, especially when a dog show is on, and through its popularity in this way fulfills the place of a club for the amateurs who take delight in calling themselves ''Brothers of the Fancy."

When the elevator reaches its high-water mark in this skyscraper the visitor has two short flights of stairs to climb to gain the iron door that opens on the roof. As the stranger passes through the door and closes it behind him, he shuts out all that suggests city life, tall buildings, or whatever of the moil and toil of town existence may have dogged his steps thus far. He finds himself within a square of brick walls, such as they train fruits to grow on in England, and before him is a brick stable, with peaked roof and gilt weathervane, the duplicate of the carriage house of any detached suburban residence. He stands on clay soil and overhead is the blue sky, while the air is pure and as inspiriting as wine. It is like a clearing on a mountain top, and it would not be a surprise to see the tops of trees waving above the brick walls.

Inside the buildings are kennels arranged in double tiers, and fifty dogs may be kept there in comfort. On the walls are some photographs of notable winners for the kennel, and a frieze of sporting cuts. A great collection of blue ribbons and cups won at bench shows fills a glass case, and there are plenty of chairs to lounge on while the dogs are trotted out for inspection. The dogs thrive in the high location, and the only detail that

