<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	51



<article title=" THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ESTATE " author="">THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ESTATE.



The Macpherson Estate in Toronto is an example of how land can be made the most of for building purposes without sacrificing beauty, and how profitable it is to aim at beauty. The houses on this estate have always been sold as soon as built—usually before completion. The attraction is partly in the house itself and partly in the certainty that the still undeveloped portion of the district will he equally attractive, so that there is none of the risk which often attends building in a new neighborhood.

This result has of course not been accomplished without thought, and the ideas and methods which are at the bottom of the estate's success, as gathered from the managers, Messrs. H. C. and A. E. Boultbee, are the subject of this article.

The first consideration in a residential quarter is to make the most of the natural lie of the land ; to avoid leveling as much as possible, and cultivate variety. Little more than this was attempted at first in Crescent Road, the portion called the Macpherson Estate. There was a road cut, sloping from a hollow in Yonge Street to the higher level and truly no opportunity so slight has ever been made more of. The road not only sloped from Yonge Street but was cut out of the side of a slope which, though very slight, caused the lots on the upper side to rise a little above the road. This small advantage was the original source of inspiration for the development of this estate in an unusual way, more agreeable than the ordinary. The differences in level necessitating approaches by means of steps in the slope, and the variation of these approaches due to contour and a pair of old trees, suggested an irregularity in the alignment of the fronts which has done more to make the picturesqueness of the Macpherson Estate than is generally supposed by people who have admired the prettiness of the cottages. Several houses, in the hands of one architect or conforming to a properly studied estate plan, can lie backwards and forwards of one another with great mutual advantage, getting better views and more light, sun, and air.

In addition to the placing of the houses, the first efforts of the agents for the Macpherson Estate were deeply concerned with roads and sidewalks. And here we may begin a more systematic study of the principles of planning exemplified in the development of this estate.

In a residential district the roads and sidewalks should not he too wide. The most that will be required from the width of a road is to let two carriages pass one another at a point where a third or a line of carriages is standing against one curb. For this 24 or 25 ft. would be enough. As two single carriages can move off a common axis, and a line of carriages is rare, the decision of the designers of the Macpherson Estate for a width of 20 ft. evidently suits best the balance of agreeableness, which is for a minimum of glaring road a minimum of dust and a minimum of cost to make and support. Automobile speeding is not desirable in a residental district and the roads need not be designed to suit its requirements. The roads should be macadamized. This is still the favorite form of road construction in London for the best neighborhoods. A macadamized road is not noisy. If watered every day, it is not dusty, for it retains the effect of

watering for a longer time than asphalt or brick for the reason, (which is another of its excellences), that it is not so hot. Continuous asphalting must contribute seriously to the heat of a city in summer. Macadam is less costly to make and less costly to keep up than other forms of roadway ; and, which is not by any means the least of its advantages, it need not pass through a period of decline and shabbiness before it is renewed, but can be continually renewed, where it is beginning to fail, and need never be shabby at all. Finally, but not least in importance, macadamized roads have a natural colour and are pleasing to the eye.

Sidewalks should not he next to the road. There is a tendency in Toronto now to place them there. The reason is obvious the boulevard takes the place of a lawn for the houses, and the building line advances in proportion and will without doubt, in small residential districts, ultimately reach the line of the street. Let it be so in these districts if they must pack close to he cheap, let the street plan help them to any graces or comfort it can. But, when a property owner can buy enough land to free him on the sides, he ought to be able to free himself in front also by means of his own property. There is no occasion to invite him to lessen what he contributes to the spaciousness of the streets nor is it right to make the street boulevard of more value to him than to the passers by, for whose use it is really intended. The use of the boulevard (speaking, as we are now doing, only of the single boulevard) is to keep foot-passengers away from the splashing, the dust and the danger of the roadway. A sidewalk next to the road exposes them unnecessarily to all these, and also in summer, to the glare of the street, from which they should be cut off, walking behind the boulevard trees and getting the additional advantage for shade of whatever private trees there may be along the front of the lots. Two boulevards of course solve the question, where it is possible to consider perfection before expense ; but, for the ordinary residence street, where, though beauty is a first necessity, it must he got at the cost not so much of money as of thought, and one boulevard is all that is compassable, it is essential to keep the one boulevard between the sidewalk and the road. In the question of beauty, there is too much dull colour in one mass if the roadway and sidewalks are together. Though they are of the same family, they do not necessarily harmonize and are best apart. In this position also the climb from the road level to the sidewalk, for carriages or automobile entrances, is accomplished in the width of the boulevard and the sidewalk can he crossed on the level. There is thus no need for those dangerous level cuts in the outer edge of the sidewalk, which are so frequent when the sidewalk is against the road, and, constitute, in the dark, or in winter when the snow disguises them, a succession of traps for the foot passengers. When a sidewalk in this position is narrow, the outer person, of two walking abreast, needs to exercise watchfulness at any time, and in winter is in positive danger.

It is worth nothing, before leaving the question of roads and sidewalks, that, though there was some conflict between the trustees of the Macpherson Estate and the city officials, about the high prices paid by the trustees for sidewalks, for which the City had agreed to be jointly responsible, yet the cost of local improve-

