<doctype type="text">184	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



more interest in the subject than they used to. A recently-published handbook by Martin Buckmaster, though too archaeological in character, is yet evidence of a demand for information and instruction of a popular rather than technical character. A committee was appointed last session to consider whether anything could be done in this direction and they came to the conclusion that certain proposals laid before them were not only practicable but capable of an extensive application. A "standard work" issued by the Institute, and directed not so much to the training of the professional student as to furnish information which might with advantage form a part of every educated person's intellectual equipment, would prove of use, not only to the public generally, but also to school teachers and others interested in education. This question, "The Education of the Public," together with that of a diploma for architects; and the best methods to be adopted in the laying-out of cities will engage the attention of the International Congress which is to meet in London in the third week of July in next year. This will be the seventh such congress, and the first held in London. On previous occasions, for the most part, the Congress has been aided by a State subvention, for foreign governments are alive to the importance of such events from the point of view of the national interest. Our system of government not allowing of such support, we are thrown back, for the success of the Congress almost entirely on our own enterprise and esprit de corps. An earnest appeal is therefore made to all members of the profession in this country to lend a generous aid in this matter, not so much by special donations, though the executive committee are by no means too proud to accept them, as by enrolling themselves members of the Congress, whether they see their way to taking part in it personally or not. If the profession generally give the committee their support, the committee will see to it that the Congress is not merely a success, but not in anywise inferior in dignity and interest to any that have preceded it. Other countries have heartily welcomed and hospitally entertained thc delegates sent to them, and we must be no less generous in the reception of our foreign confreres, the delegates and others who are to honour us with their presence. The Institute is contributing £500; the balance — a pretty heavy one must be supplied by subscription. A series of visits and entertainments is being arranged, and the committee are drawing up what they hope will prove a very attractive programme. When the time comes helpers will be welcomed. in particular the committee are anxious to enlist the services of any members of the Institute who may be conversant with one or more foreign languages. Three or four gentlemen have already promised their services. We are looking forward to this Congress as an opportunity of ventilating many interesting questions, and of learning something of the principles and practice adopted in other lands. We must, however, in comparing foreign methods with our own, take into account the patronage that the State in so many cases extends to the arts, and to architecture especially, abroad. Hitherto foreigners have taken but little account of our native architecture. It is only of late ycars with increasing facilities of travel and I may add, the improved relations with other countries which our gracious King and patron has done so much to foster, that discovery is being made of the many magnificent buildings scattered over the British Isles, many of them possessing a distinction and character not found elsewhere. In the sphere of domestic architecture particularly we can coast of much that excels anything else of the sort in Europe. From the mansion of the wealthy landowner situated in its own park to the homely cottage of the village labourer or artisan standing in a well-kept garden, often hidden behind the trim hedge of some picturesque lane, our rural landscape possesses a beauty and interest that cannot be surpassed. The atmosphere of peaceful repose in which our country towns and villages so often seem to be

bathed—the effect of that reticence and love of seclusion which mark our countrymen—is a surprise, indeed, a revelation, to those who have only seen life under other conditions, and possesses irresistable charms and attractions for many who visit us from other lands. We ourselves have not shown due appreciation of these beauties of our native land. Not only are we, as a nation, fond of travel, but we are wont to extol everything foreign and depreciate everything that is our own. Foreigners, naturally enough, have taken us at our own valuation. It has been so in every department of art. Not until a man's work has been approved and commended by other nations is he recognized here as worthy of any honour. I anticipate that the International Congress will go far to open the eyes of the public to much in their own land that they have not hitherto valued at its true worth. Let us make every effort to welcome our colleagues heartily and to do them all the honor we can, and thus contribute to draw closer the bonds of international esteem and friendship which draws us to them.

I make no apology for bringing before you once again the question of our street architecture in its hygienic aspect. The appearance of our public thoroughfares is commonly regarded as a mere matter of taste, and is not believed to have any bearing upon the health or morals of the people. Last year I laid before you reasons for thinking otherwise, and I again press the matter upon your attention, because the proposals laid before Parliament by the Traffic Commission will, if adopted, afford a splendid opportunity for the application of better principles than have hitherto prevailed in this respect. The formation of new main avenues and the widening of important thoroughfares to provide greater facilities for locomotion and transport imply new building frontages. Let the facades which are thus to be in the public eye, as it were, for many long years to come, be under proper control from the very first. The owners of land bordering on a public thoroughfare ought not to be at liberty to indulge an ill-regulated fancy for what is bad and false in architecture or vulgar and showy in appearance. Let there be a control set upon private caprice that our street architecture may be marked by that restraint, that unobtrusive simplicity, the result of serious and dignified thought, which may tend to produce like thought in the minds of those who look upon it. The formation and widening of main arteries in great cities has another aspect. Thc work no doubt is primarily undertaken to provide for the ever-increasing demands of the traffic ; but incidentally it assists materially in bringing a proper air-supply to the crowded centre. The extension of the tramway system is driving from the suburbs many of the wealthier class who in the past have resided in suburban houses standing in many acres of land. These grounds are now being acquired by the speculating builder, who is busy running up small houses crowded together into the minimum space permitted by the Building Act. Thus the supply of air to the central parts is being blocked in every direction by a zone of over-built suburbs, and the danger in case of an epidemic of a malignant character is increased most seriously. In some countries—for instance, Germany and the United States—State interference has been invoked to regulate the "extension of cities," and I am glad to note that the authorities are seriously considering the advisability of similar legislation in respect of the suburbs of London. The attention of the public has been somewhat diverted from this larger subject to what is relatively a minor detail— -viz,, the character of the small villa residences referred to ; but the interest taken in the so-called "garden cities" is evidence of an awakening to the importance of a graduated increase of air-space in proportion as the buildings recede from the centre of the city. As Sir James Crichton-Browne said at the Sanitary Congress, "it is desirable that we should obtain control of the builder, and prevent the indefinite and unguided growth of the suburbs. We should then construct great leafy avenues, fine broad the

