<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

in the north-east out of the sun, while the living rooms on the south are in it. Public opinion is nervous about the appearance of servants at the front windows, and sometimes the kitchen windows are kept uncomfortably high for this reason. It is not necessary to have windows too high to see out of in order to conceal the operations of the kitchen. Where there has been less caution in this respect there is no sign of the kitchen to the passer-by. Would it matter so much if there were ? In no country in the world is the dignity of the dwelling more perfectly sustained than in England. Yet as you pass by the wide basement areas of a London house, in the best quarters, you can look down into the servants' hall, which is usually to the front, and the spectacle of the servants eating, always eating, only adds to the magnificence of the conception. But there is no chance for such conspicuousness as this in a ground floor kitchen. With a floor  ft. or so above grade (which means more at the sidewalk) a window set with thc stone sill 3 ft. 6 in. above the floor should conceal the servants without immuring  them. 

In a wide house it is easy to place the kitchen anywhere. It is the narrow house which really raises the question how to avoid the plan of lapping the kitchen extension over the rear end of the dining room, or, as is often done too often—giving the full rear end to the kitchen and letting the dining room in the middle get its light from a 6 ft. passage between it and the neighbor.























It would be easy again to put the kitchen in the middle and let it suffer. But that will not do a basement kitchen would really be better. The plan of Fig.































a house on a 30 ft. lot, with 3 ft. of passage on each

3



side, suggests a solution for a house looking East.

The kitchen still looks into the garden but a little back

*The absence of a garden entrance in this plan, other than from the front door or by the kitchen steps, is due to the garden being for the eye rather than for the habitation. The house lies between two streets about 150 ft. apart, so that neither side is



private. The out of doors quarters are in a balcony (shown by dotted lines) which opens off a sitting room above the drawing room.

Of  the drawing room, and with a small space of its own devoted to a clothes line and screened off from the garden by a row of shrubs.

But an outlook to the street is the best, in spite of public opinion to the contrary, and especially for the small house with one servant who requires much cheering to support her secluded life. If the test of a good rule is that it works both ways, the case for a garden front is clear ; for the publicity and racket that degrade a front verandah and its occupants become life and cheerfulness and wholesome touch with the world for the solitary occupant of the kitchen.

One more plan, Fig. 4, showing the case of a house facing west, but with a little more ground this time, will perhaps help to suggest further exploration in this matter which is really of the most serious importance for city house planning. Though our houses are detached they are essentially front-and-back houses. There is the advantage over the row plan that we can light stairs and passages from the middle of the house; but the living rooms should face front and back and the inner side of the lot, where we have always a hundred feet or so of land, should be a garden and should be part of the living rooms as an additional space for summer use.



<article title=" THE HAMILTON CONVENTION OF MASTER PAINTERS & DECORATORS.

" author="">THE HAMILTON CONVENTION OF MASTER PAINTERS & DECORATORS.

At the meeting of the Canadian Association of Master House Painters and Decorators, to be held at Hamilton on July 25th, 26th and 27th, the following papers will be read

Master Painters' Associations and Why We Exist," by Mr. J. XV. Morley, Winnipeg.

"The Advantages of the Open Shop to Employer and Employee," by Mr. A. N. Dubrule, Montreal.

The Importance of Bookkeeping to a Master Painter," by Mr. Frank H. McCausland, President of the Toronto Association.

Measurements and Prices," by Mr. J. W. Knott, Toronto.

Simple Methods of Testing Painters' Materials," by Mr. Robt. Simpson, Sarnia.

The Paper Hanger and His Difficulties," by Mr. Harry Holcombe, Hamilton.

Zinc vs. Lead, Its Advantages and Disadvantages," by a member of the London Association.

Apprenticeship and Technical Schools," (A continued paper) by Mr. W. T. Castle, 'Montreal.

Fate of the Master Painter as Sub-Contractor," by a member of the Montreal Association.

Lead Tests," by Hamilton Association.

Question Drawer," conducted by expert.



The Times says that students of applied mechanics at Cambridge are taught to took at mathematics from the practical standpoint—that is, as a means of predicting the behaviour of things under given circumstances." This make'. an excellent definition of the use of mathematics.

There is to he a twenty-storey tenement house erected in Brooklyn, N.Y., for the express purpose of providing a refuge for people with children. The birth of an American citizen in many apartment houses means the expulsion of the parents. One is faintly reminded of Adam and Eve, but the analogy between the garden of Eden and a flat is imperfect. In Mr. Oliver H. P. Belmont's new tenement house in Brooklyn, prospective tenants must have at least one child to make them eligible for admission. Special provision will be made for the entertainment of children, and, as the building will cover a whole block, a play-room or rooms of adequate dimensions can be provided

