<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	-	- -	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.



VOL. XVIII.—No. 213.

SEPTEMBER, 1905.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Cheap Cottages at Garden City, Essex, Eng.—Designs by Messrs. Gilbert Fraser, H. Cayley and F. W. Troup. No. 500 Wilbrod St., Ottawa.—-Mr. J. W. H. Watts, R.C.A., Architect.—The Drawing Room, Tile Library.

- ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Canadian Bank of Commerce, at Edmonton —Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Architects, Toronto. Main Entrance to the C. P. R. Station at Winnipeg. -Mr. E. Maxwell, Architect, Montreal.







CONTENTS

Editorial - .		.		-		-	129-130

An American Gothic Revival			-		-		131-132

Our Illustrations -				-		-	133

What I Want in My House	-		.		-		134

Character in Park Design		.		-		-	135-136

Common Defects in Existing			Buildings		.		137

Preventing Frost on Show Windows in				Winter		-	137

Intercommunication	—		—		-		138-139

Bevel Rule - -		-		-		-	140

Montreal Notes -	.		-		-		141

Books - -		-		.		-	141

Book-Keeping from a Master Painter's Standpoint	142

Cement Block and Cement Brick Machines	-	ii.

Exhibits at the Canadian National Exhibition,

	Toronto	-	- -	iv

Legal - - -				-		ix

Personal Transportation in	Factories				.	x

Labor Case ended -	-		-		-	xi

Indestructible Houses -		-		-		xii-xiii

Building Material from Waste	-		-		-	xiv

Testing a Reinforced Concrete	Factory			-		xv



<article title=" An Architects Bequest for Architecture " author="">

An Architects Bequest for Architecture.

The late Mr. Cummings, of Boston, the designer of the new Old South Church, has left fifty thousand dollars to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts with the provision that the income shall be used "in the purchase of representations—whether models, casts, paintings, drawings or photographs of the best architecture of all ages. "There is a second bequest of ten thousand dollars to the trustees of the Boston Athenaeum, who are to use the income of the fund in the purchase of architectural hooks and photographs. The annual income from each fund bears a suitable relation to the cost of the objects required by each institution, and seems to be sufficient to take advantage of the best opportunities that offer from time to time. The most satisfactory part of the disposition of the bequest, however, is that it leaves opportunity for the future, and does not saddle upon the institutions benefited either a collection or directions for the acquirement of a collection which, however well it would suit our ideas of the necessary thing, may have but faint interest for students of a future generation.

contractor and his superintendent, who are both held for manslaughter. The evidence shows that excavation was carried too near the piers that collapsed, and that the shoring of the floors above was insufficient.



This evidently fair finding is just in time to be an example for a few more cases of collapse that have occurred. In New York an old brick house has collapsed in consequence of blasting which was carried on in an adjacent excavation. Nine persons were killed. Shores were being placed against the walls, by a wrecking gang from the Building Department, when the collapse occurred. In Pittsburgh, a new wall went down with several men on it, some of whom were ''fatally hurt." In Boston—or as the American Architect, from whom we get our information, says "even" in Boston—there has occurred the fall of an old building undergoing alterations. It is evident that "an alteration job" should, at any rate from the building inspector's point of view, lose the slight that is usually put upon it as a second-class affair, and should receive first-class attention.

<article title=" The Albany Disaster and Others " author="">

The Albany Disaster and Others.

The coroner and a commissioner of experts, appointed for the purpose, have been investigating

the responsibility for the accident in the Meyers department store at Albany, and their reports, which are practically identical, have resulted in the arrest of the

The late Mr. Alfred Waterhouse.

It appears from the biographical notices of the late Mr. Waterhouse that have been appearing

sice his death last month, (August 22nd), that his own



choice of a profession was painting; the choice

<article title=" The late Mr. Alfred Waterhouse " author="">