<doctype type="tex;adt">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	143



A distinctly new line has been taken in engineering organization by the authorities who are conducting the operations on the U.S. Panama Canal. There is no doubt that a condition of affairs approaching actual insubordination has been prevailing among the employes, more especially among the large number of young engineers and artizans who have been attracted to the spot from the United States ; and who, in the words of a writer in the (U.S.) Engineering Record, "did not find any of the famed luxuries of tropical life waiting for their enjoyment." They discovered, on the other hand, that the conditions of their position imposed on them long stretches of arduous labor, without the opportunity of any relief from those relaxations or amusements to which they had been accustomed. Many in consequence abandoned an employment carried on under such forbidding circumstances and returned to their own country, where the accounts they delivered of their experience were not of a nature to encourage the advent of new adventurers to fill their place. The Panama Canal Commission have, therefore, given their serious consideration to the maintenance of a steady supply of supervision and labour, and to that end have appointed what they term a "Welfare" specialist, whose duty it will be to devise means and opportunities for the amusement and recreation of the hands engaged on the canal. The step seems to be a judicious one and the work in tactful and sympathetic hands should do much to develop and maintain that morale which is an absolute necessity to the success of an undertaking so formidable to life and habits as the construction of a huge waterway across the miasmatic isthmus of Panama. Times Engineering Supplement.





In New York City it is said that the craze for erecting apartment buildings in the various grades is subsiding. Instead there is a revival of the erection of individual dwellings. So far this year there have been filed with the bureau of buildings plans for dwellings aggregating a greater financial outlay than all the dwelling plans filed in 1904. An examination of the building records shows that the turning- point from dwellings to apartment houses came in 1899, and steadily increased up to and including 1903, remaining stationary in 1904, and decreasing in favor of dwellings again in the current year. Through July first plans had been filed in Manhattan for dwellings worth more than $3,000,000, which exceeded by $1,000,000 the total values of dwelling plans filed in 1904. Real estate men began

 to notice the change last fall. Persons of wealth who had closed their homes and caught the family hotel idea began to reopen their dwellings, and families returning from country places took up the same movement, which has been gaining strength ever since. Builders now are becoming wary of farther apartment hotel operations, and even the construction of flat houses is going on more slowly. It is the opinion of many interested in investments that the apartment house, except it be of exceptional worth and large size, is something of a delusion and a snare. '[he deadly parallel is being drawn upon buildings which were erected several years ago with an alluring array of figures drawn in advance of their completion as to their possibilities and probabilities of earnings.



Who of us has not, at one time or another, seen the effect of a harmonious color scheme ruined by the introduction of violent contrasts and jarring tones and shades? The following notice, which was affixed at the entrance of an exhibition of modern paintings in Germany recently, has been quoted by a contemporary in a humorous vein. Does it not, however, mark a decided step in the right direction.



TAKE NOTICE!



In order that the effect of the pictures may not be totally lost or at least partially impaired, by the loud and glaring colors of ladies' dresses, the managers have decided to issue the following regulations —"The galleries are only open to visitors dressed in

white, black, or violet. Grey has the privilege of being admitted at a reduced entrance fee. Violet is admitted free of charge Persons wearing the nationa costumes are refused admission."

"The public are requested to observe the above rules in the interests of art and artists, be particular to appear in violet.—THE MANAGERS"

The Cabinet Maker and House Furnisher.



The general character of a small town in Ontario is very pleasing. The trees are generally well grown now and there are plenty of them, usually too many. The introduction of granolithic sidewalks to take the place of the old wooden walks is a great improvement, giving an appearance of neatness and solidity that the wood never did. The small houses are satisfactory. It is the more ambitious people who get Shoppell's or some one else's cheap houses who work against the beauty of the town.



While the general death rate of New York has gone down 25 per cent. in the last twenty years, there are some diseases on the increase. Acute respiratory diseases, arc so marked that a

"Pneumonia Commission" been appointed to find out the cause which it is generally suspected is bad air in street cars and office buildings.



There are yet many openings in Canada for manufacturing industries whose raw material is timber. A gentleman was recently in Toronto exploiting the market for wooden columns, although he was already aware that there existed in this country no small demand for these goods. He represented an American firm which had been importing Canadian lumber and consequently paying a duty thereon of two dollars per thousand feet, manufacturing the lumber into columns, and shipping some of the columns into Canada, subject, of course, to a duty of twenty-five per cent. These columns are made largely from clear pine costing sometimes as much as one hundred dollars per thousand feet. Recognizing the advantages which a home factory would possess in supplying the Canadian trade, this gentleman was looking around for a suitable location. The duties on the lumber and the finished article alone represent a very acceptable profit, not to speak of the increased business which would likely be thus secured.

HOIDGE



Metal Angle Corner Bead

Is Unsurpassed for Protection of Plastered Corners In all Kinds of Buildings. It is Universally Known as

"THE PERFECT CORNER."



1----It makes a straight and true corner.



2—Broken and chipped off corners are unknown, when 'Hoidge Metal Angle Corner Bead" is used.

3—The entire piece is imbedded in the plaster, giving a guide to plasterer.

4—It makes a corner which cannot be damaged.

5—Has a double continuous bearing.

6—Can be arched to fit any radius.

7—The cost is nominal owing to what the "Corner Bead' saves.

8—Many thousands of feet are now in use all over the Dominion.

9—INVENTED AND PATENTED BY A CANADIAN.



Made in Canada By



The Yokes Hardware Co.,

LIMITED

111 and 113 Yonge Street, TORONTO



Write us for price and

further particulars

