<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	45



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

THE APPROACHING BUILDING SEASON.



A great many building schemes are announced as in contemplation for the coming season. Whether Montreal is going to get what she most wants is open to question, but at this season of the year there is no doubt what is most urgently needed. Thc talk is all of the high rents which rise higher and ever higher. One can hardly cast a glance on a daily paper without lighting on sonic reference to the subject. Theme are probably few cities of the same size in which are so few houses which look like homes, while whole streets of recently erected dwellings for people of moderate means, proclaim unmistakably, from every galvanized battlement and turret, that the first object of their existence is to extract coin from their tenants under false pretences. No doubt the demand is being met to some extent it is difficult to judge how far, as the largest supply comes from the multitude of small individual speculations.



Amongst other bitter cries on the subject, one has taken the form of a petition from the Trades and Labor Council to endeavor to induce the Quebec Legislature to pass a law compelling the rents charged far houses to he based on the assessed value of property—a proposition which might take its place admirably in a scheme of things nearer to ideal justice than is likely to lie found in the Province of Quebec for some time yet. Meanwhile there can he no manner of doubt, that the high rate of rents is having a most pernicious effect on the planning of the humbler sort of dwelling. Knowing well that people must he housed, and that in existing conditions, they may he compelled to

pay whatever may he asked for whatever accommodation is offered them, speculators are putting tip the flimsiest apologies for shelters with so many rooms crowded upon a given area that bedrooms and W. Cs. are often enough arranged where neither light or ventilation can reasonably be expected to percolate to them.

Amongst the larger housing schemes, the Montreal Land & Improvement Company are about to erect fifty dwellings mostly for workingmen on the lots between the Angus Workshops and Sherbrooke street. A large apartment house, to be known as the " New Sherbrooke," is to be built adjoining the present" Sherbrooke" flats in Sherbrooke street. It is to contain nine large and forty-one small suites of rooms with a general dining room. It is to he a five storey building of concrete fire-proof construction. Messrs. McVicar and Heriot are the architects.

In the same locality the Bishop Street Apartment House, designed by Messrs. Saxe & Archibald, is now nearing completion.

proprietor is having nearly 60 dwellings

At Raymond one	in



single and double houses completed for the 1st of May.

At the sitting of the House of Commons on the 16th of Feb

the estimates for public buildings in the Province of Quebec, were under consideration and funds were voted for several purposes. Important changes are to he made in the Post Office arrangements: $25,000 are to he spent on alterations to the Central office. The interior is to gain floor space by bringing the main wall forward to the street line. A site on the south side of St. Catherine street, close to the Renouf Building, was purchased some time ago, on which to build an uptown Post Office. A distributing station is to be placed on a site extending from the G.T.R.Square to Cathedral street adjoining the St. James' Hotel. This station will he connected with the central and with the uptown office by pneumatic tubes. A sum of $50,000 has been voted for the work. A similar sum has been voted for additions and repairs to the Inland Revenue Office. New additions are to he placed upon the small open square in front of the present building. Another building for which the Government has voted $20,000, is a barrack for the Permanent Corps. A site in La-fontaine Park may be requisitioned, but the civic authorities are endeavoring to provide a site elsewhere.

Last year most of the important building of the city was done



(Continued on Page 47)





"Something comes to him who waits, but he won't like the way he gets it,"



That's It Exactly

W

 HILE you are waiting, the other fellow

will get the only machine that makes the frost-proof double air space block and you

will get it in the neck. Order to-day.

	Frost Proof	Fire Proof	Damp Proof



MIRACLE PRESSED STONE CO.,

LEADER LANE CHAMBERS.

TORONTO. CANADA





Canadian Contractor's

Hand-Book and

Estimator

Tile third edition of the Canadian Contractors' Hand-Book is now on sale. The book has been revised and enlarged to upwards of two hundred pages, and the title changed to the Canadian Contractor's I-land Book and Estimator, considerable matter bearing on tile cost of performing Various kinds of work having been added.

The price of the third edition, mailed free, is $1.00 to subscribers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and $1.50

to non-subscribers. Order from the publishers.

The C. H. Mortimer Publishing Co. of Toronto, Limited

Confederation Life Bldg., Toronto

Alliance Building. Montreal

720-721 Union Bank Bldg., Winnipeg

DO IT NOW!

Have Us Modernize



and Refit Your Old



FIRE PLACE

We Do All Kinds of Tiling Prompt and Accurate



We Carry a Complete and



UP-TO-DATE STOCK OF FIRE PLACE FURNITURE



MANTELS AND GRATES



See Us About Your



NEW TILED BATHROOM



THE.



YOKES HARDWARE CO., LTD.

111 and 113 Yonge St., TORONTO

