<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



flooding or snow blockades also in its avoidance of the troubles entailed in operating a steam' plant at a distance from coal or water.

The Rogers Supply Co. will handle this stone in Toronto and will stock it at the various yards of the Rogers Coal Co. throughout the city.

Doolittle & Wilcox, Limited, also own and operate the Rymal Quarry, with a capacity of 250 tons and a slag plant at the



blast furnace in Hamilton with a daily capacity of 500 tons. The Dundas Quarry being as stated, on the main line of the Grand Trunk Railway, with three way trains daily between Dundas and Toronto, the Company's shipping facilities are of the very best.



<article title="Explains Confusion at Babel" author="">EXPLAINS CONFUSION AT BABEL.



"Among ignorant persons," said Frank E. Wallis, secretary of the Architectural League of New York, "there is a belief that architects are useless---that a builder is enough of an architect



for all practical purposes. I attended a session of court not long ago when an architectural case was being heard. A young architect was put on the stand, and, after he had given his testimony, the lawyer for the opposition began to cross-examine him. The questions ran like this

'You are a builder, I believe?'

'No, an architect.'

'Builder or architect, architect or builder, it is much the same thing, isn't it?'

'No, not at all.'

'What is the difference?'

'The young man explained what the difference was, and the lawyer, with a- sneer, said:

'Oh, very well. That will do. And now, after your very ingenious distinction without a difference perhaps you can inform the court who was the architect of the Tower of Babel?'

There was none,' he answered, 'and hence the confusion.'"





<article title="Heating Apparatus and Bad Odours" author="">HEATING APPARATUS AND BAD ODOURS.

In consequence of complaints respecting smells arising from the use of hot pipes for heating purposes, Professor Nussbaum has, according to' the Gesundheits-Ingenieur of June 10, been



let to carry out a series of observations extending over several years into the character of the dust deposited on the pipes used for the distribution of hot water or steam and into the products of decomposition of such dust. He has found that when the temperature reaches 70 C. this dust begins to become decomposed and that between 75 and 80 C., such action goes forward

with great rapidity. The smell complained of resembled that of a stable and is due to the chemical action of the particle of organic matter which forms a large portion of the dust deposited in dwellings and public buildings. In the course of certain experiments here described, ammonia was freely evolved from the



dust when the temperature rose to 80 C. It has been Previously observed that the smell was always worse when the heating apparatus was used for the first time after a long interval of rest, and when the cause had been discovered and the dust was carefully cleared away the smell partly disappeared, though some smell, due to floating dust in the atmosphere, remained. When the surface of the pipes is damp, decomposition takes place at lower temperatures than when the dust is perfectly dry.

—- Times Engineering Supplement.



Among the quieter satisfactions of life must be ranked in a high place the peace of a man who has made up his mind.— Anthony Hope.

