<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	25



sibly it is going a little into '' shop," which is I believe what one is not supposed to do on an occasion of this kind ; but you know it is a very rare thing for a man like me is get an opportunity of talking to you as an audience. I am taking advantage of the privilege and at the same tine I hope what I have to say to you will be of interest. My figures are intended to give you an idea of where the Insurance Companies stand at the present time. From 1869 to 1900, the time during which the insurance Companies have been making sworn reports to the Dominion Government, their income amounted to $156,764,807. '[heir losses during the same period amounted to $156,447,491, leaving a credit balance in their favor of $317,316 which is equal to 1/5th of 1 per cent. Between that time, and, the beginning of 1904, we have had the Ottawa-Hull Fire in which the loss amounted to $6,-000,000 ; the Vancouver Fire, loss $3,000,000 ; and also two $1,000,000 fires in Montreal. In 1904, the year just finished, our premium income amounted in round figures to about $12,000,000. The losses amounted to $18,000,000. As you will admit, it must have been a very profitable business ? Now you may say, what interest is this to us. Well, gentlemen, when 1 tell you that the consensus of opinion amongst the Insurance men is that the majority of these losses were caused by defective construction, you will admit I think that it is of some interest to won. When I say defective construction, I do not mean poor construction, but I mean defective construction from the point of the fire hazard ? Our old method of rating took into consideration only a very few features. We had a certain classification for our buildings. Four classes

—brick buildings with first class roof ; brick buildings with shingle roof; brick-veneered rough cast or metal clad buildings ; and frame buildings. The towns were classified according to the efficiency of their fire departments. The only difference we made was in the occupancy of the buildings. Now we have adopted a new system that we call schedule rating. The old system was not equal to the requirements, it was necessary to adopt a new one, and so we have fallen into line with many of the Insurance Associations of the United States and have adopted this system of schedule rating. Under it we have a regular schedule by which the water works and fire departments of a City are classified in proportion to the population, requiring a certain standard for domestic and fire purposes. Every point in connection with these departments is taken into consideration. That gives us what we call our key, or basis rate in making our rates. We then take up the construction of the buildings and we have a schedule for fixing the price of every deficiency that we find in the building, especially those deficiencies that tend to the rapid spread of fire. We also give deductions for points superior to the standard that we call for. In this connection we have the different classes of buildings to consider. That is, we have fire-proof construction, mill construction, and ordinary construction. We also take into consideration occupancy and exposure. When you consider that the excessive losses that we have had, were due in a very large measure to the building deficiencies you can easily understand why it is necessary for us to induce people to do better in the matter of buildings, to penalize those items that make the fire hazard. The only way you can get at a man in order to get him to improve his building, is either to penalize him for the deficiencies, for the poor features of his construction, or to pay him for making them better. '[hat is the method we are employing at the present time. To give you an idea of about how this works out I have figured out a couple of risks in this City, risks that I could take you to at the present moment. Take a building of the new mill construction. This building I estimate would cost about $100,000. It is pretty well up to standard mill construction. With a value of $100,000 we would get a rate of say, 45 cents ; that would give us a premium of $450. Taking the stock at $150,000 value, and rating that stock at 80 cents, we would get a premium

 of $1,200. This gives us a total premium on building and contents of $1,650. Now in the case of a building holding the same amount of stock, with the old ordinary construction valued at $50,000, and with all the deficiencies that we find in it, (and I have Liken an actual building for this), we would get a rate of about $1.70, giving us a premium on building of' $850.00. With a stock of the same value, $150,000, we would charge a rate of say, $2.30, giving us a premium of $3,450, a total premium of $4,300 on the building and stock as against $1,650 on the new mill constructed building, built up to standard. There is an annual difference of $2,650 which capitalized at per cent. would amount to about $53,000. Now, gentlemen, this is an inducement that you have to offer to your clients to put up the better building. The difference in the cost of insurance will amply repay the extra Outlay for the improved construction. It seems to me that you have got an argument there to induce people to put up a better class of buildings, and that is what we feel, we must have in some way or other. The premiums charged at the present time are all that the people can possibly afford to pay. At the annual dinner of the Fire Underwriters Association we had a gentleman there, prominent is financial circles of the City, who told us practically that we did not know our business when we did not lay aside a reserve to meet such losses as we had here in April last. Well that may be so, but at the same time if you have got the business loaded to the last cent it will bear and there is nothing left after paving losses and expenses to form that reserve, what are you going to do about it ? You simply cannot get the reserve. In addition to it being an advantage to your clients, there is also another point that I think can reasonably be considered and that is the advantage to the community'. As the gentleman who spoke before me said, we are all of us doing our best to build up Canada. I think the 20th Century is to be Canada's Century. I think the 19th was the American or United States Century, and the 20th is to be Canada's Century. Everything points to a tremendous progress in this Country during the coming years. If we can do away with the terrible fire waste, we surely are doing something for the benefit of the community. When you consider that the money is gone, that property that is burned has gone up in smoke, that there is nothing left of it, that it is an absolute loss to the community, then, if we can by any means lessen that loss, we are certainly doing something for the benefit of our Country. in speaking of the fire hazard there is just one little thing I would like to mention, and that is the worst point in connection with the fire hazard in any building ; it is the vertical openings, the elevators and the stair ways that are round in almost every warehouse at the present time. There is no doubt whatever that the great conflagrant ion here was caused by an unprotected vertical opening. Above all things, gentlemen, when you build a warehouse do away with the vertical openings. It has been a surprise to me that in a number of the new buildings that are going up in the City—and some of you gentlemen are responsible for those new buildings—to find that, although you put in an elevator shaft of Erick, at the same time you have made no provision, in several instances, for the fire door that should go on the floor openings. A brick shaft is not very much good unless you put a good fire door on the openings into it. Quite a number of those shafts that you have built have unprotected openings. That is the worst feature, and the one thing beyond all others that the insurance man would like you to improve.





<article title=" HAMILTON ART SCHOOL " author="">HAMILTON ART SCHOOL.

The directors of the Hamilton Art School have confessed themselves beaten in the effort to support the school by private subscription. They have agreed to ask the Board of Education to take over the management of the school on a plan similar to that followed in Toronto.

