<doctype type="text">132	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the devout as any churches in the world. One of them is occupied by a congregation with perhaps the most mediaeval service in England; and the perpetual smell of incense in the church sets it apart as a sacred place, even to one who abhors the use of incense in the service. But there is no satisfaction in "the Renaissance box of bricks " which were Wren's only repertory of detail, The question is, do they constitute classical architecture any more than Gothic detail makes Gothic design ?

The essential principle of classic design seems to us to be the construction of form—the Greek principle. This is not absolutely either true or false; it may be either. Let us assume its proper use and see how it will fit the Gothicist's conditions of architectural style as set forth by Mr. Cram. Apart from a general exaltation of the need of harmony, proportion, etc., common to all styles; a general denunciation of archaeology and imitation; and a special damnation of the Renaissance—the conditions upheld by the Gothicist are "that architecture is a language, not a sequence of fads, and that style is nonsense unless it develops from historical and racial associations, expresses construction, function and contemporary ideas, uses honest materials honestly, and is intrinsically beautiful, both in detail and as a whole."

Admitting the truth of all these items, the point to be wrestled with in classical design is the expression of  construction.

The point the Gothicist will have to wrestle with(we may just mention it in passing) is the expression of contemporary ideas; and we must respectfully express a doubt whether Mr. Cram is doing it in the narrow spans he gives his churches (those shown in The Brickbuilder.) It may be necessary to contract the span in order to meet the requirements of a tie-beam roof that will give the true Tudor effect. But is not this resurrecting his style to much in the body in which it died. "It did not die", he says "but only retreated to the sanctuary of the Island of Avallon with King Arthur and all the other inextinguishable truths." Inextinguishable in truth it may be but not in form. ''Arthur has come again," Tennyson assures us, ''in port and manner like a modern gentleman"; and should not the architecture which also retreated to his sanctuary appear again in a form more expressive of " contemporary ideas?"

The contemporary idea of architecture is that it should be fireproof. This was not so in the fifteenth-sixteenth century, nor was it so in the time of Wren but it was the generating force in the development of pointed architecture, and there is every reason to find in it the cause that will develop from the Perpendicular (the most delightful and suggestive as well as the last of the English styles), by way of thc models Wren has left us, a style of church building which will fulfil the conditions of true design, and not be alien, as mediaeval Gothic is, to our modern life.

Apart from the question of fire-proofing there is still difficulty with the roof. The mediaeval church inclined to a narrow habit in spans. Our inclination is to a wide habit. On this score also a wooden roof is not in accord with modern life; and an architect, to whom a true mediaeval wooden roof is a necessity of church design, will find difficulty in stating his position fully to the building committee of his church. Iron cased with wood is good enough for them.

He loses frankness in his dealings with them in the matter because he has no argument that will convince them, who, as he bitterly reflects, are altogether possessed by modern ideas. If he will only reflect a little longer, until he becomes aware that it is he who is not possessed by modern ideas, is in fact archaeological, he will perhaps recollect that this is a habit of mind that is denounced the Creed of the Gothicists and will turn his mind to making a design in accordance with modern ideas. Iron for his roof is the first consequence ; and the second is concealment, for iron is neither fit to be seen nor safe when exposed. He is now modern and may congratulate himself that he so far fulfills the condition of his Creed that his design is based on contemporary ideas. The expression of construction and of function remain to him. The latter is largely a matter of plan, which we may assume to be right, and of details and ornament, which need not be heathenish though the principal of design be- what it seems to have become—Greek.

One cannot affirm with certainty how the problem of concealed construction is to be treated. Invention is at work in building material, in great part in order to meet these very conditions of modern life— the employment of iron in construction and the desire to build fire-proof. We may conceive of our church designed in some casing material—a condition no different from Wren's in the city churches. We may think of reinforced concrete, with an exposed construction not at all (in the bridges that have been built of this material) unsuggestive of a sort of work that would follow on well from the last stage of Gothic architecture in England. But in any case it is a question of vertical pressure on vertical walls, and any structural form into which the walling is cast will be designed not to enable the wall to carry its load the better but to express better the fact that it carries it.

This is the architecture of modern life, Not the display of function but its expression, and, if a man is to speak the language of his times in architecture, that is the language he must learn. So far the Renaissance box of bricks has been our only means of expression. The real ground of its invariableness has been the conviction that the proportion of parts in an order is inviolable. This conviction does not now hold the best designers. The orders are not an object of blind adoration. The way is open to Mr. Cram and his fellow-countrymen to find a new and more Christian language in the open phrase book of Gothic architecture, and we sincerely hope they may do so. But the style of architecture to which it must be applied will, it seems likely to us, be, if it is truly modern, Greek in its principle of design.



It seems that the word "pediment which, because it seems to have something to do with the foot, is so confusing to people who know but a little about architecture, has had its derivation made clearer by the Oxford English Dictionary, in the seventh volume, which has been recently published. Early examples of the use of the word show that it was written "periment" or "periment' and Dr. Murray thinks that this word was "a workman's corruption of pyramid, which a triangular gable sometimes resembles in section, and which is actually pronounced peremint or purriment by the illiterate in some districts at the present day. He gives the genealogical succession of the word as "pyramid, peremint, periment, pedament, pedement, pediment." The jump from periment to pedament seems to have been caused by the educated (Evelyn uses the word) because there happens to be a Latin word pedamentum meaning a prop, usually used of a vine stake.

