<doctype type="text">72	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The Washington Monument impresses one on near approach chiefly by its size and simplicity, but as one journeys about the city and suburbs constantly catching glimpses of it, now through vistas of trees, now through haze or rain cloud, or again in brilliant sunshine silhouetted against a dark background, it grows in interest and impressiveness and becomes a thing of grace and elegance.

One of the most interesting studies for one who is  archaeologically inclined is contained in a peculiar structure on New York avenue, designed and erected by Mr. Franklin Webster Smith, The front of tile building is a reproduction of an Egyptian temple, while the interior contains what the author describes as "Ten Halls of the Ancients," consisting of full-size models of Egyptian halls, a Pompeian house a Roman taberna (or shop) a Moorish hall, a Saracenic hall. the Assyrian throne room of Sennacherib, and other halls and apartments. These halls are claimed to be faithful transcriptions of their ancient prototypes, both as to form, detail and color.

The author has a much more ambitious scheme, of which he exhibits a large model being no less than a National Gallery for Washington which shall cover a very large site. The buildings are to he reconstructions of all the ancient styles of architecture chronologically arranged, with paintings illustrating the history and the arts of the nations, while other buildings for a Hall of Fame and galleries for American history and portraiture, presumably of modern design, would he incorporated in the group, all constituting a most complete and remarkable educational ensemble.

Mr. Smith is now an aged man, but most youthful in his ideas and feelings. He proposes to execute this gigantic scheme entirely in concrete, claiming great economy over the use of marble, stone and brick.

Mr. Smith claims to be the pioneer in the introduction of concrete in modern work, having instituted its use in the construction of the great hotels at St. Augustine, Florida, and was himself the architect of the Hotel Casa Monica and the Villa Zorayda in that city, which are built of that material.



<article title=" BALTIMORE " author="">BALTIMORE 



A hurried drive through the burnt district and a few of the residential streets, and a quick run through one of the new office and newspaper buildings left no time for a very close examination of the new structures replacing those destroyed by fire. Outside of a few high fireproof buildings, a majority of the new structures appeared to be ordinary four and five-story buildings, very commonplace in design and of ordinary joist construction, a few having the so-called mill floors. A large number have exposed steel girders and columns, and are apparently no better prepared to resist a conflagration than their predecessors. The streets in the business sections are n arrower even than those in Toronto—in fact several important streets appeared to be no wider than Colborne street. a single street car line leaving barely room for one vehicle on each side, with sidewalks not more than six or seven feet in width. I understand that an appropriation of $2,000,000 has been made for new streets in the burned district and widening others, an

opportunity which Toronto should have seized after last year's fire. An appropriation of $1,000,000 has also been made for parks and park extensions.



 <article title=" PHILADELPHIA." author="">PHILADELPHIA.



A more complete contrast to the generous avenues and streets of Washington than the (Quaker City can scarcely be imagined.

The streets are almost entirely laid (lit on the prosaic ''gridiron'' plan, practically only one artery, Ridge avenue, running in a diagonal direction. In consequence, if one wishes to reach a distant point in this vast city lying in a diagonal direction from his starting point, lie has to travel, probably, one-third farther to reach his destination than he would have to in Washington. The journey will moreover be further complicated by the fact that owing to the narrowness of the streets but one street ear track is permitted on each street, travel being limited to one direction with the return line one or perhaps two blocks away. Philadelphia thus stands even more in need of diagonal arteries than Toronto, while the problem of transportation is analogous to our own. Philadelphia is moving in the matter, and among other improvements expropriations are being made for a broad diagonal avenue beginning at the City Hall square, and extending to Fairmount Park via Logan square, one of the four squares planned and located by Penn when laying out the city.

Broad (or 14th) street is the one really wide street, and is unencumbered by tracks, and therefore a pleasant street to travel upon, being free from the din and danger of the nerve-racking trolley, though invaded by an almost continuous procession of automobiles, cabs and carriages. The City Hall sits squarely across it at the intersection of Market street and thereby robs it of some of its value as a grand avenue, its bulk being so great as to separate and disjoint the street, making it practically two distinct avenues.

The city is so vast that but a fraction can be seen in a brief visit. The impression gained by a hurried traveler is that the bulk of the architecture is very commonplace and that most of the attempts, where large means were available, have been hideous failures. One has to hunt up and down street, back and forward, to fluid an occasional piece of good work. This work, by a thoughtful school of architects, is thoroughly good and characteristic.

'Suburban work, if Peiham may be taken as a good example, is not equal to our own Rosedale.

"Sky scrapers" are more scattered than in New York and the streets are therefore not so canyon-like.

The number of steam railways crossing and recrossing the city, passing under, across and above streets and alleys, is very noticeable.

Enormous expense has been entailed in the construction of viaducts and tunnels to enable the great trunk lines to reach the heart of the city, and immense sums have been spent in the erection of terminal stations.

Like Washington, Philadelphia is a good example of a sensible method of street numbering. but as the streets running east and west are named after trees. men and places, more time is required in familiarizing oneself with its peculiarities and geography.

