<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

With a very considerable amount of building in progress and in view, and with nothing serious threatening in the nature of strikes amongst the workmen, the prospects for the building season continue to be of the best. One of the largest schemes on foot promises to be that in connection with the Windsor hotel, the directors of which announced their intention last March of spending about one and a half million dollars in the erection of an Annex to their hotel on the site of I he Windsor Hall.

The Windsor Hall in spite of certain acoustical deficiencies, is so essential to the well being of the community that its loss would bc a severe one. We understand however that there is good prospect of another hail being presently erected in the same neighborhood to supply its place.

A good augury in the architectural field in Montreal appears in the establishment of a junior architectural club, and the P.Q.A.A. is to be congratulated on having set it on foot. The juniors start off with praiseworthy enthusiasm and an excellent constitution. The somewhat formal existence of the older society leaves plenty of field for activity on the part of the younger.

At the annual exhibition of pictures in the Art Gallery, open from March 12th to April 8th this year, the number of architectural drawings exhibited was very meagre, representing only eight exhibitors; and on the whole the representations did scant justice to the works they portray. Thus the view of the Branch of the Royal Bank at Westmount is far from giving a pleasing suggestion of this really fine building, and the same might be said of the drawing of the branch office of the Bank of Montreal by the same architects Messrs Edward & W. S. Maxwell, at Westmount. Their drawings of the exterior and interior of the C.P.R. station building at Winnipeg similarly fail to inspire one with admiration for the design, though leaving room to hope that the actual building will not be similarly wanting.



As is frequently the case in exhibitions of this kind, a number of drawings are spoiled as representations of architecture by the introduction of spottings of unnecessarily juicy color. This applies to a very nice little brick house by J. Rawson Gardiner, as well as to two houses shown by McVicar & Heriot, In the same way the key-note of the "New Sherbrooke," by the same authors, seems to be given by the red-hot motor car at the door; the architecture trying to look similarly up-to-date. Another of Messrs. McVicar & Heriot buildings, the Mussen Building, of a simple and rational design, looks vastly more pleasing in black and white. A preliminary study for the McGill Students Union stands distinguished as a piece of conscientious draughtmanship. The design is dignified and refined—perhaps a trifle too frigidly confined to a simple outline. One would like to see it swerve a little more to suit the presumably not too severe necessities of its human occupants.

George A. Ross, A.R.I.B.A., sends a measured drawing of the little Trianon at Versailles, which shows that lie can lake architecture seriously and treat it with respect. A number of designs by Clarence Luce exhibit a large ambition in compositions of an academic character.



If one considers how projects of public importance in Montreal have been managed in cases that have lately been much in prominence, one can hardly feel surprised if in architectural matters one finds few indications of large minded civic enterprise.

Some time ago one read day after day in the newspapers about the new Harbour Sheds till one became giddy with trying to make out whether they were actually to be of one storey or of two. Another question, of somewhat minor importance commercially no doubt, but more within the domain of pure architecture, was that of the Mountain Outlook. There was a scheme, announced more than a year ago, for a new wooden outlook, to replace the existing primitive and inoffensive shelter on a more spacious anti ambitious scale. About one—third of it was actually carried out when some wiseacres, on a tour of self exhibition, affected to see in the rather artless creation something quite too atrocious for their sensitive artistic feelings. As there was no hit hack coining from the little innocent, its ruin was forthwith decreed and forthwith it disappeared -the only purpose it had served in the meantime being to absorb a considerable sum of money. After these exhilarating proceedings the Parks and Ferries Committee tried to become quite serious, they obtained designs for a more substantial and permanent arrangement. When these designs were matured and estimates called. the soaring ambition of the promoters found itself unable to face the

expense, and went back to the City Council to ask advice on the matter. Now in proceedings of this kind, and more important instances must be of continual occurrence, it would seem not too impracticable to have a definite and useful if unofficial relation— ship between the city's representatives and the Association of Architects. For instance if the individuals among the aldermen who take a real pride and interest in the improvement of the city's appearance--there are some such—could lie brought to discuss questions of civic amenity before the Association they ought to he well received. In case they had good projects which they would faint see carried out, they should find themselves in a congenial atmosphere in which their ideas could take root and develope- Their hands could be strengthened by the opinions of a variety of men whose business it is to judge of the benefit of schemes of the kind. They would be placing these matters in a field where a wider range of discussion would fill and round out their initial ideas ; and it is to be hoped that, in some cases, they would find these ideas improved upon or even superseded by others which, tinder the present circumstances, are unlikely' to occur to individuals working in comparative isolation.

CONCORDIA SALUS.







<article title=" REAL ESTATE IN MONTREAL " author="">REAL ESTATE IN MONTREAL



From the large amount of sales of real estate recorded during the month of March and the enquiries for residential and business properties it is safe to say that the market continues to be active, and the business for the first four months of this year is likely to show up better than it has done during the same period for many years. 

Medium—priced dwelling houses in good localities for occupation this spring or in the early fall are readily sold and more readily rented. Even the high priced houses are finding purchasers, and the demand for all kinds of residential properties is pretty sure to lead to active building operations during the ensuing season.

The suburban sections can hardly fail to benefit from the insufficient supply of house accommodation in the city. Westmount particularly has attracted the attention this spring of a good many enquirers, and is likely to continue to do so.

Business properties have also been purchased freely in certain established sections, not so much for investment or speculation as with the object of meeting actual business requirements. The recent sales on St. Catherine street have rather stiffened the prices of properties on some of the side streets.  The demand for rentable space in buildings and factories still

keeps up, but hardly to the extent that it does for dwelling house accommodation, but neither is the perspective supply of business space as large as the condition of the demand calls for excepting as regards offices, the supply of which appear to he sufficient for present needs.

On the whole the real estate situation in Montreal is a healthy one, hut it is more satisfactory to the property owner than to the tenant, and building operations will have to be much more active than they are now to cause a surplus of house and business premises. Generally speaking, new houses are built more to sell than to rent and the prospects for selling are good. When a man has had his rent increased two or three times lie is usually in a proper frame of mind to buy a home of his own.

One hundred and forty-four building permits were issued in March, and the stated aggregate cost of the work is $489,680. This includes 81 permits for new buildings, consisting of' 66 houses, 135 tenements, 2 stores 1 warehouse, 3 factories, educational building and 14 sheds, to cost in all $370,450. There were 63 permits for alterations or repairs to 56 houses, 50 tenements, 31 stores, 2 factories 1 hospital 1 hotel, stable amid 6 sheds, amounting to $119,230.

The sales recorded during the mouth of March in the undermentioned suburban municipalities amount to $705,554, amid are as follows:---Maisonneuve, $12,725; Delorimier, $9,280; Towmi of St. Louis, $73,174 Petite Cote, $2,709; Outremont, 84,482; Cute des Neiges, $5,526 Notre Dame de Grace, $800; Montreal West, $432; Verdun $1,542; Cote St. Paul, $5,748; St. Henry, $580,034; and Ste. Cunegonde, $6,100. The exceptionally large amount in St. Henry includes a transfer from the Colonial Bleaching & Printing Co ltd to the Dominion Textile Co., Ltd., the consideration being 

There were 288 real estate transfers in the city wards and  Town of Westmount recorded at the registry offices during the month of March, amounting to $1,118,358. 

During the corresponding month of last year 223 transfers were recorded, amounting to $1,069,348. 

The Cradock Simpson Real Estate Record.







Amid all the shouting we hear of the gospel of success, much of which will not bear examination, here are a couple of wholesome maxims from our exchanges

The talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do well; and doing whatever you do without a thought of fame.

To do great things, a man must live as if he had never to die.

