<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	189



MONTREAL NOTES.<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="Salus, Concordia">

About two 3-ears ago Mr. Carnegie offered Montreal the sum of $150,000 towards establishing a public library. After a lengthened and spasmodic discussion of the question the City Council decided, on the 27th of Nov. last, that the offer should not be accepted, on the ground apparently that the annual expense involved would be too great and might be applied in better ways. It was Carlyle we believe who pointed out that we seem to be able to afford jails for all our great cities, why not have public libraries instead ; the suggestion being that in reality we had here two alternatives to make choice between, and that in a progressing civilization the public library would do away with the necessity for the jail. The golden age is not yet it seems.

In an address to the Art Association of Montreal Prof. Nobbs of McGill University made an appeal for the establishment of a Museum of Industrial Art with a view to improving the standard of Canadian productions and, in order no doubt to commend such a scheme to a city which will not accept of public libraries, he points out that there is money in it. The idea is one which all interested in good or artistic workmanship would willingly see realized. Meanwhile however we make a little step forward in equipment for industrial arts, for, on the 2nd of Decr., Lord Grey laid the foundation stone of the new Commercial & Technical High School, which is to be built on the north side of Sherbrooke Street between St. Famille and St. Urban Streets. The purpose of this school, as expressed in the address to His Excellency on the occasion, is to " send forth its alumni year by year endowed with breadth of idea and skill of hand to take their places with credit in the great world of commerce, design or construction."

At a City Council meeting, on the 20th of November, a by-law was passed to the effect that ''every new building erected on the lots fronting on either side of Ontario Street shall not have less than three stories." This must be characterised as a careless piece of legislation, for a natural result of its strict enforcement would be that an owner, having the intention to build two stories of substantial character, would be compelled to build three stories ; and, if in doing so he lowered his standard of building to the minimum required by law, one could hardly blame him. Such unsatisfactory by-laws might very readily be avoided by the establishment of a definite connection between the City Council and the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, the want of which has time and again been deplored in these notes. Some remarks of more than usual and perhaps regrettable bitterness on this point have called forth a couple of letters from the President of the Association, published on another page, to which we are glad to draw attention. These letters demonstrate that, whilst little or no information about it has been leaking through to the general public, the Council of the P.Q.A.A. has been actively if vainly endeavouring to achieve something in this matter; and they effectively shift much of the blame on to the shoulders of the City Council which has the nonchalance to say in reply to important communications that they have been 'laid on the table'. Now the general position in this matter of the writer of these notes has been to point out not that the Coun

cil of the P.Q.A.A. do not do their work, but that the P.Q.A.A. itself does not carry weight in public matters

and the general line of argument has been that it fails to do so by not appearing as a body to interest itself sufficiently in the public's affairs. The blame for such a state of things by no means rests with the Council but primarily and essentially with those members who when the Association holds its meetings do not turn out to them and so give weight and value to its proceedings. When lately a paper on a most interesting subject, that of reinforced concrete, was read before the Association by Mons. Andre Loignon, the meeting was not as large as it ought to have been, and it is this sort of thing that keeps the Association in its present disintegrated state. The want of loyalty which keeps members at home on these accasions is the fatal weakness. It will generally be found that the busiest men are those who find time to be present. Unfortunately, when one grows indignant at such a state of things, the only persons likely to lake such indignation seriously to heart are those who are clear of all blame, as in this case the President and Council of the P.Q. A.A. Let the meetings of the Association be heartily supported and we shall soon hear of its receiving more respectable consideration. Mr. Archibald hits very hard but I hope to live long enough to see him write of my 'love' for the P.Q.A.A. without any (?) after it.

The following extract from a witness' interviews with the City Building Inspector throws a certain side light on the relation between the Association and the City "Mr. Chausse referred to the request of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects that whenever permits for buildings are granted blue prints of the plans should be lodged with the Building Inspector. The City Council refused to do this a month ago remarked Mr. Chausse, yet it ought to be done, and is done in every other city            We have a vault here which was specially built for filing such permits but up to date there is only one plan in it. That plan was made by a firm of United States architects, who thought the law here was the same as over there and consequently lodged a plan when they put in their application for a permit."

A large scheme is announced as being in preparation by Alderman Lavallee, chairman of the Annexation Committee. This is no less than a project to have an avenue laid out 300 ft. wide and 35 miles long, extending from Bout de l'isle to St. Ann's and traversing the axis of Montreal Island with building lots 300 feet deep on each side. The success of the scheme to depend on the sale of these lots. The scheme is a magnificent one but the present fashion when any one wants a lot in the country is to have one by the lake or riverside, and there does exist at present all around the island not indeed a 300 feet avenue but at any rate the best made and most delightful road in these parts. Three hundred feet wide is splendid but is it a really handy width?

Another scheme, which seems more likely to take practicable shape within measurable time, is that of the establishment of another amusement park by the Dominion Park Co. at Longue Pointe, which it is hoped to open by the 24th of May next.

It is now announced that the work of demolishing the Windsor Hall will be commenced about the middle of March next. This is to make way for the great ex

