<doctype type="contents;ad">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	-	-	-	-	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.



VOL. XVIII.—No. 214.

OCTOBER, 1905.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Golf Club, Winnipeg.—Messrs. Darling & Pearson, Architects.

Public Library, Sarnia.—Mr. M. R. Burrowes, Architect. Plans.

Cheap Cottage Exhibition at Garden City.— Mr. Percy Houftons Prize Design. Mr. Baillic Scotts Design.

ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Public Library, Sarnia.— Mr. M. R. Burrowes, Architect. View of Building. Wall Decoration in the Royal Bank, Vancouver, by Mr. James Blomfield.







CONTENTS



Editorial	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 145

Canadian Architect and Builder Competition for Students - 146

Toronto Chapter O.A.A. -	-	-	-	- 146

Ornamental Trolley Poles	-	-	-	- 147

Speculative Brickwork	-	-	-	-	- 148

Our Illustrations	- —	-	—	-	- 149

Review	-	- -	-	-	-	- 150

Plastering in Winter	— —	—	—	—	151-152

Chicago Foundations	-		—		—		—		 153-154

Intercommunication — — — — — 155-156

Montreal Notes - - - - - - 157

The Sketch Club, P. Q. A.A. - - - - - 157

Bachelor of Architecture Course at McGill University - 158

Architectural Classes - - - - 

Our Sinful Extravagance -		-		-		-		158-159

Bad Gas Fitting - -	-		-		-		-	ii

The Inclined Railway -		-		-		-		- iii

Building Collapse —	—		—		-		—	iii

Thc Suburban Home - -		-		-		-		- iii

Plumbers Apprentices -	-		-		.		-	iv

To War on Race Suicide Landlords				-		-		- iv

Heating and Dust - -	-		-		-		-	ix-x

Babies Wanted in these Flats		-		-		-		- xi

Canadian Tin Plate —	—		—		—		—	xi

Pulp Refuse as Fuel - -		-		-		-		- xi

Architecture of Concrete	Building		-		-		-	xii-xiii

The Street Traffic in London		-		-		-		- xiv

Trees and Lightning -	-		-		-		-	xv

Disinfection with Chloride of	Lime	 -		-		-		- xv





Drying Plasterin Winter.

The excellent article from the

Engineering Record, reprinted

<article title=" Drying Plasterin Winter " author="">

on another page, suggests that the winter, so tar from being a bad time to dry plaster, is, if the proper arrangements are made, a very good time for the purpose. The arrangements are:  a house, which has the beating apparatus installed before plastering and is kept comfortably warm, and windows kept open enough to admit and expel air constantly without lowering the general temperature of the house. Then, as the capacity of air to receive moisture is in proportion to its warmth, we have an ideal condition



—the continual admission of cold air, empty of moisture, to take up moisture continually as it grows warmer and more eager for it, until at last when it is at its warmest and fullest, being also at its lightest, it is shoved out of the openings at the top by more cold air coming in to repeat the process. The air of summer, which comes and goes substantially at the same temperature, cannot be more effective, for drying purposes, than this.



The Auld Brig of Ayr is in danger, in fact it only preserves its form because the town council have



built a centering under it pending decision as to whether it is to be taken down and rebuilt or is to be replaced by a modern bridge. One of the great English building firms, Sir Douglas Fox and Partners, have been consulted anti report that there can be no question of taking down and rebuilding stone for stone, because

The Brig of Ayr.

<article title=" The Brig of Ayr " author="">so many stones are cracked and broken that the new structure would be to a great extent a new bridge. Its aged appearance would disappear; its wrinkles and furrows, its distorted arch, its weather-worn arises would be corrected, and all its history and associations would be lost. Sentiment would not be served by that course and the town of Ayr might as well make a motive of utility and have another kind of bridge. But it is not necessary to do this or to take the bridge down at all. Thanks to a grouting machine, invented by the late Mr. Greathead, many ancient historical buildings which were cracked from top to bottom have been repaired, and are to-day stronger and firmer than they have ever been. By means of the grouting machine, liquid cement can be blown by compressed air into the heart of any wall, no matter of what thickness, whether the crack is wide or as narrow as a sheet of cardboard. And this treatment, the report considered, would meet the case of the Brig of Ayr. Decision was reserved.





There are indications in our exchanges of the approach of a fashion for mottoes and inscriptions as a form of decoration for houses. Unfortunately the tendency of the fashion seems to be not only to use mottoes but to use the same mottoes. Certain mottoes are said to be appropriate for certain rooms and lists are given. That certain mottoes are suitable for certain rooms must be true; at any rate we can perceive that certain mottoes are not suitable for

House Mottoes

<article title=" House Mottoes " author="">