THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	5

<doctype type="text">

fire-resistive construction. It thinks also that existing buildings should be altered to meet this requirement and that municipal building laws and insurance discrimination should be evoked to this end.

STAIR CONSTRUCTION.-The Committee of the National Fire Protection Association makes the conclusion

"Stair treads should preferably be of iron or its equivalent. If slate or marble treads are used they should be supported by a metal plate underneath. Where slate or marble has been used in the Baltimore buildings it was the rule to find the entire stair treads and landings gone. It is very important to make the stairway safe for use by firemen after it has been exposed to heat.

Prof. Norton says :—" Cast-iron stair frames and rails stood remarkably well in most instances.

DESIGN OF COLUMNS.—The Committee of the National Fire Protection Association concludes :—'' To resist distortion, steel columns should be designed so as to practically equalize the transverse strength of the material in all directions from the axis of the column."

The behavior of two steel columns in the fire illustrates this. '[he box column shown in Fig. 1, having

lost its fire protective covering, buckled thus, but maintained its vertical position. The result was a settlement of about 4 inches in the floor above. A column in another building, (Fig. 2) which was made of channel irons, and was susceptible of buckling in two directions especially,

buckled in the shape of the letter S and brought down the roof.

ALL STRUCTURAL METAL WORK SHOULD BE PROTECTED.--The committee of the National Fire Protection Association says :—" The practice of leaving steel-work unprotected in blind attics has prevailed to some extent in the past, although its fallacy has been frequently demonstrated." Unprotected cast iron columns in the basement and on the ground floor caused the collapse of the National Mechanics Bank Building in Baltimore.

FLOORING.---The committee of the National Fire Protection Association says :—" The desirability of minimizing the amount of combustible material in floors was very clearly demonstrated in this fire, the wood floors and nailing strips being practically all consumed." The committee therefore concludes '' Floor surfaces should be of non-combustible material."

TRIM.—Capt. Sewell's definition of a fireproof building includes "incombustible trim."

PIPES IN COLUMN COVERINGS.---Pipes and conduits running inside of the protective covering of columns have been accused of buckling and thus causing the failure of the column covering. Capt. Sewell finds more evidence in favor of the column covering having failed first hut admits that the subsequent buckling of the pipes inside must have aggravated the failure of the covering.

In any case one would think, there is danger in this practice because of the admission of a second set of workmen, who have no responsibility for the proper covering of columns, to place work behind it, not only

while the building is in progress, but, in case of alterations and repairs, afterwards, when a rupture of the completeness of the fireproofing may be imperfectly restored.

THE VALUE OF FIREPROOFING.

<article title=" THE VALUE OF FIREPROOFING " author="">

Capt. Sewell estimates the cost of repairs to the fireproof buildings injured in the Baltimore fire, as not less than 60 per cent. of their original value. He calculates further that if all the improvements in fireproofing were introduced at once, they would increase the cost of fireproof buildings about 15 per cent. This additional cost does tint of course guarantee against repairs, more or less costly, in case of exposure to fire. It is not possible to construct a building that will not be damaged by fire. A fire outside may be kept from entering the building, but at the cost of damage to wall surfaces, destruction of architectural finish, and probably such injury to the window shutters that they would have to be renewed. A fire inside may burn itself out without much injury to the actual structure but everything in the way of finish, whether combustible or not, would disappear. The Committee of the National Fire Protection Association calculates on the destruction in a fire of "all ornamentation, such as marble, metal grill work, plaster, and other less durable materials. "In brief" they say "it may he expected that, in fires of great severity, the steel frame, its protective coverings, the walk and floor arches alone will remain, and even these will be more or less damaged according to the character of the construction and materials used."

The question is how far the estimate of 60 per cent. reconstruction, in case of fire, can be reduced by accepting the additional cost of 15 per cent. for new precautions in building. Capt. Sewell's tabulated estimate of the cost of restoring the fireproof buildings at Baltimore will give some basis for calculation. His estimate (including the cost of removing debris) is as follows:-

		Per cent.

	Steel frame	10

	Outer walls	50

	Floor systems	50

	Partitions	90

	Column coverings	100

	Mechanical equipment	100

	Trim and finish	100

	Office furniture	100

	Contents of vaults	25



If the steel frame can be completely protected and the 10 per cent. estimate of moderate damage applied to the outer walls, floor systems, partitions and column coverings (made lire resisting by the additional expenditure proposed), the percentage of cost of reconstruction will be found to be reduced nearly 30 per cent.

It seems apparent," Prof. Norton sun-is up, '' that, with care, steel frame buildings can be so constructed as to stand the destruction of their contents without injury to the steel and probably without danger to the protecting material or floor arches ; that, with shutters and wired glass, the burning of more combustible neighbors may be expected to cause little permanent Injury to the structure proper ; and that a district composed wholly of such buildings would be reasonably immune from danger or conflagration."

Capt. Sewell proposes, in order to define fireproof, that "to deserve this name, a building should be able

