<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	73



<article title=" MEASUREMENTS AND PRICES: THEIR RELATION

TO THE MASTER PAINTER " author="">MEASUREMENTS AND PRICES: THEIR RELATION

TO THE MASTER PAINTER.*



It is our proper conception of, and strict adherence to, the principles which govern our system of measurements and regulation of prices, which determine our fate in the business world, and mark us either for success or for failure.

"Measurements and Prices'' is the business end of the painting trade. The method by which we sell the commodities we have to market—and let the master painter be ever so good a mechanic, and be able himself to display his genius through the 'work of his hands, or let him be so genial and affable with his customers that it is a perfect delight to do business with him, yet if he fails to see that his measurements are correct and his prices right, his business must surely terminate in failure.

Let us take up this subject then and discuss it in the order in which it appears in the opening of the paper, and deal first with the question of measurements.

That very many there are among so-called master painters who have a very hazy conception of how to measure a job there (an be no doubt, for the results of their ignorance is evidenced in the jobs which they take at prices which are only one-half their value. Many there are who never draw a rule or a tape-line over a job, or have any order well ordered system of measuring---they guess that it will take so much time and so much material to perform the contract sought and base their price on that assumption. Others there are who know how to measure, but who, if hurried, get careless, and rather than take the time to measure correctly risk a price on a hasty guess, like a worthy member of our Association did once in figuring against me. When I called his attention to the glaring discrepancy between his price and mine, in painting the outside of a pair of large houses he admitted to me that he measured them as he rode by on his bicycle and never thought it worth his while to get off That sparing of fifteen minutes at that time cost him forty dollars.

The master painter should 1e as careful of his measurements as any other business man. There are two kinds of dishonest people in the business world. First, the man who starts out to rob his customer 'by charging him for value not given. Such a man is soon found out by his customer and his services are not required again. The second is the man who robs himself, his family and his creditors, by giving his customer more than he is paid for because of improper measurements. This man will soon be in the hands of the assignee. and be a reproach to his family and friends.

What would you think of a dry goods merchant who, when asked and paid for one yard of cloth, would cut off one and one-half yards and give it at the price of one yard? Or what would you think of the grocer who, when asked and paid for a pound of goods, gave a pound. and a-half for the same money? Such a procedure, if habitual, would bring disaster to the merchant. Will it not be equally disastrous to the master painter, if he is paid for covering one yard of work, and who through ignorance or mistake covers one yard and a-halt or two yards for the price of one? Let us learn to be more careful and exact in our measurements, and the results will soon be seen in increased profits and better business.

T have thought that it might well come within the scope of this paper to suggest for your discussion a few rules, even though they are old ones, that might be helpful to us in measuring our jobs.

FIRST, OUTSIDE MEASUREMENTS. — Halls: Brick or wood, measure solid, adding in openings if not too large, and cornices if plain. Where ladder or scaffold must be used, measure one yard per foot, or triple measurement.

Cornices, if dentilled, bracketed or paneled Multiply the length by three or four times the girth, according to tile judgment of the master painter.

Frames; Measure the height of the frame by from one and a half to three times the width of frame, according to the size of the glass in the windows.

Doors: If paneled, multiply the height by from one and a half to three times its girth, according to mouldings and panels.

Three fences: Double measurement. both sides.

Picket fences: (The and one-half times measurement, each side.

Balustrades:	Double measurement, each side.

Dipping shingles: Multiply by four each square to be covered.

Allow additional measurement, if the work to be (lone unusually high or hazardous, or difficult to Perform.

INSIDE MEASUREMENTS.—Frames and doors: Same as outside measurement.

Base boards, plain and below 1 foot, to be measured as 1 foot; if more than 1 foot, and less than 2 feet, measured as 2 feet, etc.



*Paper read before the Toronto Painters' and Decorators' Association on April 6th, by Mr. 0. W. Knott. From The

Canadian Painter and Decorator.

Picture mouldings, etc., measure as 1 foot wide.

Dado: Where paneled, multiply by two or three times, according to panels and mouldings.

Walls, painted or tinted, measure solid, not allowing for openings (unless openings be extra large when allow one-half for them

Cornices (containing three or four mouldings, and covetreated in different colors) Measure each separate moulding or cove as 1 loot girth; if only one color is used, measure twice its girth.

Cornices (dentilled (;r ornamental) Pour or five times its girth.

Add extra always for stripping, preparing and sizing.

PAPERING.—It is not safe or cheaper grades of paper to figure more than seven yards to a single roll. On this basis measure thus:

Ceilings: Multiply the. length by the width, and divide by 30.

Walls: Take girth the room, multiply by the height, and divide by 30 allow for openings.

For ingrains, or 30-inch papers, measure same as above, but divide by 60.

All stripping, sizing, etc., to be charged extra.

For night- work up to 12 o'clock, charge 1½ times regular price. For all night, twice regular price.

Now, this brings to me the second consideration of this paper, viz.:

PRICES.--- Now, after the contractor has satisfied himself that he has before him the correct quantities and measurements of the work to be (Lone, his next important business is to be able to set a price to these measurements, which will not merely furnish the contract, but which will realize for him a reasonable profit, above all his expenses, commensurate with the size and quality of the job.

I think an examination of the following prices will make an interesting discussion for us. Of course, in this paper I can only deal with a few of these lines.

For making the comparisons which follow, I have before me three price lists.

The first is a tariff of prices adopted by the Master Painters' Association of Toronto in 1882 (23 years ago), when current rate of wages was 18½ cents per hour.

The second is a tariff of prices adopted by the Montreal Association of Master Painters in 1903, when the current rate of wages was 20 cents per hour.

The third is a tariff of prices adopted by the Toronto Association of Master Painters in 1902, when the current rate of wages was 30 cents per hour.

Remembering the difference in the rate of wages paid, and the added cost of conducting our business as compared with 1882, note the difference in the prices which now obtain. I will give you only a few examples:

Painting	(common colors), per yard— Toronto, 1882, Montreal, 1903, Toronto, 1902,

	Tariff.	Tariff.	Tariff.

  1	coat, 10c. per yard....	15c.	per yard	10c.	per yard

  2	coats, 17c. per yard...	25c.	per yard	18c.	per yard

 3	coats, 23c. per yard	...30c.	per yard.	25c.	per yard

 4	coats, 28c. per yard...	40c.	per yard	30c.	per yard

Brick Work—

  1	coat, 10c. per yard....	15c.	per yard	12c.	per yard

 2	coats, 17c. per yard.. .	25c.	per yard	18c.	per yard

  3	coats, 23c. per yard...	35c.	per yard.	25c.	per yard

Blinds—

	1 coat, $100 per pair.. 18c. per ft. high	75c. per pair

2 coats, 1.50 per pair ...30c. per ft. high $1.25 per pair

3 coats, 1.75 per pair. 40c. per ft. high 1.50 per pair Graining and Imitations (oak grain and 1 coat varnish)--Toronto, 1882, Montreal, 1903, Toronto, 1902,

	Tariff	Tariff.	Tariff.

30c. per yard     70c. per yard 35c. per yard Other woods add— 10c. per yard. .. . 25c. per yard 10c. per yard

hardwood Finishing-Toronto, 1882, Montreal, 1903, Toronto, 1902,

	Tariff.	Tariff.	Tariff.

Not mentioned. .. .1.00 per yard $1.00 per yard Calcimining (plain surface)— Toronto, 1882, Montreal, 1903, 'Toronto, 1002,

	Tariff.	Tariff.	Tariff.

12 1/2c. per yard 13c. per yard 12 1/2c. per yard Paperhanging (common 1-edge trim) —Toronto, 1882, Montreal, 1903, Toronto, 

	Tariff.	Tariff.	Tariff.

17c. per roll.... 20c. per roll 17c. per roll Common 2-edge trim— 20c. to 25c. per roll.... 25c. per roll 20c. per roll

Now, sir, f could go on multiplying these examples, but I think enough has been said to convince us all that either our predecessors in Toronto or our brethren in Montreal have been, and are now, very rich, or we at present in business are not able to make a decent living, and simply manage to dodge our creditors.

What shall we do about it?

I think that we should at once take steps to advance our prices at least 25 per cent., in order that we may obtain that which properly belongs to us.

