<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	185



roughfares, stretching away into the immense ocean of beautiful air in the country.

The laying out of such avenues and thoroughfares is not entirely and solely a matter for the engineer and borough surveyor. The architect, and in certain cases the painter and sculptor, might with great public advantage be called in to collaborate with them. It is not the best way in such a matter to take an Ordnance map and rule a straight line from one point to another. Yet such is, in essence, the course frequently adopted; and should any important building or object of interest come in the way, the engineer's motto is too often like George Stephenson's in respect of the cow that somebody suggested might trespass on his new railway. There is a great deal more to be determined in connection with a new thoroughfare than the most direct route, the necessary gradients, the sanitary and hygienic requirements, &c.; there are artistic possibilities to be taken into the public service, such as the opening up of suitable vistas, the bringing into prominence of the screening of existing buildings, the slight turning from the straight line to heighten the effect, or provide places for carriages to stand out of the line of traffic. These and other expedients which have been adopted in some foreign cities with admirable results as pointed out recently by Mr. John W. Simpson in his interesting paper on "The Laying-out of Cities "__ all fall within the proper function of the architect. So, also, do the methods to be adopted in crossing squares and open spaces, and devices for lessening the points of collision from cross-traffic, to which he referred. With reference to divergence from the straight line, I may point out that though the method of straight lines and uniform buildings possess many merits, and should be rigorously insisted on wherever a dignified approach is demanded, or stately and official requirements render it obviously advisable, yet, to be effective, this style of treatment must be limited and kept within due proportion to the purpose otherwise it ceases to be impressive. Mere repetition spells monotony, and a long straight street is appalling to the pedestrian, so that a break in the line of axis, such as a square or open space, is welcomed as a relief. It is often possible to introduce such features into a scheme with admirable effect and without breaking the line of route. These are some of the special considerations which would naturally be referred to the architect when associated with the engineer in the laying-out of new streets. The authorities need to be awakened to the fact that these matters have a commercial aspect which appeals to the practical mind. Art pays when properly handled. Not anything and everything that is labelled art ; not the art which vaunts itself, but rather that which is concealed, the art which influences, controls, and satisfies by its sense of fitness ; the art which, for instance, concentrates effects or subordinates parts in their relation to the whole; which seizes opportunities, or even difficulties, and turns them to effective account. In such wise can art bring enhanced value to schemes which would otherwise be merely utilitarian, and blank utilitarianism is apt to be disfigured by a brutal directness which is repulsive, or a bare and naked plight which is vulgar. In the absence of a minister of fine art with duly qualified advisers, an art commission similar to that which has been established in New York has been suggested. The commission referred to has jurisdiction over all designs of municipal buildings, bridges, approaches, gates, fences, lamps, the lines, grades, and plotting of public ways and grounds, arches, structures and approaches, and other similar matters. It must be admitted that such powers as are here indicated can only safely be placed in the best and most capable hands for, alas ! what frauds, if not crimes are perpetrated in the name of art ! False art has made many mistrust all art, and caused them to shut their eyes to the real value and influence of that which is genuine. I believe, however, there is a better time coming. It is noteworthy as one passes through the country what an increasingly large proportion of the smaller classes of houses have evidently been designed by architects.

The builder is discovering that an architect's design is not an expensive and unnecessary luxury, but that the initial outlay is more than repaid if not in the actual building of the house—and this often happens— at any rate in the improved letting which results.

I cannot help remarking too, upon the advantage which accrues to the architect himself in the process of studying and designing small houses. It certainly is not very remunerative work, but it has its compensating rewards. Any real advance must no doubt begin in small things before there can be a true appreciation of greater work. As the true qualities of architecture should be equally seen in small as in large buildings, they may perhaps be more easily grasped and understood by way of less complicated problems. Increasing knowledge will add to the number of those who appreciate and desire good work, and their sensitiveness in matters of taste will incite the producers to higher efforts, so that by action and reaction our native art will approach a higher level. Let us seek not merely to fan the growing interest in our art, but also to awaken a clear perception of its true qualities. It will not be long, I venture to prophesy, before public opinion will declare itself definitely and decidedly, insisting upon grace and refinement both in our public buildings and our important thoroughfares. Given such an opportunity, we may feel confident that our national architecture will not fail under the test, but will reflect the highest and noblest qualities of our race.



<article title=" A FINIAL BY SIR ROWAND ANDERSON " author="">

A FINIAL BY SIR ROWAND ANDERSON.

The finial illustrated below has been designed by Sir Rowand Anderson for the principal gables of the Sir William Pearce Institute at Govan. It was executed by Mr. Charles Henshaw, decorative metal-worker, of Edinburgh. As appropriate to Govan, renowned for its shipbuilding yards, the design takes the form of a ship, though an ancient example of Armada days has





















































been thought more suitable than a modern ship. It is fixed on a pedestal of stone and measures fully 6 ft. overall, with a width of 4 ft. 6 ins. At first the intention was to make the ship of cast bronze, but this idea was given up on account of the weight. Sheet copper was therefore chosen, which necessitated greater care and skill in construction. The framework is of wrought-iron, and every precaution has been taken to secure sufficient strength to withstand wind-pressure.

—Builders Journal and Architectural Record.



Seattle has accomplished the widening of a street without moving all the buildings which encroach upon the portion desired for street use—at least in theory. It is proposed to take nine feet from the property for street use, but the buildings now erected on each side of the street shall remain undisturbed so far as their upper stories are concerned, and the owners may make arcades over the nine feet of sidewalk, which must he taken from thc lower stories. —improvement Bulletin.

