<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	'35



gear. There will I hope be enough room for the jam and jelly pots, the cellar being too damp, and the attic too dry for them.

The back-door opens into the hack passage, close to the kitchen and on the other side of the passage is a very small larder, which will contain a refrigerator built as a fixture to the house, with a door for the delivery of the ice from outside. A good-sized safe, covered with wire netting, and mounted on brackets, with room for a barrel of flour under it, will take up nearly all the remaining space in this tiny larder.

Going upstairs to the bedrooms, 1 should like to have at the half—way landing an oriel window, fitted up with shelves and stands for house-plants. We shall miss our country greenhouse, and this will be a sorry substitute, hut some green growing things we must have, and I think this window full of ferns or begonias will look pretty, both from the upstairs and downstairs hall. If possible I should like to have an open fireplace, two windows, and two hanging closets in every bedroom. But this cannot be contrived within our limits of space. However four of the seven rooms on the two upper floors will have fireplaces two on each floor—and there must also be a bathroom on each floor. A small linen-room lighted by a window and fitted with drawers and cupboards will hold all my stores of house-linen. A housemaid's closet will find a place in an angle near the back stairs, and on the upper floor a closet over the linen-room will have rows of hooks all round it for hanging evening gowns, and a shelf for hat-boxes. One of the fireless rooms will serve as a trunk room, or a refuge for some of those superfluities which we are certain to bring with us in spite of the most rigid resolutions. Our furniture is mostly old-fashioned and some of it is still good enough to accompany us on our flitting. But one of the upstairs rooms, to be occupied by our student, has a recess which will accommodate a wonderful series of drawers and shelves-----fixtures to the house long shelves for coats, shallow drawers for shirts, a compartment entirely devoted to trousers, and boots and shoes in a cupboard to themselves, all to be closed behind doors. The house will be wired for the electric light, with brackets beside every bed, and I hope the day is not far off when I may begin to choose the car CHARACTER IN PARK DESIGN.*<article title=" CHARACTER IN PARK DESIGN " author="Todd, Frederick G.">

There are so many gentlemen here to-night who have had much more experience and broader problems of municipal improvement to deal with, that it seems presumptuous on my part to attempt to say anything about Park Design which may be considered of any value, hut I sincerely hope that something in my paper may give a clearer conception of Park Design to some, and also that a discussion may follow in which I may benefit from your experience. Rather than attempt to cover the whole subject of

Park Design, I thought it better to consider that important principal of all good designs, Individual Character. It seems to me that if there is one thing more than another which is always pleasing, it is to go through a Park with a strong individual character of its own, whose expression is varied and vet harmonious. That Park is certain to give the most pleasure and accomplish the most good for humanity, which

*	A paper by Frederick G. Todd, Landscape Architect; read at the Convention

of the American Municipal Society in Montreal.

while it is designed to care for every practical necessity of the people still preserves a definite character of its own, varied in its expression. It has been demonstrated over and over again that public parks are not only great benefactors, but public necessities in all large cities. What would London do without her large Parks? What would New York do without her Central Park? People whose lives are lived among the bustle and strife of a large city require some place where they can rest after the days' exertion; mothers with little ones, whose life in the narrow tenements is ill-suited to fit them for life's battle; to all these what a boon are the public parks, where the air is at least more pure than in the street, and the children can romp on the grass or roam through the woods. But it is asked what has Park Design to do with all this? Is it necessary that a Park should be designed for such purposes. The constant familiar observation of surroundings cannot help but have some influence, especially upon the younger members of the community, and if these surroundings are untidy and careless, they must influence to a certain extent one's after life, while the same is true if one's surroundings are neat, beautiful and artistic. Aside from this, with a little care, it is as easy to see that our parks are designed in an artistic manner as in a careless slip-shod way. And is it nothing that the, tired business man, or the over-taxed mother can walk or drive or sit and rest in the Park, and feel soothed and rested by its quiet and beautiful scenes.

Parks are so different, both as to their natural conditions and the requirements of those who are to use them, it is impossible to follow any definite rules in preparing a design, but there are certain general principles which we can perhaps discuss to advantage. Taking it for granted that the land is already in possession of the City, and that we are not concerned with its selection, the first thing to be done is to study the proposed park and the locality so that we can bring sound judgment to bear as to the practical considerate ion involved by the use which must be made of the park so that it will prove most valuable to the citizen. After a thorough examination of the property, we shall probably find that it has some dominant natural characteristic features. Sometimes this character may be especially strong, as is the case with our own Mount Royal Park, while other parks may seem to possess no very strong character, but whether this is so or not, our first step after a thorough study of the problem should be to fix firmly in our minds the dominant character of the park, and if the park is large there may be several different features, but it is always best to have one more important than the others, with the others if possible leading up to it. This chief feature may be a mountain from which can be had extensive views, a beautiful wood, an open plain, extensive water, or it may even be supplied by history. With the chief character of our park decided upon, everything must be as far as possible subordinated to it, and made to accentuate it, making it; more impressive and pleasing. The drives should be laid out so as to exhibit to the best advantage this chief feature, while at the same time they must be located so as to serve the best practical purposes of the park, and be of good grade. In like manner the planting, location and construction of shelters and other buildings, should he considered first of all as to their effect upon this dominant

