<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	159



hence are we destroying perilously near as much as we are creating. Talk of race suicide!

New York averages 8,700 fires a year, Chicago 4,100. We burn up three theatres, three public halls, twelve churches, ten schools, two hospitals, two asylums, two colleges, six apartment-houses, three department-stores, two jails, twenty-six hotels, one hundred and forty flat-houses, and nearly sixteen hundred homes every week of the year. We may say that every person who lives or has business in buildings is more or less exposed to danger by fire, owing to our recklessness, our criminal carelessness and ignorance; but setting aside such broad terms, we have estimates that there are 36,000 lives daily in danger; that is, there are that number of persons directly exposed to fire, persons who escape from burning buildings, lives that are in imminent peril. No war, however bloody, shows any such averages of lives daily exposed to destruction.

And what is being done to prevent this terrible loss? Little, almost hopelessly little, in the way of prevention, though much in the way of palliative. We throw water upon our fires (and are constantly endeavoring to throw it more scientifically) and expect the next fire to burn less fiercely because thereof. In San Francisco, for instance, there is little being done, comparatively, to improve the standard of construction. It is notoriously a wooden city, yet insurance-rates are fairly low because, forsooth, the fire-department is excellent. That is like extolling the advantages of a certain locality as a health resort; it may be miasmatic, yellow fever may stalk amuck, its houses and streets may be foul, but, Glory Be! its doctors are so skillful! As far as cure goes, note how little we have done. In all this broad land there are but three thousand buildings that truthfully can he called "fireproof," and that very largely only in their structural parts, that is, fireproof buildings like those in Baltimore whose steel frames and terra-cotta floors withstood the attack where all else about them, the stone, the marble, the wood went the way of all things combustible or destructible.

What is the cure? But two things will tend toward the accomplishment of the desired end, and neither water-supply nor fire-department is one of then,. The first thing to do is so to surround our old and dangerous buildings with safe-guards, to correct their worst faults where practicable, and to compel their demolition as soon as possible. The second is to absolutely bar the erection of combustible structures in the future. Some would say that that would be a hardship upon the individual, for we have grown so accustomed to using wood that it seems to be the fixed mode of construction, sanctioned by time and custom, a sacred inheritance any tampering with which must needs savor of sacrilege. Therein lies the folly.

There was a time when wood construction was truly economical, indeed the only thing available. To-day, wood is almost a luxury. Lumber has gone up in price—over 150 per cent. in the last few years---while fireproof materials, brick, steel, fireproofing tile, cement, et cetera, have been cheapened n cost of manufacture. There is absolutely no economy in building even the simplest cottage of wood. Granted that the first cost in fireproof material is ten per cent. more than the wood. But consider the wear and tear, the maintenance, the insurance, and all such incidentals, and your frame cottage will have cost you in twenty years' time thirty per cent. more than a well-built, non-inflammable structure would have cost.

The deterioration in the value of a well-built, fireproof building, fire-resisting in its finish and decoration, is but one ninth of one per cent. a year, while that of the ordinary joists and stud-partition is nearly four per cent. a year. Besides, such improved construction has a host of other advantages; it is sound-proof, vermin-proof, warmer in winter and cooler in summer, and in every respect vastly superior to the old way of building.

Some weak-hearted ones would have us believe that to bring about those two conditions would involve

superhuman effort, well-nigh an impossibility. But our cities have accomplished other reforms quite as revolutionary, and so thought at the time as this would seem to be. The people sometimes chafe at what they term the restraint of individual liberty, involved in the enforcement of drastic curative laws. But not for long. North American intelligence is such as to readily recognize the value of individual sacrifice involved in a great public benefit. We may not hope, however, to bring the desired conditions about by mild persuasion, by preaching. It will take vigorous action, and the only action that will accomplish anything is the adoption of most stringent building-regulations, and their strict enforcement by competent, executive officers.

Building, in general terms, requires the clearest definition and restriction, while every class of building calls for thoughtful and comprehensive special legislation. If we think that theatre-builders ought to enjoy certain latitude, we have but to scan the record of the Iroquois theatre; if it be suggested that dock-sheds are hardly worthy of special legislation, think of what happened at New Orleans; if wholesale warehouses be deemed unimportant, note what happened in Toronto. And so it is with every class of building. Nothing can be deemed unimportant, for that very building, or class of buildings, may prove the ruin of half your city. Strict building-regulations, I say, are all important and supremely necessary. Two hundred and sixty four of our American and Canadian cities have realized this, for there either have been, or are being, adopted perfect building-regulations by as many cities. One hundred and sixteen cities or considerable towns heretofore unprovided with a special building officer or department have the creation of such office under consideration. There are happy indices of betterment wherever we may look, thank heaven! but it is just such societies as this, made up of thinking, public spirited men, zealous in the upbuilding of their several municipalities that can do a world of good in facilitating this work and bringing about its consummation even in our own times.

Of all cities that have given most thought and earnest work to this matter, Cleveland easily takes the lead. Her building ordinance may be said to be the combined work of nearly all the building experts in the country. A vast sum was spent upon its preparation. Every item was discussed by experts and its effects upon the legal side of the question as well as the technical were carefully weighed by specialists, and the society of which I am an officer, the International Society' of Building Commissioners and Inspectors, has virtually advocated that ordinance in toto as its model and standard, and is urging every city in both countries to adopt it also with as little change as possible. Some may think it verbose. It has to be since it is complete, and leaves nothing to the misinterpretation or misjudgment of a perhaps too-lax officer. Every point is covered.

I submit, and you will readily appreciate, that it would be a tremendous advantage to have a uniform code throughout both countries. As it is now, one city will permit of a certain thickness of brick walls to carry a certain height of storey; a city fifteen miles distant therefrom insists upon an entirely different standard. So it is with allowable strains in framing, et cetera. The building business of all the cities is so closely related that this everlasting difference is not only confusing but leads to endless discussion and trouble. A hundred other considerations should compel us to advocate not only good building-regulations, but uniform ones, and I sincerely trust that each one of you gentlemen will not only advocate in his own city the necessity of wise and strict requirements, but that he will go a step farther and strongly urge the council, or whatever power is in charge of that branch of municipal service, to adopt the code that is most worthy of being made standard, and that has already been engrossed upon the statute-book of so many of the cities of the United States and Canada.

