<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



chitect? Is the law then to be invoked to enable clients to cheat their architects; to enable anyone, who has once deceived an architect into making drawings for the purpose of erecting a house, to bone the drawings and walk off with them, under the protection of the police? It the entire profession cries out upon this as an unbearable situation, there is surely something in what lawyers call the 'logic of the case' that deserves to he considered by the judges who have to decide this appeal. There is a phase of the injury that might be readjusted by a change in the scale of tees, taking account of occasions when an architect is willing to supply drawings only, for a fee suited to this condition but the essence of the matter is deeper than this. As H. H. Richardson used to say, architecture is a plastic art ; it is not possible to attain perfection in its execution merely by making drawings; ; the mental attitude of the best men towards their work is that of a sculptor towards his conception,* and, if it were possible to conceive of a state of affairs in which architects were prohibited from dealing with anything but drawings, such a state of affairs would mean that the profession would degenerate, until the architect, as we understand him at present, would cease to exist. The function of the profession in this case, would not he large enough for a man like Richardson. There is no question but that, difficult as it may he for the man of business to understand it, drawings are not the end for which an architect offers his services or for which, properly speaking, he is paid.



But, so long as a clear understanding in the matter is wanting, it is well for architects to remember that custom and precedent rule in a court of law only in the absence of definite contract ; and if any one wishes to retain possession of his drawings under all circumstances, it is only necessary for him to express this wish to his client, in the beginning of their connection; either by a clause in his schedule of fees, or by letter, or even by word of mouth which is witnessed or  provable.



The only site suggested as yet for this memorial is the junction of Queen Street and Spadina

Avenue. This seems far down town and yet not in the centre of life. '[here is danger of the monument being swamped by warehouses which, apart from the depressing influence of their scale upon a refined piece of work like this memorial, imply a neighborhood where it would be little seen. The warehouse district is a dull district. It is desirable to keep away from it, and as, in Toronto, this district, as it grows, must back up town because of the lake it is wise to keep well up town in choosing a site for this monument.



The natural background, for anything of a classic character in white stone, is a mass of foliage; and, in the case of this particular monument, the long vertical lines would compose well with the rounded forms of trees. The avenue or park seem for this reason to he indicated, and should form the ground of an alternative

*	(Compare the proposal of the President of the American Institute of Architects to study the alterations in the front of the capital at Washington by means of a full size model in staff.)

<article title=" Site for Monument to Canadians who fell

in South Africa.

" author="">Site for Monument to Canadians who fell

in South Africa.

proposal. indeed the avenue is particularly adapted to give a full view of a lofty monument; and its own effect would be greatly enhanced if such an object closed its vista. But in this case it would be necessary to move to some other site the bronze statue of Sir John Macdonald, which, as compared, in colour and size, with this memorial, occupies, in a futile manner, the effective position in the vista. Another appropriate site is that occupied by the band stand in the centre of the park. This is, however, rooted to the ground by drains from the lavatories underneath it.





There are in fact no sites pressing to be filled that are not filled. We must look about for a site. It we look not only about but ahead, it will be seen that this monument is the very thing we want for the diagonal avenue that is to he cut from Queen Street to the northwest part of the city. The monument needs a conspicuous site with a length of open approach on either side of it. The avenue needs a conspicuous object to interrupt its vista and give value to its extent of view. The monument wants an island to stand on and the avenue, being yet undefined, affords an opportunity for making it exactly as required, and itself needs a motive of this kind to vary its line. It will take some time to complete the monument, and in the meantime the plan of the avenue, which, with other improvements to Toronto, is in the air and is coming, may be fixed ; and the establishment of a site for the monument on its course will be an encouraging starting point in its construction. It would he as well for this reason not to settle too hastily upon a site for the monument. The question of its design is not affected. That is fixed, and there is no use to fix the site until the work is done and it is necessary to set it up. By then the place for it to fill may be more obvious.



<article title=" EIGHTEEN CLUB EXHIBITION " author="">EIGHTEEN CLUB EXHIBITION.

The annual exhibition of the Eighteen Club of Toronto will be held in the gallery of the Ontario Society of Artists, 165 King St. W. from January 28th to February 11th. There will be a number of drawings by architects of New York and Philadelphia. Among these are 8 drawings by Mr. Wilson Eyre, 3 by Messrs. Butler & Rodman, 5 drawings of the Ansonia Hotel by Messrs. Duboy & Jellate, and Messrs. Strongh ton & Stonghton's drawings for the Soldiers and Sailors Monument. There are also 6 water colour drawings by Messrs. Renwick, Aspinwall & Owen, 12 sketches made in Italy by Mr. Birch B. Long, some landscapes by Mr. D. F. Pentecost, and 35 drawings by Messrs. Talmer & Hornhostel which are intended to be sent later to the Paris Salon.

The gallery will be open to the public during the day without charge, throughout the exhibition.

The Club will give a smoking Concert on an evening not yet. fixed.



A new savior of his country has arisen in the United States in the person of Mr. Edmund Beau, of Alton, III., who has built a row of flats, which he calls 'The Stork's Nest,' and announces that he wants as tenants none but married couples with plenty of children. He does not absolutely bar bachelors and spinsters



from renting rooms in his building, but declares that it is useless for them to take them if they object to children. As a consequence, it is said, a dozen cities have sent to Mr. Beau invitations

to invest his capital with them.

