<doctype type="contents;texts">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	-	-	-	-	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.



VOL. XVIII.—No. 216.

DECEMBER, 1905.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

The Church of St. Mary. Toronto.—The late Joseph Connolly, R.C.A., Architect.

Apartment Houses belonging to the Washington Sanitary Improvement Company, Washington, D. C.— Choir Seats by C. A. Voysey.

ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Hall and Living Room in Residence of Vaux Chadwick.—Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett, Architects, Toronto.





CONTENTS

Editorial — — -	-	-		—		177

The late Mr. J. W. Hopkins -	 -		-		-	178

Exhibition of the Society of Applied	Arts	-		-		179

British Fire Prevention Committee	Test No.		99		-	180

Building for the Toronto Builders'	Exchange			-		180

Our Illustrations - -	 -		-		-	181-182

Correspondence - -	-	-		-		183

R.I.B.A. President's Address	 -		-		-	184-185

A Finial by Sir Rowand Anderson		-		-		185

Reinforced Concrete Construction		-		-		186

A New Construction Process -		-		-		187-188

Montreal Notes - -	 -		-		-	189

The Sketch Club, P.Q. A.A. -		-		-		190

Montreal Builders Exchange		-		-			-	190-191

Painting New Woodwork	-		-			—		iv

Exhibition of British Manufacturers in			Egypt		-		-	viii

Glass Buildings - -		-		-		—		viii

Convention of Canadian		Clayworkers 	- 		- 		- 	ix

Toronto Builders' Exchange		- 		-		-		xi

Cost of City Halls - - -					- -

Seventh International Congress	of		Architects			-		xii

No Plasterers Combine ill	London		-		-		-	xii

Mr. Walter Crane on House Decoration				-		-		xiii

Winter Roof Gardens -		- 	 - 		- 		- 	xiv

Hustle and Bustle -	-		-			-		xv

Tests for Building Stone -		- 		-			-	xvi

The Growing Use of Concrete	-		-			-		xvii



A Denial.



<article title=" A Denial" author="">



























The Years' Work.<article title=" The Years' Work " author="">

In our last number, in a note entitled '' Combines and the Law," it was slated that the

Plasterers were " said to have burned their books." Mr. W. J. Hynes, Secretary of the Plasterers' Section of the Toronto Builders' Exchange, writes to say that this rumour was unfounded, and begs that we will give the same prominence to his denial of it that was given to our acceptance of the rumour. This we are glad to do.



The building records for the year show that the phrase "Canada's growing time" has its origin in

fact. The approximate value of building in Montreal, Toronto, and Winnipeg amounts to $30,000,000. The sum is nearly equally divided among the three cities— which makes the record of Winnipeg with its smaller population remarkable. We have the most exact figures for Toronto, but there is no completeness in the estimate until the close of the year ; there were 238 building permits added to the list in November alone. The total number of permits during 1905 up to December 1st, was 2933. The evidence that this is a "growing time", exceeding the normal expectation of increase, lies in the comparison with last year, on the same date, when there had been only 1620 permits issued, representing a value of $5,640,000. The process of growth is plainly evident in Toronto among the factories, and one cannot walk anywhere in the residential districts without seeing new houses in course of erection. In some parts the appearance of things has been like the making of an exhibition ; roads, sewers, buildings, all going on at the same time. And a walk through the same district at intervals of a month shows startling changes. If this is so of Toronto, there must have been, this summer, a wonderful

Telephone Pales off the Street.<article title=" Telephone Pales off the Street " author="">

exhibition of energy in Winnipeg, where the excrescence has been greater in proportion to the body and the building season is not so long.



The way in which our streets are spoiled by telephone poles is pretty generally recognized. It

is only despair that keeps us from saying much about

it. The constitutional privilege of grumbling finds its exercise chiefly among people of leisure. People like ourselves, who have to work, dislike disturbing themselves by agitation unless there is to be some result. It has been proved in the United States that there is nothing impossible about the proposition to put telephone wires underground, and that is where they will ultimately have to go. There are municipal provisions which will produce that result, in a limited way, before long. But, in the meantime, it is not necessary that we should suffer to the extent we do from the erection of crooked poles and the stringing of glistening wires. The establishment of a good residential street means that a number of people will live there who will use telephones. So up go the poles on both sides of the street, carrying a bunch of thirty or forty wires apiece, with guy-wires and service-wires running out from the m at all angles. Exit the perpendicular line from the composition of the street; for it is an extraordinary thing how the eye is thrown out by a slanting pole, so that building lines adjoining it seem to be also out of plumb. Now all this is unnecessary. Without in the least attempting the task of preventing the erection of poles at all, it is a simple matter to have them removed from the streets; to prevent their erection in front of buildings by requiring their erection at the back. In most parts of this country we suffer from the rectangular arrangement of our streets. It is a pity that we should also suffer from an evil which this dull arrange

