<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" LESSONS FROM THE BALTIMORE FIRE " author="">LESSONS FROM THE BALTIMORE FIRE.

SECOND ARTICLE

HOW FIRE ATTACKS.



EXPLOSION.---The first warning of the Baltimore fire was an automatic alarm from the basement of the Hurst Building to a station two blocks away. No fire was visible above the basement when the firemen got there, and no smoke or heat was apparent; but they found fire in the basement which increased rapidly and spread up the shaft of the passenger elevator. In seven minutes from the time the automatic alarm registered there was a violent explosion, apparently coming from the upper floors. This blew out the windows of the Hurst building, and many others in neighboring buildings. In a moment the entire building was seen to be ablaze. Flames came from all the windows and, extending across the street, " ignited several buildings."

The occupants of the building say that there was no gasoline in it, and, though thc building was piped for gas, there was none used. ''The most plausible theory," according to the Special Committee of the National Fire Protection Association, ''is that the smoke and gases from a smoldering fire ascended the central elevator and stair opening, accumulated in the upper portion of the building, and were finally exploded when reached by the flames." Prof. Norton says it is well known that "the products of distillation in a slow fire smoldering for some time before becoming rapid in its spread may, when united with air, become explosive." The contact of air with this smoky mixture causes an explosion known to the firemen as a " hot air " explosion.

It should be noticed—both as a defense of the automatic alarm system and as marking the length of time required for a smoldering fire to produce gas sufficient for such an explosion—that Mr. Sachs says a first alarm was sounded twenty-five minutes before the alarm which brought the firemen to the spot.

However that may he, or whatever the cause of the explosion, the immediate cause why the fire extended beyond the Hurst building, and why, when it did spread, it ignited several buildings at once—was explosion.

For this reason Mr. Sachs makes municipal limitation of the storage of highly inflammable or explosive substances one of the lessons to be derived from the fire. (There was indeed within twenty minutes after the firemen got there an explosion of gunpowder—60 pounds in a safe—at a hardware store across the way.) This, as well as Mr. Sachs' other connected proposition— that there should be a means of cutting off at short notice the gas, water and electric supply to blocks of buildings --is a civic matter, rather than a matter that concerns architectural practice, and is more easily dealt with than the mystery of explosive gases generated during the progress of the fire. Prof. Norton considers that sprinklers and ventilation and stops in vertical openings tend to minimize the danger from explosions of this kind. But a safe blow-off vertically seems safer, as an additional precaution, than to have the building so tightly closed up that, if the worst comes to the worst, it should be necessary for the exploded gases to find vent by breaking the windows and blowing the flames across the street to inlets into other buildings by means of broken windows provided by the same explosion. The provision, among the Conclusions of the

National Fire Protective Association's Committee, that stairs and elevators shall be enclosed in brick walled shafts, with fire doors at the storey openings, and extending through the roof with a thin glass skylight at top, seems to partly meet this provision. That is to say, as far as it is necessary to feave a skylight of weak resistance at the head of the stair and elevator well, for the chance of communication being established between the building and this channel, so far the well may become a channel for the outlet of explosive gases. It would be met at the cost of leaving one vulnerable spot in every roof, at the thin glass skylight. This is, however, not properly an entrance to the floor area of the building, but only to a fire-proof tube which runs past the floors.

ORDINARY MODES OF ATTACK.----If not "violently scattered as by an explosion," Prof. Norton says, "fire spreads through a district by thc carrying of sparks, by the direct contact of flame, and by radiation across open-spaces." Protection against these dangers involves, besides considerations of material already spoken of, considerations of planning and construction which, as expressed in the reports under review, are here brought together under the head of

PROTECTION CONSTRUCTION.—EXTERIOR.



OPENINGS.—It is obvious that all surfaces must he equally fire resisting if fire is to be kept out of a building.

For this purpose (considered alone) all openings should be as small as possible. The monumental buildings exposed to the fire—the Court House and City Hall, heavy stone buildings with comparatively few openings "—came off well. "Offering a small area for the entrance of fire and non-inflammable exterior, these buildings withstood great heat, with no damage except from the spalling of the stone and charring of window frames." The fire was not driven towards these buildings with the same fury as urged it towards some of the steel-frame buildings, but there was sufficient exposure to " demonstrate the effectiveness of a minimum window area in reducing the danger of ignition."

But the conditions are usually not a minimum of , but a maximum. Then there must be adequate

protection, and the question is what is adequate. There are three modes of protection :—Wired glass, shutters and the water curtain ; which latter must be taken into account, as, though not constructional, it modifies the occasion for construction. Does a building with a water curtain require also wired glass and fireproof shutters? If the water curtain is sure to work and to work as long as it is wanted, there is strong evidence in favor of its effectiveness to he extracted from occurrences in the Toronto fire ; but where it is not supplied from a separate service, as it is proposed to do in London and New York, the Toronto fire also affords warning that, in a conflagration, draughts on the pressure of the water system are so great that water may fail to reach the height necessary to supply the water curtain of a high building. In any case wired glass and shutters have a function to keep fire in as well out. They have the pressure of heat and perhaps of explosion to withstand. It may be possible to make a path of least resistance towards the sky for the issue of explosive gases, but hardly, one would think unless the windows are prepared for a greater resistance. There must clearly be constructional protection

·or windows as well as the protection of a water curtain.

