<doctype type="text">88	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



sort of home, intended to ameliorate down-town social conditions. The ground floor will contain reading rooms, libraries and rest rooms, and will be open to every one who has no home. On the upper floors there will be provision made for games, to attract street urchins from the slums ; and there will be dining rooms and sleeping rooms. '' Among churches "Dr. Eaton says '' it will be unique, for it will be the outgrowth of our own experience." (He means unique as the outgrowth of unique experience Other churches try to meet their experience.) " Continually," he adds, '' we are turning hundreds of people from our doors."



<article title=" A PERFECT SEWERAGE SYSTEM FOR RURAL

HOMES, SCHOOLS AND FACTORIES." author="Quinn, M. J.">A PERFECT SEWERAGE SYSTEM FOR RURAL

HOMES, SCHOOLS AND FACTORIES.

M. J. QUINN, Provincial Mechanical Superintendent.



It is perhaps no exaggeration to say that, having regard to the frequency with which it comes up for consideration, and many other circumstances, the question of properly disposing of sewerage is one of the most important matters with which the health authorities throughout thc country have to deal, and yet it is a remarkable fact that in these days of popular education, when the people enjoy the benefit of free literature and lectures on fruit growing, dairying, domestic science, etc., that a knowledge of so important a subject, and one so closely allied to their physical and moral welfare is confined to a limited number.

True a vast amount of experimenting has been done during recent years, and the matter has received a great deal of attention from scientific men, the results of whose labors have been freely discussed at medical conventions and reported in Medical Journals, but the valuable information so obtained has not reached the great mass of the people at all.

In the matter of public sanitation, the question of disposing of sewage in small towns and villages as well as in less populated districts, where by reason of its great cost a genera! system of sewerage is impossible, is daily becoming of greater importance, and as the title of my paper would indicate, that is the phase of the question with which I propose to deal. The system to which I intend to refer is known as the skeptic tank system, and I believe that nearly all who have studied































it are agreed that it is at once the most natural, most scientific, simple and economical system in use to-day, and speaking from a personal knowledge of scores of the systems, I am in a position to say that it is worthy of all the good things that are said of it.

It is a matter of common knowledge that living earth - or top soil, is a powerful purifying agent, but comparatively few are aware that the presence in it of countless numbers of bacteria, or microbes, is alone responsible for the chemical changes brought about in waste matter placed beneath its surface, and that these bacteria, not only through their action remove and de— troy the dangerous properties of such waste matter but actually convert them into plant food, which being taken up by the vegetation is again consumed for the sustenance

*From the Sanitary Journal of the Provincial Board of Health of Ontario.

of life. Pasteur divided these microbes into two classes, viz :—anaerobes, or those which lived apart from air, or derived their oxygen from decaying compounds, and aerobes, or those which require plenty of fresh air for their development, and as both classes are considered necessary for the complete reduction of waste matter, it will be seen that if sewage is placed too deep in the earth, as for instance in a cesspool, where, owing- to the absence of air, the necessary aerobic bacteria cannot exist; it may pass down deeper in a putrid state, and, finding its way in the water supply, not unfrequently results in an outbreak of typhoid fever or some intestinal disease.

The two classes of microbes referred to, have properties somewhat differing from each other, but the net









































result of their work under proper conditions is the breaking down of the solid matter in the sewage, the disintegrating of its constituents and the conversion of the whole into liquids and gases, in which form it leaves the septic tank, the former to be distributed under the surface of the earth, where, by reason of its contact with free oxygen, bacterial life is most active, there to be still further reduced and finally converted into nitrates which are readily taken up by the vegetation on the surface, and the latter passing up high into the air, as hereafter described.

With this brief reference then, to the principles which underlie what is conceded to be a most efficient system for the disposal of sewage, I propose to indicate how it should he constructed; and in order that I may the more readily make myself plain, I have drawn for your inspection a number of diagrams which I trust will accomplish the desired result.

In fig. 1 is shown a section of a complete system built on level ground, with the tank placed close to the wall of the building,—where in fact the large majority of those now in use are located.

The tank should be built of brick or stone, laid in and lined with cement, or of solid concrete, the main object being to have it impervious to moisture.

It will be noticed that the tank is divided into two compartments, an over-flow pipe ''F" being built into the dividing wall, the mouth of the said overflow being within seven or eight inches of the bottom of the tank, and being covered with a wire screen about the size of an ordinary pail, the mesh of said screen not exceeding three-quarters of an inch.

The main soil pipe is represented by ''E" and should be directly connected with the closet, bath, sink, etc. It extends from the same compartment in which the overflow is placed to a point two or three feet above the roof, said pipe acting not only as a conductor of sewage to the tank, but also as a channel by which any gases In excess of those in solution, may pass out to the atmosphere at a height that renders it impossible for them to inconvenience the occupants of the building.

"J" in the second compartment admits fresh air which passes freely over the centre partition,-- spaces being left in the top of the latter for the purpose,----and up through the soil pipe to the roof.

