<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title="Radiation from Radiators" author="">Radiation from

Radiators.

couragement for the architect, who aims at beauty, to think well of his aim. His is a benevolent profession.



An ingenious correspondent of The Builder has entered a protest against the abandonment of

open fireplaces in hospitals and similar places where people remain in a room for long periods continuously. Having first established that there is no radiant heat from a radiator, on the very slender grounds that paper held before a hot water radiator will not scorch, (that is to say that 150 of heat will not do the work of something over 212) he argues that all heat from a radiator must be by convection. Therefore it is impossible to impart heat to the human body unless the air is at a temperature of over 98. And, as air heated to this degree is unbearable, he asserts that the body, which does radiate heat, must, be, in a room heated to a bearable degree, always parting with its heat. He therefore condemns dependence upon radiators " (of which he cannot bear to speak except in inverted commas) and advocates the retention of open fireplaces as well. In this he will have our sympathy. A cool house with a hot spot is the greatest comfort, and they do well in England to stick to the open fireplace, as long as the house is not too cool and they have not got to stick to the fireplace too close. But it will not do to base consideration of the value of hot water heating upon a false premiss that hot iron does not radiate heat. It is possible, much as we may regret it, to warm one's self at a radiator; and it is not necessary, much as we wish it were, to have a fire in every room. Fortunately a fireplace has a perpetual function, in making a room habitable, which justifies its insertion for occasional use to increase its warmth.





The Leonardt Warehouse, in Los Angeles, 'Cal., with an area of 104 x 150 feet, is built entirely of concrete. The span is the remarkable feature. It is a one storey building and was intended to have a steel trussed roof; but the owner consulted Mr. L. J. Mensch of Chicago, as to the feasibility of an arched roof of reinforced concrete. As the roof had to carry a suspended gallery on each side, 16 ft. wide, (calculated to carry a load of 150 lb. to the sq. ft.), and also suspended tracks for light travelling cranes, the idea of an arched roof was abandoned in favour of straight girders. The girders have a span of 102 ft. and are

ft. 6 in. on centres. The girders are 14 in. wide, straight on the under side but pitched on top to the slope of the roof; that is to say, they are 6 ft. 6in. at the centre of the span and 3 ft. 6in. at the ends. Brackets projecting about 4 ft. connect the girders with 2 ft. x2 ft. reinforced concrete piers. The walls are of hollow concrete blocks and are ft. thick. The purloins connecting the girders are 6 in.x 11 in., 17 ft. on centres. Four inch roof slabs rest on the purloins. Over this, for waterproofing, was spread a roofing composition. There are six sheet-metal and wire-glass skylights.

The building is said to have been erected in less time than it would have taken to deliver the steel trusses. The centering took about two weeks, the concreting one. The concrete was composed, in the lower part of the

<article title="A Very Modern Building" author="">A Very Modern

Building.



<article title=" The Rosedale Association, Toronto " author="">The Rosedale Association, Toronto.

girders of one part cement (lola or Colorado), parts of sand, and 3 of crushed granite ; for other parts the proportion was 1: 2 4.

The concrete girders and roof cost more than steel trusses and corrugated iron, but this difference in price was offset by building the walls of 12 concrete blocks instead of 17 in. brick, and by the use of reinforced concrete footings.





As an instructive illustration of what can be done by united action to keep a neighbourhood

From injury, the Directors' Report, presented at the annual meeting of the Rosedale Association in Toronto, is interesting reading. Rosedale is a distinct district in Toronto, cut off in a natural way by ravines, and, as these force some curvature upon the roads. the distinctness from rectangular Toronto is still further emphasized. The residents formed an Association two years ago, to obtain recognition by the city authorities of the principle of local option in matters not in conflict with the general welfare of the city, and to see that the ordinary functions of the city departments were properly attended to in their case. Since then the Act has been passed empowering cities to establish residential districts by By-law ; and Rosedale promptly had itself made a residential district so that neither the butchers, apothecaries and undertakers, (the pioneers of civilization) nor the Chinese laundryman, (the harbinger of the yellow invasion) can plant their outposts there. They have attacked and made to move on two disagreeable smelling industries. The Association have prevented the erection of a crematory in their immediate neighbourhood and subsequently of a planing mill in the same place. They have poked the city up to keep in proper repair the bridges which form their way of approach across the ravines. They have made an alliance with the Park Commissioner so that he has consented to take them into his councils in the matter of planting trees and in the still more anxious matter of cutting them down. And sundry sidewalks and roads for portions of Rosedale, which would be constructed in the ordinary course of affairs, have been got through with greater smoothness because endorsed by the officials of the Association. There is no question but that, in serving their own interests, the property owners of Rosedale are serving the interests of the whole city. Rosedale is now one of the places to which the tallyho drivers from the hotels take the summer visitor. It is a question if they would continue long to do so if the outer edges of the district were eaten into by objectionable industries and the centre spotted with supply shops. Beauty must be massed to tell, in a city as in any other work of art. Good buildings here and there throughout a town are still good buildings (though not so effective as in conjunction), but the town is nothing. Since we have come to conceive of cities as susceptible of design, we must, in considering their beauty, aim at the secret of all good design breadth, which has been defined as a great deal of one thing in one place. It does not do to allow a good neighbourhood to be frittered away for want of attention. And the best way to prevent it is the association or neighbours for its preservation and improve

