<doctype type="text">158	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



At the introductory meeting, after the programme had been explained, a general discussion as to management of details took place. It was arranged by vote to hold the meetings, which are to be weekly, upon Wednesdays. Mr. W. S. Maxwell made a number of suggestions as to the method of work on the Sketch Competitions, the first of which was arranged for Wednesday, 18th October. After the adjournment of the meeting, refreshments were served in the Library of the Association.



<article title=" BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURE COURSE AT McGILL UNIVERSITY " author="">

BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURE COURSE AT McGILL UNIVERSITY.

It has been announced that there are this year fifteen students attending the Architectural Classes at McGill University. As this is a substantial increase on previous years it seems to indicate a growing inclination towards the scholarly method of studying architecture, and Professor Nobbs may at the same time be fairly congratulated on the fruit of his enthusiasm and energy.

<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL CLASSES " author="">

ARCHITECTURAL CLASSES.

The architectural classes which have been conducted under the joint auspices of the Ontario Association of Architects and the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club for the past three years were resumed for the coming season on Monday, October 16th.

The mathematical classes will be conducted as formerly by Mr. A. H. Harkness, B. A., and thc arrangements in regard to the studio classes will be announced later. The fees, covering tuition in both courses, are five dollars, payable to the treasurer of the joint committee, Mr. A. H. Gregg, 59 Yonge street.

As regards the mathematical classes, it may be said that the course includes Euclid, Algebra, Trigonometry, Statics, Strength of Materials and Structural Iron Work.

The classes are held in the rooms of the Ontario Association of Architects, No. 96 King street west, Toronto, on every Monday evening beginning at 8 o'clock.

<article title=" OUR SINFUL EXTRAVAGANCE " author="Chausse, Alcide">

OUR SINFUL EXTRAVAGANCE.*

This North America of ours is vast indeed, our natural resources are great and we have grown to look upon them as inexhaustible. With ruthless abandon we have devastated our forests; we have worked our lands beyond endurance, our mines, our fields are handled without regard for the morrow. Within but a few years our economists have called our attention to this useless waste, and already we find ourselves confronted by a scarcity of certain commodities hitherto thought unlimited. People are just beginning to awaken to the true condition of things.

But of all the useless wastes that we have indulged in, in the United States and in Canada, that of fire, our annual bon-fire, is the most insane, in fact criminal, for by it is property not only devastated, but lives by thousands are sacrificed yearly. Think of it, in 1904 7,000 people were burned, an average of 19 fatalities through fire every day in the year, a record that nearly equals that of all the railroad accidents of the two countries, generally considered by far the most fruitful source of fatal accidents. And the record of 1904 was not an extraordinary one. The increase in deaths by fire has been growing steadily.



* A paper by Alcide Chausse, Architect. Building Inspector of Montreal and Vice-President of the International Society of Building Inspectors, read before the convention of the American Society of Municipal Improvements, at Montreal, September, 1905.

Our present ratio is about nine lives lost by fire every year for every one hundred thousand of population. In 1900 the ratio was eight, and in 1890 it was five. Unless something drastic be done, what will be the ratio in 1950?

If the loss of life is appalling, the loss of property is disgusting One hates to think that he is part and parcel of such a race of stupids. Not even China and Japan, with their paper and bamboo houses, submit to such a tax as we do. Our fire-losses are equal to $25 per year per family, and that tax shows but the loss of property actually consumed. We have burned up One thousand millions of dollars' worth in six years! Most losses, so called, are really but exchanges, one product turned into some other form, a loss, perhaps to many, but a gain to some one. Not so with fire. That loss is final, absolute, and the visual one is actual. The only gain to any one is an indirect one to the insurance companies, who profit just so much more by the added anxiety after a fire that new people have to be insured. But the insurance business is not run upon strictly philanthropic lines' The result of the transformation caused by fire is —smoke. $230,000,000 worth of smoke last year! And like last year's death record, the property-loss does not show as a spasmodic increase or something very extraordinary and unlikely to happen again. Even including the Baltimore fire it was but little over the regular increase, a record that has been climbing ever upward, a record that hovered about the sixty million figure in the 70's, the hundred million in the 80's, and that has not been under the one hundred and sixty million limit since 1900.

And mark you, that is the destruction of property. Along with that we throw away $150,000,000 or so more in the maintenance and perfecting of water plants and fire departments, salves to assuage the pain of the sore, not a cure for the malady. Then on top of that we go to work and gamble with the fire insurance companies and pay out countless millions more so that they may reimburse us individually should we suffer a loss through fire ! For every dollar that the individual loser receives as indemnity, the community has paid out three dollars as insurance premiums That is the average. I have in mind one city that has paid out in a given time $692,000,000 in premiums, arid has received back $107,000,000 for its losses by fire during the same period. An unintelligent speculation, to be sure, but then, what gambling is intelligent.

But leaving aside the accessories, so to speak, and restricting ourselves to the actual destruction of property, the $230,000,000 of last year means a daily average loss of $630,000. Now, large as that is, we were satisfied some time ago that it did not tell all the story. We draw those facts from fire department records, insurance reports, etc. more or less fallible sources of information that are far from being all comprehending. We were sure that there were hundreds of fires unreported, in interior districts, destroying uninsured property, and where there were no fire departments. So, early in February of this year the Society of Building Commissioners and Inspectors prepared a most elaborate system, albeit expensive, to get all the facts concerning fire for at least a short period. The system was in working order by February 19, and was, I am sure, perfect on the 23rd. During the ten days of the test, from the 19th to the 28th, there were 1,315 fires, totaling a loss of $14,809,800, or one and a half millions a day. True, it so happened that there were some pretty severe fires during that period, but who tells us that there will not be as severe, or more severe ones, later on during the year, just as there were previous to that time?

Granted that the record of a million and a half a day will not obtain the year around, and assuming, indeed, that we will not actually average more than half that amount, still that figure is exceedingly near thc mark reached by the new buildings we are daily erecting, and that give such a semblance of progress. At a most liberal estimate we build but a million's worth a day,

