<doctype type="text">162	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" Combines and the Law " author="">

Combines and the Law.

by threats and intimidation to induce the plaintiff's customers, who would otherwise have dealt with the plaintiffs, to refrain from dealing with them. For this, and for (in the judge's terms again) wrongfully and maliciously coercing the workmen of the company to leave its employment, the defendants were condemned to pay damages to the company, which damages were assessed at $7,500. The interest of the case lies in the fact that the defendants were two union bodies, viz., Local Union No. 30, which declared the strike and the International Sheet Metal Workers' Union, which endorsed it. It was distinctly stated by the jury, in answer to a question from the judge, that they could not tell from the evidence whether any of the company's workmen who were members of the union voted for the resolution which declared the strike. The damage was caused by the bodies acting in their corporate capacity and is to be paid for out of corporate funds which it was formerly thought were not attachable. The offence against the law was in bringing pressure to hear by means of the boycott. The law permits persuasion but not force.



One may not say anything about the Master Plumbers' Association of Canada, while it is in court.

It is charged with conspiring to restrain trade, but nothing is yet proved. Indeed there is danger of unlawfully prejudging almost any trade, by associating it by name with the inflation of building prices, for as the County Crown Attorney has thought fit to seize the books of an accountant in Toronto, who has acted for several bodies it is not possible to say on which body his hand may not be laid—excepting, perhaps, the plasterers who are said to have burned their books. But it is not necessary to be specific. There is a condition in building affairs which is like electricity; it is something in the air, we do not know exactly what it is, we only know what it does, and that when uncontrolled it is deadly. It is a condition which is upsetting the equality of Canadians in trade, making some the slaves of others; and it is therefore contrary to the intention of the law. It is a matter for congratulation that, as the evil has grown, the courts have been able to support injured persons who have appealed to them, and that the agents of the Jaw have been active to arraign those who have been suspected of overstepping its limitations in carrying out grasping methods of trade. But it must be remembered that the agents of the law are not concerned with questions of abstract right and wrong. '[heir concern is only with the law; and, if a wrong once becomes a matter of law, there is no redress while the law lasts. It is legislators who have to consider the questions of right and wrong that enter into statutory law; and it is at this stage that the country should see that no wrong is done; that there is no legislation for the advantage of one part of the community over another part. If either capital, trade, or labour seeks strength in union, we must look to it that the law permits none to have advantage over others that, both in what it favours and in what it restrains, the law which bears upon this question provides alike for all. If there is to be strife between different classes and callings in the community let it be in advance of law—making—at the polls and in parliament- that we may keep class legislation out of this country

Antiquity of Plumbers<article title=" Antiquity of Plumbers " author="">

This note, which has no connection with that above, is suggested by no more serious question

than the historical speculations of an English newspaper, which, commenting upon the list of trades represented at the Trades Union Congress, said that "Shakespeare would have been puzzled by a plumber." Would he? Plumbing as we understand it is a modern conception, but the plumber, in the primary and Pickwickian sense of a worker in lead, is no new idea. The French nobility, before the Revolution restrained their natural liberties, used, as they came home from the chase, to shoot plumbers, for the pleasure of seeing them fall off the roof. We are not to suppose that these were members of the union, constantly engaged in running soil-pipes through the roof. The roof itself was their care, which was covered or flashed with lead. But the plumber. in the more familiar capacity of a solderer of water pipes, is as old at any rate as the Roman Empire. In the museum at Aries in the South of France, which was a Roman colony, is a piece of lead pipe, exactly like the seamed lead pipe which, as met with in old houses to he altered, is within the experience of architects of the present day, who have been practising for not more than twenty years. The pipe is said to have been taken from a Roman aqueduct, and bears the evidence of its genuineness in a trade mark, stamped on the pipe, which, as copied into the writer's sketch book, reads SCANTIUS + POIHINUS + FAC.—Scantius Poihinus makr. How near that trade mark seems to bring the pipe to modern times, and reminds us that the citizen of the Roman Empire, except that he did not wear trousers and his science was not sound was a very modern person, and Rome in those days not unlike New York. Among other points of resemblance, which bring it nearer to our own days than to those of Shakespeare, there was the distribution of heat, it is said, but certainly water in the villas of her millionaires; and, if we may trust the evidence of the museum at Aries, the distribution of water was done by means of lead pipe put in by a plumber.

<article title=" BOOK NOTICE.

ARCHITECT, OWNER AND BUILDER BEFORE THE LAW, BY T. M. CLARK, F. A. I. A. PUBLISHED BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, NEW YORK. AGENTS FOR CANADA, MORANG " author="">

BOOK NOTICE.

ARCHITECT, OWNER AND BUILDER BEFORE THE LAW, BY T. M. CLARK, F. A. I. A. PUBLISHED BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, NEW YORK. AGENTS FOR CANADA, MORANG



& Co., TORONTO. PRICE $3.00. This volume, written, like Mr. T. M. Clark's other books, in a clear and interesting manner, gives an account of the relation between the architect and the owner, the architect and the builder, and the builder and the owner, as laid down in the decisions of some eight hundred cases in American, English, French and, (in two cases), Canadian courts. The complications that may arise in these different relations are described and the view likely to be taken by the law illustrated by stories of cases which make interesting, and, though the majority of the cases are American, useful reading; likely to keep a man not only out of court but out of the trouble that leads to court. This is the best use that could be made of the book—to read it and get business experience from other

people's trouble instead of from one's own. For the purpose of reference the hook has an index of the points considered and a double index of the cases cited; giving them in alphabetical order, first as a whole and a second time according to the countries or states in which the case was heard.

