<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	125

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">

MONTREAL NOTES.

The advancing season brings to view a pretty heavy crop of dwelling houses in and around Montreal. Naturally the greater part of them are built as speculations either to let or to sell. Taking these as a whole they cannot be said to reflect much credit on the judgement of the producers nor on the appetite of the consumers. That souls should be found so thirsty as to be glad to























































lap up the outpourings of galvanized iron that bespatter so many of these ruinous erections would seem to bespeak them hydroptic with some terrible disease. Probably no material ever used in building has lent itself with such fatal facility to the degradation of the art. The multiplication of foolish shapes which this material is made to assume in the pitiful notion that they tend to beauty seems to know no end. No form so harsh and ugly, no feature so vain and meaningless, but it is set up upon the housetops as tribute to beauty. Oh Ornament what sins are being committed in thy name! Some of these houses with a perfect cobweb of external stair hanging about their faces and a bristle of galvanized puerilities along the top offer about as painful a spectacle as anything ever built.

One cause which has played an important part in calling into being this galvanized caricature of architecture is, undoubtedly, the introduction of the flat gravel roof. This form of roof, easy to construct and found convenient in so many ways—for it retains comparatively little snow, being wind-swept, and it forms no icicles around the eaves, being drained to the centre or the back—has the disadvantage of failing in picturesque effect. The pitched roof, even when of low pitch, always suggests the solidity of a building, and, more especially when flanked by gables carrying chimneys, gives variety and picturesqueness to the sky-line. It is really the very hankering after this variety and boldness of effect that induces these outbreaks in galvanized iron. The monotony of the flat roof-line is too grievous to be borne, With this feeling one cannot help but have a

great deal of sympathy, however much one must deplore the insobriety to which it leads.

Another circumstance tending to poverty of appearance in the cheaper classes of houses is the method of building in three-inch plank, sheeting with building felt and then veneering the outer face with brick or stone— a method, probably almost peculiar to the French-Canadian, and which produces a house about equal to frame house for endurance and weather resisting quality, with probably a slight advantage in regard to fire resistance. The impossibility of employing stone or brick cornices or other projections of any weight with such a construction is apt to lead to a deadly flatness and monotony appearance. Hence again the very human desire to obtain variety, at any cost, and the use of galvanized cornices and other rubbish, which weighing light is at least a physical possibility. It is true that wood is a kindlier and pleasanter material which might serve the purpose, but the alleged longer endurance of the iron is given as a reason for the preference which it is receiving more and more.

Coming to the internal disposition of these houses— a reprehensible practice becoming much too common is the 'dark-room' or room without a window. The most common form of this is the room at the back of a larger apartment and communicating with it by an 'arch' or six feet wide opening on which a curtain may or may not be hung. One advantage of this arrangement is that the two rooms may be spoken of as merely one large well ventilated room, when dealing with authorities who are likely to find fault with such a disposition, but they immediately become two rooms























































when terms of lease are being discussed with an intending tenant. In a number of quite recent houses, renting at from $15 to $20 per month, rooms are often introduced without either window or communicating archway. Where such dispositions are permitted, sanitary authorities will effect little in the way of limiting the spread of consumption by regulations as

