<doctype type="text">60	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of Hadley v Baxendale (9 Ex. 341). The plaintiff's were owners of a steam-mill. The shaft was broken and they gave it to the defendant (a carrier) to take to an engineer to serve as a model for a new one. On making the contract, the defendant's clerk was informed that the mill was stopped and that the shaft must be sent immediately. He delayed its deli very, the shaft was kept back in consequence, and in an action for breach of contract they claimed as specific damages the loss of profits while the mill was kept idle. It was held that if the carrier had been aware that a loss of profits would result from a delay on his part, he would have been answerable. But as it did not appear he knew that the want of the shaft was the only thing which was keeping the mill idle, he could not be made responsible to such an extent. The court said '' Where two parties have made a contract which one of them has broken, the damages which the other part)' ought to receive in respect of such breach of contract should be such as may fairly and reasonably be considered either arising naturally i.e., according to the usual course of things from such breach of contract itself—or such as may reasonably be supposed to have been in the contemplation of both parties at the time they made the contract, as the probable result of the breach of it. Now, if the special circumstances under which the contract was actually made were communicated by the plaintiffs to the defendant, and thus known to both parties, the damages resulting from the breach of such a contract which they would reasonably contemplate would be the amount of injury which would ordinarily follow from a breach under these special circumstances so known and communicated. But, on the other band, if these special circumstances were wholly unknown to the party breaking the contract, he at the most could only be supposed to have had in his contemplation the amount of injury which would arise generally, and in the great multitude of cases not affected by any special circumstances from such a breach of contract. For, had the special circumstances been known, the parties might have specially provided for the breach of contract by special terms as to the damages in that case, and of this advantage it would be very unjust to deprive them. The above principles are those by which we think the jury ought to he guided in estimating the damages arising out of any breach of contract."

In another case the defendant had contracted to build a ship which was to he delivered to the plaintiff on Aug. 1. It was not delivered till March in the following year. The vessel was intended by the plaintiffs— and from the nature of her fittings the defendants must have known the facts for a passenger ship in the Australian trade. Evidence was given that freights to Australia were very high in July, August, and September, but fell in October, and continued low till May, when the vessel sailed; and that had she been delivered on the day named she could have earned £2,750 more than she did. On the other hand, it was shown that the plaintiffs would have extended the time for delivery till Oct. 1 if the defendants would have bound themselves to that day under a demurrage (which, however, was refused), and that they had stated as their reason for wishing to have the ship then, ''that after that time the days would be shortening so fast that the)- would be seriously inconvenienced and prejudiced in fitting the vessel out." The jury found a verdict for £2,750. An attempt was made to set aside the verdict for excess of damages, on the ground that if the plaintiffs' offer had been complied with, the loss of freight would have been suffered ; and that the damages should be measured rather by the species of loss which they had themselves pointed out, than by that which they afterwards set up. The rule was refused. In this case the primary object of the ship was to earn freight b)- carrying passengers. The defendant was to be paid the value of such a ship. Any delay in its completion would clearly subject it to a diminution in value by a fall of freight. The measure of that diminution was the difference in profits obtained on the first voyage.

Any increased cost to which a person is put from the

necessity of doing himself what he had contracted that someone else should do for him is recoverable, if what he does is the fair and proper thing to do under the circumstances. Not only cost, but inconvenience caused by a breach of contract, may he paid for by damages, provided the inconvenience is substantial and appreciable.

Damages which would not arise in the usual course f things from a breach of contract, but which do arise from circumstances peculiar to the special case, are not recoverable unless the special circumstances are known to the person who has broken the contract. In one case the plaintiff had undertaken to repair a steam threshing machine for a third person by harvest time. For this purpose he required a new fire-box. The defendant undertook to make him one in a fortnight, but the plaintiff did not tell him of his own contract to repair the threshing machine. The defendant made default in delivering the fire—box, and the plaintiff in consequence was unable to perform his contract, and was sued by the owner of the threshing machine and obliged to pay him compensation. This compensation he sought to recover from the defendant, but failed, because it could not have been in the contemplation of the defendant when he made his contract with the plaintiff, and was not the ordinary consequence of the breach.

In another case the defendants had built a large floating boom derrick, fitted with machinery, for raising sunken vessels, for a company which had become insolvent, and had left it on their hands. The plaintiffs agreed to buy the hull of the derrick, which the defendants were to empty of machinery, and deliver it at a time fixed. The plaintiffs, who were coal merchants, intended to place in the hull hydraulic cranes for the purpose of transshipping their coals direct from colliers into barges. The purpose was entirely novel and unknown to the defendants. They believed that the plaintiffs intended to use the hull for a coal stores, which was the most obvious use to which such a vessel was capable of being applied by persons in the coal trade; but the derrick, being an entirely novel and exceptional vessel, and the first of the kind built, no vessel of the sort had ever been applied to such a purpose. She was capable, however, of being profitably employed for that purpose, and had she been so employed, her non-delivery at the time fixed would have caused loss and damage to the plaintiffs to the amount of £420. As it was, the plaintiffs experienced a much greater loss, for they had purchased machinery and steam tugs to be used in conjunction with the hull, and these lay idle for a considerable time. The plaintiffs, therefore, lost the interest upon the moneys expended, and also the profits which they would have made by the use of the derrick. The chief contention was as to whether the defendants were liable to pay the £420. The court held that the sellers, having contemplated that the derrick was to be employed in what was, in fact, the most obvious mode of earning money, and the plaintiffs having lost more money than the)- would have lost if they had so employed it, they were entitled to be compensated to that extent, the loss having been the natural consequence of the non-delivery of the derrick.

-	- Contract Journal.





A reliable authority gives the following table of the minimum pitch of roots in inches to the foot for different kinds of roofing materials

	Asphalt and composition	 1/2

	Tin	. 1

Corrugated iron	3

Sheet iron	3

	Copper	2

	Lead	2

	Thatch	6

	Shingles	4

	Slate	4

Tiles, Terra-cotta	4

