<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	29



accommodation and the conditions of the site, giving a plan and profiles of the ground. in some very important competitions, if is desirable to give raised models of the grounds.

(e)	Fix the uniform requirements for the drawings, giving the number of drawings, the scale, and the method of rendering. (Only the strict requisites should be asked for.)

(f ) State whether the submission of more titan one design by a competitor is forbidden or allowed.

(g)	Name the judge or jury. Define his or their power.

(h)	Provide that during the competition there shall be no communicating upon anything relating to the competitions, except in writing, between any competitor, on the one hand, and the owner or representative of the owner, the professional assessor or any juror, on the other and that any information, whether in answer to enquiry or not, shall be given, in writing, simultaneously to all competitors.

Fix a date after which no questions will be answered

(i)	Provide for the placing out of competition any drawing which violates the terms, or any set of drawings whose authors have so far disregarded the terms as to deserve the extreme

penalty.

(j)	Fix the number, nature or amount of the awards.

(k)	State whether the assessor (or professional jury upon vote) is to make the award.

(I)	Fix the period of time wherein the final decision will be rendered. 

(in) Provide for sending the decision and a copy of the report of the professional adviser or of the jury to each competitor.

(n)	Provide that no drawings shall be exhibited or made public until after the award.

(o)	Provide for the return of unsuccessful drawings to their respective authors within a reasonable time, and provide that nothing original as to this competition in such designs shall be used without compensation to the author of the design in which it appears.



The discussion on the above report was taken part in by Messrs. Doran, Hutchison, Gauthier, Amos, Nobbs and others. Mr. Doran strongly objected to the general principle of competitions and insisted on the necessity of adequate compensation for all work done. The clause regarding remuneration for competitive drawings called forth a good deal of discussion, Mr. Gauthier contending that these should be considered as something more than preliminary sketches, Mr. Doran suggesting that competitive work should be made to include working drawings and specifications and that these should be paid for at the usual rates.

At the afternoon session, which opened at 3 o'clock, Mr. J. S. Archibald, President, in the chair, there were seventeen members present. The Special Committee, appointed to make a report on the amendment of the Charter & Bye-Laws, submitted to the meeting certain amendments, prepared by the legal adviser of the Association, M. Beauduin. It was pointed out by the President that, owing to the great difficulty experienced in enforcing the rights of the Association under the charter as at present made out, it was felt necessary to have the charter made in some way more effective. That, although the charter was intended to give the Association the power to prevent unqualified persons acting as architects, and the power to prosecute members for arrears of subscription, yet practically these were operations of great difficulty and expense. Mr. Lacroix pointed out that the clauses under consideration were not in any way an amendment of the purport of the charter, but were simply a means of making the charter efficient. After discussion, in which Messrs. Venne, Hutchison, Vanier and others took part, it was proposed by Mr. Hutchison, seconded by Mr. Lemieux, that the suggestions of the legal adviser of the association be adopted and presented to Legislature during the present session or the next.

The following is the Report of the Committee on the above matter REPORT OF LEGAL COMMITTEE.

MONTREAL 10TH. NOVEMBER, 1904.



To THE MEMBERS OF COUNCIL: In accordance with the instruct ions received, your committee have taken into consideration the resolution passed at the last annual meeting with respect to preparing "a scheme of amendments to the charter, if necessary, and to part of the by-laws concerning the election of officers and council," and now beg o report as follows

1st. With respect to the Charter



Your committee having met with difficulties in the endeavor to enforce certain clauses of the charter, requested your legal adviser to draft certain amendments pertaining to the instituting of actions fur illegal practicing and for collection of arrears. We append for your consideration, the said amendments.

Your committee having carefully considered the clauses of the charter, in all its bearings, and the suggested amendments, after nature consideration, have come to the decision that they are entirely inadequate and fall far short of the requirements. The charter safeguards neither the interests of our profession nor those of the public.

Some radical amendments are necessary in order to gain this desired end, but after our previous experience, we consider that it would bc impossible to get the necessary legislation by means



a private bill. We recommend that steps be taken to bring the matter before the Government of the day and that all due pressure be brought to bear upon them, in order that the Government may recognize the importance of the subject as one not merely affecting the interests of our profession but the wider field of public good, and be influenced to take up the matter as a public measure, as it is essential that the same standard of efficiency should be established by law in architecture as is required in the other learned professions.

2nd. With respect to the amendments to by-laws governing election of officers and council.

Your committee have carefully considered the said by-laws and while acknowledging that there is room for improvement, we do not consider the present an opportune time to make any change in same.

Reported by,



Respectfully yours,

(Signed) 1. S. ARCHIBALD.



XV.	E. DORAN.

J.	E. VANIER.



PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER REFERRED TO IN

FOREGOING REPORT.



The second paragraph of section 13 is replaced by the following:

Any person who, after the time above mentioned, not being registered as a member of the said Association, takes or makes use of any such name, title or designation, us above mentioned, is liable to a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars for the first and not exceeding one hundred dollars for every subsequent offence.

13a. Prosecutions undertaken for the recovery of the fines imposed in virtue of said law can be instituted by the Association or any individual before the Judge of Sessions, the Police Magistrate, or the Recorder, in the cities of Montreal and Quebec or before a District Magistrate or a Justice of the Peace at the place where the offence was committed in other parts of the provinces or before any other competent court of justice of the locality where the offence was committed, by simple civil action in the ordinary manner.

13b. In default of immediate payment of the fine and the costs, these shall be levied by way of execution and sale of chattels of the defendant, and in case the chattels be not sufficient to pay them the defendant shall be incarcerated at the common jail of the district for a period not exceeding ninety days, unless the fine and costs shall be previously paid.



13c. In all prosecutions instituted in virtue of article 13 it rests with the defendant to make proof of his right to practice the profession of Architect or to take one of the titles mentioned in said article.



13d. Any person otherwise competent to vender evidence in an action or prosecution in which the corporation is a part, shall not be held to be incompetent by reason of the fact hat he is a member or officer of the corporation.

13e. In all prosecutions instituted in virtue of clause 13 for

