<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	47



in the eastern part of St. James St. and while the number of estate transfers, recently effected in the same street somewhat farther west, may foreshadow more building in that locality,

are expectant of more important improvements in the uptown district, more especially in St. Catherine street west. The City Building Inspector has recently drafted a by-law to regulate buildings in this street. This by-law very properly calls for substantial, durable materials in the construction of new buildings. It forbids the erection or adaptation of buildings for stable or factory purposes and contains the rather curious requirement that new buildings must be at least three stories high, and thirty-eight Feet in height from the sidewalk to the roof. It is to be  that a demand so arbitrary would not in every case be arbitrarily enforced.

In the block between St. Timothy St. and St. Andrew St. on the north, Mr. N. G. Valiquette, who now owns nearly the entire block, is to erect a five storey factory, which will however face St. Andrew street. Messrs. Henry Morgan & Co. have, in a



manner purchased almost the whole of the large block bounded by St. Catherine st., Berthelet st., Union avenue and Aylmer st., and intend to provide themselves with factory accommodation thereon. This scheme may take some time to develope, in order to allow certain of the existing leases to expire. Farther west in St. Catherine St., on the south side between

University St. and McGill College avenue, is the site for the uptown Post Office spoken of above. On the same side, some doors west of Real street. Messrs. Lindsay, the Piano dealers, are to put up a seven storey building. At the north-east corner of St. Catherine St. and Stanley St., Molson's Bank are to erect a branch. This is the corner at present occupied by Mr. Frank Norman's Stanley Hall. which will be built anew at 108-110 Stanley Street, at a cost of upwards of $30,000, with balconies on three sides to seat 800 persons.

Not far from here, at the north-west corner of Peel St. and Burnside Place, the Bank of Montreal have announced their intention of establishing another branch. The same Bank has already a branch at the corner of Mansfield St. and St. Catherine St. ,and intend to place still another on the south-west corner of Sherbrook and St. Lawrence Streets. The Bank of Hochelaga is adapting a building at the corner of St. Denis St. and Mt. Royal avenue, to the purposes of a branch. But, as in Montreal banks and their branches seem to breed like rabbits in a warren, it is useless to begin to try to enumerate even the latest additions to the family—they come so quickly.

In addition to a very fair share of commonplace substantial work, which promises to take shape in stone and lime in the near future, there seems to he a dim vision that haunts the mind of the Montrealers. This is of a magnificent hotel not at present located in any particular spot, but hovering most frequently about the block between Dominion Square and St. Catherine st. This phantom hotel, inspired we know not whence, seems to be a subject in which the imagination of the dwellers in these parts

loves to revel. It is to cost fabulous sums of money of course, it is to be a place of next to heavenly splendor and excellence of management, and it is to he erected some day.

CONCORDIA SALUS.









McCORMACK & CARROLL

Lombard Street. TORONTO

Phone Main 2037





























Carvers, Modelers and Manufacturers of





"COMPO" ORNAMENTS

For Interior and Exterior Decoration



- - WRITE FOR CATALOGUE- The RICHMONDT CONDUIT & MFG. CO., Limited

Sole Manufacturers of



Richmondt Electro-Galvanized and Navalite Coduit Tubing and Fittings

For Absolute Safety in Interior Wiring.



































Factory and Office: 15, 17 and 19 Jarvis St., Toronto, Canada







The Canadian Bridge Co., Limited Walkerville, Ontario

MANUFACTURERS OF











STEEL BUILDINGS, ROOF TRUSSES

Railway and Highway Bridges and Structural Steel and Iron Work of all description

Estimates furnished upon application.









HOT BLAST HEATINO SYSTEMS

FOR





SOHOOLS, COLLEGES, HOSPITALS, FACTORIES, AND

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

Using Exhaust Steam or High or Low Pressure Live Steam. Plans and specifications submitted.

Steam Specialties, Fans, Blowers and Exhausters of all kinds. Engines for High or Low Pressure

Steam Particulars furnished on application to

SHELDON	     & SHELDON,	GALT, ONT.

	Formerly McFachren Heating & Ventilating Co.