<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	9

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES." author="">MONTREAL NOTES.



THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.



Since the beginning of the current session the P. Q. A. A. has been installed in its new lodgings in 5 Beaver Hall Square. The floors are standing the traffic very well, even at this advanced period of the session showing very little signs of wear and tear. For this result, of course, some thanks are due to those of the profession who sit at home and with luminous intelligence regret that the meetings of the Association are not more numerously attended and more successful.



The new rooms have not been selected primarily with a view to a large increase in the attendance at the functions—the meeting room being in fact somewhat smaller than that in the former



premises. So far, however, its capacity has not been strained, the rooms seem suitable and are both quieter and more central than the others.



The first lecture of the session was delivered on the 20th December last when Prof. P. E. Nobbs of McGill University discoursed



upon Gothic Carpentry and Joinery. The lecture which was delivered in a pleasantly enthusiastic and informal manner was such as would have proved very valuable to a younger class than were represented in the audience and one would suggest that on such occasions it would be a good thing to send notices to the draughtsmen in the various offices inviting them. As it is these modest youths will tell you either that they are unaware of these meetings or that they are not members of the Society and do not feel that their presence is at all called for—Experto crede. It would be well at any rate to put their thirst for instruction to a fair test.



In the matter of private letter writing it is often remarked that it is easier to write once a week than once a month. In regard to Societies something of the same kind holds good. It is easier to meet once a week than once a month. The dates are easier



to keep in view. The more continuous is easier than the more intermittent habit and the frequency of a function lessens its stiffness and formality. In a profession with so many sides to it and with so many by-paths full of interest as architecture has, there should be scope enough for weekly meetings all through the winter. In attending these the man whose forte lies in shaping the outward form of things must inevitably learn much from him whose enthusiasm leads him rather to solve the inner mysteries of construction and he whose joy is in matters of cost and points of law may give and receive much in conversation with him to whom these things are distressing questions. There is a great deal of benefit to be derived from the frequent free informal discussion of things. It establishes contact between members of the profession making esprit de corps a possibility. Men express their best thoughts with more freedom when no boxed up and required to speak on oath, In such discussion only can one realize what are the subjects which are most widely occupying men's minds and on these occasions talent and enthusiasm too modest to assert themselves at more formal times blossom out to the light of day.



We suggest something of this kind in connection with the P.Q.A.A. in order to increase its usefulness, but knowing well that much has already been done. The society is now organized. That is to say its necessary organs are all there properly developed to be of use but some vitalizing is required in order that the society may go on a stage farther and become as a body a real influence in the province. The spirit of this age demands that every industry profession or science that is to be efficiently carried on must form central rallying points where knowledge widely spread and loosely known and understood amongst the people may be brought together to be compared and made to yield up its secrets and its laws. An architectural association should be the headquarters for architectural reference where an architect in search of information could obtain it or at least the clue to help him to it. For this purpose of course an excellent library would be necessary, kept constantly up to date. But what is of much greater importance is that the library should be easily accessible and actually well patronized. It should be within the duties and power of an architectural association to gather reliable data and statistics on such matters as strength of materials—being placed on the market and largely employed by architects—the comparative efficiency of ventilating systems, and the circumstances affecting the acoustical properties of buildings. Collected information on many subjects of this kind would enable the profession to settle scientifically with certainty

questions which at present are arranged by rule of thumb with a hit or a miss as a result.



Perhaps the most important function, however, of the Architectural Association of the future is acquiring the confidence and respect of the public. This can only be done by the profession studying in its corporate capacity the desires and needs of the public. There ought to be a large scale plan of each city in the Province upon the table of the Association and members should discuss in front of these their schemes and dreams for the improvement thereof not as an amusement merely, but with the intention to have the thing done.



It was, if we remember rightly, a saying of Gladstones that a statesman's duty was to take a peoples dim aspirations and give them back to them in concrete form. Great writers are often described as expressing what everyone has thought. All have thought just so but only one has succeeded in clothing the thought in adequate expression. Similarly it is the duty of architects by studying and comparing ideas to perceive what the people want and by the exercise of their imaginative and inventive faculties to give it to them in tangible form. In thoroughly and constantly threshing out questions of municipal improvement there lies a duty which Architectural Associations owe to their townsmen and in doing which they will earn their gratitude and confidence. But this end must naturally be a long way from a society whose members are barely acquainted with one another and are satisfied each to work in his own little hole and corner.

The beneficial influence that a strong association can exercise directly on the educational standard of its members is very obvious. The P.Q.A.A. is effectively organized; we should like to see it more thoroughly vitalized and so get to work.

CONCORDIA SALUS.



BUILDING IN MONTREAL.



A correspondent writes from Montreal as follows

Building operations have been very good in Montreal in 19047 and the following figures will give you an idea of what was done.



1903—1010 permits amounting to	$4,094,596



1904—1335 permits amounting to	4.352,287



There have been erected in 1904—1151 dwellings, 41 stores 17 warehouses, 12 factories, 2 churches, 2 schools, hospitals,

brewery, 3 office buildings, 2 flat buildings, 22 stables and 127 sheds. Repairs to 578 dwellings, 162 stores, 3 theatres, 12 warehouses, 28 factories, 2 churches, 1 hospital, 11 stables and 37 sheds.



Besides the above, 96 fire escapes have been erected, 443 permits for storage of combustibles and 415 permits for motors have been granted.



The revenue of the Department of Building Inspection in 1904 was as follows:

	Building permits	$3,304.50

	Water used for building purposes	3,691.59

	Permits for dangerous industries	2,173.00

	Permits for motors and engines	2,130.00

	Total	$11,299.09



This is about $3,500 more than in the year 1903.



The expenses of the department in 1904, for salaries and contingencies, were less than half of the amount of the revenue. Five years ago the expenses were $3,500 and the

revenue $350.





<article title=" PINK A RESTFUL COLOUR " author="">PINK A RESTFUL COLOUR.



In the decoration of the stations of the New York subway, it appears that the schemes most restful to the eve are those which are based on pink and salmon tones. The American Architect, reflecting upon this unexpected result, finds that after all it agrees with nature more distinctly than does the theory (proceeding from the abundance of green in the world) that green is the most restful colour to the eye. "To rest the tired eye," the writer in thc American Architect points out, "one naturally drops the eye lid . . Opaque as the eyelid is, it is still translucent, and as it is permeated with blood-vessels it would seem that the sense of color that the eye derives through the closed lid must be that of pink, very low in the scale. Turn to nature again and we find that the blush-rose and the garden pink are amongst the most restful members of the whole garden flora. But there are pinks and pinks, and anything verging on the mauves should be eschewed, while a pink that belongs to the salmon family may, on the testimony of the subway decorations, be safely adopted.'

