<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	123



examination we will find the same inequalities apparent at the ends, hut more unevenly divided, the greatest disparity being at the points of contact with the different sticks. Again, timber sawn in two and the sides reversed will bear a greater pressure and resist it longer than the solid pieces for the simple reason that when these inequalities of pressure are brought to bear we present a side for expansion containing a greater degree of elasticity, and the portions to contract, or that side within the arc when bent, being nearer the centre of the tree, are more compact and solid; hence the wrinkling tendency is overcome in a measure. This reasoning applies to all kinds of built-up timber, whether for joists, posts, girders or bearing beams of any kind.



From "Builder," Please publish a design for a porch entrance which is built of brick having square brick columns and elliptical brick arch, and ornamental gable and oblige?

ANS. —It. is rather difficult to publish a design for this purpose as we do not know the style of building

best methods to adopt and the materials to employ in putting up plaster work on canvas, to imitate old buildings.

ANS. :—The face work of temporary buildings for exhibitions, etc., when not composed simply of canvas and painted, is usually executed in fibrous plaster, commonly called, in the trade, stick and rag or staff. For a stone-fronted building the ashlar work would be formed with cast slabs nailed to pine studs about 2 ft. to 2 ft.  6 in. apart. The moulded work would be cast at the manufacturer's works, and fixed on the site. Several firms in Toronto execute this kind of work.



From ''Student," Kindly publish in your valuable paper the following ornaments "Eggs and Dart," "Leaf and Dart," "Leaf and Tongue," "Bead and Eillet," and oblige.

ANS. —The designs shown at Figs. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10



















































to which the porch is to be attached, however we submit the following Fig. 5, which may perhaps suit the requirements.



From "Plasterer," Please inform me regarding the

are representations of the moulding named, Figs. 9 and 10 show the bead and fillet in two styles round and elliptical.



From ''Contractor," Please describe the correct method of connecting house or branch drains to (1) pipe sewers, and (2) to brick sewers. What is the practice in Toronto or Montreal, when there is no branch in the sewer? Should a hole be cut in the sewer and the end of the drain pipe inserted?

ANS. :—All connections of house drains to sewers are usually made by the local sanitary authority, or by the builder's men under the supervision of the sanitary authority. In order to connect to an old pipe sewer, a length of the pipe should be taken out and a Y branch inserted. In the case of a large pipe sewer through which water is constantly flowing, so that a length of pipe cannot be removed, a hole is cut into the pipe and a saddle junction piece cemented to the hole. In either case the junction should "look up" as much as possible

