<doctype type="text">8	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



NO. 152 PARK ROAD, ROSEDALE.	MESSRS. BURKE &



HORWOOD, ARCHITECTS.



This a good typical example of the popular Toronto multum in parvo plan. The drawing room is on the front, which is the east ; but the dining room is contrived to get a look towards the east too. The dining room in summer can be thrown open to the verandah ; one of those provisions by which we are coming to make a luxury of heat. The reception room is evidently capable of similar treatment on a smaller scale. The interlocking front and back stairs are an ingenious solution of the problem of getting a fine front star, a roomy back stair, a side entrance and a way to the cellar, all in an extent, taken the largest way, of 17 feet 6 inches on the ground floor. The kitchen and pantry are another case of compression without omission ; and the route to the dining room through the pantry could not interfere less with the working space of the pantry nor, while wonderfully short, does it open up any line of sight into the kitchen.

HALL, NO. 123 sr. GEORGE STREET, TORONTO. MESSRS.



BURKE & HORWOOD, ARCHITECTS.



The view is taken from the north end of the hail, at the foot of the stair, of which the newel post just appears on the left. The noteworthy point in this ball is the way in which, although it contains both the staircase and the front door and is of no great size, it yet makes a central space for the house. By keeping like functions together—the entrance, the staircase, and the way of approach to the front door from the kitchen



—the designers have left a space which is associated only with the group of living rooms. The space absolutely free from intrusion by any one not concerned with the rooms appears to be 8 6 x 14 0"; but, as the public end of the drawing room requires no greater seclusion than this, it has wide doors or none, and the hail and drawing room reciprocate by the axial arrange-merit of window and fire-place to add to each other's space and attractions.



STATUE OF QUEEN VICTORIA. GEORGE FRAMPTON R. A.



SCULPTOR.



This statue, which stands in the Parliament grounds, Winnipeg, is of bronze upon a pedestal of Tyndall limestone in stones of great dimensions. The pedestal is 13 ft. high and 12 ft. square at the base. It is an excellent pedestal too, but fills the eye a little too much in the view, for the statue itself is of almost equal height. It is said to measure 12 ft.

There is no reason why the Queen should be always represented young as it she were an abstraction. A good historical memorial might be made of her as she was, old but with a sane and wholesome personality. Mr. Frampton has preferred to represent not only age but failing health. '[he contrast between the feeble woman and the extent of power symbolized by the orb and scepter she holds has, no doubt, poetry in it ; but it is a poetry of the sentimental kind, more suited to a sketch than to a monument.



MEMORIAL TO CANADIANS WHO FELL IN THE WAR IN



SOUTH AFRICA. —W. S. ALLWARD, SCULPTOR, TORONTO.



The idea of this memorial originated in the volunteer regiments of Toronto, and the monument will be erected in Toronto, but it is intended as a memorial to all Canadians who fell in the war. The design was procured by a competition open to the world. There

were 34 designs submitted, of which one at least came from France.

The material of the memorial will be gray granite and standard bronze. The total height is 70 feet including the crowning figure, which is between and 10 feet high. The figures at the base (representing Canada sending her sons to the front,) are on the same scale, as may be seen by comparison with the figure of a spectator on the right, which is inserted in the model in order to give the scale of the human figure. The question of a site for this monument is discussed in our editorial columns.



PUBLIC COMFORT STATION, MARKET SQUARE, HAMILTON,



ONT., JAMES BALFOUR, ARCHITECT.



This Hamilton building gives a suggestion that might well he followed in other towns. Buildings of one type, simple but recognizable, placed as far as possible in similar situations, would be a great improvement to a town. They should include arrangements for washing that would not be repellant, accessible upon payment of a small charge. Clean towels in sealed paper wrappers, soap in the form of powder, (discharged from a hopper by pressing a button,) are already in use in some places; and there is no reason why the basin should be anything but a catch-basin, under a tap made to run a small stream of combined hot and cold water.

