<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of pilasters is a naiveté not characteristic of the period, which as a rule exhibits a passion for correctness.



The photograph of a little cottage in Lancashire, England may serve to show how kindred are the effects of true building instincts working far apart and with much difference of detail.



Scattered throughout the cities of Montreal and Quebec and in the Province there are many old buildings some of them of considerable dimensions and containing features of a more elaborate kind of interest than those here cited: A prize is now being offered in connection with the Sketching Club of the P.Q.A.A. for drawings recording the old work in Quebec Province and in the Eastern Provinces. If the students interest themselves in this work we may expect much valuable and charming architecture to be brought within general knowledge. Most of even the simplest old work being stamped with a truly native character.



CONCORDIA SALUS.





<article title="Dundas Quarry" author="">DUNDAS QUARRY.



We show herewith views of a quarry which has just been open by Doolittle & Wilcox, Limited, immediately east of Dundas



station on the main line of the Grand Trunk, which is interesting in both location and equipment.



The workings are on top of the cliff 250 feet above the R. R.



tracks, and 500 feet above Lake level. The top layer, 16 to i8



feet thick is an exceptionally pure hard dolomite, carrying Silica



.28, carbonate of Lime, 53.78, carbonate of Magnesia 42.00



Iron and Alumina 1.22



This stone is used for metallurgical work and as a flux, and contracts have been closed for supplying it to the Hamilton Steel & Iron Co. and the Lackawanna Steel Co., of Buffalo, to whom shipments will be made twelve months in the year, it is a fine concrete or macadam stone but is too valuable to be used for this work.



The next layer of stone 15 feet in thickness is harder but not so pure, carrying about 1.5011347f silica, this stone is more suitable for concrete and macadam work, but. cannot be used as a flux.



As hardness is an important quality in stone used in concrete work, the stone from this quarry was tested last spring by Mr. McPhail, Assistant City Engineer, of Toronto, with the following results:

Two blocks about 8 1/2 in. X in. x in. Original weight, 27 lbs. 3 oz.; weight after 1,000 revs. 261 lbs. 6 oz., 3 percent. loss; weight after 2,000 revs. 251 lbs. 14 1/2 oz., 4.7 per cent. loss.



The crusher which is placed just below the second layer of rock, in the building on the brow of the cliff shown in illustration No. 1, is a No. 7 1/2 Austin gyratory, with a capacity of 1,000 tons per day of 10 hours. It is belted direct to a 100 h. p.. Westinghouse alternating current motor which gives ample power to develop the full capacity of the crusher.



From the crusher the broken stone is delivered through the chute to a revolving screen located in the building on the hillside. This screen is 48 inches in diameter and 20 feet long, and is provided with a dust jacket 6o inches in diameter and 10 feet long. The screen is geared direct to a 15 h. p. motor and is large enough to handle the full output of the crusher.



The bottom of the screen building contains bins 25 feet deep, 43 feet long and 32 feet wide, divided into five compartments, giving a storage capacity of 2,000 tons.



From these bins five chutes lead to a central chute. which delivers stone into cars standing on a track scale as shown in plate No. 2 sothatany combination of sizes required can be loaded at will.



The perforations of the screen and size of stone made are as follows 1st.. Smallest hole 3/8 in., material passing through this is known as dust 2nd. stone passing over 3/8 in. and through 34 in. known as 1/2 in. stone; 3rd. passing over 34 in. and through 1 1/4 in. hole known as in. stone; 4th. passing over 1 1/4 in. and through 2 in. hole known as 2 in. stone 5th.



passing over 2 1/4 in. and through 3 1/4 in. known as 3 in. stone 6th. passing over 3 1/4 in. known as 4 in. stone.



As soon as sufficient space is cleared at top, the carts shown in plate 3 will be replaced by dump cars running on rails which will deliver direct from quarry face to the crusher. This track will he circular and loaded cars will be drawn from one end of the working face to the crusher, and when dumped will be placed empty at the other end of the working face to be filled.



It is also expected that electric drills will be installed to replace the steam drill shown, and in this case the quarry will be operated entirely by electric power, making it so far as we know the only one so operated on this continent.



Those familiar with quarry work will appreciate the advantages of this plant in simplicity of machinery, and freedom from

