<doctype type="text">134	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



WHAT I WANT IN MY HOUSE BY A HOUSE-KEEPER

<article title=" WHAT I WANT IN MY HOUSE " author="">

On deciding to remove from the country to Toronto for the sake of educational facilities, we were warned that we should experience great difficulty in finding a house. This has proved to be the case. And after a lengthy and fruitless search, we have determined to build for ourselves.

In our country house we enjoyed ample space. and light and air. But these are all costly luxuries in a large city, and we must be content with a moderate sized house of ten rooms for our family of four persons; and as the plot of ground on which it is to stand is long and narrow, some of the rooms must he smaller than we should like, and all cannot be equally well lighted.

In planning for this city house there are several points in which it must differ widely from our former home. Having neither garden nor orchard, there is no need for a cellar, large enough, and cool enough, to Contain a winter's supply of apples, potatoes, &c. Nor do I require a store-room that will hold hogs-heads of sugar or chests of tea. All such things can he obtained in



small quantities clay by day, or week by week from the various tradesmen. My cellar here will contain a furnace (a combination of hot air and hot water) with the season's supply of feed for it, and for the other fires.

This furnace and coal cellar should he solidify partitioned off from the laundry or servants bath-room, and should have a separate entrance from the outside, for the use of the man who attends to the furnace.

A fourth good-sized division of the cellar, also separate from the furnace room, and well lighted by two or three windows, may be useful as a store—room and work shop. Plenty of shelves will be required.

Coming to the first or ground floor, I wish to have my house somewhat differently laid out from the readymade houses, of which I have seen and rejected so many, since I arrived in Toronto. The usual plan of having all the rooms on the ground floor en suite, is distasteful to me.

Much space is generally wasted in "a square reception hall", and it is sought to make up for the consequent cramping of the living-rooms, by arranging them to open into one another by wide double doors. The drawing-room, dining room and library are practically all one room, and the dining-room generally communicates directly with the pantry and sometimes with the kitchen!

To my mind the hail and passages are thc only proper means of communication with the living rooms, which should each be separate from one another, and should only be entered from the hall.

To this end I wish the hall to occupy the centre of the house, with the drawing-room on one side of it and the library and dining-room on the other. A door, with a patent check of cup and ball construction, to prevent it from banging, should separate the front hall from the back; the back hall being little more than a passage, leading on the one side to the kitchen, and on the other to the pantry, with the back stairs between. Another door, also with cup and ball check, should here give access to the dining-room, so that the family meals are not carried through the front hall.

In this house I cannot spare any of my scanty space for the large roomy hall, so characteristic of country houses. I need every available inch for the living-rooms. So my ball is but a space in which to carry up the stairway, and into which the rooms open. But it has walls which will be valuable when we come to hang the pictures. Photographs of foreign places, engravings of historical pictures, and maps, I think most suitable for a ball.

My drawing-room is never only a company room, whether in town or country; we live there habitually, and have no upstairs sitting-room. Therefore it must be the largest room in the house and well warmed and lighted. An open fire-place is essential, in addition to radiator or register, and the windows must not be darkened by a verandah.

The library and dining-room must be small, and will probably suffer in the matter of light from the near neighborhood of the next house. And we may find it necessary to omit a separate library altogether and allow our student a table and book—case in the dining-room, which will be a better-sized room by this means. A verandah at the back of the house may open from a side window of the dining-room, and will be more

private than if it faced the road. The kitchen will be small but compact, and the stove will burn coal or wood. Some people use gas. But I think a kitchen with only a gas range is a cheerless place. I shall however have a small gas stove in my pantry—-which I prefer to call my still—room. It is true that 1 do not now distil essences or strong waters there, but I do make all kinds of jams and jellies and put up all the canned fruit with my own hands. So a gas stove will be useful, and with a sink, and hot and cold water at hand, I need never interfere with the rightful occupant of the kitchen.

The still-room will have cupboards all around the walls for the glass and china of daily use, as well as for best china and other seldom-wanted household

