<doctype type="text">190	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



tensions to the Windsor Hotel. For this Messrs. II.

J.	Hardenbergh & Bradfort L. Gilbert, of New York, are named as architects.

The new armory for the Royal Scots is now well under way and the work is being pushed forward with great activity. Messrs. Finlay & Spence are the architects.

CONCORDIA SALUS.



<article title=" THE SKETCH CLUB P. Q. A. A." author="">

THE SKETCH CLUB P. Q. A. A.

An exhibition of measured drawings was held, in Connection with the above club, on the 15th of November. The drawings were made in competition for a prize of $40 offered to the member who could produce the best evidences of study of the old architectural work in the Province of Quebec or the Eastern Provinces. About fifty drawings were exhibited by six members of the Club. Prof. Nobbs who had offered the prize criticised the work done and announced the award. The prize he said had been well earned by Mr. D. Hardie, who with twenty-three drawings had given evidence of praiseworthy zeal, and whose drawings themselves testified that their author had in the course of the work made a distinct advance in draughtsmanship. Other students submitted smaller quantity of work but in several cases which he called attention to had produced drawings of a superior draughtsmanship. lie would like he said to present a second prize, but had not been able to make up his mind to which of the competitors it should be awarded. He would therefore ask the meeting to make a selection by ballot. This was done with the result that the second prize was awarded to Mr. J. Roxburgh Smith for his exceedingly well drawn set of six drawings. Amongst the buildings illustrated by the exhibition were the Arts Building of McGill University, the Seminary of St. Sulpice, the Churches of Notre Dame de Pitie and Notre Dame des Anges, besides a number of the old houses of Montreal and the vicinity.

On Wednesday, 22nd November the weekly meeting of the Club was occupied with a sketch design competition under Prof. Nobbs' direction. The subject set ~vas ''A Wall-Fountain in a city, the cost to be $100 dollars" the time limit for the competition was 1 ½ hrs. At the meeting of 13th December the first place was adjudged to Mr. A. J. King. At the meeting of November 29th, a letter was read from the secretary of the P.Q.A.A. announcing that the Association offered $25 towards a prize in the monthly competitions. Votes of thanks were accorded to the P. Q. A. A. for their generosity, and to Prof. Nobbs for the prizes he had given and the work he had done in connection with the measured drawings competition. The designs in the first monthly competition, six in number, were then exhibited and criticised in detail by Mr. W. S. Maxwell, the subject was an ''Architect's Club". The first three competitors were placed as follows: 1st A.J. King, 2nd G. D. Ritchie, 3rd Louis Labelle.

The lecturer of the evening, Mr. William Haldane, then proceeded to give a review of the work by J. A· Gotch on the "Early Renaissance in England." The work was analyzed chapter by chapter, and a number of lantern slides further illustrated the subject.

On the 6th of December the Club listened to a charming discourse by Mr. Jos. Venne on the "Gothic Art of France." Mr. Venne said he had proposed as his subject the title announed in the notices sent out

by the Club, '' An Excursion in the Library," with the intention of following out an idea that had occurred to him some time ago when, in looking over the volumes in the library, he had in imagination renewed so many delightful acquaintances heard again the still youthful voices of men whose names had now stood long among the standard authorities, In the actual preparation of this paper, however, he had been fascinated by one volume in particular, which, with its stores of information and delightful illustrations lying in its quiet corner of the library, reminded him of a cobweb covered bottle of champagne. This book was L'Art Gothique by Louis Gonze, and the lecturer proceeded to give a detailed appreciation of the work, dwelling at length and with enthusiasm on special points such as the Abbe Suger's share in the erection of the Cathedral of St. Denis which though not, as had at one time been claimed for it, the starting point of Gothic Architecture was at any rate a capital document in the history of its early development. The analytical method of Jean Lefevre Pontalis for determining the chronological sequence of buildings in circumscribed districts was explained. It was shown how the advance in sculpture kept pace with the advance of gothic construction, how great and lasting was the achievement of the great cathedral builders of the end of the 12th century.

In conclusion Mr. Venne described the album of Villard de Honnecourt, a traveller of extensive accomplishments, who traversed France from north to west in the years 1243-45 and whose sketch-book is preserved in Paris at the present day. This with the treatise on the crafts of his day by Theophilus, a monk of the twelfth century, form the most important records we have of mediaeval technical processes.

<article title=" MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE ANNUAL BANQUET " author="">

MONTREAL BUILDERS' EXCHANGE ANNUAL BANQUET.

The Exchange and their guests, numbering altogether 160, met in the banqueting-room of the Place Viger Hotel on Dec. 7, and carried out a dinner according to the following specification.

SPECIFICATIONS of Materials to bc supplied and labor to be furnished at the Annual Banquet of the Builders' Exchange,

Held at Place	Viger Hotel, Thursday Evening, December 7th, 1905.



FOUNDATIONS—Oysters, malpecques on the half-shell. To be bedded on an undisturbed stomach.



GROUTING—Soup. Consomme la Princesse. To be well mixed in proper proportion, and ladled into position.

COURSING—Fish. British Columbia Salmon, Pommes Rachel. To be of a rich portage entry color.

BOND TIMBERS—Cutlets of Sweetbreads la Victoria.

 Joisting—Bread and Butter Rolls. To be laid on bond timbers and properly bridged, and to be covered diagonally with Butter (nut), knots less than 1 ½ allowed. Hair joints will not he required in this flooring.

JOINTS—Roast Young Turkey. Properly trussed and braced and strapped at angles with ½" x 3" Cranberry Sauce straps.

Ribs of Beef au jus. To be laid up and neatly pointed with Horse-radish, with not more than six joints in 12".

Note —Carving to be executed by experienced workmen, and

to detail.

PLASTERING—-Mashed Potatoes. Best 3-coat work, corners to be neatly rounded.

Brussels Sprouts au Beurre. French Green Peas.

ROOFING—Material to he Haunch of Venison, made secure with good roofing composition of Red Currant Jelly. Water Cress. To be rendered weatherproof by a thorough application of best rnastic(ation).

French Lettuce Salad, French Dressing.

DESSERT.

TRIM— Unless where otherwise specified, to be clear pine, spoon cleaned, and principal rooms to be for enamel finish a nice cream. (Harlequin Ice cream).

HEARTHS—TO be of assorted Cakes and wafers with a border Bon-Bons and Chocolates.

HARDWARE—Except bolts (Nuts and Raisins) to he supplied by proprietor, but put in place by contractor.

