<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	157

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="Salus, Concordia">

MONTREAL NOTES.

The subject of a new look-out for the mountain has been much to the front lately. To be so much debated, however, it is a subject which seems to give very little real concern. It has already been pointed out, in these notes some time ago, how schemes were brought forward, entered upon, half erected and then cleared away again with great lightness of heart. On the last occasion on which the look-out has been untie consideration the sub-committee appointed to deal with the subject advertised in the daily papers for plans from '' landscape architects, architects and others," and in response received two sets of designs. This of course does not fairly represent the interest which such an occasion ought to arouse. The fact of the matter was, of course, that the conditions attached to the competition were such as no architect of standing would be at all inclined to comply with, and quite at variance with the conditions recommended by the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. Now it would surely be to the advantage both of the city councilors anti of the association of architects, to say nothing of the city, that in cases of this kind they should work hand in hand and not at cross purposes. There is probably in a case like this no manner of bad understanding between the two bodies concerned, the evil being simply that there exists no understanding at all each going on his own way, blissfully unmindful of the other's existence. It would be a happy thought on the part of either one to make the other's acquaintance, and the business of the public in such matters as this would then stand a chance of being creditably done.

So much building is now going on in Sherbrooke Street that the whole aspect of this, the finest driveway of Montreal, will soon have greatly changed. Most of the new buildings about hold their own with the older ones, in point of architectural merit, but are of a very different character. The old separate private houses with grounds around them are disappearing— some of them literally falling to pieces, owing to the treacherous streak of soft blue clay which traverses this neighborhood. The new buildings are big flats and other extensive works which prefer to dispense with gardens and trees of their own. The place is thus rapidly becoming a boulevard, and will probably he a very magnificent one.

One of the new Sherbrooke Street buildings, Strathcona Hall, at the corner of McGill College Avenue and almost opposite the principal gate of the College grounds, was formally opened on Saturday, 7th October. The building is the quarters of the McGill College branch of the Young Men's Christian Association, and contains rooms for about 6o students, besides dining and recreation rooms. Externally the facade towards Sherbrooke Street has been carefully designed and detailed, the work being executed in cream coloured sandstone. One is left wondering however why the elevation towards McGill College Avenue should have been executed in brick. It is true the brick seems to be of some unusual and specially selected sort, but, as architecture, a two faced treatment of this kind is impossible and regrettable.

The Mount Royal Club [louse, also in Sherbrooke Street, is now roofed in. The building, which is designed by Messrs. McKim, Mead & White, is of simple design, severe even to Spartan severity, but need-

less to say detracts nothing from the dignity of the neighbourhood.

Farther eastward the Students' Union building is now rapidly approaching the roof line. This building is also severely designed, and, like the Mount Royal Club House, it is built entirely of Montreal limestone.

Eastward still and also in Sherbrooke Street a new Commercial and Technical School is about to be erected by the Protestant Board of School Commissioners. The design, prints of which have been published in the daily papers, promise a fine building. The architect is Mr. A. F. Dunlop.

Messrs. Maxwell Bros. have now got well under weigh with the erection of their design for a nurses home at the Royal Victoria Hospital, which they valiantly hope to have ready for the roof before the arrival of severe weather.

CONCORDIA SALUS.

<article title=" THE SKETCH CLUB, P.Q.A.A." author="">

THE SKETCH CLUB, P.Q.A.A.

The Sketch Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects held the first of their Winter Series of meetings in the Rooms of the Association, 5 Beaver Hall Square, on Friday, 13th October, the President, Mr. C. S. Burgess A. R I B.A., in the chair. Between twenty and thirty members were present.

This being the first winter session of the Club, the president devoted the principal part of his opening address to a statement of the proposed method of carrying on the season's work. This is arranged for as follows:

Two sub-committees have been appointed, one to take charge of all competitive design and prize work, and the other to arrange monthly programmes of lectures and addresses.

The competition committee consists of Mr. J. Archibald, President of the P.Q.A.A., Mr. W. S. Maxwell anti Prof. P. E. Nobbs. These gentlemen have drawn tip a code regulating the competitive work to be engaged in by the club, and have instituted three classes of competition. The first of these is a competition in measured drawings of old work in the Province of Quebec and the Lower Provinces. This was announced some months ago, and drawings are to be sent in before the end of October. The prize, of $40, is this year offered by Prof. Nobbs. The second class of competitions is that of Monthly designs the work to be done at home—a prize being given for each month's design, and another in addition presented by the P.Q.A.A. for the student who shall distinguish himself most in the series. A third class of competition is the Sketch Competition. In this it is intended that the subject shall be set and the work of designing be done entirely at the club rooms within the space of an evening. The reward in this case will be that the victor shall have his name engraved on a pewter pot to be kept at the club rooms for the purpose.

For the lectures and addresses it is proposed to have speakers from within the profession and from without so that members may get a pretty all round view of themselves. Special points are to be made of literary reviews by members, as introduction to discussions, and also of debates on subjects open to difference of opinion. The committee appointed to superintend this part of the work consists of Mr. Jos. Venne, Mr. Fortin and Mr. Burgess.

