<doctype type="text;ad">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to spitting on the sidewalks, good though such rules may be. The dark w. c. is also a great deal too common. Even with a certain apology for ventilation, a dark room will never be a clean or a sanitary one. Climatic conditions may be pleaded as the cause of the failure in external appearance of these houses, but they have no share in the internal deficiencies.

Of houses of the small villa class Montreal has a remarkably small proportion, but in Westmount and other suburbs a number are to be found. In these the pinch of poverty is naturally not so much in evidence. The evils spoken of above are here also somewhat too prevalent. The illustrations show a few of the pleasanter examples. The house in Arlington Terrace, (Fig. 1), shows a heroic endeavor to deal quite frankly with the problem of the flat roof. In this one and in that in the Cote St. Antoine Road, (Fig. 2), a "common" brick with good variety of colouring has























































been used, in pleasant relief from the miles of the hard and terribly good Laprairie pressed brick which hold such a monopoly in the district. The house at Outremont, (Fig. 3) is roughcast of yellow color. The woodwork, solid and heavy of scantling, is almost black in tint and the situation on the mountain side is





G. T. KNIGHT & SON

Manufacturers of







we make a specialty of

Doors and Sashes; Mouldings and all

kinds of turned goods.



Address, MEAFORD, ONT.

charming. The house at Roslyn Avenue Westmount, (Fig. 4) may be taken as a fair example of the Georgian or Colonial style of villa, more commonly affected in the New England States where this tradition belongs. One can contemplate any of these houses with a feeling





KITCHENS, BATHROOMS. Etc.

Perfectly sanitary, will last indefinitely, can be applied to old or new plastered walls (without removing the plaster). Costs Little.



Write Us for Catalogue and Prices















































of thankfulness at finding some dwellings where the disease of galvanized iron ornamentation has not

settled.	CONCORDIA SALUS.







The Builders' Exchange of Cleveland took their annual summer outing this year to the Muskoka Lakes. Two hundred members of the Exchange took part in the trip and, as they take their ladies with them, the excursion was a cheerful one. On the first evening when they left Cleveland they entertained themselves on the steamer by singing popular songs with the help of song books which were provided, and by listening to humorous stories from an entertainer whom they took with them as a guest of the Exchange. They made the Royal Muskoka Hotel on the following evening, lunching on the way with the Builders' Exchange at Toronto, and then had an evening of music and dancing, followed by a day of excursions to opposite ends of the Lakes and another musical evening before they returned home so as to arrive early on Saturday morning in time to close up the business of the week.

DO IT NOW



THE YOKES HARDWARE CO., LIMITED

	111 & 113 Yonge Street	—	—	TORONTO

