<doctype type="text">182	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



company do not receive compensation for their services, but otherwise aiming at providing a first-class 5 per cent. investment. It has, in the course of seven years of existence, paid a dividend of 5 per cent. per annum on all stock subscribed from the beginning, and has a surplus fund of a fraction over 1 per cent. on the amount of stock issued. Its investments are represented at present by twenty-eight houses, each containing two flats. There is no building done in advance of actual demand. This is a condition of the directors' original prospectus, inviting subscriptions for stock, and is tended to provide for the elimination of speculation.

In plan these tenements agree with the latest English idea that each flat should have a separate entrance, private all the way from the street. With a common stair for several apartments, it has been found that the tenant of the lowest character in a house gives character to the whole house. To avoid this - to give to each flat the proper separation of a home—it is necessary, in small dwellings, to keep down to two storeys, because of the multiplication of street doors and of staircases which accompanies the multiplication of flats.

The English plan, given in illustration of Notes of Travel in our number of November, 1903, has the merit of a full front or back look out from every window, for which, however, a 30 ft. frontage is necessary instead of the 17½ feet which each house occupies in the Washington plan. And the Washington plan is more exactly adapted to our needs in other respects; noticeably in the bathroom, in the inside staircases to outside doors, and in the cellar accommodation.

The rents for these houses are $12 or $12.50 per month for a four-roomed flat, and $9.50 or $10 for a three-room flat, with a rebate of one month's rent every year to tenants whose apartments have not required any repairs. In other words, the company allows one month's rent in each year for interior



































A KITCHEN IN ONE OF THE APARTMENT HOUSES BELONGING TO THE WASHINGTON SANITARY IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.

<article title=" A KITCHEN IN ONE OF THE APARTMENT HOUSES BELONGING TO THE WASHINGTON SANITARY IMPROVEMENT COMPANY " author="">



repairs, and, if no repairs are needed, or to the extent to which it is not necessary to spend the whole allowance, the tenant receives the benefit of it. This feature in the lease is said to have been educative and to have promoted taking care of the property on the principle of a stitch in time saves nine.

Another peculiar feature of this scheme is that though the original intention of the company was to provide homes for residents in the alleys, that form the slums of Washington, and thereby remove the slums, it was considered best to begin this movement by

providing improved dwellings for the better class of wage-earners, in the belief that houses vacated by them would be rented by the next grade, and so on until the bottom of the ladder was reached. They assert the belief that in work of this character it is best to begin at the top, having apparently convinced themselves that to act otherwise would result in failure.

Statistics of the tenancy are interesting. Fifty-five families now occupy the flats; 78 adults and 106





















































A BEDROOM IN AN APARTMENT HOUSE BELONGING TO THE WASHINGTON SANITARY IMPROVEMENT COMPANY.





children. Average number of persons to each flat

3.35. According to occupation: Baker, 1; bookkeeper, 1; carpenters, 2; clerks, 12; conductors street railroad, 3; engineers, 2; labourers, 3; messenger, I; motarman street railroad, 1, nurse, 1; paper hanger, 1; photographer, 1; plumbers 1; printers, 19; salesmen, 2; stenographers, 2; superintendent of stables, 1; teamster, 1;

It should be added that, although the officers of the company are not paid for their work, the renting of apartments and collection of rents is done by a professional agent of experience who resides in one of the flats and is thus brought into intimate contact with the tenantsand their wants. The agent receives for his services a 5 per cent. commission on all rent collections.

<article title="V" author="">

STUDENTS' COMPETITION.

Will the author of the design signed " Ha-Ha

submitted in our Students' Competition reported on in our February Number, please send immediately his name and address to this office, or call for his drawings.



The comfort of ease without toil is an illusion, and in all faithful work there is a happiness which is seldom distinctly recognized as such. The consciousness of increasing skill, of gradual improvement, of doing something well is a joy in itself. Accuracy and good execution are always satisfactory; the very discipline, if not prolonged beyond bounds, is pleasurable.

