<doctype type="">12	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



been held to deal with matters of pressing import, chiefly during the midsummer months when luncheons are not held.

Thc customary method of each member paying for his lunch each day has been changed to the establishment of a lunch fund covering the cost to the end of the year and subscribed to by members who so desire. The expense of the luncheon has thus been reduced nearly 50to those who attend regularly. Members not subscribing to this fund arc expected to pity the usual or former charge. The charge appears to be popular, and, so far, has worked satisfactorily.

Some of the subjects discussed during the year were as follows

 REVISION OF THE CITY BY-LAWS.



This important work was carried along from the previous year.

Notwithstanding the fact that the matter was several times brought before the City Authorities no progress was made and our draft laws, finally submitted by Mr. Wickson by instruction from the Council, in conjunction with the late Commissioner Coatsworth, were pigeon-holed.

The terrible conflagration on the 19th of April last, in the wholesale district, at last awakened the City Authorities and stung them in action.

The newly appointed City Architect hastily prepared an entirely new code, based largely on that of a large American city.

Some of the requirements appeared to be altogether 100 drastic and expensive for a city of the size of Toronto, and the Chapter courteously invited the city architect to a friendly conference to discuss the points complained of. The invitation was ignored, and finally the Board of Control appointed a small Committee from the Association and the Architectural Eighteen Club to meet the City Architect and two other architects. Several meetings were held resulting in some amelioration of the requirements which were chiefly obnoxious, and permits were issued alter some exasperating delays.

After reaching a certain point in the review of the by-laws, the City Architect fell ill and no other meetings were held.

One other very drastic and expensive requirement, that calling for metal frames and wired glass in addition to sprinkler protection or fireproof shutters, caused excessive dissatisfaction on the part of numerous merchants. They, with the help of some of the architects, succeeded in obtaining an amendment which permits the use of any one of the three above methods of protection.

A number of minor objectionable requirements are still incorporated in the by-laws, although it may be said that the by-laws are in the main acceptable, and it is hoped, that, as the office of the City Architect reaches more perfect organization, the obtaining of permits to build will not be so difficult or tedious.

ELEVATORS.



The quest ion of revised by-laws governing the installation of elevators was taken up by thc chapter in conjunction with Mr. J as. T. Burke, Government Factory Inspector, and representatives of the various elevator companies.

The object was to climate certain obsolete requirements in the present law and add such provisions as were necessary to improve the construction and safety of such apparatus.

A committee from the various bodies prepared and submitted such amendments to representatives of the Government and they have since been incorporated in the laws of the province.

<article title=" AMENDED FORM OF CONTRACT " author="">AMENDED FORM OF CONTRACT.



A committee of the chapter had a conference with representatives of the Builders Exchange regarding the wording of the insurance clause in the model contract. The clause was amended removing the objections, and the model forms arc now printed as amended.

ARBITRATION.



Mr. Symons introduced a scheme of arbitration for thc prevention of strikes between the contractors and their employees.

A conference was held with the representatives of the Builders Exchange and the labor unions. The unions gave practically unanimous consent to the details of thc scheme, and while the individual members of the Exchange appeared to also desire some method of avoiding the oft recurring strike, no decided action was taken, and with the rush of work this summer and the laborers strike, it was deemed advisable to let the question rest for a time.

In connection with the foregoing, the chapter disclaimed any authority or desire to dictate, acting simply as a medium, and merely presented the scheme as a possible solution of an always difficult problem.

STRIKE OF THE BUILDERS LABORERS.



In this matter, after discussing the question pro and con, it was decided to adopt a policy of strict non-interference while willing at all times to further any proper scheme looking toward a satisfactory settlement.

CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS.



The question of civic improvements was discussed on several occasions. The chapter hopes to keep the question alive during the coming year.

Many important public buildings are projected and sites and thorough fares will be affected by the march of progress.

It is felt more than ever that the city cannot too soon secure a comprehensive scheme of civic improvements which may be developed year by year as funds permit.

DUTY ON FOREIGN PLANS.



It having been brought to the notice of the Chapter that the

method of valuing foreign plans has relapsed to the former practice of valuing drawings simply as the work of a draughts-man and consequent admission to the country at an absurdly low valuation, a committee was appointed to bring before the proper authorities the fact that a great injustice was being done to the architects of the Dominion, and to secure a return to the former method of basing the value on the regular architect's percentage or fee on the estimated cost of the buildings to be erected.

 EDUCATION.



The work done in studio and mathematical classes conducted by a committee of the Eighteen Club and Toronto members of the association, has, on the part of the association entered into the discussion at the weekly lunch of the Chapter.

REVIEW.



It will thus be seen on reviewing the work of the year that the Chapter has been actively engaged in promoting the interests of architecture and art, and that it has aimed to assist in movements of a public nature looking to that end.

It is hoped that the coming year will see still greater enthusiasm and activity on the part of the members, and that they will feel it incumbent upon them to miss no opportunity of meeting their fellows members for friendly discussion of topics of mutual interest.

We cannot afford, in the light of the advance of all movements towards the bringing closer together of mutual interests, to do otherwise. 

(Signed,)

EDMUND BURKE, Chairman.

H.	E. MOORE, Secretary.



<article title=" THE REPORT OF THE LIBRARY COMMITTEE " author="Gregg, A. H.">THE REPORT OF THE LIBRARY COMMITTEE, read by THE Mr. A. H. Gregg, chairman, was as follows:



REPORT OF LIBRARY COMMITTEE.



On behalf of the Library Committee I beg to report that there were seventy-seven lendings during the year 1904, showing an increase over the preceding year. Thc majority of these books were borrowed by students, and, while the number of lendings is not large, still it represents a large amount of studying which is being done by the younger members of the profession. The only books which have been added to the library during the year are, Merrill's "Stones for Building and Decoration," which was presented to thc Association by Professor Rabcock, and Mitchell's "Brickwork and Masnory." The books are missing from the shelves, viz Bergs "Safe Building," Brandon's "Analysis of Gothic Architecture," and Mitcheli's "Advanced Building Construction," and the borrowers are requested to return these at their earliest convenience.

A.	H. GREGG,

Chairman Library Committee.



<article title=" THE REPORT OF THE EDITING COMMITTEE " author="Helliwell, Grant">THE REPORT OF THE EDITING COMMITTEE, read by H Mr. Grant Helliwell, chairman, was as follows



REPORT OF EDITING COMMITTEE.



The duties of the Editing Committee, for the past year, have consisted in revising and correcting the reports and discussions of the annual meeting of 1904, and of the banquet at the King Edward hotel at the conclusion of that convention. The result of their work appears in the printed proceedings of the association, copies of which were sent to all the members.

GRANT HELLIWELL,

Chairman of Committee.



<article title=" THE REPORT OF THE PUBLISHING COMMITTEE " author="Wickson, A. F.">THE REPORT OF THE PUBLISHING COMMITTEE read H by Mr. A. F. Wickson, was as follows





REPORT OF PUBLISHING COMMITTEE.



4th Volume of Proceedings.

Contracts for a limited number of advertisements on the covers and advertising pages of the proposed volume were secured from representative business and artistic firms.

The proceedings of the Convention having been received from the Editing Committee, an issue of twelve hundred volumes was printed, bound and placed in the hands of the Registrar for distribution.

STATEMENT.

Contracts for advertising                    $ 1,024.00

Printing and binding                  

Agents commission collection	281. 25

Still due	31.00

Balance to credit	436.75

	$1,024.00 $1,024.00



Supplementary to above we desire to state that contracts have been secured for the advertising spaces of volume 5, 1905, amounting to $1,027.00 and as these are largely renewals we can hope that our patrons endorse our proceedings as a desirable medium for advertising.

Your obedient servants,

John Gemmell.

A.	Frank Wickson.

A

 LECTURE by Mr. Horace McFarland, President of the American Civic Association, concluded the proceedings of the meeting on this day.

(The second days proceedings will appear in the February number of this journal.)

