<doctype type="text">122	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



INTERCOMMUNICATION.

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents. but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From "A Country House Owner": I wish to place a waterproof roof of cement over a flat roof and make a terrace some 20 x 30 feet, and would like to know how this can he done in such a manner that the whole will be waterproof?

ANS.—There is really no difficulty in making just such a roof as you desire. The joists or rather timbers employed must he heavy enough to sustain both concrete and such weight as may be placed on them. The joists should have strong cleats or strips well spiked to their sides about four or five inches below the top edges. Cut in between the joists, one inch boards to form a bed for the concrete. Then fill in between the joists with concrete well tramped down. There should be at least two inches of concrete and cement above the edges of the joists in order to make a good strong job of the work. It is a good idea to cut the top edges of the joists bevel from both sides, giving them a feather edge on top, similar to the top of the letter A ; there will, then, be but little wood on top of the joists to disturb the concrete. The top of this work must be finished off with neat cement, and marked off as pavement or flags. There must, of course, be a small pitch to this roof in order to carry off all water from snow and rain. A roof of this kind, when properly done, will be efficient, lasting and not unsightly ; it will also be expensive, but in the end, economical.





From ''A Woodworker", Will you kindly inform me as to the best way to form moulding blocks and other similar work on a shaper?

ANS.: :—Base or head blocks of almost any shape may be formed on a shaper by using a bent cutter, which is placed between the collars of a shaper in the ordinary way, but bent forward as in Fig. 1. Fig. 2 gives the shape of cutting edge of knife and also the edge of block when finished. Fig. 3 shows plan of wooden form, which can be clamped on shaper table































with handscrews. This form should be about 7 inches high and cut out on the back as shown in Fig. 3, so as to leave about 5/16 inch of wood for the knife to cut through so as to form a bridge to carry the block past the knife.

In making the knives, it is best to have two (in

order to balance well,) letting one cut from A to B and one from B to C. Then put on another set of collars, with a small V shape, to cut at D; this also must have a balance. Fig. 4 shows a cross-section at E. The 12 inch piece on bottom of form gives clearance for the knife above shaper table.





From ''Contractor," I should very much like to learn through your columns whether there is any advantage- other than that of economy—In making use of small timbers to build up larger timbers of a given size?

ANS.: :—This question has been discussed pro and con many, many times, but so far as we know, has never yet been definitely determined. With heavy timbers in positions where absolute strength is the main object, the architect or engineer simply gives the dimensions, and leaves it to the option of the builder, whether he put in a single timber of one piece, or a number of pieces the aggregate of which would be as large as the single timber, the great question being whether four pieces x foot square will bear a greater or lesser weight than one solid stick 2 feet square each being of the same variety of wood and alike in all other respects. Before a question of this kind can be answered in a manner to suit all contingencies it becomes very important that the nature of the strain be fully understood. if the slight movement of the ends incident to the bowed condition be admissible, it is reasonable to suppose that the four pieces would bend more without breaking, inasmuch as, the moment a piece of timber is subjected to any influence causing it to assume any shape than the original, the molecular construction and cellular combination is disturbed. Hence, if we bend forcibly the timber 2 feet square a fraction out of line, at the lower side the grains are made to expand, at the upper side become shorter, and, as it is out of the question to contract vegetable matter without disturbance of some kind, this shortening of the upper portion is accomplished either by forcibly tearing one layer from another and allowing each one to bend of itself to accommodate the inequalities, or else the entire upper half will be composed of a series of wrinkles and the tension characteristics of the timber permanently and effectually destroyed. At the centre of the timber, the pressure being counterbalanced from above and below, the particles will be found inert; thus we have with the solid timber three forces of an unequal character, all acting in unison to restore an equilibrium, which, when accomplished breaks the timber. If we measure the ends of the solid timber while the pressure is in full force, we will find them very uneven, or in the form of steps approaching the centre from below and receding from the centre above, and to do this it is but reasonable to conclude that these grains of wood must have slid past each other, of course materially affecting the power of resistance to pressure the timber ordinarily possessed. With the four timbers, each 1 foot in section this difficulty is overcome in exact proportion, as we have brought mechanical means to bear and separated these tissues in an artificial manner. Now, if we apply the same pressure, though the four timbers may bend further than the solid stick with the same pressure, at the same time it has not lost its power of restoration and will stand repeated pressure much longer and by

