<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	149



OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

GOLF CLUB, WINNIPEG, MAN.—MESSRS. DARLING AND

<article title=" GOLF CLUB, WINNIPEG, MAN." author="">

PEARSON, ARCHITECTS.



The plan of this Club-house, which is shown in our illustration, requires the further explanation that the men's locker-room is in the basement of the wing which contains the smoking and reading rooms, and the club bedrooms are in the upper floor of this wing. There is a direct entrance from outside to the locker-room by way of the professional's shed. The communication with the house appears to be by a stair which lands at the ladies entrance ; but this, and the contracted ladies' quarters appear to be a temporary expedient. An open newel main staircase extending from the locker-room to the bedrooms is shown on the original plan, (which is we understand to be carried out). The ladies' room here shown becomes a card room ; the ladies having proper quarters in a splayed wing on the other side of the entrance hail, of which the main motive is a ball-room, in connection with which are the ladies' sitting room and lavatory and a private stair leading to their locker-room below. It is this private communication within separated parts, so that there is no interweaving of the passageway of one part with the passageway of another part which is so essential in all club planning, but especially in a club for sport of any kind in which both men and women share. In the perfect plan of this club-house the main stair is entirely enclosed, by doors, both from the entrance hall and from the service department. It is, as far as members are concerned, always a stairway for men only and as far as service is concerned it belongs only to men during the hour of descending in pyjamas to the showers and until such an hour as those who are staying in the house have gone to their work, when the women servants can ascend to " do" the rooms. This convenience is somewhat disturbed by the present derangement. Even in the early morning when there are no women members about there should be women servants cleaning the hall who will make it a zone tin-suited for the companions of the bath a temperate zone where tropical vesture is out of place.



PUBLIC LIBRARY, SARNIA.---MR. M. R. BURROWES,

<article title=" PUBLIC LIBRARY, SARNIA " author="">ARCHITECT 



In plan this building seems to be eminently suitable to the scale of the requirements of a public library in a small town There is evidently open access to the stacks so that the position of the librarian's private room and of the board room, while retired, is not inaccessible. The general reading room and the children's room are under the eye of the attendant at the delivery desk, but students are given a more complete seclusion. The smoking room in the basement is an application of the doctrine that the public library is the proper alternative for the saloon. A village Johnson would soon make it the more popular resort of the two, gathering around him an evening circle, as the great talkers did in the days when the coffee house flourished in London, The space under the stack room is a filing room which, from the length of the approach, is evidently not considered an active department at present. When, however, the extension is built, and the projection for the librarian's office may also be extended without ceasing to be subordinate to the stack room wing, a stair inserted there would add  greatly to the usefulness of the filing room not only for filing but for other kinds of work.

In external appearance it will be seen that the building owes much to its dome, and that, though simple, it takes its place among the neighbouring buildings as a monument of decided dignity. There is a skylight, 6 feet in diameter at the top of the dome which the example of the Pantheon at Rome shows to be the effective spot. This skylight admits light to the rotunda through a ceiling light which is twice the diameter—that is to say four times the area—of the opening in the dome.



DECORATION IN VANCOUVER BRANCH OF THE ROYAL BANK OF CANADA, BY MR. JAMES BLOMFIELD, VANCOUVER.



These wall paintings have an allegorical reference to Vancouver and the Royal Bank. Vancouver Trium-phans represents the rising of the City of Vancouver with Industry on one side and Agriculture on the other. The figure in the lower panel is a personification of Acadia, representing the Maritime Provinces in which the Royal Bank had its origin. The coats of arms inserted in the frame round Acadia are those of the Crown, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and, (at the bottom) the City of Halifax, which is the parent city of the Bank.



CHEAP COTTAGES—MR. PERCY B. HOUFTON'S DESIGN.



The decision in the cheap cottage exhibition at Garden City, Hertfordshire, gives the first prize for the £ 150 cottage to Percy Houfton, whose design we reproduce, with this view, of the cottage as executed, taken from the County Gentleman.



















































The material of the walls is 9" brickwork, roughcast in cement. The roof is of local red tiles. The living room is floored with stone quarries in cement ; the rest of the floor with granolithic cement. All on a 6" bed of concrete. There is water supply from mains. The inclusion of the coal place, w. c., and open lobby within the rectangle of the ground plan provides more space on the bedroom floor. The larder ought to have opened opposite to the stair, not from the scullery. The small bedroom as easily as that next to it might have had a fireplace. The offer is made to duplicate this cottage (in England) for £175, ($850), including pro

