<doctype type="text">140	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



parts strong ammonia and one part of turpentine and benzine using a stubby brush to get into the cutwork and about moldings. When all the old varnish has been removed, dope overstained portions with a strong oxalic acid solution, and see whether you cannot bleach the wood by that operation. If this will not work, you will have to resort to staining. Use raw sienna for light effect, and after staining, use paste wood filler,

which give all the bevels necessary for carpenters and mechanics or draftsmen to use, and the figures are so arranged that they can be easily understood by anyone and accurately set to any bevel required. in roof framing it is no longer necessary to do any drafting. Set the blade to the pitch you wish to have the roof and the instrument will give you the exact length and all the bevels necessary for common rafters, hips, valleys,







































































































colored to match the stain, then proceed as you would on new work. If the light stain does not hide the weather stains, you will be obliged to use a darker stain and darker filler.

<article title=" BEVEL RULE " author="">

BEVEL RULE.

The above illustration is a bevel rule lately patented by H. W. Young, now of North Vancouver, B.C., and is the only Bevel Rule out. The hinge is so arranged that the scale on both the Stock and Blade always intersect at its center which is always the zero or starting point of the scales. The hinge is also provided with a sector attached to the Blade having a number of scales

jacks and cripples as well as the sheeting or any cut on the roof. All you have to know is the width of the Building and follow the number you started in with showing the pitch. The same may be said about getting the cuts for hopper and circular work, you don't have to remember rules or how to do it, it is all on the instrument.

Both the metre and the inch scale are provided and either may be used to the same advantage.

Mr. Young intends to have the tool on the market in a few months also a little pamphlet. giving a short treatise on framing with the bevel rule with or without the steel square.

