<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	167

<article title=" THE PLANNING OF DECORATION " author="">

THE PLANNING OF DECORATION.

G

ENERAL ANALYSIS:	Architecture is primarily proportioned construction, so that the first duly of the ornament which is associated with it is that the expression of the construction should not be denied or violated; and as construction is made up of a number of parts, the ornament naturally accents those parts and their combinations. A building has mass, stability and focus. Its mass is expressed by its surface, its stability by its perpendicular and horizontal lines, its focus either by its axis, its largest unit or hoth. As it is made up of a number of integral parts or cells, the parts must correlate and group about one another, usually with the smaller units about the larger. These groups form stratifications and axes, and it will be found that a large proportion of the ornament applied to architecture is devoted to accenting these stratifications and axes. All decoration of string and belt courses and entablatures belong to the stratified type, while decorations of columns, pilasters, piers, mullions and many of the terminal forms belong to the type upon axes.

The decoration of the surface of a building- is of minor consideration, and is merely to give scale, tone, or color to the mass. As a building is made up of cells the main axis of each cell is its centre line, and therefore upon a void and not upon a solid or wall line; and because of this fact, and also that all architecture has grown either from the single cell or from a group of cells about the central one, the main axis of the majority of buildings is upon a void, not upon a solid and as walls are above walls and cells above cells in ordinary construction, voids come naturally above voids, and openings are over openings on the same axis. So much is this the custom and so long has it been felt to he an expression of stability which it is unwise to violate, that the axiom, solids above solids and voids above voids, has become universal in architectural design as far as construction will permit. When, as in the Ducal Palace in Venice or in the arcaded streets of Bologna, plain walls with comparatively small openings are carried upon supports, both the columns and lintel carrying such walls are given strong and vigorous treatment and the walls above as light a treatment as possible, either by texture or by delicacy of detail ; and this is the mere common sense of design expressing stability. As far as stratification of exterior is concerned, the wall is divided into storeys and has a crown or termination, and ornament s associated with belt courses and cornices.

The consideration of least importance upon the exterior of a building is the decoration of its broad surfaces, which in most cases are best left plain. If, however, for purposes of scale, tone or colour these surfaces are to be decorated, they become an all-over pattern, either a diaper or of parallel bands or forms suggested by the material of which the surface is built; for instance, if of brick the patterns are based on checkers or are stratified; it of stone, they accent each stone at either horizontal or perpendicular joints, or both; if of shingles or other lapped covering of small pieces, scale patterns are suggested. The most prolific motives are those of the so-called rustication of stones in which each joint is moulded, and borders are carried around the edges of the stones; the wall may also be stratified by projections and mouldings. The surface patterns upon the stones should he small in scale and even in tone.

FLOOR TREATMENT. Floor patterns should be in one level plane, giving no impression by form, tone or colour of depression or projection. For this reason strong contrasts of tones, unless in very small scale, should be avoided, as should also all marked unpressions of overlap, interlace or embossing. As many of the Oriental patterns are entirely free from these qualities they are peculiarly adaptable to floor designs.

In cases where the floor is entire it requires its principal ornament around its edge as a border to define it from the wall. Manifestly a floor should not appear to sink or to be depressed at its centre ; on the

contrary, it is better to have the impression of its being crowned at the centre; and as clark tones retreat, the border, rather than the centre of the floor, should be the darker either in tone or by amount of detail.

As the floor is under foot, and as all ornament is less noticeable below than above the eye, elaborate systems of floor decoration are labor thrown away ; the true purpose of the decoration of a floor being that of a foil to the remainder of the room. The ornament, therefore, should be less conspicuous and smaller in scale than that on the walls, and as the floor is seen more in perspective than either the walls or the ceiling, involved or complicated designs upon it become confused; simple geometric systems of planning being much more satisfactory.

WALL TREATMENT, In the decoration of a wall the usual effect of horizontal bands or zones is to lower the wall and to lengthen it; and this fact more than any other tends to determine the number and proportion of the subdivisions. It is evident that the narrow zones should be toward the top to avoid the appearance of overpowering weight upon and consequent compression of the lower zones, and the same reasoning causes lighter tones and detail at the top than at the bottom. The introduction of minor zones, such as superdados, subfriezes, etc., which appear in Victorian English decoration, is unnecessary and confusing. 

The main point of definition being at the base and cornice, each advances rather than retreats, and the base being below the eve receives slight attention, while the cornices become elaborate. The strength of detail, of tone, and of scale diminishes upward to avoid heaviness at the top of the wall ; this should not be  overlooked.

PANELS. The further treatment of walls between the openings is forced into a paneled treatment of greater or less scale; and the wall with the greater number of openings sets the scale for the plain wall with fewer. The paneled treatment may be simple fields with borders as at Pompeii; or divided with pilasters arid columns, as in Renaissance interiors ; or have marked perpendicular treatment, as in the chateaux on the Loire ; the surface may advance and retreat and become most elaborate in modeling and colour ; but always die openings and the spaces between them set the scale. It will therefore be found that as these openings are usually higher than they are wide, unless there be a very much greater area of wall than opening, perpendicular rather than horizontal treatment is applicable to most walls of interiors; the exception being when windows are so grouped that the width of the group exceeds its height, and when openings are insignificant.

THE CORNICE, uninterrupted by openings, detines the wall from the ceiling, and therefore projects at a greater or less angle. At times it is coved, carrying the wall surface over into the ceiling surface, in which case the cove is the dominant of the group of mouldings forming the cornice, if the ceiling is enriched the cornice becomes heavier in proportion to the enrichment upon the ceiling, unless the latter be frankly of paneled beams which are carried on the top of the wall, in which case the cornice is not necessary.

As the cornice is in most cases a group of mouldings, and therefore band ornament, it can be treated as a band or belt, while the frieze below it, equally uninterrupted by openings, becomes an excellent field for either continuous ornament or specialized ornament at regular intervals on axes. Cornices break naturally around projections but it is superfluous to break them on the runs between projections except to define some axis strongly. Cornices immediately above openings require sufficient depth to appear as supporting beams spanning the opening.

CEILINGS. The decoration of ceilings depends very largely upon the importance of the room and its purpose. Usually small rooms require little ornament upon the ceiling. Rooms are naturally of two classes---those which are merely backgrounds for the furniture,

