<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	31



ation to the other organizations of the right to set the standard in certain subjects for admission to the Association, and that, however high the standard aimed at by these organizations might be, it was unreasonable to expect any association to relinquish so far the control of the entrance to its own membership. If the standards proposed were higher than those required by the association, there would be the less difficulty encountered in passing these by students who had graduated at the schools. He would have no objection to exempting such students from paying unnecessary fees in such circumstances.

Prof. P. E. Nobbs said the clause in question was introduced in the hope of encouraging architectural students to undergo a systematic training and thereby raise the whole standard of architectural education. The Association at present did nothing for architectural education. He strongly urged the establishment of definite relations between the Association and the schools of architecture in the Province. Amongst others his own department at McGill University would, he felt, incidently receive much encouragement from being brought into that practical touch with the profession in the city which the cause aimed at. The mere passing of the examination set by the Association was not the unique qualification for membership that Mr. Vennes view seemed to imply. The recent admission of Messrs. McKim, Meade and White was made very properly on their credentials, and, though it

<article title=" NEW PAVILION FOR

TORONTO.

" author="">NEW PAVILION FOR

TORONTO.



The Toronto City Architect has prepared two plans for a new pavilion in the Horticultural or Allan Garden, to replace, on the same site, the old pavilion which was destroyed by fire. The first plan estimated to cost $200,000, has a hall to seat 1,350 persons, with cloak rooms at the entrance and an upper storey containing supper rooms and a kitchen. The other plan, estimated to cost $130,000, will seat only 1,070 and the supper rooms are in the basement. The old pavilion seated 1,800, and the Toronto public has not decreased since it was in use.





<article title=" NEW POST-OFFICE AT TORONTO " author="">NEW POST-OFFICE AT TORONTO.



Sir William Mulock, Postmaster General, has announced that the proposed post-office building on Front street will occupy a strip of land beginning at the south-east corner of Bay and Front streets, extending eastward a distance of 250 feet, and to the south as far as the railway tracks. An agreement on this site has been reached between the Post-office Department and the Grand Trunk Railway Company.

<article title=" NOTICE " author="">NOTICE



THAT

LINK!





It melts at 160, thus allowing

the window to close and lock automatically





IT...

NEVER

FAILS

might be arguing somewhat from great things to small, he thought that students who devoted tour sessions to a special study of their profession, passed a recognized standard of efficiency, and then underwent a period of practical training in an office, held credentials of a much more satisfactory nature than the passing of the entrance examination could afford.

Mr. Hutchison thought students with a training of an architectural school must acquire a more liberal education than could be picked up in offices or gathered by private study at home.

After some discussion, a motion, made by Mr. Jos. Venne seconded by Mr. Heriot, "that the Report be laid on the table", was carried.

On a motion of Mr. Jos. Venne seconded by Mr. J.

E. Vanier it was resolved that the $6oo, set aside for Scholarship Fund hut not awarded, should be replaced in the General Fund.

It was resolved on a motion by Mr. Jos. Venne seconded by Mr. Alcide Chaussé that the next annual meeting be held at Quebec.



<article title=" STANDARD SIZE OF BRICK " author="">STANDARD SIZE OF BRICK.



In 1902 a Conference of Architects, Engineers and Builders and Makers was held, and adopted a length equal to two widths, plus one joint, and brickwork in height should measure four brick and four joints per foot.

AN ABSOLUTELY	I

FIRE—PROOF WINDOW I

Registered Trade "IMPERVIA" Mark.)





Hollow Sheet

Metal Sash and Frame,

Glazed with Wire

Glass



We make them to suit your



requirements







Let us send you



 Illustrated 



 Circular









Made of Galvanized Sheet Steel

or Cold-Rolled Sheet Copper





The Metallic Roofing Co., Limited 

WHOLESALE MANUFACTURERS	

TORONTO,	-	MONTREAL,	-	WINNIPEG

