<doctype type="text;ad">14	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



or a total of say $10.50 to $21.00 per foot. The conduit offers other advantages besides these financial ones ; such as facility of inspection of all pipes, etc., and exact knowledge of the location and condition of each service connection. Also freedom from freezing of water mains, and ease of thawing if frozen.

The weak point in this argument, and probably one of the principal reasons why more cities have not built these conduits is that before they are really necessary several of the pipes have already been laid in different parts of the street, and instead of saving much of the cost of laying, the use of the conduit requires the relaying of all of them, or of all but one, around which one the conduit may be built. But in spite of this it would seem as though some such a contrivance is a necessity if we are to construct and maintain good paving, and that the time is coming when any city which can afford a brick, asphalt or modern wood-block pavement must afford to first place under it a conduit which will preserve it from premature disfigurement, deterioration and renewal."



<article title=" PROTECTIVE POWER OF PAINTS " author="">PROTECTIVE POWER OF PAINTS.

The apparently capricious variation noticeable in the durability of paint when employed as a protection to structural work, has opened a door to much that approaches quackery on the part of advertising manufacturers, and some empiricism on the part of most engineers.

How widely paints which have approximately the same composition may vary in protecting life, is well illustrated by the behavior of two ordinary diluted oxide of iron paints used for iron bridge protection on the Philadelphia and Reading Railway, U.S.A.

The first afforded a fair protection for about three years, but during the fourth year it was completely penetrated, and the surface covered had become so badly corroded that the paint could with case be de

Milton

High-Grade Pressed and Ornamental Bricks in red, buff, yellow, salmon, brown, and Special shades.

CANADIAN CONTRACTOR'S HAN D-BOOK



The third edition of the Canadian Contractors Hand-Book is now on sale, The book has been revised and enlarged to upwards of two hundred pags, and the title changed to the Canadian Contractor's Hand-Hook and Estimator. considerable matter bearing on the cost of performing various kinds of work having been added.

The price of the third edition, mailed

free, is $1.00 to subscribers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and $1.50

to non-subscribers. Order from the publishers,



The C. H. Mortimer Publishing Co. of

Toronto, Limited

Confederation Life Bldg , Toronto.

Alliance Building, Montreal.

310 McIntyre Block, Winnipeg.

tached. The second paint—employed side by side with the first—had at least double this life ; at the end of the fourth year, still in excellent condition, it showed no single spot of rust and the metal covered was clean and bright.

Now both paints were about identical in composition, insomuch as each consisted of 22 per cent. sesquioxide of iron and 78 per cent. of inert '' fillers

although in the first these fillers were represented by 14 clay and 64 hydrated calcium sulphate while in the second only 11 per cent. hydrated calcium sulphate was to be found.

Now, of course, calcium sulphate is slightly soluble in water, and it has been supposed that this explained its unsuitability for use as a filler in outdoor paint but even supposing its solubility to have an appreciable effect, Mr. Robert Job, by his careful investigation detailed in the July issue of the Franklin Journal," has clearly proved that there exists a far more important factor—one amply sufficient to explain all the noticed difference.

The average diameter of the solid particles in the first paint was about 1008 inch, while in the second it was only 0004. Thus the average volume of a particle in the first was about 8,000 times greater than in the second ! Obviously, therefore, when the coarse particles of the first were scattered at intervals over any surface and connected by films of clear oil, the finer particles of the second were almost in contact and, indeed, several layers deep. In the first case the weathering effect had to penetrate but transversely through a single oil film to obtain free access to the

protected " surface while in the second, the oil films had to be attacked at their edges and pursued through the interstices of the piled particles before even an indirect approach through capillary passages could be obtained

The importance of fineness in the grinding of paints

DR. ROBERTSON PRESIDENT.	3. S. McCONNELL, MANAGING DIRECTOR.







ARCHITECTURAL TERRA COTTA

We make a Specialty of Ornamental Brick and Terra Cotta Mantels

Our products have a wide reputation and are specified by

leading architects

THE MILTON PRESSED   BRICK CO., LIMITED	

Works and Head Office: MILTON, ONT.	

Montreal Agents! T. A. MORRISON & CO., 204 St James Street







MANTLES

GRATES, TILES

	MANTELS	TILES

	Brick	Artistic

Tile	Everlasting

	Wood	Sanitary

GAS	GRATES

LOGS	Coal

COAL & WOOD



I_________________________________

	Gas	BASKETS



FIRE PLACE FURNITURE And irons, Fire Brasses, Fire Screens.



Fenders, Tongs, Shovels, etc.



VISIT OUR SHOWROOMS



The VOKES HARDWARE CO., Limited 111 and 113 Yonge Street, TORONTO