JANUARY, 1905.

<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	11. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	- -	- -	-	-	EDITOR.

	OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING,	TORONTO, CANADA.



	VOL.	XVIII.—NO. 205.



ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

	Grant Hall, Queen's University, Kingston	Symons & Rae, Architects, Toronto.

No. 152 Park Road, Rosedale. Burke & Horwood Architects, Toronto.

Hall, No. 123 St. George Street, Toronto.--- Burke & Horwood, Architects, Toronto.

 Public Comfort Station, Market Square	Hamilton, —James Balfour, Architect.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Statue of Queen Victoria

 George Frampton, R. A., Sculptor.

Memorial to Canadians who fell in the war in South Africa.—W. S. Allward, Sculptor, Toronto.





CONTENTS

Editorial - - 	- -		- -

Eighteen Club Exhibition - - -

Lessons from the Baltimore Fire - - -

Prevention of Hot Air Explosions				-	6

Insurance Institute of Toronto	— —		—	 —

The Toronto Beaux Art Club		- -

Our illustrations — — —	—		—

Montreal Notes				 -	9

Pink a Restful Color - -

Ontario Association of Architects'	Convent ion			10-11	12

The Building of the Barn - - - -				-

 Underground Municipal Structures		3

Protective Power of Paints		14

Preservation of Stone	

Withdrawn front Building Business				16

Correspondence                                    -

The British Fire Prevention Committee		- 	 	x

The Open Shop Movement in America		- 	 	xi

Cement Blocks	,- Lewis or Chains -                                 xiii

Gothic Architecture	- - xiv

Business Notes	-





<article title=" A Provincial Association of Builders." author="">A Provincial Association of Builders.



<article title=" Architects'

Drawings." author="">Architects'

Drawings.

The recent annual meeting of the Toronto Builders' Exchange placed itself on record as being

in favor of the formation of a Central or Provincial Association. This is the best way to secure concerted action, and concerted action is necessary now-a-days.



The vexed question of who owns an architect's drawings is about to be settled for Englishmen by

an appeal from the decision in the case of Gibbon v. Pease. This suit by a client, for the possession of the drawings upon the conclusion of the work, was decided in favor of the client, Gibbon, on the precedent of a case, Ebdy v. McGowan, in which any architect, suing for 2 1/2 per cent. on work not carried out, was obliged to give up his drawings as a condition of getting the fee. The situation in Gibbon v. Pease is different, for here the work was completed. The client got his building to his satisfaction but demanded the drawings too. The judge declined to hear the evidence of architects on the side of the defendant ; saying that the case was settled by the judgment in Ebdy v. McGowan.



The weak point in the case, on the side of architects, is the custom, acquiesced in apparently by the profession, that, when a building is not carried out, the drawings should be given up, in order that the client may have something for his money. The client has as a matter of fact got something for his money. He has

got accurate knowledge of how much it would cost him to build. If it is this knowledge which causes him to desist from his purpose, its value to him is measured by the extent to which he saves himself from embarrassment by so desisting. He has probably got the worth of his money.



The proposal to give him drawings, in order to give him money's worth, brings out clearly, what the courts seem to find it so hard to understand the real nature of an architect's drawings ; that is to say the fact that they are not an end in themselves, and have no use in themselves apart from their end, which is the erection of a building. The building is the end. This is what the owner invites tile architect to produce for him, and its production is what he pays the architect for. One stage in the production of a building is tile estimation of its cost. For this, if the owner pays a fee, he gets in return the knowledge which he wants and which is therefore of value to him. What further value does he get by having the drawings handed over to him ? None whatever (they are not works of art), none whatever— unless he means to USC them to produce a house. It is the client's right to use the drawings which is granted when he is given possession of them. This is the implication and in the implication is implied a recognition of the true nature of an architect's drawings— that they are but means to the production of a building.



But has the client a right to use an architect's drawings apart from the architect and against the wishes of tile are

