<doctype type="text">54	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CIVIC ART PAYS." author="">CIVIC ART PAYS.

Some one may ask But what difference does it make whether a city, town, or village is beautiful or not? Many answers might be given. One might point out the value of culture, thc stimulating and ennobling influences of art, its importance as an educational medium, and its effect in increasing the economic productiveness of the laborer; but thc person who would ask such a question in this day will appreciate but one answer It

pays. There is competition between cities and towns, just as surely as there is competition between business men. Every town strives to attract to itself the wealthiest, brainiest, and most progressive men of the country. Its future growth and influence depend upon its success in doing so. If it offers superior advantages and attractions, it succeeds. Now, one of the determining factors is the appearance of the town itself. If it is beautiful, men prefer it if it is unsightly, they go elsewhere, and with them go their wealth, influence, business, and ability. This is true of all cities and towns, but it is particularly true of smaller centres. A metropolis has many other advantages to offer; the town or small city has few, and must therefore utilize every one to its full extent.

Civic art pays more directly. It is said that tourists annually leave Italy a sum of money equivalent to the interest upon the whole national debt. Many or the towns in Italy and Greece would he desolate and forgotten to-day were it not for the wonderful master-pieces of art handed down from ages long past. The thousands or Americans who visit Paris every year go there largely because Paris leads the world in civic art, and the sums spent there play no small part in the city's budget.

Milo Roy Maltbie, in the 'Chatauquan.



It is impossible not to recognize that beauty and cleanness in a town and ease of intercommunication between its parts will make a town attractive, and that the cost of giving it these



qualities is likely to he repaid. This is an argument with which to make it politically possible to move in the direction of improvement ; and, no doubt Mr. Maltbie is using it for this purpose. But let men who have no desire for beauty in their town, except as a means of attracting money, he kept out of the control of active operations to improve its beauty.

They will

only vulgarize it, and drive away those who are wealthy enough to have seen a little, and brainy enough to have learned the look of a good thing, and progressive enough to pass a had thing by. It is only people who have a liking eye for their own town, and who want to make it beautiful for themselves, who can he trusted to preserve its attractive qualities while adding to their beauty. Emulation as a motive can only produce imitation the introduction of fashion instead of taste. And, if there is competition between two towns over the same kind of claims to beauty, we may he sure that the necessary accentuation will not he one of refinement but of swagger. If we must appeal to vulgar motives in order to loosen purse strings it would he a good thing to let this kind of appeal end there but this may he difficult and the difficulty raises the questions whether such an appeal is really necessary at all.



<article title=" THE RULE WAS TOO SHORT " author="">THE RULE WAS TOO SHORT.



Pat was busily engaged laying brick one day, when the foreman came to him and said

''Pat, go back to the end of the building- and measure the length of the foundation for me."

Pat vanished, and after a stay of some duration returned.

"Well, Pat," said the foreman, ''did you measure it ?"

"I did," answered Pat.

''How long was it ?" was the question.

"Altogither," answered Pat, '' 'twas as long as me rule, me arm, an' two bricks. "—-Lippincott's Magazine.



<article title=" MR. JOHN BELCHER ON THE STUDY OF OLD

WORK.

" author="">MR. JOHN BELCHER ON THE STUDY OF OLD

WORK.

Mr. Belcher in addressing, as President, students of the R.I.B.A., upon the subject of studying old work, said as follows

I want to take this opportunity to emphasize the importance of a more systematic study of those buildings which are universally recognized as good. " Quod semper, quod ubique, quod ab omnibus "* is a dictum which we may very well borrow from the theological schools and, having borrowed, stick to. Moreover, I should like to suggest certain methods to he adopted in the study of such examples. The student's first impulse, perhaps, is simply to annex the whole subject as ''stock" or ''copy." Now, certainly it is a very right and proper thing to sketch the building as a whole

but while doing so we must not let our thoughts lie idle ; we should endeavour to discover why the subject is beautiful or admirable, what are the elements in it which have contributed to that result. At first, it may be, such an effort seems to go unrewarded but if the habit he persisted in, intelligent perception will awaken, little by little the light will grow, and soon it will he quite to disentangle from the mass as it

	easy	_

were, those characteristics, those laws, those conditions, which have made the building what it is. While traversing some particular line, for instance, note its relative proportions to the other parts. Follow out, if you can, the methods of construction, and mark how the effects are produced. Examine the general masses from various points of view, and study the composition of your subject, not only in respect of its component parts, but also in relation to its environment. The latter is of great importance, for one of the chief elements of success in a building is its adaptation to its surroundings. Here it is especially that '' scale

comes in, for the scale of a building must he either in keeping with or in contrast to adjoining buildings or objects, just as colours must either match exactly or he complementary to one another. Scale is relative, and determines the proportion of one part to another and of the several parts to the whole. It is like the dominant note or key in a musical composition. You are probably all of you aware that sounds which barmonise and please the ear have fixed relations to one another. Colour also has its divisions and harmonies, and you will not get far in architecture without discovering that here also similar laws hold good, and that there is such a principle as a true proportion of parts in the scale of building. It is only by a diligent study of and a careful regard for these laws that we can effect a harmonious composition, which all the same can never he merely mechanical in architecture, any more than it can in music. There is as wide a range of possible combinations and developments in the one case as the other. The great architects of every age and every country have exhibited as wonderful a variety of progressions and characteristics as can he found in the works of Mozart, Beethoven, Mendelssohn, or Wagner. You shall also have regard to the aspect of the building you are studying--whether it is situated in the narrow street, the broad thoroughfare, or, or in open ground. Note how the projections and lights and shadows are determined on each frontage. Where the sun penetrates reflected light may he taken advantage of. Projections and shadows on a south front are by no means the same as they would he with a north aspect. I-low well Vanbrugh, amongst others, understood this I mention Vanbrugh because his insistence on this point is so obvious. It is only thus by analyzing and searching out the guiding principles which have actuated men in the past that we shall really profit by a study of their work. If we can discover the sequence of thought which has guided them in the achievement of fine results, we in our turn may, by taking thought, successfully work out the problems which come before us. Depend upon it, that which we admire in their work is not the result of



*What (has been accepted) always, everywhere, and by all.

