<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	95



almost as readily as wood. If any one had doubted it before last winter, the Baltimore lire proved it beyond any doubt.. Yet I venture to say that there is not today a large city in this country in which there will not be during the year 1905 a large amount of marble or granite used in fireproof buildings, and in parts of such buildings so high above the street that the use of water to protect them from fire will be, so far as fire departments are concerned, physically impossible.

Is it possible that the American brain, so fertile in every other direction, is unable to cope with the problem of designing and erecting an attractive and suitable exterior for a building which is designed to resist fire?

And now let us return for a moment to the false economies which so often confront the underwriter who, from the business point-of-view, is endeavoring to fix a proper price for the indemnity which he has for sale.

One of the commoner forms is the slighting or the deliberate reduction of the protection for the steel framing which is the skeleton of all these great buildings. The records of the cost of construction of some of the larger office-buildings destroyed in the Baltimore fire show that the marble wainscoting and flooring of the halls in these buildings cost more than the protection of the steel frames, and we know that in one building at least, a form of floor construction which was

proved to be satisfactory was given up and a cheaper one, as it proved, entirely unreliable form submitted at a saving of one or two per cent. of the cost of the building.

We are asking these steel frames to carry enormous loads, to withstand great. strains, and yet we grudge them the slight additional cost of' a reasonable protection against fire, not only against conflagration but against such fires as have and will occur within the building or its immediate neighbors, and we spend twice the money which the proper protection would cost on decoration which may or may not be good art.

Again, it is a common practice to set interior partitions on top of combustible wooden floors, even when the partitions are made wholly of incombustible material, and as a result, a slight damage to the wooden floor wrecks twice its value in partitions and their finish.

We use iron face-plates on the fronts of these buildings and let the adjoining brickwork rest upon them so that. a slight expansion of the iron displaces many feet of brick facing. Does it pay? Is it good work? Does the result justify it? Surely not.

In the fireproof building, too, we seem to depart from the construction which is justifiable for such work by the great. expanse of unprotected windows.

Of course, light and air are most desirable, but from the underwriter's point—of—view it. is fair to expect protection from more than the weather in the best type of building.

Vertical openings, too, have been quite a factor in the destruction of several buildings of this type, especially in those of a great height, as they almost invariably act as a flue to draw the fire from one story to another. If a large office-building is to he regarded simply as a stove which will from time to time be burnt out, it is perhaps sufficient to provide for protection to the building itself, but if it is to provide protect ion for its contents, then the vertical openings and lie exposed windows need protection.

I have tried briefly to state why these forms of construction have not been as successful as they ought to have been, and I will endeavor briefly to give the insurance-engineer's hope of what. may be done to overcome these difficulties.

Considering first the "mill" form of construct ion, I believe the automatic sprinkler, the fire-door and the fire-shutter, with a restricted use of combustible varnish , will solve most if not all of our difficulties in this direction, I wish architects and engineers would make themselves more familiar with the use of sprinklers, because so much may be done in the construction of the building to make sprinklers thoroughly effective. A smooth ceiling or one with

panels approximately 10 x 10 ft. or x 10 ft. will give sprinklers the best chance to distribute the water to the best advantage.

For the '' fireproof " building I must, at the risk of being called a crank, urge the use of '' wire-glass in metal frames, both for exterior use and where it is necessary to light stair and elevator wells.

Cut off the vertical openings, protect the steel frames everywhere and protect exposed windows, then '' fireproof " buildings will come nearer to deserving their name.





<article title=" THE ROWTON HOUSES." author="">THE ROWTON HOUSES.

The late Lord Rowton, who was Lord Beaconsfield's private secretary, devoted himself, after Lord Beacons— field's death, to the philanthropic work of getting wholesome and comfortable tenements built for the poor of London. He organized companies for this purpose and they produced a type of apartment house which has since been repeated (though perhaps not as a copy) in the Mills hotels of New York. Lord Rowton had no architectural training hut supplied its want by zeal in the humble department of comfort.. His method was the unscientific one of '' cut and try," but he cut and tried until he had succeeded in his aims, which were of the practical kind, that rooms should have sufficient room in them though small, that beds should be comfortable though simple, that washing apparatus should be of the right kind and such as would make life easy. To attain these ends he had actual models constructed and used them ; slept. in the beds and washed in the washing apparatus until they were right. With this kind of care he got good work done, and with this spirit. he succeeded in inspiring others so that his companies carried out their work with an effect that at once produced a demand for more of the same kind. Several were erected before Lord Rowton's death a couple of years ago and though his organization ceased the municipalities have got the idea.



<article title=" A NEW STYLE OF STOVE " author="">A NEW STYLE OF STOVE.



new type of stove, the object of which is the abolition of smoke, no matter what fuel is employed, has been demonstrated in London, The invention comprises a screen of tubular fire bricks, made of special material, built up in the furnace in such a position that all the products of the fire pass through the screen, the latter quickly becomes incandescent, and flashes the gases as they pass through, thus prevention formation of carbon. Bp the aid of this device coal of the worst description can be burned in the ordinary boiler with practically no smoke, and with a considerable saving in cost. For the purpose of demonstration cheap, damp coal dust was burned. The only result was a light, gray' cloud at the top of the chimney stack, which cleared away in a few seconds.





<article title=" PROFITABLE TREATMENT OF SEWAGE " author="">PROFITABLE TREATMENT OF SEWAGE.

Sewage sludge is being treated experimentally at  Bradford, England, under the direction of Dr. J. Grossman, to determine definitely whether any commercial fats can be recovered from it. The plant has a capacity of about 16 tons of sludge daily and is said to work without objectionable odor. It yields about 7 tons of manorial residue daily "containing be sides tree carbon 2 per cent. of nitrogen and 2 1/2 per cent. of phosphate of lime." The distillation process is used and tile value of the residue and the grease recovered is said to be greater than the working expenses. Engineering Record



Mr. J. J. O'Hearn, house, sign and ornamental painter and decorator, Toronto has recently taken his son into partnership and t he business is now earned on under the name of O'Hearn & Son. They have purchased the building they now occurant 

249 Queen street	where they have  one of the most cont-modious and up to date paint shops in the city and 

stock of paints, oils, varnishes, etc.	carry large

