<doctype type="text">186	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" RE-ENFORCED CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION " author="">

RE-ENFORCED CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION

A paper on the above subject was read by Mr. Andre Loignon before the Province of Quebec Association of Architects and was followed by a general discussion. Mr. Loignon said that the system of construction in re-enforced concrete had been extensively used in Europe during the last 25 years and had been coming into vogue on this side of the Atlantic. The advantages claimed for the system were its fireproof quality, its monolithic quality, absence of vibration, power of resisting shocks, reduction of dead weight and the convenience of direct plastering. In the great fire of Baltimore re-enforced concrete proved its excellence under fire.

In the complete acceptance of the system the ordinary I beams are replaced by re-enforced concrete beams usually of a bar stirrup construction, and in designing such beams it must be remembered that the elasticity of the steel is ten times that of the concrete, and these qualities of the two materials should be so proportioned as to break at the same tension; and this consideration must more especially be taken into account if high tension steel is to he made use of with advantage. In addition to the ordinary problems of tensional and compressional stresses, the tendency of the bars to slip or slide in the concrete is a circumstance to be provided for. Plain round bars are of course the cheapest and most easily obtainable, but special twisted and corrugated bars are on the market. The tendency to slip may be averted by properly anchoring them at the ends and it should be borne in mind that a number of smaller bars will often be of more advantage in this respect than a few bars of larger size, though in tensional strength they may be the same. Thus seven 3/4 inch bars having about one third greater area of outside surface than four 1 inch bars will offer more resistance to sliding, though the latter have a slight advantage in sectional area.

Precise theories for the calculation of re-enforced concrete beams have not yet been established. The French Government is at present making experiments with a view to arriving at precise data. Meanwhile the formulae given by Christophe and others are sufficiently accurate for general purposes.

Correct proportioning of the constituents of the concrete and careful workmanship are essential. The best cement should always be used in this class of work and machine mixing is of the greatest advantage. The concrete should be kept damp for 3 or 4 days after being laid and the centering should be allowed to stand for three weeks. Cinder concrete varies greatly in strength but is in general much inferior to that made with stone aggregate. Re-enforced concrete should not be made in frosty weather.

In the discussion which followed Mr. Amos Mr. Beullac, Prof. Nobbs, Mr. Archibald and others took part. In answer to questions, Mr. Loignon expressed the opinion that the fact of bars being a little rusty was no objection to their use. Further oxidisation was effectively checked when the rods were embedded in concrete—except indeed in the case of cinder concrete—and a slight rustiness aided the adhesion of the cement and tended to prevent slipping. As to the possible span of re-enforced concrete beams he knew of one case in which such a beam carried a music-hall

gallery over a span of 6o feet, and a roof beam had been made 102 feet long. In these cases provision had of course to be made for expansion and contraction. The monolithic nature of expanded metal necessitated special rigidity of foundation ; but this was the less difficult of accomplishment when the comparative lightness of re-enforced concrete walling is remembered. The lecturer cited a case at Keewatin in which masonry walls 8 feet thick had been replaced by re-enforced concrete only 22 inches thick. Such work could moreover be made practically waterproof.

<article title=" A NEW CONSTRUCTION PROCESS " author="">

A NEW CONSTRUCTION PROCESS.

When, on January 12th last, Prince Albert of Belgium visited the Liege Exposition, technical experts from all climes, and most of them not so easily enthused as the general public, could not help being astonished at the display. Congratulations were extended to the representative and administrator, delegate of the "Societe de Fondation par Compression Niccanque de Sol," Mr. Maurice Ducastel, for the promptness with which the foundations of the "Palais des Beaux Arts" had been laid. This very important work which could not have been performed under the old system within less than eight months, had been well executed in six short weeks and at a cost not exceeding one third of the estimated expense, thanks to the new process by the mechanical compression of the soil.

The process used to so rapidly lay the foundations of the "Palais des Beaux Arts' deserves more than a summary description, the more so in view of the extension the new system has been given in all quarters of the globe, by the ''Societe de Fondations par Compression Niccanque de Sol.' On the very grounds of the Liege Fair, the works erected by the "Societe de Fondations" can bc seen and in great variety, in which is forcilbly demonstrated the excellence of its new process, under whatever conditions it may be resorted to. The rock-like basis of the Commemorative Monument erected at Fatrime Cape in honor of Gramme is an example. These foundations were laid in the ancient. bed of the Maise river, in made up grounds and of dredgings undertaken for the straightening of the river. (Cut No. 1.)

Further on we come across an arched bridge, span of 170 feet and two semi-arched abutments. The foundations for the piers had to be dug, of course, in the middle of the river. At a little distance are the Cockerill and Solway works, the By-Products Buildings of which rest on foundations laid by thc 'Societe' on grounds made up from fine slate excavations refuse promiscously spread in pools of stagnant water and left emerse to this day, for the simple reason that no method had yet been found by means of which a solid basis for building could be found in such grounds. (Cut No. 2.)

Again a little farther on the Liege Tramways shed of the "Aux Ecorces" Island are met with. The "Societe de Fondations" was called upon to supply the foundations piles capped by beams and anchorages in reinforced concrete laid in submerged grounds for the support of the vast car sheds of thc Tramway Company. The same process has been applied in various ways to these works.

The process of construction consists simply in causing a compression of the soil on all sides: laterally, vertically of course, as well as horizontally, at any desired depth. In whatever kind of soil the new method be applied is thus formed a series of solid points or poles resting on an expanded base covering a good, dense natural bed, after layers have been traversed. The preparation of the new method of piling is made by means of a conical driving hammer, called the ''perforater" and weighing 2,300 kilos or 5,600 lbs.

In certain situations the depth of the preparation well has been as much as 64 or 65 feet. By thc lateral Compression of the soil the well walls are thus given firmness to resist external strains. When the piling has to be made in aquiferous grounds, the new process provides for the perfect imperviousness requisite in the following manner The well is filled with clay or soil up to a point a little above the water vein and the "perferator" is set in motion in such a way that after repeated strokes thereof more of the same soil is let in so that after a little while a genuine plastic tube well has been formed in the ground

