THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<doctype type="text">

fit, architect's fees, and men's travelling expenses. 3 1/2 per cent. could be saved by erecting two together; 5 per cent by erecting four.



MR. BAILLIE SCOTT' S DESIGN.

<article title=" MR. BAILLIE SCOTT' S DESIGN " author="">

Mr. Baillie Scott has produced what is called in some of the illustrations a "new-old" cottage. This design is an entry for Class 4, a pair of cottages at £35 a room. There is no assertion made that he has fulfilled the conditions. In a confession of faith, printed in an introductory portion of thc catalogue of the Exhibition, he says ''the question of money, however important, should always be a secondary matter to the earnest attempt to achieve that combination of the ideal and real which makes building as an art unique. The cottage should be a dream come true, the result of infinite pains, and whether it pays .5 per cent. or 6 per cent. is quite a secondary matter." So we may assume that, although it is entered tinder the class costing- £35 a room, whether it will actually cost only that much or whether it will cost more is a question the consideration of which has not received infinite pains from the designer. However there is no question about his capacity for dreaming- and we may consider it for its value in point of taste and character. ''All buildings," he says, ''even the smallest, have personalities, and the cottage should have a soul of its own." In some respects this is a case of metempsychosis. It is a twentieth century cottage inhabited by a seventeenth century soul.



The living room is 12' X 20' X 7'6" high; the parlour 9' x 12; scullery 9 X 12'. The bedrooms are 8' high, and are respectively 12' x 13', 7' X 11', and x



2'.	It is complained that the windows are too high; that cottagers confined to bed with illness could not enjoy the pleasure of looking out of the window.

The material is brick, roughcast, with oak half timber wall. The floors are paved with red brick on the ground floor. The entrance court is paved in patterns of cobble stones.





REVIEW, NATURAL VENTILATION. PUBLISHED BY THE NATIONAL VENTILATING COMPANY, 1 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK.

<article title=" REVIEW, NATURAL VENTILATION " author="">

We have received a booklet which, though intended to be an advertising medium, to exploit the patent devices of the publishing company, deserves notice in this column as the devices it advertises are designed to effect ventilation in the way in which in the opinion of experts is the only proper way; that is by giving opportunity to the natural property of air to keep itself pure by continual movement. The natural order of things in air, as in everything else in the world, is preserved by gravitation. The heavier air descending pushes tip the light and the agency at the bottom of movement is heat. Very slight differences of warmth in a room are sufficient to effect the delicate balance of air; the difference between an outside wall and an inside wall, between a portion of the floor that has sunlight and the remainder that has none; and the furnace of the human body is the immediate agent in securing pure air for each successive breath, removing the exhaled air, partly because it is warmed itself and partly because the air surrounding the body is kept perpetually ascending by the warmth communicated to it in its contact with the body.

There is therefore provision made by Nature to remove exhaled air as soon as it is vitiated. In order to take advantage of this law for the ventilation of a room, it is obvious that there must be the means of removing the air from the room at once, in pursuance of the impulse upwards, without giving the vitiated air an opportunity to remain in the room until it is cooled, descends, and mingles with the purer air below so as to lower its quality.

This is what is aimed at by the contrivances of the National Ventilating Company, which are, briefly, metal boxes fixed on the bottom and top rails of windows for the entrance and extraction of air. The lower box consists of two parts, an outside hood in the form of a tunnel through which the wind can blow, with the result that as soon as it does so it closes a pivoted valve and air can only enter the room from the side opposite to the wind. This it is claimed not only prevents the violent entry of outside air but makes it enter pure, since all dust and other particles of impurity are carried past in the current of the wind and cannot return under the lee of the hood into the eddy from which air is drawn into the room. The inner member of the lower ventilating box is devised for two ends:— (1) To break up the columns of air by passing it through a coarse membrane, so that it enters the room in small separated columns and becomes mixed with the warm air of the room, thus preventing draughts. (2) To deflect the entering air upwards. This it is claimed involves a movement of the warm air of the room towards the window so that a seat near the window has not as its accompaniment a draught along the floor.

The upper ventilator is simpler. Invention in its case seems to have been devoted to procuring the extraction of the inner air without giving the other air occasion to enter.

The normal application of these appliances is to a glass panel inserted below the bottom rail and above the top rail. In case of their insertion in old work, the separation of the meeting rails which this would involve is made good by a specially devised weather strip.

We have given this booklet notice in the conviction that it is worth study. Artificial ventilation, by the propulsion of' air, does not receive favourable comment in the report of the Committee of the British House of Commons, or from other investigators. Artificial contrivances are apt to run counter to natural means, and, in the case of the movement of air, the natural means are so clear that any system that proposes to work in accordance with them commends itself.

Of course it is not true to say that natural means of ventilation cost nothing- for their upkeep. Natural ventilation has as its basis the application of heat. The method tinder review implies a greater supply of heat, equivalent to the greater supply of fresh air, and the cost of the extra consumption of coal will be the cost of its maintenance. If any man does not want to pay for ventilation he must submit to vitiated air and pay for that daily by impaired vigour, ill health and even disease.



The new Canadian Bank of Commerce Building- at

Edmonton, an illustration of which appeared in the

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for September is constructed

with Roman stone, manufactured by the Roman Stone



Company, of Toronto.

