<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	- PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	- -	- -	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO CANADA.



VOL. XVIII.—No. 215.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

The	Traders Bank of Canada, Toronto.---Plans and perspective. Messrs. Carrere & Hastings, New York, and Mr. F. S. Baker, Toronto, Associated Architects.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Strathcona Hall, Montreal.--- Messrs. Finley & Spence, Architects, Montreal.

The Royal Bank of Canada, St. Catherines Street Branch.—Messrs. Edward and W. S. Maxwell, Architects, Montreal.





CONTENTS

Editorial	-		-		-		-		-		-	 .	161-122

Book Notes		-		-		-		-		-		-	162

Thc Competition for the Public Library Building at Toronto 163

The Tariff on Plans - -		-		-		-	164

Our Illustrations - -	-		- -

The Montreal Building By-Law		-		-		-	166

The Wrecking of a World's Fair	-		-		-		166

The Planning of Decoration -		-		.		-	167

Axial Planning	-	-	-	-	-	168-169

A Concrete Building in Liverpool	-	-	-	170

Costly Public Buildings	-	-	-	-	170

Possibilities in Heating with Hot Air -	-	- 171-172

Montreal Notes	-	. -	- -	1

Sketch Club, P.Q.A.A., Montreal	. -	- 174- 175

French Polish -	 -		-		- -

Dew Ponds -	-	-		 -		-		-	111

How to Cool a Cellar	 -		- -

Maximum Light Glass		-		-		. -

Indestructible Houses	 -		- -

Minto House -.	-	-		-		- -

Steam Radiation in a	Greenhouse				-		-		xii

To Bring Fresh Air to	London			-		-		-	xiii

Porosity and Frost	Resistance	of	Bricks				.		xiv

Steam Curing Concrete	Blocks		-		-	.		-	xv



The Late Mr. F. E. Kidder.  <article title=" The Late Mr. F. E. Kidder " author="">

Frank Eugene Kidder, C. E., the author of the well-known Pocket Rook for architects and

builders, died recently at Denver, Colorado, where he had been obliged to remove from Boston because of the delicacy of his lungs, lie was only in his forty-sixth year. The Pocket Rook, which has reached a fourteenth edition, was first published when he was but twenty-four. His other important work, Building Construction and Superintendence, is almost as well known. He wrote also a work on '' Churches and Chapels," and many articles in architectural and engineering periodicals. His attitude towards construction and design, was not so much critical as observant. His treatises give merely an account of how things are done in American building practice, and how to do them well in this manner. He was not a guide to design, but the inventive designer can hardly adopt a safer ground of study than the methods of practice described in his books. There is always a reason at the bottom of vernacular design which is likely to be an essential condition of practical work now, and a thorough understanding of these reasons is the only safe point of departure for invention.



In the models for sculptured decoration for the Belmont Chapel of the Cathedral of St.

John the Divine in New York, the conception of angels came near becoming Americanized by all the angelic figures being represented as feminine. This is but another example of the failure of the modern world to catch the spirit of the early workmen upon whose designs their own work is founded. For the modern decorative artist—average sensual man with a creed of art for art's sake—angels have taken a place among the abstract ideas that furnish an excuse to decorators for modeling the female form. He has lost any sense

The Sex of Angels.<article title=" The Sex of Angels " author="">

of their reality and probably does not know that there is any approach to accurate knowledge about them. As far as this knowledge goes it at any rate offers no occasion for a feminine conception, for angels in the Bible are invariably spoken of as " he." But the assurance that in neither marrying nor being given in marriage in heaven we shall be "like the angels seems to imply an entire absence of the mundane necessity of sex, so that the masculine pronoun is applied to the angels only as the word '' man " is used when we speak generically of the human race. In this respect it is noteworthy that the angels of Fra Angelico, to whom angels were a reality and their representation a work of devotion, have been known to divide an assembly upon the question of their sex part thinking them masculine and part feminine. The truth is that they are neither. The believing mind of the painter produced a conception which is, in that respect, ''as the angels in heaven." And, until the painters and sculptors of our generation can approach the subject with a like faith and reverence, the theme of angels as a subject for decoration is best let alone.



This case, the first of its kind tried in a Canadian court, dates back to 1902, when the Metallic

Roofing Company refused to sign an agreement submitted by the union because it contained a clause that no non-union workman should be employed by the company unless the union was unable to supply union men. Committees representing both parties discussed the matter, but were unable to reach an amicable settlement. Then the union proceeded to organize a boycott against the company by sending circulars to its customers, ''stating," as the newspaper report mildly puts it, ''that the firm was unfair to organized labour." What was accomplished by the circulars was, in the terms of the judge's charge to the jury, a conspiracy

The Metallic Roofing Company Case Concluded.<article title=" The Metallic Roofing Company Case Concluded" author="">

