<doctype type="text">92	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" A UTOPIAN HOTEL BEDROOM.



" author="">A UTOPIAN HOTEL BEDROOM.



A writer in the County Gentleman has a good deal to say about Mr. H. G. Wells' " Utopia and its conceptions of improvement in social affairs. The only part of the article that concerns our purpose is the description of a bedroom in a hotel, which is as follows



A cake of soap drops out of a store machine on the turn of a handle, and when you have done with it, you drop that and your soiled towels and so forth, which also are given you by machines, into a little box, through the bottom of which they drop at once, and sail down a smooth shaft. A little notice tells you the price of your room, and you gather the price is doubled if you do not leave the toilette as you found

it.	Beside the bed, and to be lit, at night by a handy switch over the pillow, is a little clock, its face flush with the wall. The room has no corners to gather dirt, wall meets floor with a gentle curve, and the apartment could be swept out effectually by a few strokes of a mechanical sweeper. The door frames and window frames are of metal, rounded and impervious to draught. You are politely requested to turn a handle at the foot of your bed before leaving the room, and forthwith the frame turns up into a vertical position, and the bedclothes hang airing. You stand at the doorway, and realize that there remains not a minute's work for anyone to do. Memories of the foetid disorder of many an earthly bedroom after a night's use float across your mind."

The writer of the article comments

''Would this kind of life, really, lead to happiness? If simplicity means happiness, is this simple? Is it not hatefully complex? And it is only one tiny picture— Mr. Wells's ideal bedroom."

He seems himself to have a lingering longing for ''Alan Breck's bed in the moss-hags." And so have we all. But in a hotel we want cleanness first, and sanitary ugliness has a sort of attractiveness. But some one else may turn the handles.



<article title=" THE NEW YORK BUILDING FAILURES.

" author="">THE NEW YORK BUILDING FAILURES.

The committee appointed to investigate the causes of these failures has reported. The failures occurring on the first warm day of spring, and all on the same day, were obviously caused immediately by thaw, and were generally supposed to be entirely due to building in freezing weather. This condition appears however to have been added to other bad conditions. The report reads

From our investigation we conclude that in every case thc collapse or the partial destruction of these buildings was directly due to the failure of their foundation waits.

We found these watts full of voids, but of irregular and undersized stone, improperly bonded and imperfectly bedded The mortar used was of an inferior quality and improperly mixed. Both the materials and workmanship were in flagrant violation of Section 26 of the Building Code.

Although the sudden change in temperature which occurred on the night of March 18 may have contributed to the failure of the stone foundation walls in these various buildings, it is, nevertheless, a fact that these walls were of such inferior workmanship and materials as to make them insufficient to sustain with safety at any time the superimposed loads.

Our inspection revealed many violations of the Building Code, which, while not contributory to the destruction of the buildings, were in themselves a distinct menace to their permanency, inasmuch as they eliminated or reduced the factors of safety which the code provides.

Our comparison of the approved plans with the buildings showed that the corrections and amendments required by the Bureau of Buildings, as a prerequisite for the issuing of the permits, were generally disregarded in construction, although consented to in writing by the applicants in their desire to secure such permits The work of the engineering staff of the Bureau of Buildings was, therefore, completely nullified.

The applications relating to the above mentioned buildings owed that in only one case was the architect of record to superintend the construction. In no case was the name of the builder stated. These omissions left in question the competency hose who were to supervise and the character of the convectors who might be selected to erect the buildings.

We can, therefore, only conclude that these buildings were erected without proper supervision, under inefficient inspection and by incompetent contractors that the provisions of the

Building Code were generally disregarded and that a very low standard of work is typical in this class of buildings. In further compliance with your request and in view of these

facts, we submit for your earnest consideration the following recommendations

1.	Architects should be required by law to supervise the construction of buildings for which they furnish plans.

2.	A person before being allowed to practice as an architect should hold a diploma from some institution of learning or from a recognized board to be created hereafter. The personnel of this board and the methods of its operation should be left to a commission composed of representatives of the various architectural associations and members prominent in that profession.

3.	A register of those authorized to practice architecture should be kept by the Bureau of buildings and permits for the erection or alteration of buildings should be issued by the superintendent of buildings only to those so registered.

4.	All contractors for mason work or structural steel work should he licensed. The co-operation of the recognized organizations in these trades should be sought in the establishment of such board or bureau.

5.	It shall be unlawful to permit the building of mason work or the erection of structural iron work by persons not so licensed.

The substance of these recommendations enacted into law would make the recurrence of similar accidents practically impossible, as such enactments would secure competent architectural supervision and capable contractors for all classes of building operations. The rigid, conscientious inspection of work in progress, which the Bureau of Buildings has failed to secure in these cases, is then a matter of secondary importance.



The intention is evidently to establish by law such conditions of good building that the least possible dependence need be placed on official inspection.



<article title=" MOVING PLATFORM SUBWAY." author="">MOVING PLATFORM SUBWAY.



The current issue of the Scientific American devotes a considerable portion of its space to the discussion of the moving  platform subway to be constructed in New York, and summarizes in a leading article the evidence given by Mr. Stillwell, the electrical expert of the Interurban Railroad Company, in which he showed the great economic advantage possessed by the moving platform over the electric-car system for city transportation. ''It seems," states the Scientific American 'in the first place, that the moving platform has a great advantage in respect of the dead weight carried per passenger , for whereas in the local subway service 1,241 lb. of dead weight must be carried for each seat provided, and in the Manhattan six r local service 790 lb. per seat, in the case of the moving platform the dead weight will amount to only 437 1b. per seat, or one-third of what it is in case of the subway. There is, moreover, a large saving of energy resulting from the fact that the moving platform does not stop at stations. In the local service of the subway over two- thirds of the energy supplied to the cars is dissipated in braking In other words, if the cars moved at uniform speed and never stopped at stations it would require only one—third of the power plant to keep the whole system in operation A comparison of the power required to move the trains and to move the platform shows that the Manhattan Elevated cars require at the power house 30 kilowatts per car, and subway cars require, at equal speed, about 50 kilowatts per car. In the case of the subway the energy required is practically 1 kilowatt per seated passenger , that is to say, 10 kilowatts at the power house are required to transport ten seated passengers in the subway. Estimating the rolling friction of the platform at about 6 1b. per ton Mr. Stillwell estimates that 10 kilowatts, instead of moving, as in the case of the subway. ten passengers, would move 260 passengers if they were seated on the moving platform. This great difference of 1 to 26 is due to the small dead load, to the absence of stopping, and to the fact that the rolling friction per toil is very much less. It has been charged against the moving platform that the speed, 9 miles per hour, is how but it was shown by Mr. Stillwell, and endorsed by Mr. Stuyves and Fish, that, because of the frequent stops, say on the local elevated or subway trains, and of the great delay at stations in rush hours due to insufficient means of ingress and egress to and from the cars, the higher speed of the elevated and subway trains between stops is brought down if the stops he inched, to an average speed of 9.67 miles per hour, which is only a little over one—half mile per hour greater than that of the platform which maintains this 9 mile an hour continuously.' The carrying capacity of the moving platform is stated to be vastly greater than a four line system of electric cars.---Times Engineering Supplement





<article title=" HIS UNUSUAL CURIOSITY " author="">HIS UNUSUAL CURIOSITY.



An East End resident who had considerable business with plumbers, carpenters, brickmasons and artisans generally in the construction of a new home finally engaged a painter. His wife had been urging him to hurry the work on the house, and had planned a reception for its opening day.

said the painter. I can promise to have your house finished in two weeks''

''Yes, but,'' said the owner anxiously, ''that isn't the point.''

"Then what is ?"

''I want to know how long it is going to take you. ---Duluth News-Tribune.

