<doctype type="colophon;text;ad">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	- -	- -	-	EDITOR JULY, 1905.





OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.





VOL. XVIII.---NO. 211.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

House in Jameson Avenue, Toronto.-- Mr. R. J. Edwards, Architect.

Old House in St. Gabriel Street, Montreal.—--Measured Drawing by Mr. C. S. Burgess.

Warehouses, Bay Street, Toronto.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

House on Jameson Avenue, Front View.

Dining Room in No. 500 Wilibrod Street, Ottawa.—-Mr. J. W. H. Watts, R. C. A., Architect.







CONTENTS

Editorial	-	-	-	-	-	-	97-99

Concrete Building blocks that Defy Detection —	99

The Life of a Sky- Scraper	- -	-	90

St. Mark's Venice	-	- -	-	108

Our Illustrations	-	- -	-	- 101

Indoor Humidity	—	— —	—	101

Prof. Willet G. Miller's	Report	-	-		- 101

By The	  -	-		-	101

School Building -	-	-		- 102-103-104

A Novel Balanced Door -		-  	-  	105

Concrete Construction and	Consistency in

   Reinforcement -	 - - -			106-107

A Novelty in Laying Concrete		- 	- 	108

Montreal Notes	-	-	- -	108-109

Dundas Quarry — —		—		—	110

Explains confusion at Babel	-		-		111

Heating Apparatus and Bad Odours		-		-	111

The T. Eaton & Cos. Store at	Winnipeg		-		112

Royal Art Treasures at the	Toronto	Fair	-		-	ii

Some Obscure Properties of Metal		-		-		ix-x

Montreal Carpenters Strike	-		-		-	xi

In Praise of Architects -		-		-		xii

An Architects Suicide —	—		—		—	xiii

A Canadian Cathedral —		—		—		xiv

Concrete Cottages in Liverpool	-		-		-	xiv-xv





<article title=" Good School Design." author="">Good School Design.

It is worth while to call attention to the design for the Shepard school in St. Louis, of which

plans and an elevation are shown in the extract from Mr. Ittner's report to the St. Louis Board of Education printed in this number. here is an excellent example of good design which is simply the expression of the plan. The entrance, he says, is the only portion of these buildings which receives any effort in the way of ornamentation. This severity is entirely on the score of expense. There is no reason otherwise why every feature should not be made ornamental. But the design is not affected by this question. Whether plain or ornate it is the same and arises from a well disposed plan. We see so much in our school buildings of meaningless gables towers that are expensive as well as meaningless, and windows displaced in the attempt to make an external arrangement with them, that it is satisfactory to find a set of schools which being eminently comfortable inside are made eminently satisfactory outside by simply walling and roofing in the interior arrangement. It is not to be supposed that there is no need for judgement arid an eye for proportion in developing the exterior but, as every designer knows, things seem to fall in rightly together when one is on the right track.

<article title=" Good School Design " author=""> Good School Design.It is the fashion just now to clean up smoke-blackened stone fronts by means of the sand-blast machine. There are those who speak gloomily of the cleaned straw hat and its accelerated decline into dinginess when the natural surface of the straw is disturbed; and they predict a similar fate for the stone front. But the cases do not appear to be the same. The stone surface was never a natural surface. It was a worked surface when the front was new and the present operations merely make it resume that condition. In some kinds of stone a hardened surface is acquired by chemical change. That will form again as before, accompanied no doubt by a similar blackening. The struggle against soot is vain for long. It takes only two or three years to make a front look grimy, and either the nature of our smoke or the nature of our stone makes that grime spread evenly without the chic effect of black and white---- white on the exposed surface of a column and flack where it. retreats, like a drawing washed in by a skilful draughtsman---that makes the characteristic smoke effect of London on its buildings of Portland stone. The cause, a chemical disintegration of the exposed surfaces, must wear away the stone in time and does, in fact, give a rather leprous appearance to some carved figures of Inigo

