<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	7



lamp, while admitting air from without inwards, is at the same time preventive of the exit of flame in the opposite direction, the heat of the flame being taken up by the wire and leaving the flame too cold to ignite the explosive gases on the outside.



As to the proposed thin glass roof enclosure to top of elevator, which it is supposed would burst open on the ascent of a heated column of air or gases from below I do not see that this would act as supposed, because there would be no tendency of the gases to rise in a shaft of any kind unless there were provided at top thereof some initial draught to cause the gases to be got rid of, to pass upwards. Close the roof opening in a chimney flue and immediately all tendency of the flue to draw the smoke towards it would entirely cease.



And again, however unresisting the glass roofing what assurance would there be of a sufficient stress being brought to bear against it to cause it to yield, and during the delay in doing so, the heated air and explosive air would be passing out laterally from the elevator into the adjoining rooms and passages on the several stories of the building.



Walls surrounding elevators should no doubt be built of say 8 inch brick work or of 6 inch concrete reinforced by steel.



The shaft proposed should also he built of brickwork or concrete, and to avoid projecting too far into corridors, might, in a series of adjoining stores or tenements, be made to answer, each shaft for two adjoining buildings where the party wall between the latter would take up say a foot of their depth or thickness and leave only some 12 to 18 inches to project into a corridor, like an ordinary chimney breast.



The horizontal flues leading to the shaft should be of terra cotta, burnt clay or earthenware pipe as used for drainage and the initial hell end of same opening into stairways, etc. be closed with ornamental wire or open metallic ware and thus rendered inoffensive to the sight.

C.	BAILLARGE.







<article title=" INSURANCE INSTITUTE OF TORONTO " author="">INSURANCE INSTITUTE OF TORONTO.

At a meeting of this institute, held in St. George's Hall, on the evening of January 24th, Mr. Edmund Burke, President of the Ontario Association of Architects, read a paper on '' Building Construction,'' giving an account of the conditions of plan and construction necessary to make a building fire-proof, and of the best methods and materials in use at present.

The contents of the paper will appear in a future number of this journal.





<article title=" THE TORONTO BEAUX ARTS CLUB " author="">THE TORONTO BEAUX ARTS CLUB.

'[he architectural students of Toronto have recently started a club which they have called the Beaux Arts. This name, as applied to a club, has, in consequence of the influence which has been exerted by the Ecole des Beaux Arts at Paris upon American architecture, come, on this continent, to he associated especially with high architectural aims.

It may safely he said that upon no less ground than this will the club succeed, but, with this to animate them, the smallness of the number of students required by the profession in Toronto is not a bar to success, but may be its real groundwork, if there is a leading spirit of the right sort among them or they come under the right influence from without, and, being few, work well together.

The officers elected at the meeting for organization were Hon. President, Frank Darling ; Hon. Vice-Presidents, C. H. Acton Bond, W. A. Langton

President, S. Ashton Pentecost ; First Vice-President, W. B Van Egmond ; Second Vice-President, Franklin E. Belfry ; Secretary-Treasurer L. McGill Allan Executive Committee, Clarence Thetford, W. J. Abra, Sidney Paton.

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">

GRANT	HALL, QUEEN'S UNIVERSITY, KINGSTON. --MESSRS. SYMONS AND RAE, ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.



This hall was, as shown by the plan, an addition to the Arts' Building, and, as the name implies, a Memorial to Principal Grant. Its position in the general scheme is shown in the annexed block plan and in the bird's eye view (drawn by a member of the

faculty of Queen's) which is reproduced in one of the illustration sheets.

It is evident that the memorial to Principal Grant is as conspicuously predominant as he was. The Campanile, which is over 200 feet high, is not only the central object of the University group of buildings but forms the main or University avenue entrance.

The group, in one style and of one material, has a harmony, as shown by the bird's eye view, which throws a side-light upon the mess being made, by indifference to harmony, in the far greater opportunity that is offered by the University of Toronto. In plan the memorial building is a galleried hall. The hall seats 700, the gallery 550. The space under the gallery is reserved for an ambulatory and is intended to he the University Hall of Fame, devoted to the reception of memorial tablets, paintings and sculpture. The wide roof is gathered up, at the exposed end into the presentable form of a gable with supporting pavilions, by projecting the body of the hall a little on the end and the ante-rooms on the sides.

In style the later French Romanesque has been followed and all features and details have been studied from some model of that period. The treatment is therefore (as may be seen) scholarly, hut, as the newspaper report of the opening describes it "free from church-mess." In other words it is not a slavish copy, (for the originals were churches), but a practical application of the style to modern uses.

