<doctype type="text">52	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ments per running foot of frontage is not much more than half the ordinary cost for residence streets, and less than half the average of such streets. This is a conspicuous advantage of macadam construction and moderate width for the roadway.

For the front of the lots the trustees of the Macpherson Estate believe in fences, but substantial fences or else hedges. Wood is in fact an ephemeral material and nothing made of it can suggest that idea of durability which is an essential clement in the effect of architecture upon the beholder. To have stood for generations past gives character to architecture, apart from the weathering of time. It is the mere Fact of durability that impresses us. And this impressiveness can be shared by new work which, though it has not stood for a long time, yet suggests by its appearance that it will. Masonry of some kind is the only architectonic material for a fence. Hedges also are satisfactory, as belonging to the ground. But wood is not satisfactory about a house, except as a support for plants. Under this head a rail or two, to support and guard a hedge on the outside, is not amiss. But, rather than wood, no fence is preferable. In the Macpherson Estate this has been practised where the lots rise above thc sidewalk, and the effect is good. On the level (where they have fences) the practice would not be so satisfactory. But it is a middle term between durable fencing and wood ; and it has this to recommend it, that, where there is not a double boulevard, the sidewalk gets the effect, which is so pleasing, of running along, a narrow band of stone or brick, flush with the grass on either side.

In the rear, where fences are necessary, it has been found also necessary to make them or wood, on account of the expense of masonry. But beauty on the inside of the lot is a leading principle in the development of the estate, and instead of the crude post and rail fences, that are so common in Toronto, the architect has made paneled fences, equally pleasant to the eye on both sides, and stained them with creosote stains. With a small portion of the rear fenced off, to make a kitchen yard, the rest is a garden and, where all neighbours equally have had the interior of their land made into a garden, the views from rear windows are as pleasant as those from the front, or more so that a house that faces north can have its living rooms to the south, where they ought to be.

The beautification of the interior of the lots is perhaps the most important rule of all to establish in a neighbourhood ; for it makes aspect planning possible for every house, and prepares the way for variety in placing the houses. Where there is no rule, there is no safety but in looking rigidly upon the respectable street and One's own controllable back yard ; but an understood practice, to which public opinion guarantees conformity, as on the garden side of the London residence blocks makes it possible to go a step farther than they have gone in London, (where the houses are jammed together in rows), and lay out an estate, as the Messrs. Boultbee have done, with an eye to a varied presentation of the fronts to the lines of view.

This last development, which contains all the conditions arrived at before, is shown in what is called the Chestnut Park Estate, formerly the site of Chestnut Park, Sir David Macpherson's residence.

Chestnut Park Road has, at the bottom, the principle

*	See Plan on Illustration Sheet.

 of a crescent; that is to say it serves only its own houses, and through traffic passes it by. People living in Chestnut Park Road, or the short roads that connect it with Roxborough street, will have only such disturbance from carts as is necessary for the supply of their own needs; and street car extension will not change thc character of their property. There ought to he more of such self contained blocks in Toronto.

The other advantage of a crescent road the continually changing presentation of the fronts to the eye

-	-has been retained in the long line of the road from cast to west, by making this part of the road a succession of curves. There is thus, continual variety. The rounded corners have much to do with this. A corner rounded off is of course land given away to the city but liberality in this way is not deprivation if it can he made to improve the lot itself and the outlook from it.

A great part of the variety of the Chestnut Park Estate will lie in the consistently rounded corners. In the first place there is the agreeableness of the curve and the satisfaction of cutting corners; every road is given an easy line in every direction and the sidewalks serve the foot-passenger even elaborately, curving to make short cuts in every direction.* But it is in what is left that the beauty chiefly lies. Between the lines of traffic there are dead spaces, of areas proportioned to the extent to which the corners are rounded. At the top of the most easterly, north and south road, where it joins with Chestnut Park Road, the diagonal of the junction is about 125 ft., and the island formed between the road curves is over 6o ft. on a side. The other islands are of different sizes; but. the least is 27 ft. on a side. So that there is room on every island for a large tree, or a plantation of shrubs. What the results of this will he, in the way of beauty, can he easily imagined—and it all proceeds from the rounded corners. The houses on these corners will naturally have their axis on a diagonal of the crossing and face the islands. The resulting arrangement of the houses in one of the blocks is shown in the plan. It is proposed to fence off a small kitchen yard for each house, and treat the remainder of the lots as gardens. At present this particular block is covered with apple trees, and it will probably remain so in great part.

It should be added that there will be no electric light poles, for the managers of the estate have decided that. for a good residential district gas is preferable, and the telephone poles have been kept off the street, running at the back of the lots, (ultimately it is to be hoped, to go underground).

The place is fast building tip and will not be long before its beauty should appear. It should not. be long either before its example is followed elsewhere ; for the effort to make the Macpherson Estate beautiful has made it a commercial success, and the owners of other estates cannot do better than aim also at a comprehensive scheme, which, by securing for a neighbourhood beauty and refinement, will enhance its value as

property.	____________________







<article title=" CANADIAN COMPANY TO MAKE FIRE APPLIANCES " author="">CANADIAN COMPANY TO MAKE FIRE APPLIANCES.

A company, with $100,000 of capital, has been organized, to deal in fireproofing materials, fire preventive and extinguishing appliances, and devices for safety against fire) such as automatic alarms, automatic sprinklers, etc. Mr. J. A. C. McCuaig, late secretary of the Toronto Board of Fire Underwriters, has accepted the general management



*The resulting circular form at the crossings was not part of the designers intention, but resulted from the natural curves when they were all laid down.

