<doctype type="">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents. but will, nevertheless endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance]







From Inquirer I would be pleased if you will kindly inform me if it is possible to veneer a house with cement blocks, similarly to veneered brick work, so that it would be satisfactory; and if so, would you kindly explain how thc work should be done, also how much cement, in pounds, should be used in one yard of sand, where it is intended to use one of cement, to five of sand?

ANS:	You may veneer your house on exactly the same principles that brick veneering is done; that is tie the blocks well into the frame of the building, by using strong iron ties made of good wire and covered with tar before laying in wall. These ties must be well fastened into the woodwork at one end, and the other end should be laid flat in the mortar joint before the next course of blocks are laid. The cement blocks should not he less than five inches thick and from eight to ten inches wide and may be made from twelve to eighteen inches long. Window and door sills may be cast to suit the thickness of wall and width of openings, and window sills should not be less than four inches thick, Door sills made to such thickness as may suit situations. Lintels, should be made full thickness of walls, and should be arched a little on top, and rebated for top of window or door frame. The window and door jamb block should be also rebated, same as lintel, to accommodate window and door jambs. When the lintels are made segmental on top, the blocks resting on lintel must be made to fit the curve on top, so that all horizontal joints will run in straight lines. This matter may he easily adjusted, when laying out the openings. There must be a good solid stone or concrete foundation under the walls, in order to prevent settlement; for any movement in the foundation will cause the cement block to crack or show open joints. The foundation is an important factor in all veneered work, as well as in solid work. With regard to the proportion of cement to sand, one cubic yard of sand, contains 27 cubic feet and one cubic foot of cement weighs go lbs. very nearly:

therefore, according to the proportions of the several materials you name, 90 pounds of cement will require 5 cubic feet of sand; or nearly 1/5 of a cubic yard. In accordance with this therefore, a cubic yard of sand, will require 5 2/5 of cubic feet of cement or about 488 lbs. It must be borne in mind that Portland cement varies in weight per cubic foot some of the finest cement weighing as much as 100 lbs. per cubic foot. A better method of proportioning cement is by actual measurement. It is easy to measure one pail-ful of cement, and five pail-fulls of sand, or whatever proportion of sand is used. This latter method is the one usually employed by cement workers. One barrel of cement equals 3 1/2 cubic feet. Ties should not be less than 6 feet apart and should be laid in every other course of blocks; or better still, in every course. They should not be laid directly over each other, but placed zig zag in the wall. Lime cement mortar should be used when laying the blocks, and the joint edges of the blocks should he wetted when being laid.

From Carpenter:—Will you please advise me as to a good method of constructing the framework for an ordinary double hung bay window for a frame building?

Ans.: :---There are many ways of doing the work, nearly every builder having his own method, The one



























shown in Fig. 1 is a very good one and made use of by many good workmen. It is simple and not costly. It shows a simple way of arranging jambs and stiles of frame, the stud forming a backing for both frames. The casings inside and out may be made to suit the taste of the builder. The boxes for the weights may be made of any required size. Fig 2 shows how the sil





























may be finished if desired. The head of the window may be finished in the ordinary manner. From these sketches and descriptions Carpenter' should have no trouble in making his window frames and finishing the same in a satisfactory manner.



From young workman:—Kindly inform me as to a good method of laying out the lines for foundation walls.

Ans. To lay out the foundation for a building properly requires great care and usually considerable experience, for it is seldom that the novice will take sufficient time mid pains to have his work accurate and so permanent that it will not be likely to be disturbed by men or teams until the 'lines have been fixed by the building of the walls. One frequently sees a foundation laid out without any more permanent posts or landmarks than a set of light stakes coining up perhaps one or two feet above the ground, to which the mason s lines are secured. Such stakes will soon be leaning in every direction, arid the proper placing of tire lines will be impossible without going over the whole work as at the beginning. It must he remembered that the mason's lines will most likely have to be taken down and replaced several times before the foundations are complete, and one should be able to fix their location definitely at any time. A proper beginning is to fix on two

