<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	55



careless, accidental, or haphazard arrangement of materials. No, there is thought behind it all—sometimes naive and immature, and sometimes even "smelling of the oil" ; but there it is, and the best results are just those upon which the best thought has been expended. If genius is not, as it has been defined, ''an infinite capacity for taking pains," at any rate in architecture, it is very nearly akin to an infinite capacity for taking thought. The best thought, however, does not advertise itself, and the best work is not necessarily that which first arrests our attention. How often has it been our experience in the past, when going to a place a second or a third time, to come across some excellent building which altogether escaped our notice on a previous visit. Rely upon it, such a building will repay careful examination. Do not be misled by the apparent simplicity of much of the best work, for this very simplicity, if not the outcome of profound thought, is the triumph of a practised genius. Through the Complex to the simple is almost a law of mental evolution. Do not, therefore, fall into the error of a certain member of a building committee, who remarked to the assessor in a competition "I cannot understand why you have put So-and-So's design first. It is so simple—anybody could draw a plan like that." When it was pointed out to him how difficult the other competitors had found their task, and how complex and incoherent some of their designs were, it began to dawn upon him that perhaps there was more in Mr. So-and-So's design than met the eye of a casual member of a building committee, When you are making a study of a subject, it is upon the work as a whole that you should concentrate your critical acumen. L)o Do not allow your attention to be diverted by attractive or suggestive bits, and do not wander off into the by— paths of archaeology.

When you study mouldings, for instance, or similar features of a building, do not regard it as an opportunity for speculating what date, style, or period it belongs to; but regard it from the point of view of its true purpose and meaning. In the case of the mouldings, consider not merely their beauty of form, but their effectiveness in affording shadow and protection. Archaeology has its place, but it should he kept there; it often usurps the interest and attention which ought to be given to the example as architecture. The glamour of historical romance has served to invest many a building with a purely factitious value. The accidental effects of age and decay appealing to the sentiment of the man pervert the judgment of the artist, to his own detriment and that of his art. This same sentimental halo, hanging around all that is ancient, is responsible for the many imitations,

 forgeries, and effectations which have so long dogged the footsteps and hindered the progress of genuine architecture, and which in some cases have proceeded to such an extreme of absurdity as to tempt men to forswear the past altogether, and to rely upon their own creative faculty to invent something altogether new. This is the other extreme of folly, for folly it is to think that our inherited traditions can be safely ignored, or that buildings which have stood the test of time and criticism have nothing to teach us. They are, on the contrary, as mines of wealth in which, digging deep, we shall unearth many a hidden treasure. They put before us problems- and their successful solution. They portray many various methods and effective combinations, suitable forms adapted to different materials, varied textures serving a definite purpose, and other elements of beauty and strength which, if not always entirely realized, are vet present as an ideal which we may all study with advantage and strive to express in our own work. So I say to you, my youthful fellow-students, steer an even keel, if you can, between the Scylla of a superstitious and sentimental regard for the past and the Charbdis of a contemptuous indifference to all its works. If an example is merely old, leave it alone ; if it is artistically good, approach it with all reverence and, examining its structure within and without, endeavour to discover the secret of its charm.

Do not make the mistake of supposing that you will necessarily be able to define the exact nature of the secret. There are principles of architecture as absolutely reliable, and yet as vague and ill-defined, as much ''in the air " as the laws which govern musical progressions or the methods which underlie true literary form. in no one of these cases can the subtle secrets of the art he distilled in the form of express and mechanical rules. If we desire that our own powers may he moulded and guided on true lines, we must, as it were, live in the storehouses, continually absorbing the spirit of the masters as embodied and expressed in their works. Centuries of experiment and criticism, generation after generation of trained perception and cultured intelligence, have gone to determine what is good, what is beautiful, what is true. Shall we throw away the result of all this? Rather let us recognize and admit that our knowledge should he based upon the experience of those who have gone before, and our taste trained and refined in the study of the cultured monuments of the past. As Professor Clausen has said in reference to paintings, "The work of our own times may lose its freshness and interest in a few years, while the older works still hold us with an increasing charm." There are many ancient buildings in our own and every land which hold us with an ever-increasing charm a charm attributable to their simplicity and self-restraint, their sincerity and directness of purpose, the straightforward and appropriate way in which they declare their object and intention. Every such building will he found to possess a vitality of its own, which so far from ignoring traditional methods, has taken them up and carried them on a stage further. So now the proportions and values which have determined good effects in the past must hold good to-day. The needs of the time, it is true, call for special and characteristic expression. We may have to readjust. to combine afresh; but every new departure, if it is to he true and lasting, must take the old as its starting point, the past as its basis, that which has been already accomplished as its foundation.





<article title=" MR. CARNEGIE ENTERTAINED BY BUILDERS " author="">MR. CARNEGIE ENTERTAINED BY BUILDERS.

A noon reception was given at the Builders' Exchange, Cleveland to Mr. Carnegie on March 9. It is said that the largest crowd ever in the Exchange was present. Mr. Carnegie having been presented to the members of the Exchange by the President, in a complimentary speech, replied, In the course of his speech, Mr. Carnegie said

''I am very glad to see you all together here competing for trade. It is the best of systems. Many people think that competitors are bitter enemies. But it is not so. I have some of the closest friends who were formerly my competitors.

''If a man be true to the judge within he has nothing to fear. That is a great principle in life, but there is one other as great, and that is, a man does not live unless he walks through life surrounded by a circle of friends."

''A man hates only those he doesn't know. I knew my competitors and among them were my best friends. Get together and learn those whom you would hate and the world will be a good place for you to live in. I am a great believer in a young fellow's doing something for himself. That acquaintance with his neighbors, his consultation and exchange of ideas with them is the first thing I would have a young man do for himself. It is the best thing also, one of the foundations of life itself.

''At the close I want to thank you for the pleasure which you have given me this noon. As long as I live I think I shall remember this meeting."

Following the speech-making there was a period of hand-shaking. All were given an opportunity of grasping him by the hand, and for many he had a pleasing word. After the reception he attended a luncheon given in his honor by the directors of the exchange, and entertained the latter most happily for upwards of an hour with anecdote and conversation.

