<doctype type="text">40	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of the form of that room which I think is of very great size; some 250 by 150 feet. It is I think almost a perfect oval. I don't know of course anything about the material of which the walls are formed hut I presume they are of some material fairly absorbent. But, whatever may be the truth as to the best forum of chamber, we may seldom have the opportunity of devoting our efforts entirely to its attainment. We have all, however, within our reach the means by which we can overcome imperfections, and for the knowledge of what these are and how to apply them we are very much indebted to Professor Anderson. I have much pleasure in moving a vote of thanks to Mr. Anderson for his valuable paper. (Applause.)

The President: Are there not forums of rooms in which it would be utterly impossible to reduce the echo sufficiently to make it a good speaking room?

Mr. Anderson: Of course there are some forums of rooms that are quite unsuitable for public speaking. There is no question but that a room that focuses the sound at some particular point is going to prove detrimental to the hearing. That room could not be made perfect but it could be very much improved, if we take the room and succeed in absorbing the sound we shall certainly reduce it. There are rooms that from their forum would not be capable of being brought into a perfect condition, but we can always improve a room which has decidedly bad reverberation. Improvement is all that we can hope for in a room that has been already constructed and where principles have been obviously violated. But the question of form is a very important one; perhaps quite as important as the question of immaterial. It is a question that I have entirely avoided iii this paper. I had not time to consider both of them. All I can say now is that a room that is bad cannot be made entirely good, but it can be improved.

Mr. Pearson:	The room used as an example is for orchestral music; the time there is 2.32 seconds. For speaking what should be the time?

Mr. Anderson:	As low as possible. There is no object in having any decided reverberation for a speaker. That means that a room suitable for an orchestra is not suitable for a speaker. I might say in this connection that data have been determined for piano music, by making a number of tests in the new Conservatory of Music. The figure arrived at was 1.08 seconds. That was arrived at by tests conducted there with a similar apparatus to this. The judges were the President of the Conservatory and several members of time faculty. Nothing was said about the apparatus; they simply decided when it was right and when it was not. Curtains were draped around the room until a certain stage was reached. One of the faculty played a number 'of airs on the piano and they decided whether there was too much or not sufficient reverberation. The rooms were tested one after the other and a figure of 1.08 was arrived at. That is only about half for orchestral music. For speaking the reverberation should be very slight. A hail that has a reverberation of more than one-half a second is unsuitable for the best effects in speaking.

Mr. Pearson:	What would you consider the best form of room for speaking and for orchestral purposes?

Mr. Anderson:	I do not think there is any form better than time rectangular for either purpose.

Mr. Burke: Mr. President,—In connection with Lime forum of room I remember my late Principal,

Mr. Langley, stating that it is practically impossible to make an octagonal room suitable for speaking. He had built a little chapel on Albert Street of octagonal form and it was never good for speaking in. I also remember a church in Montreal, built on the octagon plan, which was never satisfactory. They put in wires, curtains, and galleries and never could make it thoroughly satisfactory. I have always understood that time forum of the Greek theatre is considered the best for speaking; that is a semi-circular building with a straight wall at the back, such as time hall that Professor Anderson spoke about. 1mm my own experience I have found that a semi-circle or a little more than half the circle, with a flat wall at the back, is practically perfect for speaking purposes.

Mr. Anderson:	Let me point out that such a building would be practically rectangular. As a rule it is only time seating that is semi-circular. I would not say that a rectangular building is perfect or that the other is perfect, but I think that the semi circular building with a wall at time back would be equally good.

Mr. Burke:	The Jarvis street Baptist church is a little more than a semi-circle and you can almost hear a whisper when the speaker is on the platform On the other hand it is not as good for choral music as it ought to be. Everything seems to conic right at you; there is no reverberation,

Mr. Pearson:	Making the second column, plaster on lath, are those figures constant?

Mr. Anderson:	Approximately. There would be small variations depending on the thickness of the plaster and its kind amid so on. But those quantities are fairly constant. Hard oak would differ slightly from prime but not very greatly. Those differences are comparatively small and in any ease it would simply lie with the architect to obtain such data as lie could of various forms of material used and keel) them for reference.







<article title=" MISSION FURNITURE." author="">MISSION FURNITURE.



Art in house furnishings never fares so hard in this country as when it tries to assume the virtue of honesty and ax old the appearance of deceit. Everybody whose memory runs back a third of a century will recall tile dreadful shamming which overwhelmed the "Eastlake" movement, and a glimpse at the catalogues of" mission' timings upon to be found at every turn the catalogue--brings to mind the old horrors when sham  edge— pins and tendon ends were glued on almost any 1)1 e for decorative purposes. Eastlake things went the way of all the would, not so much because they were ugly, or because they came to be made by people without any thing genuine i,~ their natures——such



people as way the flag and make a loud noise on state occasions and call their efforts patriotism but because change of fashion ruled them out  of out might well respect the founders of the missions, who with crude tools and at plenty of cost of hard labor, made limbic ring furniture that brought some degree of comfort to a simple, honest h mid life. If their chairs had leg's two or three times too I large, it is still easy to expect the maker for doing a thing them lie probably regretted at the time. The piece of musquite that he must use, could only be reduced to a



 size with his crude tools by an amount of labor which he could not spare from his other duties, so he cut it to his lengths and used it is it was, any notion of a vain display of profusion and indifference to cost of materials being farthest from his thoughts He then framed and joined the work as well as the limitations of his tools his skill and mime permitted, and while he rested thanked God for what lie had done and what lie had taught his follows to do One might take honest pleasure in having a bit of furnishing that came from such sturdy hands, but when it comes to most of the bitter day stuff that is advertised as Spanish Missmoim furniture stuff that is ground out by modern machinery and put together without intelligence, stuff in which structural skill is conspicuously absent, and silly profusion of material and sham constructive details most prominent, we submit that the degree of simplicity that with indifferent success it retains, ought not to save it Yet, despite

the fact that most of this stuff us lacking in all the qualities of quaintness and sturdiness the it distinguished the originals, it will



probably have its vogue until fashion decrees its undoing. Western Architect.

