<doctype type="contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	- -	- -	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO, CANADA.





AUGUST, 1905.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Club	House for the Royal Canadian Yacht Club on Toronto Island plans and a View.—Messrs. Sproatt & Rolph, Architects.

Cheap Cottages from English Sources.







ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

View of the Royal Canadian Yacht Club House, Toronto.

Interior Views of the Royal Canadian Yacht Club House, Toronto.



CONTENTS

Editorial	—	—	—	—	—	—	113—114

Garden	Cities and Suburbs	—	—	— —	115

 The blank Side of Tail Buildings -					-		-	116

 he New Trinity Building		—	—		 —		—	116

Our Illustrations	—	— —			— —			117

Book Review	-	-	-		-	-		118

Sand Lime Brick -	-	 — —			 — —			119

Rules for the Testing of New		Materials	in		Construction		 —	119

 Specifications of Fire Escapes		-	—		-		-	120

 Curing Concrete Blocks	 —	  —		—		—		121

Architects Registration Bill for Great Britain	— —	122

Progress in Architecture in tile United States	—	122—123

The R. I. B. A. Rules for Architectural Competitions	— 124

Montreal Notes	- .	- -	-	- 125

The Living Room	- -	- -	-	- ii

Wooden Water Pipes	—		—		— —	—	—	iv

Time—Proof — — —				—		 —	 —	ix

Artificial Stone Coloring	 —		—	—	  —	  -		- x

Oxford Art Lectures — - —					—	—	-	xi-xii

Hardwood Supplies in the United				States	  —	 —	 —	xiii

The Noblest Art -		-		-	  -		-	xiv

How Would You Like It		—		-	-	-	-	xiv

The Canadian White		Company		-	 -	 -	 -	xv



The Sanitation of Muskoka <article title=" The Sanitation of Muskoka " author="">

The Ontario Board of Health held its quarterly meeting at Port Caning in Muskoka, and

made a tour of inspection in the lakes to consider the question of their preservation from unsanitary influences. There is but one danger to general sanitariness, not only in these lakes hut in others of our numberless lakes which are surrounded by camps and cottages with a summer population. The danger lies in the defilement of the water, and safety is in the general understanding that nothing should be thrown into it. The land is the proper place for the disposal of wastes. What cannot be burned must be distributed on or under the surface of the land. There may be agencies in the water as well as on land to eat up impurities, but man, who is not one of them, cannot avoid taking part in the work, where the water is concerned, whereas he can avoid it on the land. There should be a public opinion created as soon as possible against throwing things into the water. Not only drainage, slops and laundry water, but other refuse of all kinds should he kept out. The Muskoka Lakes' Association and other clubs of the kind should supply information to their members as to the best methods of sanitation about the house, in simple and in elaborate camps. The Board of Health is always ready to give information on the subject. And there are hooks (such as that. reviewed in this number) which treat of the matter. There is no reason for ignorance. As summer camping is a national fashion with its it ought to be national forte.



There is an advertising sign set up on a little island in the Lachine Rapids, which attracted the attention of a Press party from the United States, who did not rest until they had gone to the manufacturers

Taking Pains to Come Under a Boycott.

<article title=" Taking Pains to Come Under a Boycott " author="">of the article advertised to find out how the advertising board was setup there. Having heard an account of the act of heroism by which the sign was conveyed to the island, the members of the Press party soon made copy of the story, with the comment that ''this spirit of initiative does credit to the advertising department of the Company." On the principle that every man must do his best according to his light we cannot refuse to commend the advertising department, the Press party, and all concerned but we wish them more light. How, for instance, would a Lachine Rapids full of signs of the unnecessaries of life appeal to the Press party as the particular plum of an excursion? The pluck of the men who put up the sign was admirable, but was the thing aimed at worth the risk of their lives? Fortunately they came hack safely, but it is fortunate also that an upset that washed them up on the island—boat, sign and men in separate parcels—so nearly brought "the fever called living" to an end with them that the initiative of that advertising department may perhaps be no further followed.



in another column will be seen a set of rules adopted by the Bureau of Buildings for the Borough of

Manhattan for testing the acceptability of new building materials. It is not stated how far the proposed test will be applied to materials other than those used in buildings erected for the municipality. But it seems a reasonable thing that, since the field of invention has extended to building materials, a municipality should he in a position to decide whether new materials that it is asked to authorize will fulfill the requirements of its building law. it is not enough that its officials should be in a position only to shrug their shoulders and point to a by-law which takes no account of novelty. There

Municipal Testing Plants. 

<article title=" Municipal Testing Plants " author="">