<doctype type="text">180	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



pugnance to the world and partly from love of it. They would willingly convert the world to a better way of thinking and hope by exalting a true standard of taste and originality in design, (but it is not original), to bring about this consummation.

They have brought something about. We owe to them the wave of sham simplicity that is sweeping over us, and sickening us of things good in themselves because they are thrust upon us as the whole of art and because they too have become shams.

Is not this enough to convince members of the Arts and Crafts bodies, whose artistic conscience is involved in their course, that it is a wrong course? The living present demands from us something more than this hankering after the conditions of a dead past. We have our own problems and our own conditions of production, and the simple life is to be found in tackling these. For artistic simplicity does not consist in crudeness, or rudeness, or in the absence of what is rich. Simplicity is directness, and in directness is the character of true art.

For the application of this principle there are many problems awaiting the Society of Applied Art. There is a simple problem to begin with in the radiator—a small affair, easily mastered. It will not do to evade the difficulty by concealing the monster behind a grille which will retain warmed air round the radiator and prevent it parting with its heat, which it only does in proportion as the air is relatively cool around it. The design of a radiator is a question of the fixture itself that it may stand forth naked but, (like Adam), clad in native worth and honour. People shrink from the radiator because it is cast; but so is an altar-cross, the cynosural ornament of a church. It is the mishandling of cast work that is at the root of its offence, and if the Society of Applied Art would study its proper utilitarian treatment, they would do a real service in Canada; for cast metal is prominent in our contrivances for heating. One would be glad to return to the old cast frame and banging grate, if we could have the frame made an ornament instead of an eyesore. The modern movable basket under a flue in a cavernous fireplace is not in the same class for giving out heat, which after all is the function of the fireplace. Then there are stoves, a large field of effort and not at all a hard one to hoe; for we are not limited to metal nor is there any limitation in shape. We may have close stoves and open stoves; stoves of metal; stoves of tiles, porcelain, soapstone and doubtless many other materials, alone or in combination with metal. We may have little stoves in the corner; stoves beneath a mantle shelf; large stoves a storey high, with an open fireplace below and chambers for hot air above. And as for decoration— here is a large field for development; with a plastic material, and in the very situation for adornment, since it is the literal focus of the room and all eyes turn towards it in moments of repose.

It would be interesting to go through the whole house in search of objects which lack the proper application of art; but we must leave it for the present. The subject is certainly one that would open up if it received attention.

We recommend it to the care of the Society of Applied Arts, confident that it will take care of them in return; for they arc much more likely to grow and be great if they breathe more of our modern air and less of the atmosphere of dead centuries.

BRITISH FIRE PREVENTION COMMITTEE TEST NO. 99. <article title=" BRITISH FIRE PREVENTION COMMITTEE TEST NO. 99." author="">

We have received Red Book No. 99 of the British Fire Prevention Committee, giving an account of a fire test with a 2½ inch partition of porous terra cotta hollow tiles erected by the National Fireproofing Company of Pittsburg, Pa.

The tiles were 12 in. by 12 in. by 21/8 in. thick with three vertical perforations, 3 in. by in., in each tile. The tiles were soaked in water and built up with a mortar of 1 cement to 2 sand so as to fit exactly against the floor, walls, and ceiling of the brick testing hut (10 ft. wide and 8 ft. 10 in. high), and divide off a portion for the introduction of fire. The partition was plastered, on the fire side, two coats, with mortar containing a handful of hair and a bushel of atheistic to one yard of clean sand and half a yard of grey lime. By means of gas, introduced into the chamber under regulation, heat was applied for two hours and a half, gradually increasing to 1980° Fahrenheit, at which height the temperature was maintained for 50 minutes. Water was then applied, through an observation hole, from a steam fire-engine, for 2 minutes.

The finishing- coat of plaster flaked off during the first five minutes of the test ; the first coat remained in position until water was applied, when most of it was washed away. The partition bulged 2 in. towards the fire, and several cracks appeared on the side away from the fire. The face of one tile on the fire side split off. The ceiling of the hut, which was made of joists in contact with one another, with lime mortar in the joints and asbestic plaster on the surface, were destroyed to a depth of ½ to 2 in., leaving the head of the partition free, so that smoke passed over it but neither fire, smoke, nor water, passed through the partition itself, which remained in position at the conclusion of the test. Part of the cement mortar in the joints had been washed out by the stream of water.

The official verdict on the test is as follows :—'' This test indicates that it is possible to provide partitions 2½ in. thick, (2 1/8 in. slabs and 3/8 in. plastering), having a length of 10 ft. and a height of 8 ft. 10 in., that will prevent the passage of flame and smoke from a fire burning for two and a half hours on the plastered side of the partition, raising the temperature to 1,980" Fahr., and then prevent the passage of water from a steam fire engine jet."

<article title=" BUILDING FOR THE TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author="">

BUILDING FOR THE TORONTO BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

At a recent meeting of this Exchange the question of erecting a structure of their own was brought up again ; and steps were taken which it is stated will bring the project to an issue in the course of the coming year.

	THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATIONS.<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATIONS " author="">

The Province of Quebec Association of Architects will hold its Annual Meeting at Quebec on January 25th. The Ontario association will meet in Toronto on January 16th. The business of the Annual Meeting will take place on the afternoon of the 16th. The following day will he devoted to reading and discussing papers. At 11 a.m. Prof. P. E. Nobbs, of McGill University, will read a paper on the Official Architecture of European Capitals; at 2.45 p.m. Mr. Owen Brainard, C. E., of New York, will give one on Fire-Proof Construction; at 4.40 Mr. W. A. Langton will speak of City Planning-, in connection with the presentation of the report of a special committee appointed to procure a plan of improvements to the City of Toronto and an exhibition and description of the plan. The public are invited to all proceedings on the 17th.

