<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	99



<article title=" CONCRETE BUILDING BLOCKS THAT DEFY

DETECTION.

" author="">CONCRETE BUILDING BLOCKS THAT DEFY

DETECTION.

This is the seductive heading of a note in an American journal, which goes on to remark upon the uniform colour of ordinary concrete blocks " which detracts, in the eyes of some prospective purchasers, from their value as a material for making houses." Colouring matter unfortunately weakens the concrete, but " lately," our American contemporary announces a new material has been found, which, when mixed with thc concrete, will produce an almost perfect imitation of the stone that is used as a sample." Granite and Indiana limestones appear to be equally imitable by the use of this new material, and so perfectly that at a few inches' distance even, the imitation cannot be detected from the original." It concludes therefore that '' the time has come when persons of moderate means will be able to build imposing houses at less than one-sixth the cost of building them of real stone.''

With the highest respect for our contemporary, and without ever having seen these imitations, it is still possible to affirm confidently that these imposing houses will impose on nobody as being built of either granite or Indiana limestone. One can stare by the hour at the marbles of St. Mark's at Venice, and enjoy them the more for seeing them often, and vet one never turns the head to look at scagliola. There is no shock of surprise received at finding one of the marble columns in the Toronto City Hall with half its face off, showing its cementitions core ? Nobody ever thought for an instant that they were marble. Yet if there is a good imitation of marble it is there. These imitations are in their way a wonder---only surpassed 1w the wonder that they should ever be made, for they have not the essential beauty of the substance they imitate, and so far from exalting the object they are intended to adorn they degrade it below the level it would assume if finished in its own humble material.

It is a common place now that every building material has its own character that success in designing with it is to be met. by letting that character appear, and not by trying to get the characteristics of another substance. What then is the matter with concrete that it is not pleasing in the mass. It is not its uniformity of colour. There is nothing unpleasing about the uniform colour of roughcast work or even whitewash. And we may feel sure that the prospective purchaser who found a uniform colour in concrete blocks detective of its value as a material for making houses is the same man who is so powerfully attracted by the uniform colour of pressed brick. The quality of the  natural colour of cement is unpleasing and that no doubt is the whole difficulty. If the colour can be made right we shall probably think little about its uniformity, or of requiring blocks of concrete to look like blocks of stone in order to be acceptable.

I low to affect I lie colour of concrete without affecting the strength of the cement is the question. Colouring matters not otherwise suitable for the aggregate have an unsatisfactory effect upon the strength of the concrete, and perhaps it is as well they have. If every man could work his will on concrete in the way of colour, the thought of what might result is not without its terrors. Coloured aggregate would no doubt be sufficient if it could be seen through the bloom of cement that lies on the outside of the castings.

This, being very thin, cannot endure forever, so that an old concrete building, like other old buildings, is likely to have a charm of age in the improved colour and greater interest its surface will acquire by the action of the weather iii the course of years. If we do not want to wait for that, and must imitate something, we can imitate the action of time by scrubbing the bloom off with a steel brush, (in the case of blocks, by machinery), so exposing the aggregate and getting a characteristic surface with colour.

Concrete blocks of this kind will look even less like stone than those do which defy detection, but they will make a good concrete block wall.





<article title=" THE LIFE OF A SKY-SCRAPER " author="">THE LIFE OF A SKY-SCRAPER.

This very live question has been investigated by the New York Herald without positive results, but with a strong presumption in favor of a much longer life than is necessary in this day of constant change, where even a million dollar sky-scraper may be regarded as a temporary structure, likely in time not to be worthy of its site. However this is reckoning- for a period of some length of time, and it is generally conceded that, if a steel building- is safe, it is safe for a very long time. But it' it is not safe, who can tell how long-——in fact, how short—the time may be before its collapse.

It is not a question of initial strength, but of subtle and secret disintegration. Danger from vibration, corrosion, and electrolysis do not announce themselves

except by results, and if anyone	responsible for a building

of this kind is disposed to apprehension he is abundantly supplied with opportunity.

As a matter of fact there is not thought to be real danger from vibration in the ordinary condition of steel office buildings, and corrosion and electrolysis can both be met. by sufficient insulation, and are so met in the care that is taken now-a-days in the erection of a sky

scraper. Every inch of steel	 protected 1w paint or

concrete. Even the interior of columns is filled in with concrete. The steel work itself is six times as strong as it need he. It is estimated that no wind that. blows could lay it low, except as it does a tree, by tearing up its roots. And what wind could tear up the foundations of a building fitted into ground which is loaded on three sides with other buildings ; fitted into the rock very often, thirty feet or more below the surface.

Yet of all the authorities consulted by the Herald not one ventures to give a positive assurance of safety without a qualifying '' "if." '' Safety depends not upon ordinary but upon extraordinary conditions of care not, that is to say, upon sound calculation in the architect's office and good material upon the works, such as would, with ordinary workmanship, answer for the safety of a stone or brick building. Safety in the bands of the workman. He has a responsibility such as he never had before, and the if upon which so much hangs refers to him. Will he rise to the occasion ? Will he get above the idea of merely working between whistles and interest himself in his responsibilities ? The skilled artisan of the day before machinery, whose supercession by machine feeders is the subject of so much regret, was supposed to take a personal interest in his work because of its dependence on his personal care. Here then in the personal care that. the structure and protection of steel buildings require, is the way out of stupid toil and into personal interest in his work for

