<doctype type="text">136	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



character of the park. We in Montreal are all very proud of our Mount Royal Park, and I should like to use it as an illustration of what I have endeavored to explain to you. We are not troubled here as to what is the chief feature of the park. The park includes the whole of the top of Mount Royal and much of its side slopes, and I think I will not be disputed in saying that it is naturally one of the finest, if not the finest city park in America. Nothing we can do can change the dominant feature of the park, and yet there is just as much care necessary in treating this park to bring out its magnificent possibilities, as would be required to lay out a park on level ground, indeed, greater care is required, for there is always the temptation to make a show so that people will see that something is being done, whereas the most pleasing way would be to have everything done in such a way that one would suppose that nature herself was responsible. I think that you will all agree that the general design for Mount Royal Park is excellent. The drives being located in such a way that they ascend the mountain by incredibly easy grades, and at the same time exhibit the views from the various parts of the mountain to the best advantage. As time goes on, Nature will with what assistance is being given her cover some of the scars made in building the drives, while plans have already been asked for a Lookout and Café on the mountain to replace the present inharmonious structures. We might well spend the entire evening on Mount Royal al one, considering the design for the drives, how they were laid out by the late Mr. Olmstead, to take advantage o every view and finally culminate in that grand and impressive view to be had from the Lookout. How the



Lookout could be best constructed to form an important

part of our main feature, without intruding too much of its own personality. How the cutting of a few trees here and there would open up important vistas, and the planting of others would increase the beauty of the park. But it certainly would be questionable politeness on my part to devote so much time to our own park, and aside from this, there are a number of other p arks which I want to just touch upon.

The Plains of Abraham at Quebec, which were set aside as a public park a short time ago, present an unusual opportunity of making a fine public park of great interest to the general public of not only the whole of Canada, but the United States as well. Nothing can prevent the magnificent views obtainable from these Plains from being the great characteristic feature of the Park, but the whole Park is so bound up in the History of this continent that the opportunity of designing the Park in such a way as to perpetuate this history, would seem to be much more interesting than to lay it out as an ordinary Park, with clumps of trees dotted about, and the whole cut up with walks and drives. Almost any town or city can have just as good flower beds and shrubs, just as well made walks and drives, as can be had on the Plains of Abraham, but few other places can command such magnificent views and to no other park can the history of the Plains of Abraham be given. Therefore it is not difficult to decide that we must provide drives and walks along the mighty precipice, (up which Wolfe scrambled with his army), in order that we may obtain the views, but as the chief pleasure of this Park will be derived from that portion of it along the precipice, the rest of the drive might well be confined to the borders of the Park,

leaving a vast military park in the centre. In the laying out of the Park and in the nomenclature used everything might be done with the object of perpetuating the valor of the two armies who struggled here for the control of the continent, In this Park flowers, trees and shrubs of all kinds must be considered as subordinate to the general design. Trees and shrubs there must be to give shade and to give form to the design, but they should only be used in such a manner as to make the design more effective, and not scattered over the Park.

 Where water is present to a large extent in the Park, it is almost always pleasing to make this water a chief feature of the Park or at least that portion of the Park where the water occurs. There is a particularly good example of this in Boston in the Back Bay Fens. This land, formerly overflowed by every tide and alternating between a beautiful pond and an illflavored marsh, has been changed into a beautiful park by the building of a dam so that the water is retained at the same level. In this Park the water has been made use of to a Very pleasing extent. Thc drives as well as the walks have all been laid out so as to make this waterscape as effective as possible from different points, and the planting further carries out this pleasing effect by a particularly pleasing skyline, which, as it is reflected into the water, becomes doubly important. The Kew Gardens in England, are remarkable for the beautiful manner in which the water views are treated, and this is mostly due to effective planting. Another Park which includes a great deal of water, and which promises to be the most beautiful waterway Park, is a Park situated at Stratford, Ont. The Park Board there has been unusually fortunate in securing the land along a wide stream from the centre of the City to an outlying Park a quarter of a mile distant. This stream of water is not large, but owing to a dam which is within the Park property, the width of the sheet of water varies from 150 feet to 600 feet, so that the drives along its edge should be very effective. In this Park the planting must be one of the chief features as upon the skyline with its corresponding reflections and the framing in of vistas, will depend much of the beauty of the Park.

In The West where the parks must necessarily be located upon the open prairie, and where at the best the open surface is only partly rolling, it is perhaps more difficult to decide upon the chief character of the Park, but in one example I have taken the open plain itself. The Park is of some three hundred acres in extent, and it seems to me that to endeavor to make this open plain more effective would be better than to attempt to obtain a park which would have for its chief feature the woods or any modification of the topography of the ground which could be made ; but to render this plan the most pleasing some contrast was obviously necessary. Therefore I suggest an entrance directly into the large formal court which would have for its chief feature a water basin 600 ft in length. This court was entirely shut in from the rest of the Park by a formal circle, hidden again on the outside by an irregular planting of trees. Within this court everything was formal and flowering shrubs and flowers and bedding plants are intended to form a part of its decoration. The whole formal court is made perfectly level, and in doing this the far side is raised four or five feet above the surrounding Park, and by terracing up this

