<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	76



	<article title=" MONTREAL JUNIOR	ARCHITECTURAL 

ASSOCIATION.

" author="">MONTREAL JUNIOR	ARCHITECTURAL 

ASSOCIATION.

The members of the above met in the rooms of the

P.	Q. A. A., 5 Beaver Hall square, on Wednesday, April 26th, to consider the adoption of thc constitution previously draughted. Mr. Cecil Burgess presided.

It was explained that since the previous meeting the Council of the P. Q. A. A. had evinced much interest in the formation of the Junior Society, and for the more complete union of all branches of the profession in the Province were anxious that the juniors should place themselves in as close touch as possible with the. Association. It was therefore suggested that the name of the society should be the Sketching Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects; that they should always have as president someone who should meet with the approval of the Council of the P. Q. A. A.; and that they should hold their meetings in the rooms of the P. Q. A. A., which would he put at their disposal free of charge. These suggestions having ken incorporated in the constitution it was approved by the meeting.

The first visit of the Sketching Club took place on Saturday, April 29th, when the members, on the invitation of Prof. P. E. Nobbs, met at the library of McGill University, The architectural department o the library was examined, and tickets admitting to study there were presented to all members of the club. Prof. Nobbs then gave a short address, which we publish on another page, n the "Value of the Study of Old Work.'' This was illustrated by lantern slides and by a large number of examples of measured drawings which were hung around the lecture room. At the close of the address the collections of architectural casts and photographs were examined. The Sketching Club proposes to work during the summer on the measuring of old and interesting work in the city and neighborhood of Montreal, and a prize of $40 in books on architecture has been offered by Prof. Nobbs for the best set of drawings of such work.

	CONCORDIA	SALUS.

<article title=" MONTREAL		BUILDERS' EXCHANGE " author=""> MONTREAL		BUILDERS' EXCHANGE.

The activity in the building trade in this city, noticed in the last issue of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, is proceeding with undiminished vigor, and has awakened in its train renewed interest in the Montreal Builders' Exchange.

The directors have determined to make the Ex change a practical factor in matters affecting the building trades. They feel that it is not enough to have comfortable, central quarters where members may casually drop in for a chat and a smoke, and thus to reduce the character of the Exchange merely to the social aspects of a club. By all means friendly intercourse is to be encouraged; but building exchanges must aim at something more definite and practical as the outcome of such intercourse. Several of the largest exchanges in the United States and Canada have achieved what enthusiastic pioneers of builders' exchanges had proclaimed possible namely, the formation of a regular habit of all, or at least a majority of members being "on change" at the

prescribed noon hour, and allowing no other engagements to intrude on that hour. It can be done, and has been done by determination and united effort; but will never be accomplished by half-hearted apathy and indifference to the exchange.

The attitude of Montreal architects towards the exchange is also difficult to comprehend. Either from prejudice or some fancied breach of professional etiquette, they have hitherto held aloof from the Montreal exchange, although the most friendly relations exist between the two bodies in other Canadian and American cities, where their representatives are regularly on hand, willing, and even anxious to discuss plans and adjust contracts on the floor of the various exchanges. It is not for want of cordiality on the part of the Montreal directors, who have time and again extended the most friendly invitations to them for closer intercourse and a more cordial attitude. Surely it is as much to the advantage of the architects as to that of the contractors that a free and amicable interchange of views should be the keynote of future relations!

The directors have recently appointed a permanent cut secretary, who will be at the disposal of all members, to look after their interests and to give careful consideration to their suggestions. It is their earnest hope and ultimate aim to see the Builders' Exchange as it should he, a rallying point where all the various branches of the building trades—represented even where they have already their own special trade organizations-----may meet around a common centre as their natural home.

J.	H. LAHER, Secretary.

[Friendly relations may and do exist between architects' societies and builders' exchanges, and points concerning the conduct of business which require settlement are settled by a conference of representatives, but precisely what is meant by representatives being ''regularly on hand,'' or by the discussion of plans and the adjustment of contracts ''on the floor of the various exchanges'' is not apparent, for certainly, in the ordinary sense of these expressions, it is news that anything of the kind takes place in Canada.—Ed.]





<article title=" BUILDING IN MONTREAL " author="">BUILDING IN MONTREAL.

Building operations in Montreal during the month of April showed a very large aggregate both in the value of the structures started and the number of permits issued by the city building inspector. The following table gives a good idea of the conditions

	  April permits	1905 	1904.

	New buildings	$68,001	$428,243

	Alterations	98,347	67,595

	New building permits	158	111

	Alteration permits	91	81

	Increase in value of buildings		$219,758

	Increase in value of alterations		30,750



The building operations for this year are likely to surpass anything in the history of the city, according to the records of Inspector Chausse's office. The first four months of the year show the following gratifying figures:

New buildings—

	January	$ 27,490

	February	100,213

	March	370,450

	April	658,001

	Total value	$1,156,156

Alterations—

	January	$ 10,380

	February	21,235

	March	119,230

	April	98,347

	Total value	$249,192

	Total permits to May 1, 1905	479

	Total permits to May 1, 1904	349

