<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	75



clown a lot 01 cement sidewalk in the country town in which I live. I am to receive eleven cents superficial foot; and, as I am not well posted on this kind of work would like a few pointers on the subject, also a description of the tool or tools used in roughing the surface; also, if the amount per loot I am to receive is a reasonable one

Answer.---In preparing for a sidewalk all the soft earth should be removed and a fairly solid bottom obtained, and this should be tamped down with a paving hammer or some other similar tool. When ready there should be laid a Led of about 4 or 5 inches of broken stones, old bricks elinkers, rough gravel, or other like material which should be well broken to pass at least a 2-inch ring, and should be broken in silu, as this process tends to assist it to become well consolidated. The upper surface should be well rammed and beaten and brought up to a level and true to line, so that the concrete will be of even thickness throughout the required floor. A great deal depends on the manner in which this is done. Unless care is exercised in doing it the floor will be thin in one place and thick in others, and this condition is one of the causes of floors cracking.

A stretch of work having been got ready, divide it into bays or sections as shown in Fig. 5. In pathway making or street paving. the size of those sections

is determined by the width of the proposed sidewalk:

in Fig. 5 they are shown 6 feet by 4 feet 9 inches which is a useful size; but with floors and yards the sections should not exceed 60 superficial feet in area, the division of the section being determined according to the size or area of each floor or yard. It is not usual to divide grooved work into bays or sections, except for the purpose of forming spreads to work to, by which the work is laid and ruled to the required falls. The points of each day's work occur in the grooves, and if the operator is a neat workman the joints are not seen; and it is best to work by pattern grooved work continuously so as to obtain uniformity and trueness of lines and grooves, which uniformity cannot be properly assured if the work is laid in alternating sections. The main reasons for laying concrete paving in sections is, first, to allow for the expansion and contraction that occur in all cement concrete paving; and, secondly, to give the operator better facilities for getting about his work. The time to elapse for filling in the odd bays is from forty-eight hours and upwards. according to the condition of the job. The gravel led should be well rammed down before any concrete is laid on it, and it should be fairly level, so as to insure an even thickness of the concrete.

When all is ready, mix the materials in the usual manner, adding the cement as it is mixed, throwing

the whole in a heap and turning it over two or three times while dry to insure its proper in corporation, panning it cut in the form of a ring, adding the water, and throwing in the sides and so gradually forming a heap, turning the stuff over twice more, and adding more water if required from a watering can. The total time, from first to last, should not exceed half an hour for a two-sack mix. Lay this stuff on the foundation already made, spreading it with a hand float and trowels to about IS inches wide. When the work has stiffened up a little go over it again with a hand float sprinkling a little dry neat cement over the face of the work as the floating proceeds. If a plain, surface is required, it should Le trowelled three or four times, and while it is hardening it should be strippled with a fine hair brush to remove all trowel marks and i.e. it and uniform finish. If, however, is to be crimped or indented, as marked at B. and 1), Fig. 3, this should be done whilst the work is in a fairly soft state, otherwise the machine will not work properly, and the paving will have a poor appearance After l)ringing the surface to a good Thee (say with the second trowelling) run a crimping machine (Fig. (3) round the edges of sections, as C and D, Fig. 5, hiking care to keep the machine true and straight along the laths; and if a rolled or indented surface is required, begin with the roller (Fig. 7) and work from curb to wall as shown by Fig. 3. Allow the machine to run freely, and have a bucket of water handy to keep the may shine wet, so as to prevent it clogging with the



























matrix. There is just one particular period in the setting of the matrix when the rollers will make a first-rate job; whereas if the matrix is too stiff the machine will drag and pull the work; while if it is too soft the machine Will not work at all. Specifications for work of this kind differ a great deal according to the fancy or experience of the architect or engineer. Some require the work to be done in three layers; first a hed of hard core, then a bed of ordinary ballast concrete and sometimes slag is specified. Often architects will specify 1 and 1. others 2 and 1, 2½ and 1, and others (fortunately in the minority)

3, 4, and even 5 to 1. The best and the most practical way is to let the character of the work govern the gauge and the thickness. Thus, all stable paving, especially for heavy horses, should he three inches; thick, and gauged 2 and 1, whilst for light horses, 2 inches or 2 1/2 inch paving, gauged 2 and 1, is quite sufficient; while for cow byres, piggeries and similar Boors, 1 1/2-inch paving, gauged 2 and 1, is sufficient For coach houses, washing places, yards, areas, cor

