<doctype type="text">108	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



depth of the beams, and stating the proposed arrangement of the steel reinforcement therein.

His specification should state the ingredients which he proposes to use in his concrete together with their proportions, but in no case should the designer use a concrete less rich in cement than in the proportion of one part Portland cement to three parts of sand to four parts of gravel or crushed stone. In no case should the use of cinders in any structural portions of the reinforced concrete be considered. The reason for stating the proportions as above is evident. It is a simple way of stating that the architect and owner will not be satisfied to consider a leaner mixture than that specified, but if the fireproofer wishes to use a richer concrete he is at perfect liberty to do so.

The architect who specifies a definite proposition for concrete takes a certain responsibility for its strength, but if he says, " not less than," he is relieving himself of this responsibility.

The same question arises in regard to placing of the reinforcement. If an architect chooses to design the reinforced concrete for the structure, then he should be absolutely responsible for its stability, for he is asking general contractors to bid upon the work who have made no particular study of reinforced concrete and do not claim to know whether the steel reinforcement, as called for in the architect's plans, is of sufficient strength or not. It would be unreasonable under the circumstances to ask the contractor to guarantee that the floors would stand a load of any definite amount under test, except in so far as the architect is willing to take the responsibility for the correctness of his design.

-	The writer had occasion to figure some fireproofing a short time ago in which the architect specified the requirement which would be used, at the same time he required the general contractors to guarantee that the floor would stand up under a test load of 1,000 pounds per square foot without sign of failure. There are two very inconsistent propositions in this specification. In the first place, the reinforcement, as the architect designed it, had nothing like the capacity which he asked the contractor to guarantee. In the second place, the idea that a reinforced concrete construction should stand up to its utmost capacity without signs of failure is inconsistent, for what is it expected that the concrete will be doing while the steel is stretched up to and far beyond its elastic limit? Under the specification any cracks occurring in the concrete would be considered a sign of failure, and yet we know that the very nature of the materials used will necessitate a stretching of the steel under a load and that the concrete must necessarily show more or less cracks on the tension chord as a result.



<article title=" A NOVELTY IN LAYING CONCRETE " author="">A NOVELTY IN LAYING CONCRETE.

A rather novel method of laying concrete has recently been adopted by J. F. Lyman, of Modesto, Cal., in the construction of a concrete wall, according to the Stone Trades Journal. Between the framing forming the outer and inner faces of the wall collapsible hollow cylinders somewhat less in diameter than the thickness of the wall were placed vertically at intervals, the cylinders having previously been perforated with several holes. The object of this was to drain the water from the fresh concrete as the latter was placed round the cylinders. The concrete having been filled in round the cylinders, it was allowed to set during the night, and the water which had collected in the cylinders was then pumped out and the cylinders were withdrawn, the space which they occupied being filled with concrete. It is stated that the hollow cylinders contained from 2 in. to 6 in. of clear water at the end of from ten to twelve hours, the water having drained from the concrete. The object in providing this extra drainage was to procure a more uniform set throughout the mass of the concrete. It is also stated that concrete laid by this method is unusually free from cracks and very uniform in strength. The Improvement Bulletin.

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

The Domestic Architecture of Montreal has a history worthy of being written and illustrated at length and in detail. Even the primitive wood buildings in this Province have architectural qualities.

























































The illustration of a little log house shows the roof carried far out on the ceiling joists to shade the house-front and its little platform. The shingling as it works from the steeper roof to the flatter tilt of the eaves develops a strikingly beautiful curve. In an hour's walk just outside Montreal one might see a hundred examples of this most natural economical and excellent arrangement. But it is a virtue which seems to blossom only in humility, for wherever the first symptom of pretentiousness show themselves one looks and finds that this peculiar grace is gone. Many of the buildings existing in the older part of the city date from the seventeenth century and for the most part these pioneers of civilization put to shame in the matter of solidity of construction the majority of their more modern confreres. Their obvious efficiency in warding off the elements, their cosy look and air of substantial well being, give them as pure architecture a similar superiority to most of the more recent work that with frantic and pitiful pretentiousness endeavors to make itself up with makeshift features and exasperating garniture of tin. If in the beginning of things the house of Montreal were of wood this stage cannot have lasted, and everybody who was anybody must soon have had a house of stone.

























































The old house at Varennes is a good type of the simpler eighteenth century dwelling of the province. The front is in this case of ashlar work, the gables random rubble carried well above the roof. In many cases these gable skews are the full thickness of the walk, or about 2'. 0" broad and are shingled like the roof. In this house at Varennes may be noticed the almost invariable and picturesque form of footstone to the skew with its large projection to cover the overhang of the eaves of the roof, which is in this case more moderate than usual. The chimneys are here too of the favorite form—double with a lower stretch of horizontal

