<doctype type="text">28	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



1st vice-president, Mr. Alcide Chaussé (by acclamation); secretary, Mr. J. E. Vanier (by acclamation) ; 2nd vice-president, Mr. R. P. Lemay, Quebec ; treasurer, Mr. D. R. Brown (by acclamation)

Mr. Doran asked to have his name withdrawn from the list of candidates for the council, having now served 6 years as councilor.

The councilors elected were :-—--Mr. Jos. Venne, 21

votes ; II. W. Davies, 19 votes ; L. A Amos 18

votes ; J. Z. Resther, 16 votes ; J. R. Gardiner, 15

votes.

The Reports of the Special Committees were then submitted to the meeting.

The Special Committee, formed to report regarding the conduct of Architectural competitions, laid before the meeting a Code to Regulate Competitions. The report, after being discussed paragraph by paragraph, was adopted in the following amended form. The adoption was proposed by Mr. Jos. Venne and seconded by Mr. L. A. Amos.

CODE FOR THE CONDUCT OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPETITION.



It is to be understood that the P.Q.A.A. issue these suggestions as a guide to promoters, where a competition has been decided upon, hut not necessarily recommending the principle of competition.

Competitions, under certain conditions, being inevitable, the Province of Quebec Association of Architects, following in this, the example traced by most eminent bodies of the profession such as the Société Centrale des Architectes de France, the Royal Institute of British Architects, the American Institute of Architects, and many others, have formulated the following code, based on the standard set by aforesaid institutions.

1.	Competitions should not be called for on a building already in the hands of an architect, and being actually in course of construction.

2.	Competitions are not admissible for buildings of a mercantile character, stores, dwellings, etc. They arc also objectionable on small commissions.

Competitions may be admissible for public buildings or those of a novel or special character.

3.	The promoters of an intended competition should, at thc outset, appoint one or more professional assessors, architects of established reputation, whose appointment should he published in the original advertisement and instructions, and whose decision should govern the selection of the design.

The president and members of council of the P.Q.A.A. will always he prepared to act as honorary advisers to promoters in their selection of an assessor.

4.	DUTIES OF ASSESSORS. —-The duty of assessors should be:

(a)	To draw up the particulars and conditions of the competition, in accordance with the principles set forth in this code, as instructions to competitors and also to advise upon the question of cost.

(b)	To determine whether the designs submitted conform to the instructions and to exclude any which do not. When no design conforms to the express instructions they should all be excluded. (e) To advise the promoters on the relative merits of the designs submitted in the competition, and to make a selection in accordance with the conditions.

An assessor must be a disinterested party, and must abstain absolutely from competing and from acting as architect, directly or indirectly, for the proposed building, or subsequently as consulting architect during the carrying out of the work.

Every promoter and every employee of either the assessor or the promoters, must be excluded from the competition.

DESIGN EXCLUDED—A design should be excluded from the competition for any of the following carries

(a) If sent in after the period of date named (accident in transit excepted.)

(b) If it does not substantially afford the accommodation asked for in the instructions given to competitors.

(c) If it exceeds the limit of site of floor areas called for by the instructions. The sizes of these should he determined by the assessors.

(d)	If the assessor should determine that the probable cost will materially exceed the outlay stated in the conditions of competition. The question of cost may be a material element in the consideration of an eward, but competitors should not be expected to furnish guaranteed

estimates, neither should they be hound to more than about 15 per cent. above or under the named valuation.

CLASSES OF COMPETITION.---Competitions for the selection if an architect may assume one of the following forms

(1) " Limited '~—To a certain number of architects, each of whom is invited to take part.

This form is not specially recommended as it deprives the promoters of the principal benefit supposed to arise from a competition, viz : The selection of the best idea possible.

It may be advisable in special problems where expert knowledge is desirable.

(2) " Open "—To all who desire to enter.

The most desirable form of competition, specially for public buildings.

(3) In cases of local or national competitions, it is not considered a limitation to exclude strangers to the locality : for instance cities might limit competitions to their citizens, provinces to their residents or organizations to their members.

PAYMENT.---Competitions being additional work to architects, of an extraordinary character, and for the express benefit of the promoter, should be paid for independently of, and in addition to the usual schedule of charges.

In all competitions the first prize, in addition to the premium, shall be the award of the commission to design the building and superintend its construction and the programme should definitely state that the successful competitor will be so retained, and that he will be paid for his services, at the rate established by the P.Q.A A.

These conditions being set forth, payments to competitors may be as follows

(a)	In limited competitions each competitor should be paid a fixed sum.

(b)	In open competitions there should he a number of premiums stipulated, and to be paid in addition to the professional charges for carrying out the work.

(c) The assessor is the competent person to fix the amount to he paid as a premium.

DRAWINGS.---The number and scale of the drawings required should t)e distinctly set forth, and they should he not more in number or to a larger scale than necessary to clearly explain the design. Perspective drawings are not necessary, but if the assessor advises that they are desirable, it should be so stated. However, when perspectives are not called for, they should not be considered us an infraction of the programme, and shall not cause the competitor to lie excluded, as the nature of this design may, to his mind, necessitate the perspective.

Drawings should be of uniform size. Mode of coloring, mounting, and framing to be identical. This should be distinctly stated in the programme.

No design should bear any motto, device or distinguishing mark but all designs should be numbered by the promoter or by the assessor, before being opened.

Any attempt to influence the decision of the promoters or the assessors should disqualify a competitor.

Each design should be accompanied by a declaration, signed by the competitor. stating that the design and drawings have been prepared in his own office and under his own supervision.

EXHIBITION.---It is desirable that all designs admitted in a competition, should with the consent of their authors, be publicly exhibited after the ward has been made, which award should be published at the time of the exhibition.

COMMISSION ALLOTTED.—The Architect, whose designs may be selected as the best, shall be employed to carry out the work. If no instructions are given him to proceed within twelve months from the time of selection, he should receive compensation according to the schedule of charges established by the P.Q.A.A., which sum is no be merged in the usual professional charge when the completion of the design is proceeded with.

CONDITIONS.--The conditions of the competition should he drawn up so as to form a contract. They should

(a) Name the owner of the structure forming the subject of the competition and state whether the owner institutes the competition personally or through representatives. If the latter, name the representatives, state how their authority is derived and define its scope.

(b) State the kind of competition to he instituted, and in limited competitions, name the competitors or in open competitions, if the competition is limited geographically or otherwise state the limits.

(c) Fix a definite time and place for the receipt of the designs. The time should not be altered except with the unanimous consent of the competitors.

(d) State the (approximate) limit of cost, if fixed the desired

