<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder.

	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	W.	A. LANGTON	-	-	-	-	-	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILD NG, TORONTO, CANADA.

MARCH, 1905.

VOL. XVIII. —No. 207.





ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Cottages on the Estate of Charles Francis Adams, from the Brickbuilder.

	English Cottages—From The County	Gentleman.

House on Manning .Ave., Toronto. Messrs. Chadwick & Beckett, Architects.

House for Mr. I. C. Chambers, Winnipeg. F. R. Evans, Architect.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Front of St. Augustine's Church, Pittsburg. Messrs. Rutan & Russell, Architects.

Drawing by Mr. Wilson Eyre in the Eighteen Club Exhibition.





CONTENTS



Editorial - -	 -	 -	 -	 -	33-34

Marsh's Reinforced Concrete	-	-	-	-	- 35

Books	-	-	-	-	- -	- 36

Our Illustrations -		-		-	-	-	-	37

Architectural Acoustics			-	 -				38-39

Mission Furniture	-		 -		-	-		40

The Coloring of Concrete		-		-	 -		-	41

Address on Reinforced	Concrete			-	-	-		42

Gas as a Fuel for Hot Air Heating	- -	- 43-44

Montreal Correspondence	-	- -	- 45

A Municipal Lodging House	- -	-

What the American Institute of Architects Is	—	— ix

Peterboro's Plumbing Inspector	-	- 

St. John N B., Painters' and Decorators' Association

Scientific Choosing of wall Paper - - -

Hamilton Paint Shops Will be Open - 

Toronto Man Vice-President	- - -	- 

A	Satisfactory	Investment	—	— —

Montreal Painters' Annual Meeting - Toronto Builders' Exchange - - 

London Builders Exchange	- -	- 

Winnipeg Notes	-	xi

Building Boom in Montreal	—	—	—	—





<article title=" A Plan for Toronto.

" author="">A Plan for Toronto.

At a meeting of the Canadian



Institute on March 18th, Mr. J.

P.	Hynes read an interesting



paper on the subject of civic improvements, with special reference to Toronto. Many lantern slides were shown, of improvements in other cities. Those in the United States come nearest to the case of Toronto, and especially in the cities of Cleveland and Buffalo, which like Toronto are situated on a lake and have their railroad approach along its shores. Thus the railway stations and the boat landings are in the same quarter, and it is both convenient and striking to combine them so as to make one grand ''Entrance" to the city. In Cleveland they have arranged to group the principal public buildings at this spot, and Buffalo is going to do so too; making of the whole a distinct and ornamental '' Civic Centre ". This, which was the starting point of Mr. Hynes' lecture, was not received without some opposition, in tile discussion which followed.



The truth is that there is some danger in plumbing a city 's principal buildings upon a site so close to a railroad especially in combination with a park space, for which, even more than For line buildings, smoke and cinders are contra-indicated. It was not, however, on this ground that the objection was raised but on the more subtle but stronger ground of its crudity. The World's Fair undoubtedly started the idea of city planning, hut it can hardly he taken as a model of how to proceed. Display is not the happiest end of beauty and it is not unlikely that the generations to which the United States are working tip will wish their ancestors had had a more engaging conception.



The task of city planning is something more difficult

than this sort of Beaux Arts project. It is a process not of creation but of development. There are, it is true, features and needs which most American cities, in the north, have in common ; and Mr. Hynes' plea for a civic centre in the neighborhood of the City Hall is justified on the ground of the stability it gives to property and the encouragement it holds out to development there in a permanent way. This centre, as far as locality is concerned, is almost established now' in Toronto, and will be finally assured when the radial avenues are run, which have been already called for by the extension of the city to N. E. & N. W. But tile tendency of public buildings in Toronto is upward, in the brighter part. of the city ; where is already a park that any city might be proud of. This and her other individualisms should be the basis of improvements for Toronto's plan. This is concrete application. The study of the plans of her cities is only general culture in the art.



We have a communication from a firm of architects who wish to ventilate a complaint as to the

number of letters they receive from manufacturers and their agents, asking whether their goods are specified Oil certain work for which tenders have been called, or whether anything in their line is specified, &c., &c. Part of the complaint is that there is no self addressed envelope and no stamp, and the letters must be consigned to the waste-paper basket.



If our correspondent were to comment upon his own letter, he could hardly Fail to see that this latter point is the key to the situation. These correspondents do not expect an answer. It is enough for their purpose if

<article title=" Advertising Letters " author="">Advertising Letters.

 A FEW HIGH STRUCTURES