<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



vitality and freedom than before the Gothic revival, and in its application to new problems, is used with better taste than the French Renaissance is used in France.





<article title=" MR. JOSEPH McCAUSLAND " author="">MR. JOSEPH McCAUSLAND.

Mr. Joseph McCausland—who was born on February 10th, 1828 and died on May 3rd, 1905—was a north of Ireland man by birth, but came to Toronto as a child, 7 years old, and lived in Toronto for 70 years. At 18 years, nearly 60 years ago, he had founded the business which still bears his name, and for 55 years or more was actively engaged in carrying it on. The other side of his life, which was apparent to other people, was of the same steady character. He was for 60 years a member of the same Methodist congregation and prominent in its works.

The capacity to carry on business successfully is too often associated in our minds with rapacious qualities, which sometimes excite admiration by their energy but of which we cannot at the bottom of our minds approve. It is satisfactory therefore to be able to record that Mr. McCausland's distinguishing characteristics, in the ripe age to which he had attained when the



























































present generation of architects were accustomed to meet him, were uprightness and simplicity of mind.

The house-painting and decorating business, founded by Mr. McCausland is continued by his second son, Mr. Frank McCausland. The eldest son, Mr. Robert McCausland, was specially trained to conduct the stained glass department, and has established a separate business of this kind under his own name.

Mr. McCausland left four other children, all resident in Toronto the Rev. Harold McCausland, who is a clergyman of the Church of England, and three daughters, Mrs. Boyce Thompson, Mrs. Charles Parsons and Mrs. J. Albert Sutcliffe.

<article title=" MAJOR HENRY A. GRAY.

" author="">MAJOR HENRY A. GRAY.

Major Gray's death in his 62nd year was due to over-exposure while on a recent visit of inspection of the Dominion Government power concessions at Fort Frances. Pneumonia developed, and he died about two weeks afterwards, on May 23rd, at his residence in Toronto.













































Although distinctively an engineer and, for the last twenty seven years, Occupying a conspicuous position in that profession, as engineer in charge of the public works of Canada, Major Gray has also contribute some important works to the architecture of the country. His principal work of this kind was in Nova Scotia—a college at Memramcook and a large Gothic church at Truro. He was a Roman Catholic and was consulted in the erection of several convents and churches.





<article title=" REVIEW.

" author="">REVIEW.

PROPERTIES OF STEEL SECTIONS. By John C. Sample New York, McGraw Publishing Company. Price $3.00, net. The purpose of this book is to supply for built structural steel members the same kind of information that is given by the hand books and tables o the rolling mills companies for simple members. The tables were originally designed by the author for his own use as designer for a structural steel plant Finding them useful .he extended them to cover the ordinary members used by engineers and architects It has not been considered to be within the scope o the work to treat the subjects involved from a theoretical standpoint. Only sufficient text is presented to explain the application of the tables. The author says, in the preface ; "All values have been calculated and checked independently, and may be relied upon as correct. The book fills a space in technical literature hitherto vacant.





<article title=" BUILDING TRADES DEMANDS IN OTTAWA " author="">BUILDING TRADES DEMANDS IN OTTAWA.

Building operations in Ottawa may suffer a severe setback this spring unless the differences between the building trades unions and their employers, the contractors, are speedily settled. The Bricklayers' Union have made demand on the secretary of the Contractors' Association for an increase of ten cents per hour from 42 to 52 cents. To this demand the contractors 'will offer an increase of three cents, or 45 cents per hour. The stonemasons have also demanded higher wages.

