<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	91



the various other conveniences of a modern station. Back of the waiting room will be a large restaurant, located beneath the broad approach to the station. Across the northerly end of the concourse will extend the customary line of gates admitting to the express platforms. Beyond the gates will he located no less than thirty-four stub tracks, with broad platforms between them, the average width being about i6 feet, extra space being provided, in order to avoid the crowding which is such a troublesome feature under existing conditions. Of these thirty-four tracks the westerly eight or ten will be reserved preferably for incoming trains, and the arriving passenger, on passing through the gates on to the concourse, will find himself opposite a large cab stand, with conveniences right at hand for securing his trunk and driving away with as little delay as possible. In addition to leaving directly by cab, he has the choice of four other means of exit from the station ; for be may pass by a covered walk directly to the Subway, or by a 25 foot stairway to the concourse gallery and so into the main ticket lobby, or he can pass out to Madison avenue and Forty-third street by a covered subway, or crossing the concourse, he may leave by another covered subway to Lexington avenue. It will be understood, of course, that the thirty-four tracks extend the full width of the concourse, the most easterly track abutting on Depew Place and the most westerly on Vanderbilt avenue, and this, of course, necessitated some careful engineering work in supporting above these tracks the immense weight of the northerly half of the station building, containing the company's offices. Care has been taken to so arrange the supporting columns that none of them shall interfere with the passenger platforms. To recapitulate, it should be explained that the ticket lobby and the gallery are at street level, and the express tracks, the main concourse, the express waiting rooms, and the restaurant are at a level 15 feet lower than that of the street.

The plans for the new station involved, as an absolute prerequisite to success, that the suburban travel should be entirely separated from the express ; and it was considered that the best way to insure this was to place the suburban tracks below the express tracks and provide a suburban concourse waiting rooms, and other conveniences on this lower level. Moreover, it was decided that, with a view to further separating the two classes of travel, separate entrances and exits should be provided, so that the suburban passengers could enter or leave the lower level from the street or the Subway without meeting the long—distance travel. Access to the suburban tracks and station is obtained by gradually depressing the two outside tracks in the entrance tunnel below Park avenue until they- reach the lower level. In the rush hours the suburban trains will pass into the station and around a loop which will extend beneath the restaurant on the express level, the trains passing out again without breaking bulk. Toward the close of the rush hours, alternate trains will discharge their passengers from the series of seven stub tracks, which occupy the train space within the loop and in front of the suburban concourse. Trains will be stored here and in the station yard until the evening rush hour, when they will be switched out into service again. Provision is made at the inner end of the loop for connection direct to the tracks of the Rapid Transit Subway below Fourth avenue ; and it is a fortunate circumstance that Mr. Parsons, the chief engineer of the Subway, by moving the two tunnels below Park avenue over toward the curb line, made provision for this connection with the New York Central system, although, at the at time, the New York Central Company was not disposed to consider any such connection.

The suburban station is provided with a broad concourse and with the necessary waiting room and other conveniences, all arranged on the lower level, and with separate exits both to the Subway and to the street. This station is, to all intents and purposes, absolutely independent of the express station above; although

provision is made by means of staircases for communication direct from the ticket lobby and the main concourse to the suburban station.

In conclusion, it should be mentioned that the capacity of the Park avenue tunnel has been increased at least one hundred per cent. by the great enlargement of the station yard. One of the most serious obstacles to a further increase in the number of passenger trains under existing conditions, is the fact that the storage yard for express trains is at present located at Mott Haven, and every express train that enters New York has to make the trip through the tunnel four times, twice in entering and leaving the station with passengers, and twice in making the round trip to the yard for cleaning purposes. 'With the enlarged area of yard provided in the new arrangement, the storage of express trains will take place at Forty-second street, and the tunnel will be relieved proportionately.

The whole of the station yard will be operated electrically, as will also the suburban trains on the New York Central, the Harlem, and the New Haven Railroads. Suburban trains will be operated on the multiple—unit control system with motors on the car axles, and shorter trains will be run at more frequent intervals. The long-distance expresses will be hauled as far as Croton on the main line, White Plains on the Harlem Division, and Portchester on the New Haven Road, by electric locomotives. It is expected that the local service will be in operation in from two to three years' time, arid that the whole scheme will be completed about a year later if labor troubles do not interrupt the process of construction. —Architects' & Builders' Magazine.







A NOTE ON DECORATION.



My house is mainly right in its decorative scheme, because the beginnings were right. Unless one rightly begins it is impossible for him to escape going wrong or reaching a wrong consummation. One often sees the walls of a room frescoed with elaborate designs and in bright colors, or hung with paper of brilliant patterns. Now, it is impossible to furnish a room harmoniously in which this cardinal error exists. Beginning with bright colors, there is no ground against which color can be placed, and, consequently, every bit of color brought into the room, and every object added that is at all decorative in character, is almost certain to be in conflict with the decorative colors permanently there. In such a room, as objects multiply, the inevitable result is incongruity, unrest and distraction.

The walls of our rooms, it must be remembered, are to act as foils of our paintings, of our tapestry, of our upholstery, of our vases and bronzes, of whatever decorative object we may place there. How are we to hang our much cherished flower-piece by Lafarge on a wall overflowing with the flower designs of the decorator ? How are we to place our vase of Chinese blue against a wall rioting in blues and greens ? When we turn a decorator into a room in this way, the decorator turns us and our art gems out of the room finally and forever. When the walls of a room are low in tone, everything else appears at its best. The paintings have full value ; the rich tints in the draperies are made richer , the blue and the red in the vases become sparkling foci of color ; and the eye is delighted with the harmonious ensemble.

Painted walls are stately, cold, and distant ; they do not give a room that sense of cosiness and comfort which is so desirable ; and they do not adapt themselves so readily as paper does to various objects. This is probably due to the texture and character of the surface. When a wall painted in a flat tint is varnished, it is fairly impossible to hang a picture upon it with an agreeable result. Even if you nearly cover the wall with pictures, every uncovered part of the surface thrusts itself inharmoniously forward, and leaves the result unsatisfactory.— My House, by Oliver Bunce.

