<doctype type="text">4	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The available means is wired glass set in metal frames. But wired glass did not stand in all cases in the Baltimore fire. The melting point of glass was reached. Capt. Sewell ''saw a good deal of melted glass" and the investigating committee of the National Fire Protection Association report that ''wired glass melted in a number of instances."

For perfect protection it is necessary to supplement wired glass with shutters perfectly made. Of "tinned and sheet-iron shutters" Prof. Norton reports that "few or none withstood the enormous volume of flame and hot gases." The shutters themselves, of whatever kind, would probably be a loss. Metal shutters, hung in the ordinary way, Capt. Sewell condemns because they ''warp and twist and then they do not fit closely enough." ''Wooden shutters covered with sheet metal would probably do no better, because the wood would char by destructive distillation and destroy the hold of the screws or other means used for fastening on the hardware. But, if carefully made, shutters would probably prevent the fire from entering the building. Capt. Sewell suggests rolling shutters because, being hung from the top, they ''suffer none but tensile stresses when hot." Shutters of this kind at Baltimore, ''made up of several sheets of light, corrugated iron riveted together along horizontal lines," were too light. ''Probably," he thinks, ''a rolling shutter made of heavy interlocking slats, or slats fastened together with heavy links, would be better. Still better would be one or two sheets of metal stiffened round the edges, properly hung, and sliding in the window frame just like the sash ; this would necessitate a specially designed frame with a high boxed head, to permit of sliding the shutters up so as to clear the opening ; but, with walls of proper thickness, it could readily be provided. That part of the frame carrying the shutters should be of metal and pocketed into the brickwork, with a little room for expansion."

The structure of the window itself is of great importance. Mullions of every sort are condemned, as a disadvantage to any window opening, and dangerous if they carry weights. Capt. Sewell says :—''It is much better to have all window openings single, and no light piers of any sort in the outer walls, whether they are classed as mullions or not."

SPANDREL BEAMS.---Intimately connected with the defense of openings is the protection of the beams which carry the curtain wall from storey to storey and make another series of vulnerable points on the exterior. The safety of the window frames affects their safety, and the expansion of cast iron mullions attached to these beams, when running over large windows, caused many in the Baltimore fire to fail and upset a portion of the wall they carried.

Spandrel beams should have a clear carry, with no destructible mullions or light piers between the windows below ; and the fire protection of the beams should be adequate i. e. should (as defined in portions of the reports reviewed last month as referring to materials) be thick enough not to heat the exposed flange through and so make a breaking strain at its junction with the cool and unexpanded web.

CONTINUOUS EXTERIOR WALLS.—Capt. Sewell suggests a more thorough way of avoiding this source of danger. He says :—-''The exterior walls of many of the so-called fire-proof buildings ought to be taken down ; all of them are more seriously damaged than

appears, except upon close inspection. I believe better results would be obtained by building the exterior walls continuously from the foundation up, anchoring them carefully to the steel frame to prevent buckling. The beams carrying the walls are often so near the surface, especially when they act as lintels, that in long-continued fire they get hot enough to expand and bend this will wreck the wall if nothing else does. If the weight of brickwork is assumed at 125 lb. per cub. ft., and its safe-working load at 20 tons per sq. ft., a wall of uniform thickness and 320 ft. high will be safe under its own weight as far as crushing is concerned. With a very moderate increase of thickness near the bottom, and thorough anchorage to the steel frame at all points, a self-supporting brick wall is entirely practicable for any steel-frame building. Its only drawback is the time required to build it, for it could not be started on a number of levels at the same time. This, however, would probably result in better work. The modern building erected in record-breaking time, is never a model of workmanship, and often it contains defects that reduce the factor of safety almost to unity. The standard of work that prevails in these hastily-erected structures would not be tolerated for a moment in general engineering works."

FIRE-WALLS.—Mr. Sachs alludes with satisfaction to the " appreciation of the party-wall question " in London as one reason for thinking such a fire as the Baltimore fire unlikely to occur in London.

ROOFS.----Capt. Sewell says :—" So far as I was able to determine, both slate and tile roofs kept out the fire, with some damage to themselves." He adds later

Nothing combustible should be used in the roof finish.

INTERIOR. 



LIMITATION OF FLOOR AREAS.---BRICK PARTITIONS



The Committee of the National Fire Protection Association says :—'' The large areas now so common, and particularly in those buildings having unenclosed vertical openings, undoubtedly furnish conditions which render even the most approved methods of fire-resistive construction now in use of doubtful value." It concludes __ '' Buildings of considerable area and having large quantities of combustible contents should be subdivided by substantial brick fire walls sufficient to form a positive barrier to the spread of fire." There is no getting away from the conclusion of all the reports that the only proper material for this purpose is brick. Capt. Sewell says :—" The only successful partitions were brick walls. All other partitions of all sorts were a total failure." The other reports are as strong.

The brick wall should be well founded. There seems to be no certainty of stability short of a foundation on the ground.

VERTICAL OPENINGS ENCLOSED. --The Committee of the National Fire Protection Association is strong on this point. They say :—" Vertical openings extending throughout buildings, as for stairs and elevators, rapidly communicate fire to all storeys. With buildings of considerable height or combustible contents this is likely to result in fire conditions beyond Fire Department control. All such floor openings should be enclosed in brick walled shafts, crowned by a thin glass skylight and extending through the roof, and with fire doors at openings to storeys.

The report appeals for the protection of openings in buildings of ordinary construction as well as in those of

