<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	53



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

HOUSE OF J. W. SIDDALL, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.



This house is of yellow pressed brick, white woodwork and black slate. The entrance is on the west. The window in the drawing room is placed to catch a view across one of the ravines. On the south the angular end of the dining room and a slated gable above, with the chimney on its face to one side, make, in combination with the front, a view rather more interesting than that here shown. The angle in the end is made in the brickwork without cutting; leaving as a projection the part of the brick which would be cut off if the bricks were shaped to the splay.

HOUSE TN VICTORIA, B. C.—S. MACLURE, ARCHITECT.



The inhabitants of Victoria are said to be chiefly English immigrants. This house is suggestive of England, in spite of its wooden construction, because it is evident that the living rooms turn inward to a garden. The American plan of making the living rooms give " to the street tends too literally to  reserve to make the most of the house for what the American is so fond of calling it—a home. If this Victoria house is a type of all Victoria houses, the question is suggested how far the practice of looking towards the street is an effect of climate. A winter with snow does not suggest gardens ; in particular, small, enclosed gardens; and that Victoria houses do not follow the custom of the rest. of the country, but have taken naturally to the English "garden front," may be the consequence of gardens, in Victoria, being green all the year round. Yet a snowy garden is better than the street; and snow, after all, is not on the ground for long in the year. The American leaning to French design must surely in time produce a desire for the small interior garden which adds so much to the charm and dignity of houses in the towns of France.

COTTAGE AT VICTORIA—S. MACLURE, ARCHITECT.



A plan of this house is hardly necessary. The simplicity of the exterior is due to the disposition of the rooms round the entrance—parlour, north and west ; dining room, south and east ; kitchen, north and east. The small window in the middle of the south front probably lights the ball, and is opposite to a staircase on the other side leading to the bedrooms. This is a good contribution to the small house problem.

ST. MARY'S ANGLICAN CHURCH, PORTAGE-LA-PRAIRIE.



H. S. GRIFFITHS, ARCHITECT, WINNIPEG.



This church was built about four years ago. It has been the good fortune of the architect to build where there is stone, and also to understand that the proper treatment of the material is simplicity.

PLAN OF THE MACPHERSON ESTATE.



The plan of Chestnut Park Road, the second portion of the Macpherson Estate to be developed is the work of Messrs. H. C. and A. E. Boultbee. The motives which dictated its plan are described in the article on page 51 dealing with the development of this estate.

VIEWS IN THE MACPHERSON ESTATE—S. H. TOWNSEND,



ARCHITECT.



These houses are all of red brick, with roofs and projections shingled and stained in low tones. The view on Macpherson Avenue was taken with the purpose of showing rather the placing of the houses and the treatment of the ground than of exhibiting fully the houses themselves. The site was not regarded

 as a very promising one for residences until Mr. Townsend, seeing the advantage of the slight inequalities of the ground, evolved the idea of an alignment of judicious irregularity, founded upon any individuality observable in the lot. The houses were designed one at a time, but all by the same architect, who was therefore able to work out his idea completely.

Since the building scheme has increased and land, is sold instead of houses, the work of other architects has become included in the estate. In the view of Cluny Avenue, the house on the extreme right is by Mr. Eden Smith.



<article title=" BOOKS." author="">BOOKS.

PLANK FRAME BARN CONSTRUCTION; by John L.



Shawver. Published by David Williams Co., 232-238 William Street, New York. Price 50 cents. This little book is intended for country readers. It gives directions for building barn frames of planks instead of timber. The system is said to be much in use in the Central West of the United States and has much to recommend it. There is a saving in both timber and labour, and the method of framing which dispenses with cross ties and constructs, with a system of triangles and long braces, a sort of angular catenary arch over the barn floor, allows the hay slings to run without hindrance from end to end- The writer claims greater durability also for this form of construction, because there are no mortises in which moisture may accumulate and cause the tenons to decay. He has been engaged in building barns in this manner and gives examples of the length of time taken. F. g. a basement barn 40x80 with 8 ft. basement, 16 ft. Superstructure, and plain gable roof was begun by the writer on Wednesday morning, with three carpenters to assist him, and raised complete on Saturday of the same week. A dairy barn 100 x 36, with 8 ft. basement, and 16 ft. superstructure, framed by four house carpenters and two labourers was begun on Monday towards noon and raised on Friday, in six hours with the help of 30 men. And, more directly to compare plank framing with mortise framing, he states that he, with 3 helpers, framed a barn, 40X 72, with 20 ft. posts, while two carpenters, framed the sills for a corn crib 5x40.

FERRIC AND HELIOGRAPHIC Processes: A hand book for Photographers, Draughtsmen, and Sun Printers. By George E. Brown, F. L. C. Published by Tenn ant & Ward, 287 Fourth Avenue, New York. Price $1.00. This is a manual for the use of persons who wish to prepare their own sensitive papers. For photographers who want to govern their results better, or to use paper of any surface they choose, and for architects, engineers and others who have reproduction to do on a large scale. Directions are given, (to speak particularly of paper for the use of architects,) for the preparation of paper for the Ferro-Prussiate or ordinary blue print, for the Pellet or blue line, the black line and Sepia prints. A chapter on "Prints on Fabrics," suggests the possibility, (with some pains, apparently,) of preparing silk, linen or cotton to receive printing. The chemical preparations may he applied with a sponge by gas-light, requiring nothing but a table; but drying must be speedy and in the dark (a closet with a coil at the bottom is suggested) and there is a good deal of preliminary chemical work of an exact nature.

