<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	137

portion, it is made to appear even higher. The drive



after encircling the formal court emerges on this terrace from which there is an unbroken view for the distance of about a mile to the far end of the Park where it terminates in border a plantation. Groups of trees are scattered in the foreground and at intervals over the Park in order to give scale and distance to the view. After leaving this formal terrace the drive encircles the Park, one branch following along the bank of the Assiniboine River, and through a thickly wooded portion of the Park, and returning at the other side of the park, skirting along the border plantation through groups of trees.



I have endeavored in these very sketchy notes of several different parks to point out how desirable it is that our different parks possess some individual characteristics which shall make them interesting for their own sake and not because they are similar to some others, and the great key to success in this is to allow ourselves to become so imbued with the love of nature in her most interesting- phases that we shall unconsciously work in harmony with her in all we attempt to accomplish.



<article title=" COMMON DEFECTS IN EXISTING BUILDINGS " author="">

COMMON DEFECTS IN EXISTING BUILDINGS.

Aside from inadequate public fire protection, the fire record of a city and the danger of lire spreading from one building to another (the ''exposure" or ''conflagration" hazard), there are many directs in buildings, and other conditions which effect the chance of' a serious loss, for which charges are made in underwriters' schedules. They are as follows

Side or bearing walls not of standard thickness. Party walls not of standard thickness.

Walls not parapeted. Poor quality of brick.

Poor quality of mortar. Iron fronts.

Slate roofs.

Shingle roofs.

Mansard roofs.

Concealed spaces in roofs.

Floors not of standard thickness. Floor supports not standard.

Combustible sheathing on walls.

Combustible sheathings on ceilings. Excessive ground-floor area.

Excessive height.

Elevators not properly enclosed. Stairways not properly enclosed.

Well holes, hatchways, etc., not properly trapped.

Wooden chutes, dumb-waiters, ventilating shafts and other opening-s through floors.

Skylights of excessive area with wooden frames and glazed with thin glass.

Wooden cornices, wooden dormer windows, cupolas, monitor roofs, large wooden signs.

Wooden awnings.

Lighting by unapproved method.

Heating by unapproved method.

Chimneys of unsafe construction.

Streets not paved or otherwise inaccessible.

Streets of standard width.

Overhead electrical wires strung- in streets.

Multiplicity of tenants.

Age and repair of buildings.

Wooden rears, extensions, etc., on brick buildings.

Stone piers, stone columns, pillars, or brick piers with bond stones, carrying important weights.

Unprotected iron columns.

FAULTS OF MANAGEMENT.



Besides structural defects which may make a building uninsurable there are faults of management (the

personal element) which also affect the chance of a serious loss, to wit

Stovepipes not properly arranged. Floor under stoves not protected.

Bottom of elevator shaft used for store-room, coat closet, or lamp and oil closet.

 Swinging gas brackets.

Untidiness as to rubbish, ashes, etc., especially in cellar.

Packing material not in bins.

Cracked or bulged walls, bond timber in walls, thin and worn floors, broken plastering- exposing lathing, broken windows, especially on lower floors.

Empty boxes, rubbish and barrels in rear yard or alley or in the recess for windows below grade, or in area or cellar openings under sidewalk gratings.

Lights in show windows, open or unprotected, or electric bulbs covered with tissue paper or paper shades.

Sawdust spittoons, or sawdust on floors, especially in drug and oil stores.

Kerosene used on floors when sweeping.

Wooden ash and waste cans.

Woodwork exposed by furnaces.

Fireplaces improperly built.

Steampipes in contact with woodwork and other combustible material.

Crowding of premises.

Neglect of fire appliances.

Extract from article in Insurance Engineering.



<article title=" PREVENTING FROST ON SHOW WINDOWS IN WINTER " author="">

PREVENTING FROST ON SHOW WINDOWS IN WINTER.

During winter weather many shop keepers experience more or less difficulty in keeping their show windows free from the ice that in low temperature tends to defeat the object of the display. No doubt all of the devices for keeping glass clear of ice, published from time to time in the journals, have received a fair test, with varying satisfaction. A writer in one of the foreign drug journals, apparently a druggist who has experienced the rigors of high latitudes, insists that none of the ordinary schemes are of much use, and that the only certain remedy for the opaque deposit of solid water is a double layer of glass with a sufficient air-space between. He states that applications of glycerine, alcohol, and other solutions arc of no avail in extreme weather and that, in any case, they must be so frequently renewed that they become extremely troublesome. In the northern portions of Russia, where zero weather is sufficiently common, experience has taught the owners of show windows that the only effective protection is a three-inch air space between two panes of glass. The outer sash is rendered as nearly tight as possible by caulking the chinks and pasting strips of paper over the crevices. The glass is then carefully cleaned and dried on a clear, mild day, and a second sash, fitted with the same care to prevent all circulation of air, is inserted about three inches within the first. The double panes are said to obstruct the view very little. The physical cause of the deposit of moisture and ice upon windows is the difference in temperature between the surface of the glass and the air bearing a relatively high proportion of moisture, which conies in contact with it.

---Scientific American.





The Robert Simpson Company, of Toronto, has purchased a site in Montreal for the erection of a departmental store. The lot has a frontage of 220 feet on St. Catharine street.



THE VETERAN PAINTER in The Painter and Decorator says:

heard the other day of an architect who agreed to draw the plans of a new house for nothing for the sake of the advertisement the work would give him. The owner was fool enough to believe him, and then when bids were asked, thc architect went to the carpenter and the mason, the plumber, the painter and all the other mechanics, and told them how much to add for him. The owner thought the architect was working for glory, but he paid him $2,500 just thc same, where the regular five per cent. fee would have been $1,000 or $1,200. It is only another example of the truth that a man is a fool if he thinks lie can get anything in this world for nothing.

