<doctype type="text">74	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION.

" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents. but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.)







From ''Dou ''— Would you kindly inform me what is the usual Canadian rule as to the level of buildings during erection. In British and French specifications a clause is inserted that no part of the walls are to be raised above another more than four or six feet during erection. The meaning of tins clause is obvious, equal settlement of green walls and foundations. This question has been raised by the manner of constructing the Alexandra School on Broadview avenue. Back, centre and north and south walls were raise(l 17 or 18 feet above foundations. Large iron girders placed thereon and joists laid, while almost the whole of front and centre part of back walls had not a brick on top of foundations. These I)arts will be rushed up in a clay or two. Result—cracked ceilings and walls. Another matter is. Large piles of dressed lumber are laid down some of them 10 or 12 feet high anti as broad, all new from the mill, with natural sap included. There are no cross boards or any means of air getting through those piles, a large quantity of which is planking. The result is inevitable—fermentation and rotten boarding in a short time. Surely if the Education Board does not see this matter they should employ someone who can.

Ans.—The usual practice in Canada is to never let the walls or portions of works "rack-up" more than ten feet above other parts of the wall, five or six feet, however, is oftener the rule than ten feet. Where the work is continued it makes but little if any difference, because of the fact that it takes a number of (lays before mortar, of the ordinary kind, sets hard enough to affect any settlement of walls. Where cement mortar is used however, it is imperative that the cornices of brickwork all round be carried up simultaneously. It is the duty of the architect, clerk of the work, or superintendent, to see that the walls are not carried up contrary to the city ordinances, or in such a manner as to be defective in any particular, and he should be the best judge of the conditions and requirements; for it sometimes happens that it is necessary to depart somewhat from given rules. With regard to the piling of the lumber in a solid manner. If it is to be in that condition over a couple of weeks it will be injured and discoloured to some extent, but, if the piles are taken down again within a short period, and either used or re-tiled, no harm will result, providing always the tops of piles are covered to keep out rain. A clerk of the works should be on the ground all the time and paid by the board.



From '' "Workman." I have built a number of bay windows in my life but never a bay dormer, and having one to build now, I find I am at a loss in laying out levels and arranging same for work. Will you kindly describe a method for getting bevels for the sills and side lights also please show how the mitres for the ends of sills are obtained, The bottom of sills must be parallel with pitch of roof.

Answer.—This is always a difficult problem as nearly every dormer differs from every other dormer. However, we present the following diagrams which are taken from an authority. It is specially adapted to your requirements: Arrange the plan and section as shown, and then from the bottom point of the sill draw C D at right angles to A C. From E project up and obtain the line F C.. At right angles to A E set up E II equal to F G. Join A. H, which line gives the true length and inclination of the front bottom edge of the sill. At any point E in A E draw K L at right angles to A E, meeting A C in L. as shown. With K as centre, describe the arc M N, tangent to A H. Draw K N at right angles to K L,



































































so that it cuts The are in N. This gives the true inclination of the sill, and the section of it can be drawn as shown. At Fig. 3 the outline of the sills is shown at a, b, c, d. Drawing X Y at right angles to b e (Fig. 4) project up in the usual manner, to get the elevation of the tinder surface of the sills and their mitres as indicated by a', b', c', d', using point e as centre, describe the dotted arcs as shown by c', a', d'; then projecting down at right angles to X Y, and imagining b e as the binge line (or H 1') project at right angles to it from e and d. meeting the down ward projectors in C A D. On joining these ends, the bevels for the mitred ends (If the sills are obtained. The Levels for the vertical ends of the mitres are obtained as follows: At right angles to a b set up a g, making it equal to f a'. Join g b, then the angles shown by the bevels are those required.



From "Plasterer." I have taken a contract to put

