<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">

INTERCOMMUNICATION.

[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents. but will, nevertheless endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in, We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From "Young Workman" Is there any method by which the shingles on a "hip-rafter" can be done in such a manner as to do away with the necessity of a ''ridge roll" ?

ANS.---There is a method much employed in Newfoundland and the Maritime Provinces which is done as follows: It will be seen that in Fig. 1 the hip shingle















is shown with the grain running parallel with the hip of the roof . It will be noticed that the shingle is cut on a bevel in such a way that the second one can be nailed down on it lightly as the work progresses. The letter b represents the tipper side of the hip shingle, while the second one, or that at the left, is beveled on the underside to suit the hip shingle. Fig. 2 gives an































idea of the appearance of the single hip when it is finished. By this method, when properly executed, a good water tight ridge is secured, and the necessity of a roll or ridgeboards done away with, and the roof will last longer than if shingled the old way. All roofs should be painted and a heavy coat of paint used on the hip will lengthen the life of the shingles many years.



From "Builder': I have been asked to prepare some sketches for a small hospital, and the promoters of the scheme lay great stress on its ventilation, and I would be pleased if you would describe the various methods employed for getting the best results. The building—if erected will be brick, and heated throughout with hot—water.

ANS.—There are a number of methods of ventilating a building of more or less merit. The first method, which, however, can hardly be termed a system, is to rely upon windows and openings in the roof for ventilation, and upon ordinary fireplaces or stoves for heating. The second method is what is termed the natural system. Fresh air is admitted by Tobintubes, and foul air extracted by means of Boyle outlets, through the roof, the area of each opening being carefully proportioned

 to the size of the hospital, and the inlets being provided with valves, so that the supply of air may be regulated. The warming may be done either by stoves or by hot-water pipes and radiators. The quantity and the diameter of the pipe are also determined by the cubic contents of the room to be heated, and if this would imply more than three rows of pipes, radiators are fixed in suitable positions, generally placed in front of windows where the air in the room is cooled by the glass. The third method is what is called the artificial system, and ventilation may he either the plenum or the vacuum method. By the plenum method the air is taken in from an opening in the hospital grounds away from all dust and chimneys and other means of contamination, drawn through a tube into the ventilator room, is there filtered, warmed, damped, and by means of ventilating fans driven along channels into the various wards of the hospital. The vacuum method is arranged similarly, except that the fans are placed in the upper part of the ward, and drive out the foul air at once, drawing the fresh air through the channels provided, as for the plenum method. Another system, which however, cannot be recommended, is the downcast system where the inlets are placed say half—way up the wall, and the outlets at the skirting level. These outlets must all be joined to one channel, arid a fan or other method of creating a current must be employed as this inverted method is contrary to all natural laws. The direction of the currents of air from the human body is, under ordinary conditions, upwards, owing to the heat of the body, and this current is an assistance to upward and an obstacle to downward ventilation. The heat from all gas flames, or other means of lighting, tends to assist upward ventilation, and elaborate arrangements have to be made to prevent contamination of the air by the lights if the downward method is adopted. About three times the quantity of air must be introduced in the downward method than is found to give satisfactory results with the upward method, and therefore the machinery required in all downward method must be of three times the capacity of that required for the upward method.



From ''Bricklayer" : Will you please describe the method of calculating the quantities of aggregate and cement required for concreting a given space, more particularly if broken bricks and cement are used?

ANS. —The quantity of concrete that will be contained in the finished work must first be calculated by multiplying together the length, breadth, and thickness of the space, and reducing to cubic yards. A cubic yard of concrete (containing, as it does, 22 bushels) may require as much as 40 bushels of materials, or a very much less quantity, according to the nature of the ingredients. A great deal depends on the size to which tile aggregate is broken ; stone that is broken to 2 1/2 in. gauge contains, in every cubic yard, 10 cub. ft. of spaces or hollows between the stones, while common gravel contains only 4 1/2 ft, of such voids that must be filled with the other materials. The examples of various kinds of concrete that are given below will enable the querist to form an estimate of the quantities of materials that will be required in the case that he is considering. A block of concrete that was made with 8 bushels of crushed bricks to 2 bushels of cement, measured when set 11,687 cub. in. or in the proportion of 40 bushels to the yard. Another block that was

