<doctype type="text">26	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION



OF ARCHITECTS.

" author="">PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION



OF ARCHITECTS.



ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.





The Association held its 15th annual meeting in the new rooms, in Beaver Hall Square, on Monday 23rd January. The morning session opened at 10.30 a.m. Twenty four members were present, Mr. J. S. Archibald, 1st vice president, took the chair. The assistant secretary read a letter from the president, Mr. Ouellet, regretting the impossibility of his being present, owing to sickness, recommending the candidates for office, nominated by the Quebec members, as having unanimous local support.

The minutes of the last general meeting were read and approved. The Council's Annual Report for 1904, printed copies of which were in the hands of the members present, was taken as read and adopted. It runs as follows

GENTLEMEN,—The proceedings of your Council for the year just closed may be summarized thus (1) Monthly meetings.

(2) Library. (3) Scholarship. (4) Recognition of Architectural Degree Established by Schools of Architecture. (5) Publication of Annual Proceedings. (6) Architectural Awards. (7) Tariff. (8) Competitions. (9) Charter and By-laws. (o) Legal. (11) Examinations. (12) Membership. (13) New quarters. (14) Finance.

MONTHLY MEETINGS.---Monthly meetings of the Association were held during the months of February, March, April, October and December, when the following subjects formed the basis of lecture and discussion: February :—Meeting postponed owing to small attendance of members. March :—Address on "The Work of our Association." by J. S. Archibald. April :—Lecture, " Puvis de Chavannes,' by Mr. J. B. Lagacé. October

Business meeting. No quorum. December :—Lecture, "Gothic Carpentry and Joining." by Prof. P. E. Nobbs. Thc lectures delivered by Mr. Lagacé and Prof. Nobbs were illustrated by stereopticon views.

Your Council feel keenly the continued want of interest shown by the members, and as evidenced by the small attendance at the meetings. Two out of the five meetings had to be postponed owing to small attendance of members. The average attendance of members was only nine (9), a result out of all proportion to the number of members on our roll.



Some expense has been incurred in connection with the meetings and considering the small number that has taken advantage of them the incoming Council should consider whether they Would bc justified in going to any further expense in the future in connection therewith.

The sincere thanks of the Association is due to those gentlemen who have so acceptably lectured before us during the year.

LIBRARY :—No actual additions have been made to the Library during the year but orders have been placed for the following

"A Treatise on Architecture and Building Construction," by thc International Correspondence Schools " Rotch Travelling Scholarship"; "Les Elements et Theorie de l'Architecture," by J. Guadet.

SCHOLARSHIP :----All arrangements were made for the carrying out of the recommendations and resolutions passed with respect to the Scholarship established by the Association in the Architectural course at McGill University. The particulars pertaining to same were fully advertised both publicly and amongst members of the profession. We regret to state that, so far, the opportunity presented for the study of architecture, by the terms of the Scholarship, has not been taken advantage of, no one coming forward for examination.



RECOGNITION OF THE ARCHITECTURAL DEGREE ESTABLISHED BY SCHOOLS OF ARCHITECTURE. In accordance with the resolution passed at the last general annual meeting the special committee have had the subject under consideration and their report will be placed before you.



PUBLICATION OF ANNUAL PROCEEDINGS: :—In accordance with the resolution passed at the last annual meeting the Council have had under consideration the advisability of issuing an annual publication. No one questions the desirability of such a move

but it has merely resolved itself into a question of ways and means. Arrangements have been completed for the first publication to be issued early in March and at no cost to the Association.

ARCHITECTURAL AWARDS :—The scheme for a system of architectural awards which was adopted, in principle, at last annual meeting, has received the consideration of the special committee but it has been felt that, owing to the want of interest shown by members in the work of the Association, the time is inopportune to proceed further with the idea. We trust that the incoming Council may receive such a measure of support as will warrant them taking up the matter again.



TARIFF :—The question of the desired amendments to our tariff has been engaging the serious attention of the Council during the past year. It has been felt that when the time is opportune wherein to present to the proper authorities the amendments which we desire to make, that the amendments be of such a character as to cover the question, in its entirety, for years to come. With that end in view, we have been and are in communication with several architectural bodies, exchanging views on the subject and getting all necessary information in order to strengthen our case at the crucial time. The matter is now reaching that condition when we may be able to take the matter up with the Provincial Cabinet.

COMPETITIONS: :—In accordance with the resolution passed at the last annual meeting, the question of competitions has received the careful consideration of the Council. After studying the competition codes promulgated by the leading societies of the world, your Council drafted a code adapted to our particular case. A general meeting of the Association was called on the 18th of October, to consider and discuss the said code, but no quorum was available. The code will be laid before you at thc annual meeting.



CHARTERS AND BY-LAWS: :—In accordance with the resolution passed at the last annual meeting, your special committee have had under consideration the question of amendments to the Charter and By-Laws. The report will be laid before thc meeting.



LEGAL :—In order to exercise a thorough supervision over all legislation affecting our profession both civic and provincial, the Council deemed it advisable to subscribe to the Montreal Municipal Gazette and the Quebec Official Gazette. These are kept on file and each issue carefully examined. The prosecution of persons practising illegally has been receiving the attention of the Council. Actions have been taken in two cases but as they are still pending further comment is impossible. In conformity with the desire expressed at the last annual meeting with respect to the amendments to Article 1688 of the Civil Code, as to responsibility of architects, and in continuity of the policy established by the former Council, your Council took and carried on thc work begun by the former. Several joint meetings were held with the Builders' Exchange and representation was made before the Government in Quebec. A certain measure of relief was offered, but acting under the advice of our legal advisor, and which was in conformity with our own opinion, it was unanimously decided to refuse the amendment offered by the Government. We trust to be able to establish our contention and gain our point at some other time.



EXAMINATIONS: —At the January examinations Mr. G. E. La. belle, from Montreal, was admitted as student in Architecture, and at the July examinations Mr. L. E. Auger, from Levis, was registered as Architect.



MEMBERS :—The Association now numbers 109 members, the following having been added since the beginning of the year



Messrs. Charles Follen McKim, William Rutherford Mead and Stanford White were registered members of this Association upon credentials as members of the American Institute of Architects, and Mr. L. E. Auger by examinations. We would take this opportunity to record the loss our Association has sustained in the departure, from our midst, of Mr. A. T. Taylor. Mr. Taylor was at all times an indefatigable worker in the interests of the profession and Association, sparing neither time nor trouble in order to advance the interests of all. His loss to our Association will be keenly felt.



NEW QUARTERS :—The Association has taken up new quarters since our last meeting. We are much better arranged for work and study, and at practically no greater expense. We trust full advantage will be taken of the increased facilities afforded.



FINANCIAL :—The Council wish to draw the attention of thc members to the fact that every year large numbers arc in ar

