<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	139



whatever. If a slate is broken in course A, it can be easily replaced, for, by slates in B being fixed with one nail at the top, they are easily turned aside, giving free access to allow refixing with two centre nails. When the broken slate is in course B, it can also be replaced and fixed in a practical manner, though course C is the double nailed course, and immovable. It is only necessary to turn the slate above in course D, and punch the hole in new slate in line with joint between slates in course C, which gives access to boarding. And again, if the break is in the double-nailed course C, there is no difficulty in getting at the nails, as slates in courses D and E are single nailed and easily turned either way. It is found that centre or double nailing every third course gives very good results, as a protection against storms, and also in most cases prevents slates From rattling, the lever resistance of the double nailed course being sufficient to hold down the two single-nailed courses. It will I hope be seen from the foregoing, that it is not from ignorance that slaters shirk totally double-nailing a slated roof, but simply and purely on practical grounds. Further, a single nailed slate roof—that is one nail to each slate throughout—is a still more cheap method of slating by reason also of taking less time and fewer nails, and holes.



From ''Bricklayer"; Is a cement floor better than a wooden one for a stable ? Does it cost much more than a birch or maple floor ?

ANSWER.---First as to cost. A 4-inch floor of artificial stone costs little or no more than the common plank floor and much less than a maple floor, while considering the wearing properties it is far less than any other material, owing to the fact that when well laid there is practically no ''wear out" to it.

In the next place it is sanitary being non absorbent and proof against rats, which are so common around stables. Being laid in a plastic state it can he made ornamental by forming the washstand and gutter and grooving it into 6 inch squares where the horses travel. As the material is very hard it is best to stand the horses in the stalls on wooden slats. Door and window sills may be formed of the same material, costing one half as much as stone.



From ''Carpenter"; Will you please describe through your columns the method or methods of obtaining the bevels and cuts for hip rafters by the use of the square?

ANSWER.---There are several ways of finding the bevels and cuts for hip rafters by the use of the steel square. Referring to Fig. 3 we find that the common rafter for a 1 foot run becomes a hip for an 8 1/2 inch run, and that a hip for a foot run of the building becomes a common rafter for a 17 inch run. Therefore, the rule that applies to the common rafter also applies to the hip rafter i. e. the run and rise taken on the square will give the seat and plumb cuts. The run and length of the rafter taken on the square will give the side cuts, or taking the scale for a 1 foot run, Fig. 3, it is twelve on the tongue and the rise on the blade for the common rafter, and 17 on the tongue and rise on the blade for the hip. The tongue giving the seat cut and the blade the plumb cut. for the side cuts we take twelve on the tongue and inches on the blade and the blade will give the side cut of the jack. Take 17 on the tongue and the length of the hip, 19 3/4 inches on the blade and the blade will give the side cut of the hip. It would also be the side cut of the corresponding jack if it be a common rafter. Seventeen is used for a foot run of the hip rafter because the diagonal of a 12 inch square is practically 17 inches.

If we were to use 12 on the tongue for a foot run of the hip, the rise to the foot would necessarily be less than 10 inches. In Fig. 4 we show what the difference is in rise to the foot.

From 12 to 12 is the length of the run of the hip,

and this, taken on a continued line of the run of the common rafter, and an equal rise of the common rafter, set off at a, and a line from this to 12 on the tongue



























































passes at 7 1-17 inches on the blade, because the common rafter having a rise of 10 inches to one foot, for 1 inch it would have 10 2 of an inch while the hip would only have 10 17 of an inch to one inch and for

















































12 inches it would be twelve times 10/17 equals 120/17 or 7.17 inches. Therefore the figures given in the second illustration would give the same cuts as those in the first, but as the latter necessitates a calculation that ends in fractions, --- fractions not given on the square— and for that reason 17 is generally used for a foot run for the hips and valleys.



From "Builder": How can! refinish an old oak over that is badly weather stained to make it look pretty good?

ANSWER.—This is rather a difficult proposition, but can be overcome to some extent if proceeded with as follows: If possible take the door off the hinges and lay them down flat on some trusses or boxes, and remove the old varnish with ammonia or a mixture of two

