<doctype type="text">142	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



who relies most on his college training, expecting it to frank him through, that should take one of the other rough and ready ways ; but for the independent mind, which will in any case produce something better than its food, it is a thousand pities that it should not get the best food, and that, there is no doubt, is the academic training.



<article title=" BOOKKEEPING FROM A MASTER PAINTER'S STANDPOINT " author="MacCauslandat, Frank H.">

BOOKKEEPING FROM A MASTER PAINTER'S STANDPOINT.*

No one will dispute the importance of keeping books of record in any line of business, no matter how small or large, as without some system of bookkeeping how can a business man get at his true financial position from time to time.

In many lines of business it is possible for the head of the concern to tell at the close of each day just where he stands, and while perhaps this would not be possible in the painting business without an enormous amount of' clerical work, yet it is of the utmost importance that an accurate account should be kept of the cost of' each job, no matter how small, as a guide for future work, as it often happens that the same work is done again at some future date.

It is just possible that a mistake may have been made in figuring up an estimate for work, and unless strict account is kept of the wages and material, it is impossible to form any idea of what the work cost to do, or to detect an error in figuring if any has been made. 

This now suggests to us what might be called two of the most important books an up-to-date painter should keep, viz., a wages book to enter the wages paid each workman on a certain job, and a material book in which should be charged every gallon or pound of material used on the same job.

Suppose a Master Painter who does a fair business and has two good sized jobs on hand at the same time; the one yields him a good profit, and the other proves a losing game. So his business goes on and at the end of the year if he has a credit balance in the bank he thinks that while his profit is not quite as much as he expected, considering the amount of business done, yet his work all paid. Then perhaps after a while he is asked by his customer to do one of his losing jobs again, the same amount of work for the same price as previously charged. He does the work again, thereby

sustaining a second loss.	Now, how much more

satisfactory and profitable it would have been for this man if he had kept these two little, but very important books.

Now there are Master Painters who believe that when these books are properly kept, and the wages and material on a job are added together, these two items represent the cost, and they deduct this from the amount of the contract and consider the balance net profit.

Of course this is wrong, as the cost of conducting a business such as rent, cartage, office help, insurance, heating, lighting, etc., must all be considered and form part of the cost just as much as wages and material.

I have heard of' a case where two men went into business with a capital of say five hundred dollars ($500.00). They got along very well together, both working at their trade. When they had finished two or three jobs and collected the money, they charged up what they thought the correct amount for wages and material used, and as they happened to have some six hundred and fifty dollars in the bank, they came to the conclusion that this was profit and promptly divided the one hundred and fifty dollars ($150), leaving the original capital intact. This went along for some time and everything was lovely, but a time came when business became very quiet ; they then had time to collect all their outstanding accounts and also had the privilege of paving their bills. The result was considerably less than the original capital of five hundred

 * A paper by Mr. Frank II. McCausland	at the Convention of Master Painters-

at Hamilton, July 26.

dollars ($500.00). This led to a row and a dissolution of partnership. To this day each believes the other to be a thief, and all because proper wage, material, and cost books were not kept.

The amount or percentage to be added to wages and material to cover the cost of these uncontrollable expenses varies from 10 to 25 per cent. according to conditions and the amount of business done, but every man should find out just what percentage he must add.

There in one feature in connection with the average Master Painter's bookkeeping that is sadly neglected, and that is the rendering of accounts promptly for work done. More especially is this the case if business is brisk, as the boss devotes the bulk of his time to looking after his men and the work he has in hand.

All he thinks about is to collect enough money to pay his wages, and when things slacken off he will spend some time measuring up work done months ago, and perhaps when the bills are sent out he has omitted charging part of the work on account of' trying to carry all these matters in his mind instead of measuring and charging up the work as soon as it is finished, or within a reasonable time.

Many a man has lost business just through this very thing, as customers expect a painter to render his account as soon as the work is completed, and if, as is the case very often, they have to wait six or seven months after asking repeatedly for an account, the next job may go to some one else, or matters may he reversed and the painter may have to wait six or seven months for his money.

Now as to the different books that should be found in a painter's office. This, of course, depends largely on the size of the business and the conditions surrounding it, but such books as the ledger, cash book, day book, letter book, and time book, and the two very necessary books before mentioned, viz., the wages book and material book, combined with any others that may be considered necessary, should be found in every progressive and well-conducted painting and decorating business, and when a contract is started an account should be opened in the material book and all material sent from time to time charged against the contract as it leaves the shop. Then a similar account should be opened in the wages book and after each pay day, whether it be weekly or fortnightly, the time should be taken from the time sheets and charged against the proper contract. Then when any particular piece of work is completed, and all materials brought back are credited, a very few minutes will serve to show, by adding together wages and material plus the percentage for running expenses, just what profit or loss there is in each job.

I know of a Master Painter who disliked very much the idea of keeking a set of books. His system was to charge up his work and keep all his accounts in a small note book carried in his pocket, and his boast was that if he was asked on the street by a customer what the amount of his account was, he could tell in a few seconds; but it so happened that one day our friend lost his note book and it was never found, and to this day that man does not know how much he is out by the loss of his note book, but he lost no time in adopting a simple method of book-keeping to prevent a repetition of what had happened.

We all realize that the conditions governing the painting trade are so different that what would suit one would not be applicable to the other, but the point to bear in mind is the importance of keeping your hooks in an intelligent manner, having everything in such shape that if anything should happen to yourself some one else could take them up without fear of financial loss through work not having been charged up.

FRANK H. McCAUSLAND.





It is usual now to establish the refrigerator on the ground floor not far from the kitchen. As long as there is sufficient ice, food will keep even in a warm place. But it must be remembered that the ice will not. The size of the ice bill varies inversely as the distance of the ice-box from warmth.

