<doctype type="text">6	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to come through not only one but a number of tires with no damage except the loss of combustible contents, cracked glass, loss of paint and plaster, damage to marble finish, and possible warping of exposed metal work, such as lighting fixtures, elevator enclosures, balustrades, &c." What, in his opinion, this involves in the way of construction is already contained sufficiently here and in the portion of this article previously published.

It will be noticed that while there is hope held out to the building owner of great reduction in damage there is little offered to the tenant. The vigorous combustion within the building, which is the source all this anxiety with regard to the structure, is to be fed by the tenant's stuff. His interest ought to centre upon two main points. External imperviousness in general, but especially adequate window protection, and on the inside sub-division of areas. This is the most important point to be considered on the inside, both for owner and tenant. It is obvious to anyone entering a building with large undivided areas that there must be great destruction if fire once gets a foothold there ; and, when the building is a large departmental store, great destruction would include great destruction of life.

''The contents of a fire-resistive building, without proper sub-division and no adequate protection against exposing fires, are scarcely any safer as regards destruction by fire," says the National Fire Protection Association's Committee, "than if contained in a building at ordinary construction."

<article title=" MUNICIPAL CONSIDERATIONS." author="">MUNICIPAL CONSIDERATIONS.



It would be a mistake to leave the subject without noting some additional lessons drawn from this fire, by Mr. Sachs, which have not been otherwise incorporated in this review, as being outside the province of architects and builders. They are brief and may be quoted in full:

The necessity in great mercantile centres of supplementing the ordinary water supply with a special (unfiltered) water supply for fire purposes worked from stationary pumps.

The necessity of very strictly limiting the storage of highly inflammable and explosive substances in densely populated areas, and severe penalizing of any default in this direction.

The necessity of making certain building regulations retrospective for existing old buildings, the owners of such old buildings, however, being given a reasonable time for making such improvements.

The necessity of fire brigades having a reserve equipment of portable steam fire engines of great power.

The necessity of officers in charge of brigades having a technical, i.e., either constructional or engineering education of a high standard.

The necessity of fire brigades being supplied with charts of congested districts and suitable miniature plans of all large buildings, these sectional plans to be carried to fires on the appliances serving such districts, as also upon the vehicles used by the respective districts or divisional-officers.

The necessity of developing suburban volunteer and private factory fire brigades to serve as auxiliaries to the professional brigades, when great emergencies occur.

The necessity of the brigades of large centres to have an agreed basis regarding re-enforcement from

neighboring districts in cases of great emergency, which arrangement should include for the provision of standard couplings, or where such couplings are not possible, for standard connecting pieces."





<article title=" PREVENTION OF HOT AIR EXPLOSIONS " author="Baillarge, C.">PREVENTION OF HOT AIR EXPLOSIONS.

In reply to an enquiry from the Editor of the Canadian Architect and Builder whether he could suggest any feasible way of providing a safe outlet for explosive gases generated by a smoldering fire Mr. Charles Baillargé writes as follows



QUEBEC, January 9, 1905.



DEAR SIR,—In answer to yours of the 8th inst. The vertical shaft is no doubt the best solution. No necessity for a separate shaft from each floor or story which in the upper stories would aggregate too great a floor area otherwise utilizable. Say a single shaft of some 10 to 20 ft. area in cross section (3 X 3 10 4 X 4 or 5) reaching from ceiling of basement or sub-basement, up to, through and to several feet above roof to avoid encumbrance by snow, and allow of play of wind or of ambient air on all sides. This shaft must have an opening into it at ceiling level of each floor.



Where the building to be protected is cut up into rooms and passages leading thereto, and as a passage or corridor ceiling need not be as high or lofty as the adjoining apartments, space is afforded along and tinder such corridor ceilings for horizontal conduits reaching in different directions to stairways, etc., to cause the gases from any point remote from the shaft to reach the same.

But there would be no tendency by smoke or gases to reach or flow towards shaft unless a draught be created therein by artificial or oilier means. To do this automatically without the use of, as they call it in French an appel, the top of the shaft above roof should be fitted with a system of sufficiently overlapping louvres to exclude snow and rain and cold, which, when shut close or the louvres in contact, would not join within an eighth of an inch or so, or in a way to allow enough air to pass out at all times to secure an initial draught capable of enticing the gases to be expelled to follow the route towards the exit. When once such an initial draught had caused the heated air to be expelled to take the proper direction to reach the outlet, once the tendency established to flow in that direction, the accumulating pressure from beneath the louvres would force them wide or wider open on to their full extent to allow of free exit, the louvres being laid at such an angle or so loaded or arranged as to allow of their automatically closing again when the outward rush of air were at an end. However, in addition to the above mentioned precaution of an initial draught constantly at hand, where there is no one

building to do the needful, there should he from the louvres downwards a rope (a wire one in case of a hempen one being destroyed by fire) which from each, every or any of the floors or stories could be used to force the louvres open as soon as possible after the beginning of the fire.

It is a prevalent mistake to suppose that heated air or fire passing up an elevator or shaft of any kind has a tendency, when an exit is afforded from above, to pass out laterally into the rooms or passages adjoining, or surrounding the well-hole or shaft, and set fire to the several stories on their way upwards.

If you will look at your own or any other cooking stove, you will see that even when the fire or stove door is open and the pot holes open or uncovered, the flame from the burning wood or coal does not exhibit the least tendency to pass out laterally through the fire door or even vertically through the 1)01 hoes but, on the contrary, seems to and does actually hug tile under surface or the flue on its way to the outlet into the stove pipe, at the rear of the stove.

Look also at any old, broken and perforated stove pipe with holes in it as big as you please and you see the or flames rushing through it towards the open air without the least tendency to escape laterally through the holes in the pipe or flue.

However, to make assurance doubly sure, while doors in elevators should be shut to confine the heated columns of upward rushing gases and prevent the adjoining outer wood work from catching fire, while drawing smoke, etc., from the several stories towards and into the elevator or other shaft, said door should have open panels filled in with metallic gauze or open wire work of which the meshes like those in the "Davy" or miners safety

