<doctype type="text">24	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

ANNUAL MEETING.

" author="">ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS.

ANNUAL MEETING.



(SECOND NOTICE.)



T

IlE afternoon's session, on Jan. 17, concluded with

a lecture by Mr. Horace McFarland, of Harrisburg, President of the American Civic Association, upon the work done in improving Harrisburg,

Pa.*

SESSION OF WEDNESDAY, JAN. 18.



B

 USINESS was resumed on Wednesday morning the President in the chair.

The reports read on the preceding afternoon were, on motion of Mr. Pearson, seconded by Mr. Helliwell, adopted.



ANNUAL MEETING OUTSIDE TORONTO.



T

HE Registrar read a letter from Mr. F. J. Alexander, of Ottawa suggesting that the annual meeting should occasionally be held elsewhere than in Toronto. Mr. Gregg gave notice that at the next annual meeting he would move that the meeting of 1907 be held in Ottawa ; adding that he postponed the notice to next year, in order to give an opportunity for Ottawa members to come up and press their

claims.



NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE EIGHTEEN CLUB OF TORONTO.



T

 HE report of the Committee appointed to meet a Committee of the Eighteen Club, in order to discuss conditions of amalgamation was, in the absence of the Chairman, Mr. Wickson, presented by Mr. Burke, as follows



Proprosed revision of the charter of the Ontario Association of Architects as amended by a committee of the Association and of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club.

Omit preamble and substitute the following

Whereas t is deemed expedient for the furtherance and advancement of the art of architecture in the province.

After section 4 insert section 4 A as follows

There shall be three grades of membership entitled respectively, "Associates of the Ontario Association of Architects' (abbreviated A.O.A.A.)

"Members of the Ontario Association of Architects" (abbreviated M.O.A.A.)

"Fellows of the Ontario Association of Architects" (abbreviated F.O.A.A.)

ASSOCIATES.



Associates shall be admitted as such upon proving to the Council arty one of the following qualifications

(a) Those who have passed the prescribed examinations of the Association.

(2) Those who are graduates of any recognized school of Architecture and who have served at least three years in the of-lice of any reputable Architect, either in the province or elsewhere.

(3) Those who hold a title of equal standing from another body of architects.

(4) Those whose qualifications are not covered by the foregoing clauses but who give other evidence of their fitness. A 719 majority of the council shall he necessary for their election.

MEMBERS.

Members shall be enrolled as such, being

(1) Those who have been Associates for a period of at least ten years.

(2) Those who have been in active practice as principals for a period of not less than ten years outside of the province, and have given satisfactory evidence of their ability and experience, may be elected by a majority vote of the members on the recommendation of the council. The election may be held at the annual meeting or by letter vote at any other time.

FELLOWS.



Fellows shalt be elected from the members of the Association for the excellence of their executed works or for distinguished services to the art of architecture.

The nomination shalt be by unanimous open vote of the council, who shall give the members one month's written notice prior to the date of the annual meeting.

The election shall be by open vote at the annual meeting and shall require a four-fifth majority of the members present.

Omit clause 22, stab—sections (1 ) and (2) on page 4 of the Act, and substitute the following

"All members in good standing of the Ontario Association of Architects and of the Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club on the coming into force of this amendment to the charter shall become members of the Association.

In clause 23 omit the words " as an architect," substituting 'in the Association."



*	To be published later.

Omit clause 24 and its sub-section and insert a clause in bylaws after consultation with the Eighteen Club.

In clause 25, omit the words " registered architects " and substitute the words " this Association."

In clause 26, omit the word " Architects" and substitute, after the word " Register," " of the Association of Architects."

In clause 29 omit the words "registered architects," substituting the words "member of the Association."



After some discussion as to the powers, notices, etc., involved in making the changes necessary to carry Out the recommendations of this report, it was moved by Mr. Burke, seconded by Mr. Symons



HAT, in connection with the proposed amalgamaT

 t ion of the Eighteen Club and this Association, the Association instructs the Council to arrange with the Eighteen Club on the basis of the amendments to the Charter of the Association which are contained in the accompanying Report, and to apply to the Legislature for such amendments.

The motion was carried.



PAPERS.



APE RS* were then read as follows:

F

 ARCHITECTURAL Acoustics, by Mr. G. R.

Anderson, M.A., of the School of Practical

 Science. 

IMPRESSIONS CONCERNING THE ARCHITECTURE SEEN IN NORTH CHINA, KOREA, AND JAPAN, by Mr. H. B. Gordon.

A STUDY OF WREN, by Mr. W. A. Langton.

THE CITY AS A WORK OF ART, by Mr. Henry Rutgers Marshall, F.A.I.A. (New York).

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON FINANCE.

Gentlemen,—Your committee beg to report

That the credit balance of the Association in the hank has, during the last live years, decreased about $500. During this time about $250 has been added to the personality of the Association in the shape of furniture and books. For the last two years the expenditure of the Association has exceeded its revenue by about $250 yearly, and this tendency needs immediate attention. The deficit last year was largely owing to the spending of the large sum of $222 on the banquet and by adding $60 to the Guild Fund. Our ordinary sources of income under present conditions cannot be expected to yield much more than $400. Our expenditure for rent, registrar's salary, office expenses and sundries will amount to about If we spend $110 on education and only $100 on the banquet expenses above receipts, it will give us a budget of about $715 of expenditure. This leaves a sum of $325 to be made up from the profit on the publishing of our proceedings, an amount about equal to what was made last year. So with careful financing the receipts and expenditures may be made to balance. If with the advent of the 18 club and the consequent increase of income, the financial position is improved, any surplus can be advantageously used for education and the purchase of honks, We do not think that the present financial position demands an increase of members' tees, hut rather careful expenditure in the less essential features of our work.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

H.	B. GORDON

MARK HALL

W.	L. SYMONS



The report was adopted.



ELECTION OF OFFICERS.



Messrs. Edmund Burke, W. A. Langton and J. Wilson Gray were elected to take the place of the retiring members of the Council.

Messrs. Mark Hall and J. Wilson Gray were re-appointed Auditors.

The meeting then closed.



AN ADDRESS AT THE DINNER.



There was a dinner on the evening of the last day of the Convention at which, among speeches more or less serious in purpose, Mr. G. P. Payne, Inspector for the Canadian Board of Underwriters, took the opportunity to give some definite information that should be recorded for reference.

Mr. Payne said : It is a part of my work, as Inspector for the Canadian Fire Underwriters Association, to criticize the work of a good many of you Gentlemen, especially here in Toronto, and I would like to give you one or two figures, if you don't mind. Pos

* To be published later.

