<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ridors, etc., 2-inch paving, gauged 2½ parts granite chips and one part cement, is ample; and the same remark applies to street pavings if the stuff is laid in one (oat on a hard core foundation. Generally the latter is laid in two coats, especially in the face is to be rolled or crimped as B and D, Fig. 1; and it is most practical to do it in this manner, and also to use a liner grain of granite for the top or finishing coat, in order to ensure a clear imprint with the machines. The gauge for the two coats is 4 to 1 for the bottom one, and 1 to 1 for the top one, thus making the work equal to 2½ to 1. Great care must be taken that the two coats are laid simultaneously otherwise the two bodies will not properly adhere, and where possible, the finishing coat of ail pavings laid on concrete should follow whilst the concrete or foundation is in a moist or binding state. Should it not be practicable to do this, the concrete should be well brushed to remove all dust, then well watered (generally over night) and just before laying the paving material it should be treated with a coating of cement grout. By this means only can proper adhesion be obtained. Figs. 6, 7 and 8 snow the roller tools used by cement workers for erimping indenting and dividing, the work when completing. As regards the price per superficial foot you are to receive, eleven cents is a lair price for ordinary work. We have know n as low as nine cents given and the contractor (lid good work and made a fair profit. Much depends on the rate of wages paid, cost of gravel and cement and the distance the materials have to be hauled.



From "Carpenter." Please inform me of a method or methods of shingling hips so that a roll is not required to cover the joints'?

 are a number of methods, all of which have more or less value, and any of which is better than that of covering the hip-joint with rolls or combs. Six examples of shinging are shown in Fig. 9, which are taken from "Hodgson's Modern Carpentry.'' The first sketch, A, is intended for a hip, and is a fairly good example, and if well done will insure a water-tight roof at that point. In laying out the shingles for this plan the courses are managed as follows: No. 1 is laid all the way out to the line of the hip, the edge of the shingle being planed off, so that course No. 2 on the adjacent side will line perfectly tight down upon it. Next, No. 3 is laid and is dressed down in the same manner as the first, after which No. 4 is brought along the same as No. 2. The work proceeds in this manner, first right and then left.

In the second sketch, B, the shingles are laid on the hip in a way to bring the grain of the shingles more nearly parallel with the line of the hip. This  method overcomes the projection of cross-grained points. Another method of shingling hips is shown at C and D. In putting on shingles by this method a line is snapped four inches from angle of hip on both sides of the ridge, as indicated by the dotted lines in C, then bring the corner of the shingles of each course to the line as shown. When all through with the plain shingling make a pattern to suit and only vent the top to shape, as the bottoms or butts will break

joints every time, and the hip line will lay square with the hip line, as shown at D; thus making a first-class water-tight job, and one on which the shingles will not eurl up, and it will have a good appearance as well.

At E a method is shown for shingling a valley, where no tin or metal is employed. The manner of doing this work is as follows: First lake a strip 4







































































inches wide and chamfer it on the edges on the out side, so that it will lay down smooth to the sheeting, and nail it into the valley. Take a shingle about 4 inches wide to start with and lay lengthwise of the valley, fitting the shingle on (a h side. The fits course, which is always double, would then start with the narrow shingle, marked B, and carried lip the valley as shown in the sketch. Half way between each course lay a shingle, A, about 4 or 5 inches wide, as the ease requires, chamfering underneath on each side, so that the next course will lie smooth over it.

If tin or zinc can be obtained, it is better it should be laid in the valley, whether this method be adopted or not.

The sketch shown at F is intended to illustrate the manner in which a valley should be laid with tin, zinc or galvanized iron. The clotted lines show the width of the metal, which should never he less than fourteen inches to insure a tight roof. The shingles should lap over as shown, and not less than four inches of the valley, II, should be clear of shingles in order to insure plenty of space for the water to flow during a heavy rainstorm A great deal of care should be taken in shingling and finishing a valley, as it is always a weak spot in the to 

