<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	133



	OUR	ILLUSTRATIONS.



THE CANADIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, EDMONTON.—

<article title=" THE CANADIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, EDMONTON " author="">

MESSRS. DARLING AND PEARSON, ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.



In construction this design is a combination of gray stone and red brick. It has a stone base, stone columns and doorway, and a wooden cornice in scale with and painted like thc stone. Stone work is mingled with the brick for the key-stones, imposts and sills of windows, and in the quoin-blocks and caps of the chimneys.

The design exactly expresses the idea it ought to convey- —that of a country-town bank, in which the banking office is on the street level and the upper floors are a residence for the manager. This half domestic result has been attained, not only by the domestic windows of the upper part, but by great simplicity and refinement of detail.

MAIN ENTRANCE TO C.P.R. STATION, WINNIPEG.-----MR. E.

<article title=" MAIN ENTRANCE TO C.P.R. STATION, WINNIPEG." author="Maxwell, E.">

MAXWELL, ARCHITECT, MONTREAL.



The materials of this design are red brick, imported from Wisconsin, and gray limestone from the Garson quarries, near Winnipeg.

The treatment of the order deserves study. It is due to the design of the rest of the front to say that the photograph does not do justice to it. If this part is examined through a magnifying glass, (a most useful instrument in an architect's office), the confused appearance, presented in a more distant inspection of the plate, disappears, and it can be seen that the two-story window opening is framed by an architrave band of projecting brick. When this is grasped the springing stones cease to look spotty -an illustration of the added force which a visible function gives to decorative detail. The corbel or drop, under the shield form in cornice, is the root of the trouble, because it spreads like a capital and produces the illusion of a pilaster between the windows. If this had less width than the shield projection above it, or were omitted altogether, it would be better.

The dignity of the order which composes the entrance is due, in great measure, to the unusual size and broad proportion of the dentils and to the fact that the corona carries through. The dentils are modified by the insertion of a roll between them. The swagged capitals are a good enrichment and give the necessary emphasis to counterbalance the force of the dentils.



NO. 500 WILBROD ST., OTTAWA.——MR. J. W. H. WATTS, R.C.A., ARCHITECT.—DRAWING ROOM AND LIBRARY.



We have received no plan of this residence, of which the exterior was published, in the June number of this journal. But it can be seen from the illustrations that the drawing room and library communicate with one another, giving to each a vista of considerable extent.



CHEAP COTTAGES NO. 2.



We reproduce this week four examples from the exhibition of cottages at Garden City.

Mr. Fraser's design for Concrete blocks was one of the £150 class hut the representative of the Concrete Machinery Co., by whom it was built, admitted that he would not undertake to build it for sale at that sum. It should be noted also that the class price was intended to be the net cost of erection "exclusive of architects' fee and builder's profit.

The sizes of the rooms arc as follows —Parlour 14 6" x 12' 0'. Kitchen 14 6" x 12 0. Scullery 8' o" x

8' 0". Larder 8' 0" x 3' 6". Staircase and entrance hall

11'6" x 6' 0". End bedrooms each 14 6" x 12 0

Middle bedroom 11'6" x 8' 0".

Floors, wood on solid floor and wood boards on wood joists.

The walls are built from blocks made on the site by a portable hand power engine with a capacity of 150 blocks a day. The blocks measure 32" X 9" x 10".

The house would be best adapted to our purposes by raising it above the ground enough to allow light and air (and coal) into an excavated cellar, large enough for a small furnace that would heat at least the ground floor. There would then, to include only what is absolutely necessary, be but one chimney required

that on the kitchen side. It would, however, be desirable to leave in it the fireplace in the bedroom on that side. The coals and we. wing should be swung round to make a porch for the back entrance. The water closet might, even in our climate, open off this if it were properly supplied with hot air from the furnace. The alternative to heating from the cellar would be to project the entrance hall wall enough to leave room for a hall stove with the pipe passing upstairs and entering the chimney through the small bedroom. The water closet should then be transformed to an earth closet and should be entered from out of doors.

The design by Mr. Cayley is of the five-roomed class to cost £35 a room. The cost of this pair was £330, but the offer to duplicate is £380. It is stated that there would be a saving of per cent. if a group of four were built.

The bath tub in the scullery is no doubt covered by a hinged lid which makes a table.

In the remaining design, by Mr. Troup, we revert to the £150 class. He gives less accommodation but there seems more chance of building the house for the money, under ordinary circumstances indeed in its description, in the catalogue of the exhibition, the offer is made to duplicate it for £150, plus the architect's fee and the builder's profit.

The construction is our own frame construction of 2 x 4 studs, braced and covered with insulating paper and weather-boarding (i.e. clap boarding) outside lathed and plastered inside ; chimneys and foundations up to floor level, brick. Floors joisted and boarded, except scullery & c. Roof pan-tiles. There is 6 in. of cement concrete over the whole area of the house and extending 6 in. beyond the walls all round.

There is an earth closet, but in other respects the house is supplied with water from mains and drains through 52 ft. of glazed earthenware pipe to a small cess pool in the kitchen garden.



A CARPENTER DRIVING A NAIL.

<article title=" A CARPENTER DRIVING A NAIL " author="">

How many hammer strokes does a carpenter use in driving a nail?

Perhaps not one carpenter in a thousand or one layman in ten times that number can tell, or ever thinks of it, says the Chicago Tribune. The truth of the matter is this: The carpenter takes seven strokes in driving a nail into ordinary wood and twelve regular strokes and two finishing strokes in driving nails into hardwood.

These figures are furnished by a man who works at night, and sleeps—or tries to sleep—by day, and whose bedroom window opens out upon a flat building in course of erection. He figured the average number of hammer strokes for nine mornings, and, having learned them, moved to a hotel until the new building is completed.

He discovered that the carpenter drives an average of three nails a minute in soft wood and a fraction under three in hardwood. At this rate he would drive 1,440 nails a day in soft wood, if he keeps up the gait steadily, and 1,282 in hardwood. He would give 10,080 hammer strokes in soft wood and 20, 160 in hardwood. --- American Carpenter and Builder.

