<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	141

<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="Salus, Concordia">

MONTREAL NOTES.

At the Convention of the American Society of Municipal Improvement held in Montreal, during the first week of September, one of the speakers, Mr. F.

W.	Fitzpatrick of Washington, D.C., dealt with the subject of town buildings and the means by which the standard of these may be improved. After dwelling on the importance of fireproof buildings, more especially within prescribed city areas, and on the necessity, of limiting the height of city buildings, Mr. Fitzpatrick concluded by some suggestions as to the taxation of properties. It was his idea that taxes ought be proportioned to the quality of the buildings, but in inverse ratio rather than according to the present system of taxing buildings in direct proportion to their values. Could such a system be put in practice, it would obviously give great encouragement to the erection of sound and beautiful buildings; but a more obviously just and less drastic method of attaining this end, along similar lines, has long been advocated, and at the present day its advocates are probably rather less sanguine of its speedy adoption than they were at the time the idea was originally promulgated.

The idea referred to is simply that of Mr. Henry George and his followers, the single tax men, whose proposal was to wipe out the whole complicated system of municipal taxes and substitute therefor a single tax on the land, graduated according to the value each portion had acquired from the fact of its more or less advantageous position in relation to the community in which it was located. Thus wherever land in a city was valuable it would be so highly taxed that it would pay to hold it only by placing something upon it which would make it earn enough to meet these taxes. We should not then see vacant and slovenly properties standing about and idly earning large incomes for their holders. Nothing could be more simple or more just, or tend more to the benefit of a city in an architectural sense or to the business interests of its inhabitants ; but unfortunately, like many other fragments of ideal justice, it is difficult of realization, and, like many other dreams for the attainment of a high standard of public life, the public interests are here again blocked by a whole phalanx of private interests. So long as men are, as at present, taxed for improving their property they will be glad to hear of any scheme for terminating such a gross injustice,

Architects will have no difficulty in endorsing Mr. Fitzpatrick's dictum that the buildings are the town whilst the streets and parks are merely adjuncts. Yet even from the architects point of view these adjuncts are of much immediate importance. Location is a prime consideration in the matter of architectural effect, and the difficulty in obtaining fair play for the architectural effect of our streets was emphasized lately when the Road Committee raised the question as to the possibility of abating the telegraph and telephone pole nuisance. This nuisance is going to an exasperating extreme. Our streets are getting to resemble forests of dead trees, and there is hardly a building in the city which one can see otherwise than through a screen of wires. As various companies claim the right to erect their poles and wires without the direct sanction of the city, it was resolved to get an opinion from the City Attorney. The opinion was, in effect, "that these companies have the right to use the streets of the city to

erect their poles therein, but the city, by means of the Council, is authorized to superintend the work of erecting the poles." Considering this opinion and the influence which the companies have in high places, it seems as if the end was not yet ; and we must walk around and see the posts multiply and replenish the sky without any man to hinder. The removal of this nuisance alone would raise our untidy city ten per cent. in the estimation of visitors ; these visitors who, in spite of all our sins as a city, seem to love us still ; for the stranger within our gates is very much in evidence during the fall of the year.

The objects which receive the chief attention of visitors to Montreal are, first of all, our mountain which is all glorious at all times; secondly, a number of churches filled with cheap and tawdry show; and, thirdly, our antiquities and old associations, which very few of ourselves seem to care very much about. There is at present on foot a proposal which we fear will involve the loss or serious detriment of one of our interesting old buildings—the Inland Revenue Building. With a view to constructing an addition to this quaint old building, the Government is wishing to purchase a portion of the square in front of it from the City but, this ground being a public park, it is under consideration whether the City has the right to cede any part of it for building purposes. We hope not, for the building with its little square, though all comprised in a very small area and without great pretensions, makes a pleasant little spot in an otherwise unlovely locality.

There surely can hardly be two opinions with regard to a city of the extent and wealth of Montreal that it should have public buildings and public collections such as one might be proud to show to its visitors and which would be an education and a delight to its own people. There exist the little Art Gallery in the corner of Philip Square—a small Natural History Museum

University street and the Chateau de Ramezay to represent what might and ought to be, each one, a great institution, thronged with people eager to get and able to obtain information and education on a hundred subjects.

A Public Library is in reality more essential than a public prison, and would prove in every way more profitable. Its existence would be a powerful influence in reducing the necessity for the other. Prevention is better than cure. These ideas like the single tax scheme, are dreams, but they are dreams which, in most cities with which Montreal presumes to compare herself, have already advanced farther towards realization, and we shall hope that, as Montreal advances in wealth, she will advance in culture and civilization as well.

CONCORDIA SALUS.



BOOKS.

We have received a copy of the YEAR BOOK for 1905 of the COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE published by THE ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY. It is full of drawings which are of course excellent as drawings, but they exhibit also an apparent facility and certainty in academic design which promises that a student who fulfils this course will have at least culture, and bring to his practical work a knowledge of the nature of  architectural problems and of architectural language. There are other ways in which a young man can fit himself for an architectural career and it is probably he

