<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



has long been recognized, but this has formerly been considered mostly in connection with " body " and economy in spreading over a given surface. What Mr. Joh has shown, is that fineness in grain is the one grand dominant factor in the life of oil paints.

Plaster of Paris, being a crystalline substance, must always remain granular—can scarcely be reduced to the plastic condition of fine clay ; and although it can be ground to a fineness suitable for good paint, the cost of the process is almost prohibitive. The best of all cheap fillers would be calcium carbonate, if it were inert. For American Paris white is of extreme fineness and forms a beautiful smooth-flowing paint; but it will not stand acid fumes.

The best. method is to leave the choice of a filler to the manufacturer, merely stipulating that it shall be an inert substance and that the paint shall stand the following simple test.

Supposing the paste to contain 26 per cent. oil ; 2 1/2 times its weight of pure raw linseed oil is added. After thorough mixing, a few drops of this thin paint are placed upon a clean dry strip of glass, set upright in a temperature of 100" F. for one hour. At the end of the hour there should be no noticeable separation of pigment from oil and but a slight difference in colour between the top and bottom of the streak.—Indian Engineering. 







<article title=" PRESERVATION OF STONE " author="">PRESERVATION OF STONE.

In a letter in the Times of the 15th inst., Mr. Thackeray Turner, Secretary to the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings, draws attention to the

decay of the stonework of many of our ancient buildings, and concludes (we think rightly) that more damage is done by the corrosive gases and vapors evolved from burning coal than by rains, winds, and frosts acting in the absence of coal smoke. To arrest this decay Mr. Turner and his committee advocate the use of lime-wash, the lime-wash to be repeatedly applied to the face of the stone. For reasons which are obvious to all who have any chemical knowledge, lime-wash is very inferior to haryta-wash as a preservation for calcareous stones, and we think the process adopted by Professor A. H. Church for preserving decayed stonework in the Chapter House, Westminster Abbey. is much preferable to that advocated by Mr. Turner. This process consists in first cleansing the surface of the stone with thc aid of an air-blast, and then, by means of a pneumatic diffuser, injecting a saturated solution of barium hydrate into the pores of the stone. The injection is repeated several times. By the use of barium hydrate instead of calcium hydrate (lime-wash,) sulphate of barium instead of sulphate of lime is eventual!)- formed in the pores of the stone for a distance of several inches from the surface. Since sulphate of barium is practically insoluble in ram water and in dilute acids, whereas sulphate of lime is distinctly soluble, the advantage of using haryta-wash instead of lime-wash is evident. Calcium sulphate has, moreover, a greater tendency to cause exfoliation of the stone. Those interested in the preservation of calcareous stones will find much valuable information in the reports of Professor Church on the treatment of the decayed stonework in the Chapter house, Westminster, Abbey. to the First Commissioner of H. M.'s Works, dated May 28, 1901, and November 18, 1903, respectively.----The Builder.



<article title=" ONTARIO CLAYWORKER'S

ASSOCIATION.

" author="">ONTARIO CLAYWORKER'S

ASSOCIATION.

This Association held its third annual meeting on Dec. 7 and 8 last, at Waterloo, Ont, The president of the association, Mr. Byron E. Bechtel, of Waterloo, in his address to the Association dwelt upon the development of the Northwest, pointing out its future as a market for bricks. Discussions were upon the subjects of Machinery and Keeping it in Proper Order, and upon the question of Burning Bricks and How to Lower its Cost. A banquet was provided by Messrs. Bechtel Bros. Mr. Alexander Johnston is the secretary, and Mr. H. lanes the treasurer.





In French military stables 1,750 cubic feet per horse is allowed. In the royal stables of England 2,500 cubic feet per horse. In the stables of the Marlborough house 1,700 cubic feet. In English military stables the space ranges from 1,452 cubic feet to 2,284 cubic feet. In the Dublin barracks only 560 cubic feet per horse, In the stables of the London General Omnibus Company 820 cubic feet per horse. In large stables thc ceiling height should not be less than thirteen feet and better fourteen or fifteen feet.



The third Annual Social evening of the Master Painters and Decorators Association of Toronto was held at the Temple Building on Thursday, January 19. The members of the Association with their friends assembled to the number of about 200 in the large banqueting hall on the

6th floor. Mr. W. J. Bolas, vice-president officiated in the absence of the President, Mr. Frank McCansland. Several representatives of the Hamilton Master Painters and Decorators' Association were present. A very enjoyable programme of music allowed the banquet.

AN ABSOLUTELY

FIRE-PROOF WINDOW (Registered Trade "IMPERVIA" Mark.')

NOTICE

THAT

LINK

It melts at 160, thus allowing

the window to close and lock automatically





IT...

NEVER

FAILS

Hollow

Sheet

Metal

Sash and Frame,

Glazed

with Wire Glass



We make them to suit your requirements



Let us



send you Illustrated



Circular 

Made of Galvanized Sheet Steel

or Cold- Rolled Sheet Copper



The Metallic Roofing Co., Limited

WHOLESALE MANUFACTURERS

TORONTO,	-	MONTREAL,	-	WINNIPEG

