<doctype type="text">78	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY EXHIBITION" author="">THE ROYAL CANADIAN ACADEMY EXHIBITION



The exhibition of thc Royal Canadian Academy. at the rooms of the Ontario Society of Artists, Toronto, has a general level of excellence that is higher than formerly. For this reason, perhaps, there are fewer salient pictures. It is not only that technical skill is more generally high, but that the main thing, imagination, for want of which exhibitions used often to be disappointing, has found its way into most of the work; and usually in its best form, the unobtrusive. It is this quality that makes a picture, but it is hard to define it or to say always where it comes

in.	The true instinct for it is delicate, in both the artist and the spectator. We do not like to have it thrust upon our attention, labeled by exaggeration; and to the artist it is its very subtlety, its inherence in prosaic facts, that attracts his effort to express it. It is for this reason that truth is so much insisted upon by the critics and so loved by the artist. It is because the idea lies in the truth, in certain parts of it particularly, that he is so painstaking in following truths, and so particular in his selection of them. It is what is suggested that makes the picture, but the suggestion must be made by the facts. We used to have the facts without the suggestion. The suggestion is now much more there too, and this is the gain.

Imagination is very much akin to humour in that it sees facts in their relation to life. The seriousness of Mr. Wyly Grier's little daughter, standing up to be painted in his red militia waistcoat, makes a. picture because it is the expression of a child's attitude of mind towards the proceedings. It is a pretty attitude of mind and makes, therefore a pleasing picture. We are, no doubt, indebted to the artist for perceiving it in the first place, and for its maintenance in his representation through times of subsequent familiarity and even weariness.

It is this perception of the poetry that is involved in the ordinary affairs of life that makes the true imagination, an(l the true picture is that which makes clear the poetic points so that others can see them as they appeared to the artist. The artist is, therefore, an interpreter of life. He may interpret but one kind of truth, as the painters of one theme he may isolate the most suggestive truths, as the impressionists; but the greatest artist is undoubtedly he who is able to build up his theme with the greatest number of truths and, by a fine instinct for the proportion of things, still make it the thing expressed in his picture, which, perhaps, attracts at first sight simply from its truth to nature.

It would be a pleasure to comment upon the exhibition more in detail if space would permit. There are many pictures of interest. This by Mr. Wyly Grier is selected only as a simple illustration of a quality shared by most of the other exhibitors and by other portrait painters. It would be a pleasure to try to give a juster view of some of the pictures than is given in the daily press. The fatherly young man who, on behalf of the Toronto Globe, could only say of Mr. Homer Watson that he "does not seem painstaking," is hardly adequate. Not that this is

a bad criticism if it were meant well. That lie is not painstaking is from all accounts, the last thing that could be said of Mr. Watson, but that he does not seem painstaking is true, and is as it should be. But what a little to say of Mr. Watson who, if anybody, is the picture maker, the painter of imagination; who shows us the poetry of the country life, of work out of doors in the chances of the weather ; whose pictures are always full of the feeling of fresh air and the expressiveness of nature.

Surely no one ought to review for the press such a serious matter as the Academy Exhibition but a man over sixty who knows something.



 BRITISH COLUMBIA PLUMBERS ORGANIZE.

The master plumbers of British Columbia have formed an association to be known as the '' British Columbia Provincial Association of Master Plumbers, Gas; Steam, and Hot Water Fitters."

The initial convention of the Association was held in Vancouver on April 21 and 22nd last, when the Association was formed, and the necessary officers and committees elected. Mr. J. J. Coughlan of Victoria, was elected president Mr. W. H. Morton of Nanaimo, vice—president ; Mr. J. G. Anderson of Vancouver, secretary, and Mr. C. Weeks, Vancouver, Treasurer.

The above mentioned gentlemen also compose the Executive Committee. A Sanitary and Legislative Committee and an Apprenticeship and Assay Committee were also appointed, consisting of delegates from various parts of the province.

At the opening of the convention, considerable time and discussion was given to the question of the need of organizing and what the object of the association should be. Mr. Coughlan in a well delivered speech explained the need of organization for the purpose of protection against the custom of wholesalers in ignoring the local plumber by selling direct to the consumer, and for the mutual help and benefit organization would give. Various other gentlemen spoke and all expressed themselves as favorable to the formation of a Provincial Association and advanced many points in favor of the proposal. The meeting then resolved itself into a committee of the whole to prepare the Constitution and By—laws.

The Constitution and By-laws of the National Association were adopted with such modifications as were necessary to a provincial organization. Article II of the National Association Constitution setting forth the objects of the Association was adopted in its integrity.

This Association is organized for sanitary, commercial and social purposes, and has for its special object the advancement of trade in all the latest discoveries of science appertaining to sanitary laws to promote and combine the interest and influence of members for the protection of trade against imposition, injustice or encroachment upon our common rights and interests, encouraging invention and improvements in sanitary appliances; fostering an interchange of thought, and eliciting and communicating, for the benefit of each member, the best talent and the result of the experience and ability of all to promote amicable relations with employees on the basis of mutual interest and equitable justice to both journeymen and master plumbers to encourage Dominion and provincial legislation for the furtherance of the interest of sanitary laws ; to secure for the members of the trade equitable treatment in their dealings with manufacturers and dealers in supplies ; to regulate the

