<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	121



lowing table built up with horizontal top chord, angle brace and perpendicular stay all strongly riveted together with plates of the same thickness as angles in all cases. Each joint to have boiler rivets of the sizes specified in thc table, to be hot driven. Top chord of bracket to be tied to wall by round iron bolt running through wall, of size specified in table and riveted to angle with three boiler rivets of sizes specified, hot driven. Inside end of bolt to he provided with standard nuts and plate washer, this washer to have a hearing on wall of at least 48 square inches.

Angle braces of brackets to be at an angle with the wall of not



less than 45 degrees or more than 60 degrees. The lower end of these braces to be split and turned into wall at least 3", Balcony floor to he supported between brackets by three angle



irons, one at wall, one in centre, and One at outer edge. These angles to be same size as those specified for brackets.

Area supported Top chord braces Rivets. Top chord

	by brackets.	and uprights,	wall tie.

	6 sq. ft.	2 in. X 2 in. X 1/4 in.	1/2 in.	in.

	8 sq. ft.	2 1/4 in. x 2 1/4 in. x 1/4 in.	1/2	in.	1 1/8	in.

	10 sq. ft.	2 1/2 in. X 212 in. x 34 in.	5/8	in.	1/8	in.

	12 sq. ft.	2 1/2 in. X 2 1/2 in. x 5/16 in.		in.	1	in.

	16	ft.	3 in. x 3 in. x 1/4 in.	5/8 in.	1 1/4 in.

	20 sq. ft.	3 in. X 3 in. X	in.	3/4 in.	1 1/4 in.

	30 sq. ft.	3 1/2 in. x 3 1/2 in. x 3/8 in. 3/4 in.	1 1/2 in.



<article title=" CURING CONCRETE BLOCKS " author="Rice, H. H.">

CURING CONCRETE BLOCKS.

By H. H. RICE. Denver, Colo.



The essential difference between the use of concrete blocks and monolithic construction lies in the opportunity afforded by the former of thoroughly curing the blocks before they are placed in the wall. Properly cured blocks are, at time of laying, as truly stone as though the formation had been effected by nature's process rather than by the art of man. In many cases, however, inadequate knowledge of the science of curing and failure to employ the practical precautions requisite to insure the best results render blocks totally unfit for use. it is more largely due to such ignorance and negligence than to any other cause that many persons have become prejudiced against the use of this eminently fit building material.

The great characteristic of cement is its hydraulic activity anti resultant crystallization. Its value as a cementitious agent depends solely upon the thoroughness and uniformity of crystallization. The silicates cannot attain that. full crystallization necessary for maximum strength and greatest durability without the maintenance for a considerable period of time of conditions both favorable and uniform.

The initial and final sets are but expressions denoting certain stages in the process of crystallization. The former denotes the attainment of a degree of strength in which the block retains its shape against a slight jar ; the latter denotes the attainment of rigidity akin to natural stone. Now, it is evident that whatever are the conditions producing the chemical action manifested in the initial set, they must be substantially maintained to secure the most efficient final set.

It is however, evident that the requirements of such maintenance will vary according to the mixture used and the condition of the block when taken from the mold. In a medium mixture (a mixture from which tamping or pressure will cause water to slightly flush) there is somewhat more moisture than necessary for the initial set, and subsequent sprinkling from seven to ten days will suffice. In the dry mixture there is barely enough water for the initial set, and copious sprinkling should begin as early as may be possible without damage to appearance and continue for twenty or thirty days.

Time is of the essence of scientific curing. The exigencies of modern business tempt the block maker, almost beyond power of resistance, to shorten the time of curing and thus sacrifice quality for speed of construction. To this end curing by steam has been the subject of some experiments, the results of which demonstrate that steam accelerates partial crystallization, but the tests thus far made have failed to prove that the full strength of the cement is utilized, and until that' be accomplished steam curing can scarcely

be recommended. To rush partially cured blocks into a wall is an error so grave that the saving in time is no just compensation for the evil results which will surely ensure as the direct result of the absence of conditions requisite to a thorough scientific cure.

In stacking blocks in the curing yard let all faces be turned one way, and discoloration avoided by not allowing- any part of one block to rest in contact with the face of another. Do not pile blocks one upon another, but avoid contact and permit free circulation of air by using pieces of lath between tiers.

In sprinkling use a fine spray and let it play on the back, as the impact of water will ruin a freshly made face. Let sprinkling be thorough and at such intervals that no portion of a block will dry out. Remember, always, that drying is not curing.

The failure to maintain a uniform condition of moisture during curing causes variation in contraction, and is responsible for most of the cracks developed. Uniformity of temperature should not be disregarded and ma)' usually be sufficiently maintained by thorough sprinkling, provided that blocks are properly sheltered from the direct rays of the sun. To expose blocks without such shelter while curing is fatal, and will result in ultimate disintegration and crumbling.

To avoid expansion cracks, blocks should not be frozen during the first few days of their existence. The curing of blocks in winter is, however, by no means impracticable, although requiring more time, as crystallization is slower and is almost entirely suspended when the temperature is a few degrees below freezing. It is, however, merely a suspension and is resumed upon a rise in temperature.

Climatic conditions must also be considered. A dry atmosphere or intense extremes of heat and cold will require greater care than a humid atmosphere or a comparatively even temperature.

The influence of care or carelessness in curing on uniformity or diversity of color is seldom appreciated. This is a point worthy of careful study and exhaustive experimentation, for the day is at hand when the man who is heedless as to a pleasing and uniform color in his product may not hope to meet the demand for the artistic in concrete block construction.

Strength is the great essential -the final test by which every building material must stand or fall -and in this regard scientific curing is of prime importance. Cement is the bonding element, attaining its ultimate strength only by thorough crystallization, and thorough crystallization is only secured by scientific curing.

I have been asked by men, otherwise intelligent, how long it took blocks to dry out. I have seen blocks, otherwise good, exposed to the intense heat of a summer sun and given little or no attention. Is it that such practice should produce blocks porous, unsightly and weak? Is it fair to the people who desire to avail themselves of the advantages of this construction, and rely upon the knowledge and integrity of the manufacturer? Let us apply scientific methods to our work if we desire permanent and enduring success.



The Architectural Association of London publish a humourous journal called "The Tufton St. Tatler or the Purple Patch' from

which the following is an extract.



THE DAY'S WORK.

I got to the office at half—past ten,

And sat on my stool and sighed

Poor Jim grew sleek on a pound a week

In this way till lie died.

I drew a moulding about a door,

And figured it two by three

Then feeling weak, I went to seek

A neighbouring A. B. C.*

When I came back in the afternoon

That moulding looked too small

After earnest thought, I felt I ought

To rub out door and all.

Just as I finished, the clock struck five,

And I thought, with a weary sigh,

''It's hard for you to earn your screw

In this way till you die."



*Aerated Bread Company restaurant.

