<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and BuilderVOL. XVIII.—- No. 208.	C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY	-	-	PUBLISHERS.	W.	A. LANGTON	- -	- -	-	-	EDITOR.	OFFICES: CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING,	TORONTO, CANADA.APRIL, 1905.ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.Plan of Macpherson Estate, Toronto.Cottage at Victoria, B. C. S. Maclure, Architect.St. Mary's (Anglican) Church, Portage la Prairie.—H. S. Griffiths, Architect, Winnipeg.House of J. W. Siddall, Architect, Toronto.House in Victoria, B. C.—S. Maclure, Architect.ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.Macpherson Estate, Toronto. S. H. Townsend, Architect. View from North Side of Crescent Road looking East. Macpherson Estate, Toronto. —S. H. Townsend, Architect. View from Crescent Road looking South to Cluny Ave.CONTENTSEditorial -	-		-	-	-		-	-	49-50The Development	of an		Estate	 -		-	 -		51Canadian Company	to		Make Fire	Appliances			-	-	52Our Illustrations		—	 -	 -		-	  -		53Books -	-		-	-	-		-	-	53Civic Art Pays		-	 -	 - - Mr. John Belcher on the Study of Old Works Mr. Carnegie Entertained by Builder	-	- Modern Methods of Financing Building Operations The Ideal House -	-		 -			-		- 	- 	57The Campanile, Venice		-		-			-	-		57 Intercommunication	— 		— 		—			—  	—Damages for	Non-Completion	of		Contract -				-		59-60Montreal Notes -		- - - Real Estate in Montreal —	—		—		—		61Master Plumbers' Association of	Ontario			-		-	62A Few High Structures -	-		-		-		62The Leek Radiator - -		-		- -Wall Paper By-Law for Montreal -			-		-		63Decision Against Boycotting - - -Financial Centre of Toronto	-		-		-		ixNew Method of Laying Concrete	- -	-	xRichardson's Building at Pittsburgh	—	—	xIgnition by Sun	-	-	—	—	—	xiKitchen Ventilation	- -	-	-	xiiAgainst Sky-Scrapers	-	-	-	xiiMontreals' Proposed New By-Laws	-	-	xiiiPlasterers have Settled	-	—	- —	—	xiv<article title=" An Avenue ofSod." author="">An Avenue ofSod.<article title=" Overhead Tanks." author="">Overhead Tanks.A rather strange proposal has been made by a member of the Toronto Board of Control: to grass overthe line road, that leads to the Queen's Park and is the approach to the Parliament Buildings. The cause of this suggestion is the second road, University Street, which, in consequence of some early misunderstandingalong side ofbetween the City and the University, runsthe Avenue. The proposal to adopt the side street asan approach, and leave the other as inexpressive as a 'walled up door, shows that it is just as well Mr. Spence is a controller, for as an artist he lacks imagination.There will he a big spill some day from some of the sprinkler tanks that are set up on skeletonsupports and left to the weather. Steel does not last forever ; and, in the steel trestle work that usually carries these tanks, there are very slender members, which a little neglect could easily make too slender. And has there been enough consideration given to the effect of large fires upon the exposed steel? A little warping—-a very little— and - down comes the tank. However much comfort there may be for owners and underwriters in a 20,000 gallon tank propped up by steel, it must he a terror to firemen. Sprinkler tanks should rest on brickwork, and, For the sake of appearance, should be surrounded by brickwork. In other words a tank should imply a tower.The foundation of a club for architectural students is a good move on the part of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects. According to the newspaper report of the proceedings, in the<article title=" The Montreal Architectural Club." author="">The Montreal Architectural Club.meeting at which the club was instituted, it is proposed to give instruction chiefly in design. It is an excellent idea to measure old buildings. They have old buildings in that province of which it is well worth while to preserve a record, and the building traditions are good and ought to be studied and find their place in work of the present day. But there is some drier work that the student will have to get hold of; and something in the way of the mathematical instruction that is carried on by the Ontario Association of Architects, in conjunction with the Eighteen Club, is desirable also. The unusual number of students who came up for the examinations of the Ontario Association, which are just finished shows that this instruction is appreciated by the students and is doing good.A New York architect, who was present at the Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects,told the members that there is practically no difference made now in New York between bricklaying in warm weather and in freezing weather. The fall of six buildings in New York, on the first warm day of spring, is the other side of the question. Fortunately the warm day was a Sunday, so that there was no loss of life; but the money value to the builders is estimated at from two to three millions of dollars. The buildings were all large; five and six storey ''flathouses;" and in two cases the building that fell was part of a row built concurrently, so that the character of the rows (in one case consisting of eight six-storey flathouses) is in question. It is against the law in New York to use mortar in freezing weather; but the authorities say there are not enough inspectors to prevent it. The national conception of the virtue of haste must, in any<article title=" Frozen Mortar " author="">Frozen Mortar.