<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	59



lines at right angles to each other and mark them permanently as base lines either upon other buildings or fences or by setting posts or stakes firmly in the ground with their tops level with the surface, a nail driven nearly down to the head indicating the exact position of the line on each stake. After this preliminary work is done it is a good plan to set stakes a little back from each corner, connecting them with strips of board upon which the exact position of the lines can be indicated by nails nearly driven down, upon which the mason's lines can be drown. This method has the advantage that, in squaring up, the lines can be shifted as required without disturbing the stakes. In getting the right angle it is convenient to make use of the steel square in setting the lines to their approximate places, checking the work by measuring very accurately 6 feet on one line, and 8 feet on the other, when the distance between these two points, diagonally across the corner would be exactly 10 feet. By measuring each line and squaring two or more corners, the accuracy of the work can be proven. This latter method of verifying the correctness of the work, is based on a well known geometrical solution, and is known among workmen as the 6, 8 and 10 rule.



From country contractor :—I have three sets of sliding doors to arrange and put up, and. as 1 know but little about this kind of work, I should be thankful to you if you will publish a few pointers on the subject.

Ans. :—Replying to this querist, we submit the following which has been handed to us by an expert on hanging sliding doors.

"In preparing for sliding doors, about the first thing which is very important to attend to is to see to having a firm and level floor directly under such openings, and this necessitates carefully planning and executing the foundation work.

Chalk Ilne for your 2 rows of studs, being careful to select only straight sized studs, and let me say here that it is not absolutely essential that the 'heading timber' be just 4 inches wide, as shown in some hanger details; anything from 3 1/4 to 4 inches will be all right for ordinary doors. Sized studs in the hard pine States are 1 5/8 x 3 5/8 and in my practice I commonly spike 2 select studs together for the 'spreader'. The only thing about this header or spreader which must be 'just so' is that it must be level, whether the floor be or not, and must be the proper distance above the floor, which will depend entirely on what hanger you use, plus the length of the door and 1/2 inch under the doors. The simplest and most perfect hanger in my estimation is the "Wilcox Trolley Ball Bearing House Door hanger," when such can be obtained. The wood header furnished with this hanger may be screwed or spiked to the header before spiking the latter in place, and the 'track' is removable even after the walls are plastered or otherwise finished. This makes it possible to adjust both ends of track with very little trouble.

Double sliding doors of course require 2 complete frames with jambs of a width to allow 3/8 or inch on either side the door, which will be mostly concealed in finishing with the stops.

Most hardware will necessitate the stops being ''scooped out' a little where the escutcheons or pulls pass through.

A double frame should be in width equal to the 2 doors and astragals counting from the back or stud side of the jambs. I prefer matched astragals and plain face locks. The 2 frames should be set perfectly plumb and even at all points.

Lining pockets and matching or spicing the overhead jambs as shown in some details are ' 'mostly moonshine.''

The simplest and most lasting 'bumper' is a piece of metal say about 1/2 x 1 x 3 inches fastened with a long, slim lag screw about lock high at the back edge of each door; if the hole for the lag screw be drilled a little to one side of the center the device will have a tendency to hang down and across the door if left a trifle loose, and may be turned long way up and down the door with a thin instrument at any time that you may want to remove the door. If the hanger you use is not supplied with this form of bumper, our blacksmith will make them for a few cents each. It is scarcely necessary with most hangers to have bumpers at the back end of pockets, but if one is found necessary after the pocket is finished the simple thing is to bore a hole in the back edge of door, and drive in a 'long pin'---sufficiently long to bump against the first thing bumpable. Single sliding doors need one solid jamb."





<article title=" DAMAGES FOR NON-COMPLETION OF

CONTRACT.

" author="Barrister, A.">DAMAGES FOR NON-COMPLETION OF

CONTRACT.

BY A BARRISTER.



If the contract is not completed, it may be that nothing is payable by the employer ; but assuming that something is payable, either by reason of the employer's acceptance of the incomplete performance, or because he has prevented the employé from completely performing, the question arises how the payment or damage is to be computed. The standard applicable depends upon whose default it is that the contract is not completed. If a contractor fails to perform his contract, the employer has a right against him for breach of contract, even although he may have paid the price, unless there has been a final acceptance by approval of the architect. Such damages may be made the subject of set-off or counter-claim, according to their extent. It may therefore be that while the employer is not bounds to pay anything, either because the work is useless, or because, owing to non-completion, the contractor has no right of action for the price, the contractor may be sued by the employer for damages resulting from such breach of contract. But this

question is more usually raised when there is an acceptance of the partly performed contract, or an acceptance of delivers' with reservation of all claims. In such a case the damages are set off against the claim for the price. When the employer has refused to accept, he may not only refuse to pay the contractor for the work, but may also recover damages.

In matters of contract the damages to which a party is liable for its breach ought to be in proportion to the benefit he is to receive from its performance. Now this benefit, the consideration for his promise, is always measured by the primary and intrinsic worth of the thing to be given for it, not by the ultimate profit which the party receiving it hopes to make when he has got

it.	The leading case on the subject of damages is that

