<doctype type="text">156	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



made with 6 bushels of bricks to bushel of cement, worked out to 37 bushels of materials per cubic yard. A yard of concrete that is composed of cement, to 2 of sand and 6 of shingle requires 27 ft. of shingle,  ft. of sand, and ft. of cement, together with 25 gal. of water. Concrete that is composed of cement to 1 of sand and 6 of broken bricks requires 30 ft. of bricks of 3-in. gauge, 10 ft. of sand, ft. of cement, and 12 gal. of water. Concrete that is composed of 3 of cement to 7 of ordinary gravel will require  ft. of gravel, 4 1/2 of cement and 30 gal. of water. The examples that are given above will enable the querist to form an idea of the quantities that he will require, but the actual quantities can only be found by making a few yards with careful measurements. The

querist must not forget also that when the concrete is rammed, it looses about one-tenth of its hulk. A bushel contains 1.284 cub. ft.



From '' Apprentice " Is it necessary that a hip rafter should be backed ; and if so kindly describe the proper method of getting the bevels for the hacking?

ANS.----We have answered these questions on a former occasion and do so again in a somewhat different manner. To the first question we may say, that where the hip is only two inches in thickness, it is hardly necessary to back the hip though it would be better to do so, but where hips are more than two inches thick they should be backed. As to the method of backing, there is a half-dozen different ways. The method shown at Fig. 3, however, is the oldest and most































scientific and is not at all difficult. Referring to the diagram Fig. 3. Let A B C D be a plan of the building. Draw the diagonal lines A C and B D; set up E F for the rise of roof; then A F will be the length of hip rafter. Make A H and A G equal. Draw G H then with one foot of dividers at 1 make an arc cutting the hip at K ; then draw L G and L 11. Set the bevel by the line A E, and L H or L G, and you have the required angle for hacking.



From Contractor" Will you please describe a good method of putting on a tar and gravel roof and the kind of materials to use?

ANS.—In reply to this query we reproduce a specification for this kind of work which has been adopted by many roofers, and has been found efficient and durable. The specification is to the following effect "The roof construction shall not exceed two inches fall to the foot, inch would he better. The sheathing boards should be of an even thickness laid close both

at ends and edges and securely nailed on each edge at all bearings. Over the sheathing when thus laid place one thickness of a good roofing paper ; this in turn being covered with four thicknesses of No. 1 roofing felt, the felt not to exceed 32 inches in width, and the total weight of the four thicknesses not to be less than 52 pounds per square of 100 feet. Each thickness is to be turned up and well mopped between with hot roofing cement. A galvanized cave finish is to be put on all around the edges of the roof to form a stop. All wall connections, chimneys, skylights and other openings to have galvanized iron flashings over the surface or felt. A good even coat of roofing cement is to be flowed, the cement in no case to be hot enough to injure the woolly fibre of the felt, and not less than 8 gallons of cement per square of 100 feet to be used, including that for mopping between the layers of felt. Upon this spread, while the cement is hot, a good even coat of clean seashore gravel or crushed stone, the latter to be free from dust and dirt, and none to be used except. what will pass through a 5/8 inch mesh screen and be caught on a 1/4 inch mesh screen. This roof, put on by a reliable man, will easily last ten years without repairs and cost about $4 or $5 per square complete, not including timber.



From '' Painter" Please advise me of the best method of making a good permanent job of work in painting a plastered wall?

ANS. In painting plaster, white lead and linseed oil, with a small quantity of driers, are recommended. The coat should be of the consistence of thin cream, so that the oil is absorbed into the plaster in a few hours. In a day or two another thicker coat may be applied, and a third few days later, rather thicker, followed by the finishing coat. Four coats are not too much for good work. By the absorption of the oil into the plaster the substance becomes hardened and may be washed.



From "A Mason": I am about to build a curling rink 150 feet long by 40 feet wide and wish to lay a cement bottom in it, will you please inform me of the best method of doing this work and oblige?

ANS. -The site should first be made perfectly level, and a clay subsoil will be a distinct advantage. The site, after it had been leveled, should he covered with rough concrete about 6 in. thick, made in the proportion of 4 parts broken stone, 2 parts crushed stone or sand, and 1 part of best Portland cement. To ensure getting an even thickness of concrete pins should be driven in the ground at frequent intervals and allowed to project 6 in, from the surface; the concrete is then laid to the level of the top of the pegs. The pins are withdrawn after the concrete has set, and the whole surface is then grouted with cement and sand in the proportion of 1 1/2 to ; the upper surface should then he covered with fine concrete, formed of 1 1/2 parts of sand to part of cement. A floor of this kind, however, is very likely to crack with the heat of the summer, if not properly protected, and instead of an tipper surface of fine concrete the better plan will be to use best natural asphalt. A curb in concrete or stone should be laid round the edge of the floor so as to retain the water, and a drain provided with a valve should be constructed in order that the water may be drawn off if necessary.

