<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	109

wall across the apex of the roof. The object of the great spread given to the gable, by its projecting footstones, high skew and broad chimney stacks, was apparently to give all the shelter possible not only to the house but also to the roof itself. The projecting quoins make good the connection between the ashlar of the front and the rubble work of the gable. The balustrade to the platform along the front of the house still has the old molded balusters. The square outbuilding with its pyramidal roof is a very usual adjunct to these old residences.



The houses in St. Urban street, Montreal, show the same type of architecture as applied to the more crowded streets of the city. The masonry here is of a rough irregular ashlar. The footstones of the skews have the same molding as those on the Varennes house. The windows are very commonly constructed with a small projecting keystone over their centre. This custom evidently was suggested by the difficulty in handling or obtaining large stones and justifies itself as a constructive expedient by giving a certain elasticity to the structure preventing the unsightly cracking of lintels, difficult to avoid on treacherous soils. The rough ashlar house in Sherbrooke street may be



more modern in date but follows closely the same type. Still later in date come houses of dressed and evenly coursed ashlar of which some here illustrated (No. 5) are also in Sherbrooke street. Houses of this class have a very considerable charm not readily exhibited by a photograph. They suffer from the fault common to most late Georgian and Adams work of being over restrained. They speak of a time when people set such store on refinement that from fear of expressing themselves with any appearance of vulgarity they hardly expressed themselves as



individuals at all, and their architecture has an air of uniformity and conventionality. To a considerable degree of refinement it has, however, fair claim, and in Montreal it is happy in the use of the beautiful local limestone. The builders of this period handled this excellent material with a true instinct. Their delicate little mouldings, broad plain surfaces, and slightly projecting pilasters and bands exhibit the delightful grey tone of this maternal to perfection.

 The stone is so hard as to be somewhat refractory but this difficulty is overcome by the method of dressing locally known as fine boucharding i.e., picking with very heavy hammer the square face of which is furnished with rows of sharp teeth. It is worth observing that in the building which Messrs. McKim, Mead & White are now erecting, for the Mount Royal Club in Sherbrooke Street, the Montreal limestone is being used and the style of the building strongly recalls that of the period now being noticed.



The old house on St. Gabriel Street. of which a measure





drawing appears in the present issue, is a variant on this extremely restrained type of work. Here may be observed employment of the small key block over the centre of the openings. the use of a kind of triglyph treatment with a Corinthian order

