<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	13



<article title=" FROM THE



BUILDING OF THE BARN

" author="Crosby, Earnest">FROM THE



BUILDING OF THE BARN

BY ERNEST CROSBY.



There is a clamor of hammers striking nails into resounding wood, and of trowels clinking against stone, here where they are building the great stone barn.

It is the joyful noise of creation.

They are in haste to close it in, so that it may be launched in time to carry in its hold the ripening harvest of hay, and rye, and wheat, in another fortnight.

Though the carpenters are still at work within, and the masons finishing the east wall, yet the slaters have already half covered the long gable.

The roof-timbers stand out like the ribs of a ship, with keel turned skyward, destined, we hope, to sail down the years-to-come for a century or two, and to bear many an annual cargo of corn on its way from meadow to kitchen and manger.

Who knows but that under more brotherly skies it may become a communal barn, the centre of some better kind of great ranch-family.

The carpenters are flooring the main deck of the great farm-ship.

Half a dozen of them, on their knees, are driving long wire nails into the smooth white boards.

Their left hands are full of nails, and they thrust them into the pockets of their aprons for more.

It takes four or five strokes of the hammer to send the nail home, and each series of strokes forms a little musical motif of itself in the rising scale, with a dull and at the end like a hand muffling the chords of an instrument.

The hollow roof, partly open to the sky, reverberates every note.

Two men are planing and sawing boards to proper dimensions on a pair of wooden horses, and the overseer is balancing himself on the bare beams and measuring the space with a footrule.

The hoarse drone of the saw grows lower and lower, until the end of each board drops, splintered at the corner, on to the floor.

At the end of the barn we see the masons at work near the top of the narrowing wall, on a scaffold raised inside the building.

They stand in relief against the sky, like a frieze.

A cart, laden with rough stone, is backed up beneath them, and the teamster, standing on the load, lifts a stone with difficulty, and hands it up to two of the masons.

A workman brings mortar and cement by the hodful up an inclined plane.

There are two other masons engaged in laying stone

One is a good-looking youngster just free from his apprenticeship, and evidently proud of his craft

His cap is jauntily tipped over his curly hair, and lie has stuck a geranium in the buttonhole of his waistcoat

He looks as if he were thinking of the village girls, but not enough to interfere with his work, and he taps his trowel against the stone, harder and more frequently than is necessary, as he slashes the mortar into the crevices.

The master mason is setting a large stone at the corner, aligning it with a cord stretched along the wall above it, with blows from the handle of his tool ; while he bends over and looks down the

precipice outside, and then scrapes of the oozy, bulging line of mortar and deposits it on top of the stone, the back of his head nearly touching the eaves.

We must go outside to watch the slaters on the roof.

There are three of them up there, with their tools playing their own kind of music on the thin slate.

The little grey-bearded Scotchman moves up and down, sitting and kneeling from gutter to ridge, like a kobold.

Two boys bring the slate up a long ladder from the ground, piling it on their left shoulders, and mounting slowly round by round.

The old man takes it from them, weighs each slate in his hand ; giving it a finishing touch at the edges with his slate-hammer, and then, knocking two holes in it with the sharp butt-end for the fastenings, he passes it on to his companions.

The Craftsman.





<article title=" UNDERGROUND MUNICIPAL STRUCTURES " author="">UNDERGROUND MUNICIPAL STRUCTURES.

Professor A. Prescott Folwell, in a paper read before the American Society of Municipal Improvements, speaks of the loss by leakage from buried gas and water mains and the waste of money involved in perpetually digging after them, taking up for the purpose good pavement which can never be so good again, no matter how carefully it is relaid. Having taken account of the evil he proceeds to speak of the remedy.

''The only solution '' he says" which can be adopted as satisfactory will be one in which the paving will never need to be torn up until worn out ; in which all pipes, wires, etc., can be laid without interfering with the paving and he readily inspected at any time, this being true of service pipes and wires as well as mains. The paving can be preserved by not permitting either private corporations or city departments to lay any mains under the streets, but compel them to purchase right of way along private property, or else reserve strips of public property—such as alleys or strips between the sidewalk and the street (the latter of which would be interfered with by shade trees)— under which all such would be laid. But the other disadvantages are not remedied in this way. To meet them all a general conduit seems to be the only solution, with small branch conduits for the service lines. It seems probable that the model city of the future will have such conduits, throughout its business section at least, where pavements are most expensive and such structures most numerous. In them would be placed the small sewers of the separate system, water, gas and steam-heating mains, while in the walls of hollow tile could be run the telegraph, telephone and other wires. St. Paul already has something similar to this in its sandstone sewer tunnels, as has Paris in its sewers. Nottingham and St. Helens, England, comparatively small cities, have had such conduits for several years. In Chicago 60 miles of tunnels for wires have been built, the trunk tunnels 12 2/3 x 14 feet, the branches 6.5 x 7 feet. If a private company can do this for its own wires only, it would seem to be more practicable financially when all the above can be provided for. The advantage of such a conduit is not confined to the annual savings if the structures it contains can be originally laid in it, thus saving the excavating and repaving, which would otherwise be necessary. This would amount to not less than 75 cents a foot for each structure, or $3 a foot for four—as sewer, water, gas and steam. (In the centers of the larger cities the number of the various pipes, etc., would be several times this.) An electrical conduit in a business section costs $2 to $4 a foot or more (26 cents per duct foot on an average.) Therefore, even in a city of small size—say 25,000 to $60,000--the saving of $5 to $10 on construction would be effected. The loss of 22.5 to 45 cents per foot capitalized at 4 per cent. would give $5.56 to $11.25 per foot,

