<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Osgoode Hall and the Armories to begin with. We need to have such opportunities marked down to be reserved for appropriate use.

Mr. H. Rutgers Marshall :—Although I am a guest, may I be allowed to say just a word? (Applause.) I wish merely to tell you of my experience in one particular. I have had a great deal to do, for the last 15 years, with the organization of societies in New York, which look to the betterment of New York in an artistic way. There is one thing that has come out clearly and distinctly, and that is that nothing happens unless the architects start it. The other societies of artists are timid. Everything that has been done in New York has been done under the leadership of the Architects. It is, if I may be allowed to express an opinion, for this body to initiate, You cannot afford to wait for the other bodies. Any movement of this kind must start among the Architects.

The Registrar suggested that as this subject was to be brought very prominently before the Convention, it would be better, instead of spending time in its discussion now, to appoint a committee consisting of Mr. Burke and two others who, after hearing the proceedings of the Convention, should draft a resolution on the subject. The President named Messrs. Burke, Langton and Denison to be such a committee.

THE REPORTS of Officers and Committees were then presented.



T

IlE REGISTRAR, Mr. W. R. Gregg, read his report as follows

REGISTRAR'S REPORT FOR 1904.

MEMBERSHIP---The Association has a total membership of 64 of which 3 are honorary members, 33 regular members reside in Toronto and 28 in oilier places.

Two of the original members have died, Mr. Joseph Connally, Hon. Past President and Mr. Peter Brass.

STUDENTS.— Six students filed articles in 1904, of which five are students in Toronto offices and one elsewhere.

Examinations were held in April. Two students passed the first examination and one was allowed a supplemental two passel the second examination and one was allowed a supple-menial.

THE COUNCIL. —The Council has met seven times since last annual meeting, with an average attendance of seven.

MONTHLY MEETINGS —One monthly meeting was held in March at which Prof. Wright read a paper on Statics and a joint meeting with the Engineers' Club held iii June discussed the Lessons of the Toronto Fire. The attendance of members in both cases was small.

GUILD PRIZE FUND.---The Guild fund is now in hand in the form of a 400.00 Debenture at the Canada Permanent and Western Canada Mortgage Corporation hearing interest at 4

A motion of Council provides that this fund shall only be used to acknowledge and award special proficiency in architecture of Students who have passed the final examination with special credit and whose work and attainments in architect are the Examining Board considers should be suitably acknowledged by the Council.

R.I.B.A.——Examinations by the Royal Institute of British Architects were not held in Canada in 1904 as no candidates had offered themselves. The provision is still in force for holding

these Examinations each year.

PROCEEDINGS.---The fourth Volume of Proceedings was published in April and 1,200 copies printed and distributed. Exchanges are received from societies in Canada, United States, Great Britain, Australia, Italy, Germany and France.

CIVIC IMPROVEMENT The American League for Civic Improvement and the American Park and Outdoor Art Association have united to form the American Civic Association and our Association having been a member of the former becomes affiliated with this large organization. We will have the opportunity of welcoming the President of the American Civic Association to-day.



T

IlE TREASURER'S REPORT, read by Mr. Henry Simpson, the Treasurer, was as follows

TREASURERS'	REPORT, JANUARY 14th, 1905. EXPENDITURES.

Printing	$370.10

Banquet expenses	-- -

Convention expenses	83 80

Stationery	95.70

W.	R. Gregg's petty cash and educational

	expenses	138.17

Engineers Club	33 36

Registrar                               200.00

Rent	150.00



Gas                                    8.16

Insurance	8.51

Bank	.30

Advertising agents	307.80

Membership American Civic Association	2.00

Canada Permanent Mortgage Co	60. 74

		$1,680.96

	Balance on hand	504.86

	$2,185 82

RECEIPTS.

Members fees	270.00

Examination fees	70.00

Filing articles 	30. on

Advertisements	987.20

Sale of Magazines	 10.60

W. R. Gregg	 12.37

Eighteen Club, class expenses	 28.01

Interest on bank balance 1904	 22.03

	      $1,430.21

     Bank balance from 1903	          759.71

	     $2, 185. 82

 —



The deficit gave rise 10 some discussion as to its cause, which resulted in the appointment of a Committee consisting of Messrs. Gordon. Denison and Mark Hall to consider how to reduce expenditure by an equivalent amount during the present financial year.

T

	E REPORT OF THE JOINT EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE

HE (of the Association and Eighteen Club) read by



Mr. A. H. Gregg, chairman, was as follows

REPORT OF THE JOINT EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE.

The Joint Educational Committee have much pleasure in reporting that the work done by the students classes during the last year has been most satisfactory. Continuing the methods which have been followed by the Committee during the past three seasons, mathematical classes have been held at the rooms of the Association under the tuition of Mr. A. H. Harkness, B. A. ; and classes in design have been conducted at the rooms of the Central Ontario School of Art. This latter class has been in charge of a special Committee appointed by the Eighteen Club and composed of Messrs. Bond, Howland, Rae, Horwood, Sproatt and McGiffin. The class is conducted on methods similar to those adopted at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, problems in design been given the student and worked out under the supervision of the visiting architects forming the Committee. As regards attendance, there are twenty-nine students in the classes this year as compared with twenty-two last year. The majority of these attend both the mathematical and studio classes. Although the students pay a fee of $5.00 covering tuition in both departments. it has not been possible to conduct the classes without a deficit, but by arrangement with the Eighteen Club, one-half of this deficit is paid by our Association, the other halt being paid by the Eighteen Club, The deficit last year amounted to $99.82. Of the whole, the Committee considers these classes are doing splendid work and the enthusiasm of the students is most marked, and should result in a high standard of education among the younger members of the profession.

A.	H. GREGG, Chairman.



HE COMMITTEE ON MUNICIPAL BUILDING BY-LAWS

T

 was represented by Mr. A. F.Wickson, who stated that the enactment of building laws for Toronto, that are considered very good laws, has relieved the committee of the chief responsibility that was put upon it when it was appointed.



T

 HE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE reported by Mr. W. L. Symons one act which was without issue. They were called upon to give their assistance in drawing up terms of arbitration between contractors and their employees, The Toronto fire changed the situation so that negotiations, interrupted by that event, have not been resumed ; but the committee possesses the conclusions it reached and hopes to bring them into use later.



T

 11 E TORONTO CHAPTER report was read by Mr. Herbert E. Moore. The report is as follows



TORONTO CHAPTER OF THE O.A.A.



The officers of the Toronto Chapter beg to report to the Ontario Association of Architects, in convention assembled as follows

Mr. President and Gentlemen

In representing the report of our Chapter for the year 1904, it is a pleasure to be able to inform you of the activity and progress of this branch of the parent body.

The number of meetings held during the year was 27, with a gross attendance of 225, and an average attendance of 8.3.

The officers were all re-elected at the annual meeting in April last, as follows: Chairman, Mr. Edmund Burke; Secretary, Mr. Herbert E. Moore; Treasurer, Mr. A. H. Gregg.

As in previous years the meetings have been usually in the form of weekly luncheons on Tuesdays in the rooms of the Association, and several specia cur emergency meetings have

