<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	183



CORRESPONDENCE

MONTREAL, November 30, 1905.



To the Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

<article title="Correspondencee- Montreal -" author="Archibald, John, S.">

SIR:--- In the October number of the "CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" and under thc subject of "Montreal Notes' I find your correspondent refers to the question of the competition recently held by thc City Authorities for the new mountain ''lookout". He deplores the want of understanding between the City Council and the P.Q.A.A., pointing out the benefits that would acerue to all from a closer connection between the bodies referred to in matters pertaining to architecture.

Permit me to point out to your contributor and renders that the Council of the P.Q. A.A. are fully alive to their duties and responsibilities.

On receiving information that such a competition had been decided upon, a sub-committee called upon the Chairman of the Park Committee of the City Council, and pointed out to him the titter futility of expecting the best efforts of the profession under such conditions as was laid down in the "Look-out" conditions of competition. The whole subject was thrashed out with him, and at his request, we sent a copy of the P.Q.A.A. Code to his committee for their consideration. Nothing further was heard from that quarter. Later, we addressed ourselves to the whole Council on the general subject of competitions asking that, in the future, all competitions he governed by the Code adopted by the P.Q. A. A. Several prominent aldermen were also interviewed and an endeavor made to enlist their assistance. So far, the only reply received is to the effect that our communication has been "laid on the table". We have again returned to the charge, and do not intend to let the matter drop until some decision has been arrived at. Considering the number of times we have approached the august body of our City Council, there is no danger of their being "blissfully unmindful" of our existence, at the same time I must acknowledge they have a ''Nelsonian' faculty of directing their mental telescopes from their blind eye

Respectfully yours,



JOHN S. ARCHIBALD,



President Province of Quebec Assc. of Architects.



MONTREL, December 2, 1905.



To the Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR :—On taking up your November issue, I again find your Montreal contributor showing his extreme love(?) for the P.Q.A. A. by going out of his way to publish serious mis—statements in regard to its work or want of work. I protest, in the name of our Association, against this tirade.



I presume, judging by his usual contributions, that our critic, behind the mask, is an architect, if so, I may further prestime that he is a member of the P.Q.A.A.; permit me therefore to draw his attention to Article No in the Code of Ethics adopted by our profession in this Province where it states that criticisms of professional work or conduct should only be indulged in ''over his own name

I do not wish to indulge in any controversy with your contributor as to what the P.Q.A.A. has, or has not, done, but if ''Concordia Salus'' will communicate with the Council of Association, they will he more than pleased to inform him of their movements, with the hope that your readers will thereby be entertained with facts— great or small, as the case may be—and not with a garbled account unworthy of the author.

I remain



Yours very truly,



JOHN S. ARCHIBALD,



President Province of Quebec Architects Association.



Our Montreal correspondents reply to these letters is contained in the MONTREAL NOTES of this number. —Ed.



TORONTO, December 1st, 1905.

<article title="Correspondence – Toronto -" author="Hynes, William J.">

To the Editor of THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



(Copy of letter sent Secretaries of Architectural 18 Club and Ontario Association of Architects.)

Dear SIR, —The recent advance in the price of wood lath, affects our price-list in items numbered 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23, causing an advance of one and one half (1 ½) cents per yard. Also in items No. 44 and No. 45, making price of lath $5.50 per thousand instead of $4.50 and 60 cents per hundred instead of 50 cents, as quoted in June last when our price-list was issued.

Would call your attention to the clause in our price-list stating that prices were based on existing cost of materials and labor at date of issue.



We have a committee in charge of this matter and should you wish any further explanation or discussion re same, we will be



pleased to confer with you.

We have sent copies of our price—list annually to each practising architect, but on this occasion we are only notifying the secretary of each association, which we trust will he satisfac

tor.	Yours truly,

	    (Signed) Wm. J. HYNES,



Secy Master Plasterers' Association.



<article title=" THE R.I.B.A. PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS " author="Belcher, John">

THE R.I.B.A. PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS.

Mr. John Belcher in his presidential address at the opening meeting of the new session of the Royal Institute of British Architects, after speaking of Institute affairs and some London affairs, touched upon a topic (the Architectural Education of the Public) which is, one would think, a more necessary matter in this country than in England. There, some portion, at any rate, of the public has a knowledge of architecture and cultivated taste—the natural consequence of a leisure class of educated men and a country stocked with examples of good architecture. Here we have neither inherited wealth nor a heritage of architecture But we are beginning to take an interest in architecture because of the interest people take in their houses and in the cities in which they live. These are wholesome roots from which to grow architectural ideas, but cultivation is necessary.

The Education of the Public as a work for an architectural society has been spoken of, and indeed acted upon, to some extent, by the Ontario Association of Architects Their method of proceedure has been to invite the public to hear lectures at their annual meetings Apparently the R.I.B.A. is engaged in something of the nature of a popular treatise which it would he well to keep track of, to see whether it could not he made useful in this country also. We reprint Mr. Belcher's address from this point.

The International Congress, of which he speaks, to be held in London in the latter end of next July is noticed in another column. A new contact of this kind for the profession in England, with the architectural world, may have noticeable results, for it is by this means, tile contact of many minds at once with new ideas, that new ideas are speedily found to he ''in the air", making their appearance in different parts of tile country under impulses apparently, in each case, original. The occasion is pretty sure to chime with approaching development in some direction, for, so far as one can judge of what is of leading importance in one's own time, the subjects for discussion at tile approaching conference seem to have been admirably chosen to cover all the ground that is of interest or to debate in the profession at present. One of these subjects of interest, tile improvement of cities, is the theme of the rest of Mr. Belcher's address until he concludes, unexpectedly but with undoubted truth, by commenting (a propos no doubt of the movement to good cottage building) upon the advantage of beginning design with small problems which can he grasped so that the mind can work itself out in them.

Tile education of the public in the elementary principles of architecture claims our attention at the present time. I know that this idea is regarded by some as Utopian; but at any rate there is abundant evidence that people generally take

