<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

THE DINING ROOM—NO. 500 WILBROD ST., OTTAWA,



MR. J. W. H. WATTS, R. C. A., ARCHITECT.



This is the dining room of the house by Mr. Watts of which a view was given in the last number of this  journal.



HOUSE ON JAMESON AVE., TORONTO — MR. R. J. EDWARDS, ARCHITECT.



The interest attaching to this house, besides its agreeable appearance, is the employment of Roman Stone (concrete) in place of the wood that has hitherto taken the place of stone for the columns, cornices and balustrades of old Colonial work. Both in durability and colour the artificial stone is better than the white painted woodwork that we are accustomed to see in this kind of design.



OLD HOUSE IN ST. GABRIEL ST., MONTREAL MEASURED



DRAWING BY MR. C. S. BURGESS.



For comment see Montreal Notes.



WAREHOUSES, BAY STREET, TORONTO,



The rebuilding of the district destroyed in the Toronto Fire is going on rapidly. Our illustration shows a row of the smaller warehouses on Bay Street, most of which have been completed and occupied for some time.



INDOOR HUMIDITY.

Indoor humidity has again been discussed by a member of the medical profession, who takes the stand also that the excessively dry air of houses during the heating season is injurious to the human organization, because the dry air in passing over the membranes of the respiratory passages and the skin calls for an enormous output of the fluid elements of these tissues. This physician, Dr. Henry Mitchell Smith, of Brooklyn, N. Y., holds that this leads to glandular overactivity, and its consequent evils, but he does not offer the specific proofs which, it has been asserted, are lacking to show that direct deleterious effects are thus produced. In his contribution, which was made to the Brooklyn Medical Society, he mentions, however, some tests he had conducted with a radiator having an experimental moistening apparatus attached, and he obtained results which concur with general beliefs as to the relation of the humidity and temperature.

He found that with a relative humidity never below 50 per cent. nor above 70 per cent., 700 Fahr. was uncomfortably hot, 68 was warm and 65 comfortable. It was determined by repeated experiments that a temperature of 65 to 68 and a relative humidity of 6o per cent. produced the most comfortable conditions, which were in marked contrast to a temperature of 72 with a relative humidity of 30 per cent. The former felt warm and balmy, he said and the latter, notwithstanding the higher temperature, chilly and dry, and apt to leave the impression of draftiness. He did not describe the moistening apparatus, but said that the mechanism was such that the control of the temperature and of the moisture were independent. Engineering Record.



PROF. WILLET G. MILLER'S REPORT.

In Ontario very little use has been made of the crystalline limestones which are adapted to decorative and monumental purposes. At the present time, so far as is known, only two quarries are worked for marble. The marble used in this country nearly all comes from the large quarries in the United States. Although there are in the Province native varieties that are as good, trade prejudices favor the imported article.

From Prof. Willet Q. Miller's Report to the Ontario  Bureau of Mines.

<article title=" BY THE WAY " author="">BY THE WAY.

Bank wrecking and house breaking have their respectable branches. The sign " W. Sykes (or another) Housebreaker" is frequently met with in London, looking down on an unperturbed policeman and a small crowd of onlookers have daily countenanced the operations of the men who, as the newspapers say, have undertaken to wreck the Traders' Bank in Toronto in two weeks. There is a science in pulling down as well as in putting up and that a five storey building of substantial character, standing on the street line, should be taken down in that time without noise, without dust, and without danger is a piece of all Canadian work that Messrs. Carrere & Hastings, when it comes to their turn, are not likely to excel.

	*	*



*



Careful experiments are going on in Boston, under the direction of R. Clipston Sturgis and Edmund Wheelwright, in order to get hold of certainties with regard to lighting, and especially top-lighting, for the new Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. A temporary structure has been erected on the site of the proposed building in order to determine the relative value of natural light from various points of the compass. '[his is no model in miniature—leaving room for doubt— but a full sized erection equal probably to one room of the gallery, for the skylight is 40 feet long and 22 feet wide, properly equipped with glass and weighing several tons. '[he model is not only of the full size of a room but can be raised up to the level it will occupy in the building. And here, mounted so that it can be moved about at various angles, all the peculiarities of the light will be observed for a period that may consist of months ; indeed, if the varied lighting of the seasons is to be observed, the observations must take months. The report, based upon these experiments and upon a subsequent tour of inspection of the great museums of England and the continent, will form the basis later of a limited competition for the new museum building.

	*	*



*



The wonderful Lake-on-the-Mountain at Glenora is likely to be used for the production of electric power. A company has been formed for the purpose of testing the capacity of the lake to see if the supply of water is likely to be sufficient for the purpose. The peculiarity of the lake is that no one knows where its supply of water comes from. Perched on the top of a bluff, 200 feet above the level of the Bay of Quinte and so near the edge of the rock that at one point it is not more than a hundred yards from the side. The little lake, 400 acres in extent seems designed by nature to be a reservoir for power. It has in fact been so used for the last hundred years, (since U. E. Loyalists settled in the neighbourhood), but on a small scale. A flour mill and a foundry at present lie at the base of the rock and are run by an outflow of about 1580 cub. ft. of water per minute. This apparently does not fail, and, when the mills are shut down and this draught on the lake is discontinued, the level of its water does hot rise. Is it in a state of equilibrium with a source of supply at some distance off? And how great draughts can be made upon this source of supply ?

