<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	153



4. If the precautions in regard to properly inclosing, heating and ventilation are looked after carefully there will be little trouble in winter plastering. It is not well to paper or paint too soon on new plastering. Even under the best conditions the plaster finish acts as a bleaching agent, and it should be well seasoned before it is decorated. When it is necessary to decorate quickly the precaution should be taken of using canvas or an extra heavy coat of sizing before either papering or painting.

<article title=" CHICAGO FOUNDATIONS " author="Shankland, E. C.">

CHICAGO FOUNDATIONS.

Horace says in De Arte Poetica, ''It is difficult to treat common topics with originality." There has been so much written regarding foundations for high buildings in Chicago that it is difficult to write anything that is not trite, and it is practically impossible to say anything new. The soil on which Chicago is built consists of loam and made ground down to datum, about 14 ft. below street grade, then comes a layer of hard, stiff blue clay 6 to 12 ft. thick; below this the clay, while generally of the same character as the hard stratum above, becomes softer, and remains soft to a depth of 60 to 70 ft. below street grade. This soft layer, as a general thing, only differs from the hard layer above in the amount of water it contains, and the buildings in their settlement squeeze out this water, thus increasing the thickness of the hard layer.

When the foundations of the new post office were put in, extremely hard clay, that had to be cut out with knives and thrown into the wagons with pitchforks, was found down to a depth of 35 or 36 ft., although when buildings near it were built soft clay was found at about 20 ft. below grade.

It was found earl)' in the use of spread footings that it was not advisable to dig into the hard stratum at all. The foundations where placed upon this hard stratum wherever it was found, and this in some cases only allowed a clear height in the basement of 7½ or 8 ft. Before the Masonic Temple was built the soil was tested by supporting a tank on a plate having an area of 2 sq. ft. This tank was gradually filled with water. The final load was 5,650 lbs. per sq. ft. Two tests were made, each lasting about 100 hours. In one test the plate rested directly on the top of the hard clay. In the second test the plate was placed at the bottom of an excavation in the hard clay 2 ft. in. deep. The total settlement in test No. 1 was 1 13 6 in, and in NO. 2 4 1/8 in. Below this soft clay comes a very hard, compact clay, frequently containing boulders of various sizes, some of them being or 6 ft. in diameter. This clay continues down to either the rock or a layer of sand and gravel of varying thickness which occasionally overlies the rock. Rock is found in the downtown districts at about 100 ft. below street grade. In an artesian well sunk at the Chicago & Northwestern office building now being completed this limestone rock started at 100 ft. below datum and continued down to 434, then came a layer of blue shale ft. thick, then 350 ft. of limestone, then 160 ft. of soft white sandstone, then 300 ft. of limestone, and finally at 1,400 ft. a white sandstone was found which contained water in sufficient quantity rising to within 100 ft. of the surface.

The old masonry foundations of the four to six-store)' buildings erected after the fire were, of course, spread foundations, and their load on the clay ran from 8,000 to 15,000 lb. per sq. ft. There must have been great settlements, but with the streets varying so much in grade as they did, and with the masonry buildings, it did not make much difference how much they settled. However, as the heights of buildings increased and more room in the basements for mechanical plants became a necessity, it was found that some other kind of foundation was required, and the spread footing made of layers of beams imbedded in concrete followed naturally. The settlements of buildings supported upon



*	A paper by Mr. E. C. Shankland in the "Technograph" of the Engineering Societies of the University of Illinois.

these spread foundations were considerable, ranging from 8 in. to as much as 30 in. This settlement is anticipated when construction is begun by raising the level of the bottom of the footings by the amount it is thought the buildings will settle. This causes the sidewalks to be steep at first, but they approach their proper slope as the buildings settle. The foundations of the Great Northern Theatre were raised 9 in.

It has also been found that the tall buildings with spread foundations do not stop settling. This continual settlement is caused by the wind tending to reduce the pressure on the soil on the windward and increasing it on the leeward side. Some of the tallest buildings erected 2 to 15 years ago are still settling very slightly, it is true, but the movement is enough to be detected Another fact noted is that all the tall steel buildings lean north and east. This is due to the fact that in the spring and summer, when the buildings are being erected, the prevailing winds are from the southwest, and as the greatest settlement occurs during erection. this constant pressure against the unfinished structures is sufficient to cause them to lean slightly.

The following incident will show how great is the initial settlement. In the Masonic Temple four of the main columns, near the lifts, carry heavy loads and have large footings, and between them are two small columns which only carry the stairs. As these had much smaller footings than any others in the building, they were given a higher load per square foot. During the construction of the building the four columns had received the greater portion of their loads when the erection of the stairs was begun. It was found at once that the connections on the stairs would not fit those on the columns, the latter being too high. Levels, taken to ascertain whether the small columns had been forced up, showed that the)' simply had not settled with the rest of the building. About 75 tons of pig iron were then loaded on both footings and allowed to remain for a week. Although the load then amounted to 7,000 lb. per square foot, twice the load on any of the other footings, the column only settled about

in., less than one-half the desired amount, and so the connections had to be changed all the way up the stairs.

It was found early in the history of floating foundations that live load must not be considered when designing foundations. The reason for that is that the foundations get the dead load immediately, but the live load does not come on until the building is finished and the greater part of the settlement has taken place.

One of the finest buildings in Chicago, a wholesale warehouse built nearly 30 years ago, was designed by a Boston architect. He proportioned the foundations for the same live and dead load he used in designing his columns. The result was that the outside walls, where the percentage of dead load was very great, settled at once, and the interior columns, where the percentage of live load predominated, did not settle. If you go into that building today you will see porters helping the regular truckmen to wheel their trucks up the hills caused by the curve in the floors.

The great settlement of buildings in these floating foundations and the necessity for increased basement height, owing to the increasing use of water tube boilers and other improvements in the mechanical plant, lead to the gradual abandonment of this style of foundation, notwithstanding its cheapness. But the chief reason for the change and the discarding of the spread footings was the building of the tunnel by the Illinois Tunnel Co. This was a remarkable piece of work. Thirty miles of this tunnel 40 ft. below street grade have been completed, and the whole work has been carried on without an)' tearing tip of the streets. Indeed, very few people in Chicago knew it was being built until it was practically completed Shafts were sunk at curb line, and the dirt was hoisted through these shafts and carried away at night. This tunnel, together with the present agitation about subways for the street car lines, render the concrete walls going to rock, the only safe method of constructing foundations for high buildings in the business districts.

