<doctype type="text">102	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



serve as an indispensable aid to the owner in selecting the fixtures and as a guide to the workman installing them. in many cases the sketches show graphically the exact location of lights over billiard tables, near mirrors, etc.

RECEPTION Room.—This is in very light finish and

opposite ''reception room center" and in accompanying instructions. Four of the lights point towards the corners of the room and the fifth straight down Each of these lights is provided with a certain form of prismatic glass reflector having a very translucent yellow enamel coating. These reflectors concentrate the light on the crystals in the direction where the illumination is most needed and also produce the color required, the actual illuminating effect being about the



































































the lighting required is, for ordinary purposes, a mild general illumination and, some occasions an effect of considerable and well-diffused brilliancy. It is of 1)0 little importance that the light shall be of a mellow tone, for the ladies cannot. he left out of the problem and the appearance of the complexion is remarkably dependent upon the color of light by which it is viewed.

same as from a sufficient number of paraffin candles, with excellent diffusion. An electrolier switch provides means for turning on only one, four, or all of these lights as required.



For purposes of symmetry and also to avoid dark ends of the room, this chandelier is centered between the fireplace and window, three 2-light brackets are then provided to illuminate the other end of the room, two being near the entrance and the third placed to





















The owner's preference in this case was for a crystal chandelier of some sort. This can be very well adapted to the purpose in hand, though there is perhaps no other form of fixture so easily misused. Sketch No. shows the general form of chandelier required. The balance of the equipment is indicated in the schedule

come within the vista from the center of the main hall. This gives six sources and enables the use of small candle power provided with close fitting prismatic reflectors, having a canary yellow coating, thus maintaining a uniform color and altogether avoiding any vision of high intrinsic brilliance at any point. The

