<doctype type="text">146	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



to this matter. The present writer raised his voice in favour of holding to this condition and to its intention of keeping all drawings upon an equal basis in point of draughtsmanship. The meeting however was in favor of the more recent practice of washing and shading elevations with tints of monochrome. Things have moved on since the Associations drew up their conditions, and this is perhaps an improvement. There is in our illustration sheets this month a set of competition drawings of the kind which show that the process is explanatory without being necessarily deceptive. It. was noticeable, however, in the discussion which led to the decision in favour of washed drawings, that there were several arguments advanced which implied or expressed in plain terms, the doctrine that draughtsmanship per se should be a factor in the competition.

If the attractiveness of drawings is to weigh—as it is sure to do, if attractiveness is permitted to be an end, even a subsidiary end- --design will suffer. It is the promoters of the competition that the advocates of attractive drawing have in mind, (so they said), not the assessors. Could there be a more fatal policy ! It is bad enough to distract the professional arbitrator by a display of inapposite excellences. He is but human, and should have correct judgment made easy not difficult. But how about his position with the assessors? If he finds a piece of great work ; something with character, fit to rank with the world's masterpieces; but not likely to look well in elevation— something that will look monstrous, like the church of Santa Sofia; or uncouth, like the Pantheon at Rome or crazy, like the cothic Venetian palaces ; or overpowering, like the Florentine Renaissance palaces, the Ricardi or Strozzi palaces; or monotonous, like Westminster Palace—how is he to justify his choice to the promoters, who see their glory established forever in another design, a beautiful alabaster front, (which later turns out to be brick), in a style easily recognizable as the very best of architecture, spreading itself with great dignity in front of a mass of thc bluest of trees. If the mass of competing architects are so intent on playing to the promoters, by devices which will not bear analysis in point of purity of motive to let all designs have an equal chance so that the best may win, why should they expect the arbitrator to be free from the double motive. They certainly make it difficult for him. No man wants to play the crank to his cliepts, or to assume responsibility they want to take themselves. If they like the drawing,' he argues, they will like the work, at any rate they will not blame me.' And the commonplace triumphs. It is always likely to triumph if the drawings themselves are made an object of effort with the intention (openly admitted) of helping the design to ''get there by dint of drawing, if the design is not sufficient alone.





The Dominion Government proposes to erect two groups of buildings upon Major's Hill, at a

cost of about $3,000,000, and is going to invite a competition of Canadian architects for a design of the buildings and their surroundings, including the connection of these buildings with Parliament Hill by an avenue and a foot-bridge across the ravine of the canal. It is not proposed to commit the erection of

the buildings to the charge of the successful compet- 

<article title=" Now Government Buildings at Ottawa " author="">Now Government Buildings at Ottawa.

tor. The intention is evidently to have the design carried out by the permanent staff. This seems reasonable enough, as the buildings are to be erected within sight of the chief architect's office ; and the first prize of $8,ooo will no doubt pay the winner for the cost and labour of an effort ending on February 15th. it would pay better if the prize were $10,000.. Thc symmetry of a total of $15,000 for the four prizes would be spoilt; perhaps also a larger first prize would upset a calculation fixing the amount of the prize list at one tenth of a five per cent. commission on $3,000,000; but doubtless, before the building is done, its cost will expand sufficiently to restore this ideal balance. It is not a good thing to skimp in the offer of prizes. The first sketch is the design—that which makes the difference between a good building and a bad building—for which it is usual to pay one per cent. of the total cost. The Government is goin g to get possession of no less than four designs for a charge of one half per cent. on the estimated cost. It is a good enough bargain to enable the Minister of Public Works to go further with the prize winner and make use of him as consulting architect during the progress of the work on his design. He ought to inspire the detail as well as the design and see that it is all carried out according to his ideas. A fair salary while the work is in progress would secure services sufficient for this temporary association with the chief architect's office. The outlay for it would be more than repaid by time saved to the office and work done. The chief architect is immersed in executive work; he cannot attend to the details. Some special direction will be needed for work of this character, and why not the direction of the designer of the work. The work will be harder to anyone else, and less likely to be successful.

The proposed conditions of competition "recommend" that "some phase of gothic style" should be adopted, so that the new building should harmonize with the government buildings on Parliament Hill. This is an excellent recommendation and, coming from the assessors, is likely to be received with respect by competitors. As the original set of buildings, parliamentary and administrative, were built at one time and under one designer, so that they are a harmonious group; and were well done, so that their gothic character is an honourable distinction; there is reason to continue the style in all buildings to be associated with the original group. Each building added in harmony with others, in a group, both adds to the importance of the original buildings and receives additional importance from them; just as planets in conjunction seem each to be brighter than when they were solitary. An example to the contrary may be seen in the group of buildings of the University of Toronto, where a noble site for the display of buildings has been spoilt by the abandonment of the style of the original building.





The habit of order is much more far-reaching than is generally supposed. It governs all arrangements, those of time as well as of place; it influences thought as well as action, character as well as conduct. It is the constant preventer of waste in every direction. Economy demands orderly and systematic arrangements. No disorderly person can ever be truly economical.

