<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	Xiii,



five nails in each lath, driving each nail home solid, coat over with mortar, well aired, and that has been made four or more days; smooth and straighten as well as possible with a darby. When done and while yet soft the rough cast is thrown on it with such force as to drive the pebbles or small stones deep into it. The mixture or dash, as it is called, is composed of fine gravel, clean washed from all earthly particles and mixed with pure lime and water till the whole is of a semifluid consistency. This is mixed in a shallow tub or pail and is thrown upon the plastered wall with a wooden float about 5 or 6 inches long and as many wide, made of ½-inch pine and fitted with a wooden handle. While with this tool the plasterer throws on the rough cast with his right hand, he holds in his left a common' whitewash brush, which he dips into the rough cast and then brushes over the mortar and rough cast, which gives them, when finished, a regular, uniform color and appearance.

For this sort of work the following proportions will answer: To one barrel of prepared gravel use a quarter of a barrel of putty; mix well before using. This may be colored to suit the taste by using the proper materials, as given further on. It must be understood that the foregoing is the cheapest sort of rough casting and is not recommended where more durable but more expensive work is required.

The best mode of doing this work as practiced in the lake district of Ontario is nearly as follows; Have the frame of building prepared as indicated in the foregoing, with partitions all put in and well braced throughout and well secured. Lath diagonally with No. a pine lath, keeping 1 ½ inches space between the lath. Nail each lath with five nails, and break joints every 18 inches. Over this lath again diagonally in the opposite direction, keeping the same space between the lath and the breaking joints as before. Careful and solid nailing is required for this layer of lathing, as the

The <firm>Gutta Percha and Rubber Manufacturing Company of Toronto </firm>Limited Toronto Patent Interlocking Rubber Tiling

<firm>McCormack and Carroll Toronto </firm>Carvers Modellers

<firm>Berry Brothers Limited Walkerville Ontario </firm>manufacturers of every grade of varnish and Japan

<firm>Conduit Company Limited Toronto </firm>Galvaduct and loricated conduits

