<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	27



Straight wood may be left on each end for the purpose of securing the head to the pulley style or jamb and if the circle of the head is not very large, the soffit should be made of two or more laminations and glued together on a form the same shape as the head of the opening, in this case a semi-circle.

Fig. 2. shows a more complicated operation, and illustrates the laying out of the head casing for the concave or inside of the circle top frame in a circular wall.

Here I have used the same plan as before with the result that the casings at o are twisted out of correspondence with the drawing, however, this does not prevent their fitting the wall if correctly made

After laying off the wall plan, draw a horizontal line any distance above it, and with a centre, i on this line, describe the semi-circle casing as it would appear for a Straight wall. Divide this into any number of equal parts, the same as in Fig. 1. and drop vertical lines through the wall plan to the corresponding points on the concave side as shown at 1, 2, 3, 4,. Below the



























































wall plan draw another horizontal line of any convenient length, and upon this set off the distances found at I, 2, 3, 4, on the wall plan, and which are marked X, V, Z, I. From points just named drop verticals equal to and correspondent with the distances found in the quadrant in the upper part of the figure, and through the ends of these trace the line c 1, 2, 3, 4. This edge may be sawed out- and the other side gaged from the first.

The reason for this operation is that the real width of the opening to be covered by the casing is shown at o 4 on the wall plan, and must be incorporated with the proper height and curvature which is accomplished in the pattern b.



From ''Builder" :—Will you kindly publish a sketch of a colonial mantel suited for a bed-room finished in colonial style and enameled in flat white?

Ans.—We reproduce herewith a design for a mantel







































COLONIAL MANTLE FOR RED_ROOM.





which we think will be appropriate. Some details are shown which may prove useful to ''Builder."



<article title=" WRECKING BUILDINGS " author="">WRECKING BUILDINGS.

It is only within

comparatively few years that the business of wrecking buildings bas grown to large proportions in this country. Until recently old buildings were shored up, repaired remodeled and made to continue in service. Now the rule is reversed and many structures that cost a large sum of money and are still well adapted to discharge the duties for which they constructed are being torn down and replaced by others, many of which in their time, and a short time in frequent instances, will follow their predecessors to the junk yard.

The wrecking of buildings has now become a well-defined business, in the prosecution of which a great deal of capital and large numbers of men are employed. The business is at once useful and lucrative. A large amount of material, nearly all of which is valuable and much of which can be employed in other buildings, is recovered, while contracts are made on a basis insuring large profits to the skillful and well equipped wrecker. For these reasons, coupled with the fact that the field is large and constantly widening, wrecking companies ought to be able to tear down buildings with as great safety as they are constructed.

This does not seem to be the case. The demolition of the Chicago court house which has been but a short time under way, has already resulted in the loss of two lives and the serious injury of several men. While nothing in the way of reflection upon the contracting

b

concern is intended, it seems proper to call attention to the circumstance that better modes and closer supervision of such work may be secured, not only in the present instance, but throughout the country at large, since the present instance is by no means an isolated one. So serious were the Chicago catastrophies that the city authorities ordered work on t he structure to be discontinued until greater precaution against accidents could be provided.

The wreeking of buildings is a distinct business in itself, depending on different conditions and principles than those that control in construction undertakings. The theory seems to have been quite generally adopted that while it takes the highest skill to build, properly and safely, any sort of labor is good enough to tear down. This idea should be dispelled, and that once for all. The profits of wreckers are sufficiently liberal to justify the employment by them of skilled labor and the use of the best appliances and machinery, not only now produced. but that ingenuity can devise and scientific workmanship construct. The business of wrecking- buildings ought to be safeguarded, and that in every direction, quite as much as is that of construction, and these latest accidents, following hard on

