<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	147

<article title=" REASON AND TRADITION " author="">REASON AND TRADITION.

A new book by Mr. <person>T. G. Jackson </person>and a new book by Mr. <person>Reginald Blomfield </person>are reviewed together in The Builder, in a long article with the above title. Mr. Jackson's volume of lectures are collected under the title of " Reason in Architecture"; Mr. Blomfield's studies are of architects and works of the traditional Renaissance ; the reviewer—if the editor of The Builder is himself the reviewer—is usually lucid in the direction of both reason and tradition; but so far as one can judge, from an acquaintance with Mr. Blomfield's book and this review of the other, there is no great light shed vet upon the application of either reason or tradition to architecture as it is practised in our generation.

The attitude of these and other critics towards current architectural construction is that of despair apparently because the method of construction is what it is instead of something else. The review says

"Formerly walls were built first and girders, where required for large floors, were placed on them or built into them as they went up ; now the iron standards and girders are built first and the walls built as screens round them," That states the situation. But why should we talk about it in a complaining manner? It is our problem. " If iron is to be the essential construction," Mr. Jackson is said by the review to urge, " let the architectural treatment express the fact, and not continue in a commonplace and gewgaw manner, a method of design proper to masonry construction. Among other suggestions, he asks why should not a visible iron framework be used, filled in with whatever material is desired for walling, just as half-timber work used to be used in the days when it was a real construction and not an archaeological pretence ; the iron training taking the place the oak framing once took."

And if the iron framing took the place once taken by the oak framing, what would that be but an archaeological pretence? It would be a case of tradition taking the place of reason. For wood this construction is excellent; but iron requires protection. Iron must therefore be concealed and with its concealment we initiate a new school of design in which the whole array of precedent for exhibited and adorned design is useless to us as precedent.

It is a hard case and one which apparently gets little sympathy from the learned. Yet that is what they must give us if they are to do any good. This effort to find a way of working new material in an old manner is work for a school boy not for a scholar. It is trifling. '[he architect is a man of his time. The conditions are fixed for him by the material in use; it is left for him only to develop beauty from them. The condition of an embedded skeleton is ours. The skeleton and its covering have both constructional reasons; sound constructional reasons we believe. At any rate there they are. They are our generation's form of construction—one form. The other, reinforced concrete, is of the same kind, in point of there being no decorative motive involved in the actual construction.

There is plenty of analogy in nature for a concealed skeleton as the basis of a beautiful structure, but the parallelism is not complete. The skeleton in nature is only a frame for a covering which is as much or more the essential structure In our steel frame buildings the skeleton is the chief part of the structure, and the covering is for the most part only covering. The

muscles which keep the human body erect, and by their contour and modelling give it beauty, have no analogy in the irresponsible masonry of protected steel building. The walls, as a whole, have a little variety in their nature. They consist of piers and filling, and there are openings with some simple accessories. Floors have some individual life in their construction, but the necessity for completed protection is so serious that it is better to envelope every bearing member deep in protection and obliterate constructive lines. Externally also the roof is flat. We cannot pitch roots towards the street, and shed masses of snow upon the sidewalk; nor can we pitch towards a party wall, and collect the snow in a horizontal valley.

So the reasonable construction of our building leaves us with something not far removed in appearance from a packing box. Such is our architectural problem.

We may not wriggle but must face it fairly. Any attempt to torture the construction into an unnatural visibility, in order that we may contrive a "straight forward" design, is a bad kind of deceitfulness— deceiving one's self. How it can end in anything but a plain lie, after all, it is difficult to see; there being still the necessity of concealing the iron.

There have been many lies concocted for the sake of Gothic truth ; all from the best motives ; on the understanding that Gothic truth is all truth, as concerns architecture. But is it? There is the other style and the other kind of truth. Gothic architecture is incomparably the more delightful and interesting style, and to exercise the intelligence that conceived its execution seems a more joyful life than elaborating Greek perfection ; but enthusiasm for Gothic architecture does not prevent the suspicion that the Greek is the higher flight of intellect. It was at any rate, a condition precedent of the other. Aesthetic truth is the first truth in architecture, and survives all others. Its expression, which ran through the Gothic period, survives the decline of the special structural conditions of that style, (which perhaps our Georgian ancestors were right in thinking too barbarous for our age), and survives for application to our inarticulate, encased, structure.

Now as to the application. The review before us says that "ornament is only desirable so long as it

assists, or at all events does not contradict, the expression of structure." We must, for the purpose of our type of structure, take this doctrine in a large sense. We have no structural details to ornament, or to make ornamental. The enthusiastic statement, one so frequently meets with, that the reinforced concrete building is ''a monolith", is as true in total result, though not in actual construction, of the building which consists of a steel frame encased. The building is unified and we must regard it as a whole.

Leaving out of account such chances as there are of an external expression of the functions of piers and wall-veil, or an internal expression of floor structure, or any other structural variation of surface that may be made to tell its story—there are several features necessary for the aesthetic expression of buildings, and as necessary for this monolith as for another. These are such things as the base, the cornice, the finish of angles (whether of openings, or of the building as a whole), protective heads to defend windows, sills to defend walls, etc.

The base is not a constructive feature. It is true

