<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	9

situation the foundation is a negligible quantity. Our experience in recent conflagrations shows us that stone is one of the most dangerous materials to depend upon for the protection of the steel skeleton. None of the different stones meet even the reasonable requirements of fire resisting qualities. I had occasion to examine the burned district in Baltimore directly after the fire; and there I found a most interesting example of the unreliability of stone if the Government bonded warehouses, built about 1845. They were made with solid granite walls and interior piers, with groined arches between these piers. Absolutely solid masonry throughout. The granite piers were approximately two feet on the square. In one story of the building was stored a large quantity of alcohol. Fire was communicated to this alcohol by flying cinders from without, and the burning alcohol had absolutely burned out these two foot square granite piers. In one case there was no vestige of the piers left but a pile of sand on the floor. Absolutely gone. In other cases the pers were burned off, rounded off to perhaps a diameter of 12 inches. Nothing could be more untrustworthy than granite in a situation of that sort. Marble is almost but perhaps not quite as bad as granite. The limestones are a little bit stronger; but for fire-proofing purposes stone is practically out of the question and negligible

We come then to the burned clay. I suppose there is nothing so good to resist fire as burned clay in one form or another. Certainly the test of actual use in conflagations indicates that well burned brick is the best protection against fire that we can have. If we could always use brick, the protection of our steel frame and the armour of our floors would he obtained. But we cannot always use brick. An architect does not want to use brick because it is necessary to embellish his facade. Therefore he very reasonably turns to stone or to terra cotta. Preferably to stone because it is more expressive. For one reason or another we cannot always use brick for the facade Terra cotta is of course practically brick, except that it is made in thin members, generally with large voids; and whether it is structural or decorative it has these voids. We would suppose that terra cotta would resist any ordinary conflagration, because it is burned at a very high temperature in manufacture. But in the Baltimore and also in the Paterson fire some of the terra cotta failed to a conspicuous degree. The lesson I deduced from the Paterson and Baltimore fires was that terra cotta was generally made too thin and that it was not burned at a sufficiently high temperature. Of course in the production of delicate shades and to meet thc architect's desire to accurately match colour in the imitation of stone, or the matching of brickwork, they make mixtures of clay which will not bake very hard and which will not stand very great heat. As a matter of principle I think we should use terra cotta only in that form and that mixture of clay and those colours which will stand very high initial temperatures so that in case of a conflagration we shall have no failure. In thc Baltimore fire there were examples of the actual frittering away of terra cotta under the influence of the torch of flame that I have before referred to. However, terra cotta has been regarded for a long time as one of the best fire-proofing materials. The forms used in the construction of floor arches have been considered very good; far in advance of any other fire-proofing method; and many acres of this work are in use and have stood the fire test very well. The fire test has revealed faults in the design of the parts. It is perfectly possible to construct fire-proof floor arches of terra cotta, which will stand up against any ordinary structural stress. You can make it either of end construction or the old fashioned side construction, and it will stand up against any ordinary loading. For that reason you might suppose it would be good for any ordinary fi e. The truth is that the cellular construction of the ordinary floor arch was much too light; and as manufactured and put upon the market I am inclined to believe that it is exceedingly defective. Personally I prefer the side construction arch.

In the construction of the walls we come to the real joint in the armour. It would be idle to theorize about a building without windows. We must have windows of adequate size. If we did not we could not rent or use the space within the building, with any comfort. Consequently we must accept the window opening as a thing required, and it rests upon us to solve the question of protecting these window openings. The Insurance people have attempted to help us a little about this, but they have not helped very effectively. They tell us that if we put in wire glass they will reduce the rate so much if we put in metal covered frames they will reduce the rate still more. I believe in the protection of window openings, but it is within the second class of duties; that is, it s an economic not a humanitarian consideration. I believe that, even theoretically, no perfect solution of the protection of the window openings has ever been put forward. I look favorably upon wire glass, and upon metal covered frames and sash, and indeed upon solid or cast metal frames and sash; but none of these have ever been thoroughly tested in a great fire and they are therefore a matter of theory. Nevertheless, it is easy to see that a metal covered or metal sash with wire glass would be a protection to the building. Because it is economic t becomes entirely a question of how much reduction we can have in insurance rates if we put in these particular features. Thus far the insurance people have not met the protection of buildings by this equipment with any corresponding reduction in rates.

Next to the risk from the window opening's, we have the risk from the roof. The insurance people have recognized this; but the people engaged in actual construction have not yet realized that the roof should be as much a part of the fire-proofing as the wall. I have seen, in the Paterson fire, a roof covered to

a depth of six inches with heavy cinders, which, after 36 hours, were still smoldering, and I have seen the steel frame of this roof, six inches below the roof armour, warped and twisted by that heat. Now it is not difficult to make a fire-proof roof except for the sky-lights. In the example of the bonded warehouse in Baltimore, which I cited, the weak point proved to be a sky-light. A flying cinder something like two feet in length and two inches thick, blazing, fell on the glass of the skylight and through it. to the bottom of a light well, and there communicated fire to a single floor of that building, and the result was the disaster which I have described. But for that hole in the roof, the building was perfectly armoured. Wire glass would seem to have solved the question of sky-light protection. I am inclined to believe that properly used it may be the end of that question, provided that the glass is made heavy enough and the wiring heavy enough. If you do not use wire glass, you should use a wire mesh over or under the glass. I am myself using wire glass for sky-lights, not only for the fire risk but for the protection of those using the building below from the danger of breaking glass.

Now the interior of the building. Fire-proof floor arches have in many cases stood the test of heavy fires. Sometimes they fall. They are very apt to fall, not from mere incineration, hut being weakened by the fire they fall from some slight impact from falling furniture, or perhaps the fall of a ceiling above I have seen a pile of safes in a building fall through six stories. One on the first floor from the top fell by reason of the burning away of a six inch sleeper or skid under the safe. This drop of six inches took the safe through that floor, going through to the floor beneath, carrying that with it and so on in succession to the basement. I consider the upright arch as now constructed and as ordinarily purchasable to be too thin, too near the margin. We shall come to heavier sections, and unless something else is produced I shall have to regard the terra cotta arch as the best thing available. The first conspicuous comparative test of concrete compared to terra cotta occurred in the Baltimore fire. There were very few examples of the concrete floor slab as compared to the terra cotta arch, but these behaved so admirably as to lead most of the engineers arid architects who examined them to recommend the use of concrete. I am not prepared to go as far as that general recommendation. I regard concrete, reinforced properly, as one of our most valuable materials, and, if I could have it put in as I desire it. I would use it for fire-proofing in preference to the terra cotta arch; not because I wish to endorse the principle of concrete as compared with fire clay, but because I can make concrete slabs as I want them and I cannot make terra cotta arches as I want them. I believe a concrete slab—reinforced with steel somewhat beyond the structural requirements, that is beyond the loading tests, and with a sufficient thickness of concrete under the steel member to protect it from fire, forming thus a fabric continuous over the whole floor, with fibres of steel protected from any possible attack from thc flame—is an infinitely better material than the terra cotta arch as now manufactured. There is a good deal of strife with respect to the merits of these two materials, and the reason I prefer concrete is, as I said before, that I can make a concrete slab as I want it, and I cannot make terra cotta arches as I want them.

For the purpose of fire-protection we must go far beyond structural requirements. Thc chief evil in modern practice in regard to fire-proofing has come from the supposition or from the decision by he structural engineer and architect that he had done his whole duty when he had made the building structurally strong. That is what I mean by the fat on the building. You have to put skin on the building to cover it; but if you are going to make it fire-proof you must put fat on the body.

I do not regard partitions as very important, except the enclosures of light wells and star wells. I do not regard the mere dividing partitions as very Important. If you have a fire in one floor of the building, unless you make your partitions exceedingly thick. commercially impossible, you are bound to communicate that fire to other compartments. Structural walls may bc made sufficiently thick to resist fire but it is not possible to make the mere partitions heavy enough to resist the fire. I have latterly discarded, within the building, all materials but hollow clay blocks, that is terra cotta blocks. There has been a resolute attempt in the last few years to introduce the reinforced concrete or plaster partitions. I believe in reinforced concrete for general use. I do not believe in it for partitions unless made so heavy as to resist a general fire. I have seen repeated examples of the failure of the thin solid partition. Take the case of a partition three inches thick, of plaster and sawdust, Or concrete and cement, with a reinforcement of steel, it is reasonable to expect that it will fall. There is not enough fat on the outside of the steel to protect it from warping, twisting and falling. Ordinarily partitions will reach from 9 to 12 feet in height When you consider a 3 inch partition, 12 feet in height, with a steel core member subjected to the heat generated even by the furniture we will say of this room, you will see at once that it is almost impossible that that. partition should maintain its integrity. It is bound to warp and the moment it warps it is gone. So I believe in a comparatively thick but comparatively light material, and the terra cotta block meets this fairly well:

I would always prefer a partition of considerable thickness; the difference in spice is inconsiderable, the increase in the fire risk is very great in the case of the thin partition; and for that reason. I consider thc thick partition, however light, as the safer thing.

In the construction of partitions as indeed in the construction of floors, we depend on the cement mortar. As r said to you at the outset, I have no other intention than to make suggestions as to fire-proofing, and also in the matter of the Fire Code. If I recall the Code correctly, I could build here in Toronto fire

