<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



carefully adjusting these strips to the exact height of the stakes they may be used as guides for the straightedge in levelling off the concrete and wearing surface. The subfoundation is well sprinkled to receive the concrete, which is deposited in the usual manner, well tam ped behind a board set vertically across the trench, and leveled off with a straightedge, as shown in Fig. I, leaving ½ to 1 inch for the wearing surface. Three-eighths inch sand joints are provided at intervals of 6 to 8 feet to prevent expansion cracks, or, in case of settlement, to confine the cracks to these joints. This is done either by depositing the concrete in sections or by dividing it into such sections with a spade when soft and filling the joint with sand. The location of each joint is marked on the wooden frame for future reference

Care must be exercised to prevent sand or any other material from being dropped on the concrete, thus

float is used, followed up by a plasterers trowel, the operation being similar to that of plastering a wall. The floating, though necessary to give a smooth surface, will if continued too long, bring a thin layer of neat cement to the surface and probably cause the walk to crack.

The surface is now divided into sections by cutting entirely through, exactly over the joints in the concrete. This is done with a trowel guided by a straightedge, after which the edges are rounded off with a special tool called a jointer, having a thin shallow tongue, as shown in Fig. 6. These sections may be subdivided in any manner desired for the sake of appearance.

A special tool called an edger, Fig. 7, is run around the outside of the walk next to the mold, giving it a neat rounded edge. A toothed roller, shown in Fig. 8 and having small projections on its face, is frequently































































A NOVEL House-Moving.

A large residence, about 35 X feet. two stories high, movcd on two large lighters a distance of two miles at Dalhousie, N. B., last all.

Owned by <person>W. S Montgomery</person>, President and Manager of the <firm>Restigouche Woodworking Company. </firm>The lighters were towed

by a gasoline launch and the by moving water was completely successful, though novel.



preventing a proper union with the wearing surface. No section should be left partially completed to be finished with the next batch or left until the following day. Any concrete left after the completion of a section should be mixed with the next batch.

It is of the utmost importance to follow up closely the concrete work with the top dressing in order that the two may set together. This top dressing should be worked well over the concrete with a trowel, and leveled with a straightedge, as shown in Fig. 5 to secure an even surface. Upon the thoroughness of this operation often depends the success or failure of the walk, since a good bond between the wearing surface and concrete base is absolutely essential. The mortar should be mixed rather stiff. As soon as the film of water begins to leave the surface a wooden

used to produce slight indentations on the surface, adding somewhat to the appearance of the walk. The completed work must be protected from the sun and kept moist by sprinkling for several days. In freezing weather the same precautions should be taken as in other classes of concrete work.





Two well-known men about town were discussing a new club-house which had recently been built at great cost. One of the men had just been inspecting the new building.

"What style did you say it was decorated in?" asked the other.

The man who had seen the interior reflected a moment. "I think it was either Late Pullman or Early North German Lloyd," he replied.—Harper's Weekly.

