<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



facturer. For this reason every block manufacturer should test to his complete satisfaction the cement before accepting it. Some care should be taken to guard against coloring materials for concrete blocks which contain chemicals such as sulphides or suiphates, chromates, aceteates, etc., likely to react in the cement to the damage of the block. These caused a block to expand and eventually disintegrate. Oxide colours were the best. He then showed what constituted the strength of cement and said that while fine grinding did not often increase the neat test, still when mixed with the aggregates it produced a much stronger product. He then showed very minutely why cements made by various defective processes were by no means adapted to the use of concrete blocks. He compared the slower hardening cement made in the upright kilns with the quicker-setting cement made in the rotary kilns and showed that in Germany to-day the scientists seemed to be satisfied that prompt hardening cements are all right, inasmuch as they are rapidly replacing

the upright kiln with rotary kilns. He then brought out the fact that. cements free from iron and manganess would produce a much whiter block. For colored blocks, darker cements may be used, but the color should be uniform. The less sulphate of lime present in cement intended for concrete block manufacture the better, because it is this sulphate of lime that causes the white efflorescence on the surface of the blocks. Cement containing sulphate of iron should not be used, inasmuch as it caused dirty brown blotches to appear on iron or "rust." Overclayed cements also show the same dirty brown color throughout the mass, as in such cements the iron seems to be present as the redbrown "sesquioxde instead of the black ''magnectic" oxide of well-made cements.



There is nothing in the world so helpful for mini and body, as well-regulated labor. It is, however, not only essential to do work, but to love it. We never behave well to that we do not love; and to see a man work, who has not got his heart in it, is a sight the most deplorable.

<firm>Doolittle and Wilcox Limited Hamilton Ontario </firm>Crushed Stone Slag

<firm>Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto </firm>Marble Mosaic Floors