<doctype type="text">100	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



the pat thus formed will support the larger needle weighted with the lighter weight. The final set is from the addition of water until the pat will support the smaller needle and heavier weight. Support implies a surface unmarked by the needle. A minimum of water should be used ; just enough to cause a gloss to appear on the surface of the hatter.

The STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS of the <assoc>CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS </assoc>are as follows



The whole of the cement is to be well-burned pure Portland cement, of the best quality, free from free-lime, slag, dust or other foreign material.

(1)	Fineness.' The cement shall he ground so fine that residue on a sieve of 10,000 meshes to the square inch shall riot exceed 10 per cent, of the whole by weight, and the whole of the cement shall pass a sieve of 2,500 meshes to the square inch.



(2)	Specific Gravity.' The specific gravity of the cement. shall be at least 3.09, and shall not exceed 3.25 for fresh cement the term "fresh" being understood to apply to such cements as arc not more than two months old.

(3)	Tests: The cement shall he subjected to the following tests

(a)	Blowing Test Mortar tests of neat cement, thoroughly worked, shall he trowelled upon carefully cleaned 5-inch by 2½ inch ground glass plates. The pats shall he about ½—inch thick in the centre, and worked off to sharp edges at the four sides. They shall he covered with a damp cloth and allowed to remain in the air until set, after which they shall he placed in vapor in a tank, in which the water is heated to a temperature of 130" F. After remaining in the vapor six hours, including the time of setting in air, they shall be immersed in the hot water and allowed to remain there for eighteen hours. After removal from the water the samples shall not he curled up, shall not have floe hair cracks, nor large expansion cracks, nor shall they he distorted. If separated from the glass, the samples shall break with a sharp, crisp ring.



(b)	Tensile Test, Neat Cement: Briquettes made of neat cement, mixed with about 20 per cent. of water by weight, after remaining one day in air, in a moist atmosphere, shall be immersed in water, and shall he capable of sustaining a tensile stress of 250 lb. per square inch, after submersion for two days 400 lb. per square inch after submersion for six days. ; 500 lb. per square inch after submersion for 27 days. The tensile test shall he considered as the average of the strength of five briquettes, and any cement showing a decrease in tensile strength on or before the twenty-eighth day shall be rejected.



Sand and Cement The sand for standard tests shall he clean quartz, crushed so that the whole shall pass through a sieve of 400 meshes per square inch, but shall 1)0 retained on a sieve of



900 meshes per square inch. The sand and cement shall be thoroughly mixed dry, and then about 10 per cent. of their weight of water shall be added, when the briquettes are to he formed in suitable moulds. After remaining- in a damp chamber for 21 hours, the briquettes shall he immersed sect in water, and briquettes made in the proportion of one of cement to three of sand by weight, shall bear a tensile stress of 125 lb. per square inch after submersion for six days, and 200 lb. per square inch after submersion for 28 days. Sand and cement briquettes shall not show a decrease in tensile strength at the end of 28 days or subsequently.

(4)	The manufacturers shall if required, supply chemical analyses of the cement.

(5)	Packing.- The cement shall he packed either in stout air and water-tight casks, carefully lined with strong brown paper, or in strong air and water-tights bags.

(6)	The manufacturer shall give a certificate with each shipment of cement, stating- (1) the date of manufacture; (2) the tests and analyses which have been obtained for the cement in question at the manufacturer's laboratory; (3) that the cement does not contain any adulteration.







If a young man does not aim at a far higher mark than he will reach, he will stop short at a far lower mark than he might reach. The higher the idea the higher the achievement. Men do not accomplish everything which they believe they can do, but they certainly do nothing unless they believe they can do it.

BOOKS.

Architectural Hardwood FINISHING. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON MODERN METHODS OF FINISHING THE Woodwork 01-' NEW Buildings By <person>GEORGE



WHIGELT</person>. THE PAINTERS MAGAZINE, 100 WILLIAM Street, NEW YORK. $1.00. The fifteen articles of which this hook is made up were originally published in THE PAINTERS MAGAZINE. The author is a practical mechanic who writes from experience and describes the working processes for preparing the woods and obtaining the different finishes.



BRAYTON STANDARDS. A POCKET Companion FOR THE UNIFORM Design OF REINFORCED CONCRETE BY <person>Louis F. BRAYTON</person>, CONSULTING ENG I NEER, MINNEAPOLIS. $3.00



The strength of the various members in a reinforced concrete structure can now he as safely calculated as in a structure of wood or stone. The design is usually left to the contractor with the result that there is no equality of conditions for competitive tendering, nor the same freedom in the choice of method of construction. BRAYTON'S STANDARDS aims at furnishing for designers of reinforced concrete the same kind of information that is supplied by the Carnegie Handbook for designers in structural steel. Enough of the theory of reinforced concrete is given to satisfy those familiar with the subject that the principles Involved are correct; further than this it omits the theory and gives only the information desired by designers.

THE Estimator's PRICE book AND POCKET COMPANION. By <person>I. P. HICKS</person>. <firm>DAVID WILLIAMS COMPANY</firm>, 14-16 PARK PLACE, NEW YORK. $1,00. The prices given are average American prices which, (much lower than the inflated prices of Toronto), seem to compare very well with average prices elsewhere in this province. The book is prepared for corrections and additions to the price lists, by blank pages columned and headed for dimensions and prices ; the intention being that builders should make it their pocket companion and guide. For this purpose there are some tables of general information necessary for making the calculations upon which an estimate is based.



CLASS	Illustrations FOR THE STUDY of Architectural HISTORY, BY <person>BANISTER F. FLETCHER</person>, F.R.I.B.A. 



<person>B.	T. Batsford </person>94 High HOLBORN, LONDON. the case, we have received, of reprints in sheet form of the well known- illustrations of Mr. <person>Banister F. Fletcher</person>'s History of Architecture, is of the small size, the same as in the History. The subject matter is divided into four sections: I Classic styles, 90 plates; 2 Mediaeval styles, 102 plates; 3 Renaissance and Modern styles, 75 plates; 4 Non-Historical Architecture, 36 plates. In this size each of the first three sets costs four shillings, and the fourth one shilling and sixpence. These drawings- or a comprehensive set of 168 of them—are also reproduced on a large scale, measuring 40 inches by 27 inches, (the size of the original drawings), and are printed on double elephant paper for use as wall diagrams for lectures. From the method, employed by the author, of grouping illustrations together on a page, the 168 sheets contain some 2,000 illustrations. The price of a set is £60 unmounted, £70 mounted on paper, and £80 mounted on paper with a green silk edging. A series of not less than ten diagrams may he purchased, in any of the above styles of finish, for 8s, 95 or to, each drawing, according to the finish.

