<doctype type="text">14	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



stick out for the purpose of attachment to their neighbours. The inside of the wall is slabbed up with straight slabs of similar composition and means of attachment. The joints which are left wide are filled with cement. Internal part it ions appear to he of single 3 inch slab construction. Until a floor has been constructed it is not clear on what the system depends for stability. .\s it is understood that not all is plain sailing between the construction and the city authorities results may be awaited with interest.

What is known as Roman Stone and is manufactured in Ontario has been employed in internal work at the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association's building in Peel Street in some small houses in Oxenden Avenue and is being used for dressings at the new Western hospital buildings.



<article title=" THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS. " author="">THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS. <assoc>THE PROVINCE OF QUEBEC ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS.</assoc>

The Association met on December 19th to hear an address by Mr. <person>F. Todd</person>, landscape architect, on the subject of Civic Art. The lecturer naturally looked at civic art from his own professional point of view, pointing out the importance in regard to healthiness and beauty of good city parks and avenues. In most of the larger cities of the United States great efforts are be-made towards civic improvement in this respect, and architectural societies are generally found actively encouraging these efforts. A series of stereopticon slides were shown, most of them being plans of cities, illustrating actual or prospective park systems. Mr. Todd pointed out how the general endeavour was to obtain, both within the city and without, a well distributed system of garden spaces and parks, and to connect these together by wide streets or avenues generally known as park-ways, these park-ways being themselves punctuated where practicable by little open square or circular spaces at the principal intersections with the city streets. Amongst the plans shown on the screen were Milwaukee, Portland, Oregon, with its future park system as approved, Baltimore with very irregular park—ways connecting its park centres; Louisville, Ky. with its three great Shawnee, Cherokee and Iroquois parks with connecting boulevards; Buffalo, St. Louis, New York, Kansas City where circular intersections occur frequently on the park—ways; St rat ford and Galt in Ontario, and Hartford, Conn. , which has perhaps a larger proportion of open space per population than any other large city on the Continent.

The park system of Boston with which the lecturer had special personal connection came in for detailed description. The extent of irregular coast line and the windings of the Charles River give exceptional opportunities for varied and delightful parks and these have been taken advantage of to form what is probably the finest park system in America; not merely refreshing to the mind and eye but affording exceptional facilities for sea bathing, boating, playing grounds for children and gymnastic grounds for men. The spacious parks outside the city provide ample fresh air and holiday ground within access of the poorer classes of the community. A plan of Franklin Park was shown and attention called to the stately arrangement of the principal entrance and great formal concourse.

The new surburban Park at \Winnipeg which Mr. Wood is at present occupied in laying out was next

noticed. It is intended to have at the entrance a large formal circle so laid out as to confine the attention of the visitor on first entering to the artificial beauties of this particular limited space. Beyond this it is not intended to interfere with the naturally flat character of the park which will simply retain such beauty as belongs to the plain. The formal circle at the entrance is introduced to emphasize the contrast between the wildness of nature and the carefully tended and ordered work of humanity as the trimly cared for garden expresses it.





<article title=" ARCHITECTURAL ACOUSTIES " author="">ARCHITECTURAL ACOUSTIES.

On the evening of the 13th of December, <person>Prof. Cox</person>, of McGill University, gave the Sketch Club of the P.

Q. A. A. an instructive lecture on Architectural Acoustics, limiting himself to an exposition of the work of Prof. Sabine of Harvard University on the subject. Prof. <person>Sabine</person>, in endeavoring to account for and remedy the acoustic deficiencies of the lecture room of the <building>Fogg Museum</building>, was led into making a long series of practical experiments which proved fruitful in tangible results. lie had determined generally that good hearing in a ball depended on three chief conditions: 1st, the loudness of the sound to be heard; 2nd, the absence of distortion of sounds occasioned by the manner in which they were reflected from wall and other surfaces; and, 3rd, on the duration of reverberation in the hall. From his investigations of this last point Prof. Sabine had arrived at definite results of great practical value, and, while now engaged in investigating the other points, this is the only one on which he has published his results. They are briefly these: Halls in which the audible reverberation of a sound is long continued are bad for hearing in, owing to the confusion of each fresh sound with the reverberating remnant of the previous one. Prolonged reverberation may readily be reduced by the introduction into the room of absorbent material.

Preliminary experiments brought out three remarkable facts in regard to the duration of audible reverberation in a room: 1 st, that it has no relation to the position of the source from which the sound proceeds, being the same for all positions; 2nd, that it continues the same length of time in all parts of the room and is independent of the position of the auditor; and, 3rd, that it is also independent of the position in the room of the sound absorbing materials, provided their exposed area remains the same. These may thus be provided on ceiling, wall or floor as may be most suitable.

Professor Sabine has succeeded in measuring, with very considerable accuracy, the relative capacities for sound absorption of different substances. Experiments gave the following results, in which the loss of sound occasioned by one square yard of open windows is taken as the standard:

Open window 1 .oo Plaster on tile	.025

Wood-lined walls .061 Brick set in cement .025

Plaster on wood lath .034 Carpet	. 54 do on wire lath .033 ½"hairfelt in front of wall 78



.On the same basis the absorptive capacity of an audience of people was found to be .40 per person when seated and about when standing. Women in this relation are found to be quite perceptibly more absorptive than men, in about the proportion of nine to eight

Too long reverberation is the most frequent cause of bad acoustical quality in balls, and its duration may

