<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" WHY SOME HOUSES ARE COLD " author="">WHY SOME HOUSES ARE COLD.

There are many buildings, especially dwelling houses, in which great difficulty is experienced during cold weather in raising the temperature to the point considered necessary for comfort and maintaining it there. In some instances there may be an easily discoverable reason for this. In others all attempts to discover the cause prove futile. Then the investigator can do nothing but fall back upon general principles and assume that the difficulty proceeds from some cause which has been found to exist in other cases. Sometimes the situation is blamed it is to exposed. Sometimes it is the architect ; the house is too straggling, or there are too many projecting wings and the re-entering angles catch the cold winds. Sometimes the builder is thought to be in fault; the house is badly built the joints of the brickwork have not been properly filled and the wind whistles through them ; windows and door frames have not been so set as to exclude draughts ; unseasoned wood has been used, causing shrinkage and consequent draughts. Or—and this is most likely the first thing to be thought of—the heating apparatus is denounced arid declared to he "110 good."

Undoubtable any one of these thing may be the cause of the difficulty, or several of them may be contributing to it. But there is another point which is seldom thought of, and the investigation of which will often lead to the true solution of the problem. Although not perhaps so obvious as some of the others it is not at all mysterious. Unfortunately indeed it is often more easily discovered than remedied. The first thing to be done when attention is being directed to this point is to take two similar thermometers and hang them in the same room and at the same level, one on an outside and the other on an inside wall. Some judgment must be exercised in determining the positions of the thermometers so that one of them may not be exposed more than the other to any disturbing factor. If thermometers of the ordinary type mounted on a wooden block are used, they must be allowed to hang long enough for the true temperature of the wall to communicate itself through the wood block to the bulb, for wood is a slow conductor. When a sufficient time for this to take place has elapsed, it will almost invariably be found that a higher temperature is indicated on the thermometer hung on the inside wall than on that on the outside one. Why? Because the temperature of the rooms on each side of the inside wall is probably about the same while there may be a difference of many degrees between the temperature of the room and that of the outside air. It is not surprising therefore that the temperature of the outside wall should be lower than that of the inside one. Indeed some difference is almost inevitable, even in a thoroughly well built wall, owing to perfiation of air through its substance. But if the difference between the reading of the two thermometers is considerable, some other explanation must be sought for. And if the wall is a furred and lathed one it will probably be easily found. The object of the furring is to interpose an air space between the outside wall and the plaster, in order to prevent dampness from showing on the plaster. Theoretically this air space ought to add to the warmth of the room by interposing a layer of dead air between the lower temperature of the air outside the wall and the higher temperature of that in the room, because dead air is an

excellent non-conductor. But the air in this space never is dead. On the contrary it is usually in active circulation. Further, it is cold air because it is fed from every crack through which a draught steals in.

A great deal is thus accounted for, but—and herein lies the crux of the whole matter—the chief source of the supply of cold air is usually the space between the upper ceiling and the roof. These spaces are proverbially hot in summer and cold in winter, unless indeed the roof covering happens to be of thatch. As roofs are usually constructed there is but little thickness of material to serve as a 'barrier between this inside space and the outside air. Further there are always numerous cracks and crannies through which cold air is freely admitted, especially about the eaves. Any one can easily verify this statement by going up into such a roof space where there is no window or skylight, and noticing the daylight streaming through these unauthorized openings. .Even with a flat roof the same defect is usually present, only it is not so readily discovered. This cold air falls by gravitation down the spaces between the wall and the lath and plaster.' If any further proof of the truth of this theory than that afforded by the thermometers is required, it can easily be obtained by boring a gimlet hole through the lath and plaster arid holding the hand opposite the hole, when the stream of cold air will at once afford the necessary demonstration. This air will often be found to be of little higher temperature than the outside air.

The practical result of this is that many a house which has been honestly intended by all concerned in building it to be well and substantially built in every way, turns out to be anything but a comfortable dwelling place. No expense may have been spared in making the walls of ample thickness ''for the sake of warmth," as the unsuspecting owner remarks, fondly imagining that he is going to have a substantial barrier between him and the cold that will keep him snug and warm when the frost is keen or the wind howls and the snow is drifting and that, incidentally, will also help to keep down the amount of his coal bill. He does not know that instead of having a thick wall between him and 'the cold outside air he has only in reality a bit of thin lath and plaster It is hardly surprising that he should wax wroth and say things when he makes the unpleasant discovery. His annoyance is not lessened by the consideration that it is by no means an easy matter to remedy a defect that might have been quite easily obviated. Some simple precautions are all that are necessary. For instance the walls should be carefully built with every joint filled full of mortar. The roof should be constructed so that there will he no crevices to admit cold air, and non conducting materials should be freely used. Then if the walls are to be furred the spaces thus formed should he carefully stopped at top and bottom so as to form dead air chambers. This may be done by a projecting course of bricks on which the furring strips would butt at each story. This indeed should always be used as a precaution against spread of fire. But it is better to do away with the furring altogether and build the walls hollow. In any but the very thinnest walls this would cause no increase of cost as the saving of the cost of furring and laths would easily pay for metal wall ties

Even after a house has been completed the trouble,

