<doctype type="text">86	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



istic of being to some extent an abstraction; a form independent of the essential construction, and capable of being rendered in more materials than one. The architects consider that their means will allow of a stone basement, brick walls and a terra cotta cornice. These—though not the white cut stone which alone seems to realize the classical idea are reasonable and durable building materials that we shall not regard with shame.

Our drawings are reduced from the original 1/8 inch scale drawings so as to retain a definite scale. The elevations are one half that scale, or 16 feet to the inch. The plans on the illustration sheets are one half the scale of the elevations, or 32 feet to an inch. The plan of the first floor, in the text, is intermediate to the next stage, and has no scale.

It should be said that in our reproduction of the elevations we have treated the original drawing rather severely. In order to get the elevations on our page, without reducing them too much for usefulness, it was necessary to lift the actual building out of a larger area of paper in which, with the assistance of background tints, lettering and a border, it showed to better advantage than in the abbreviated form in which we present it.



HOUSES OF SMALL COST FOR A COUNTRY TOWN—NO. IV.

DESIGN BY MR. <person>S. DOUGLAS RITCHIE</person>, MONTREAL.



This design, made for the CANADIAN ARCHITECT ANI) BUILDER competition of plans for the above problem, was not placed by the judges among the prizewinners but it is a good design in conception, and easily adapted for actual use.

The leading idea- a large living room extending across the house in one direction is a good one. So is the simplicity of the general form of the plan. The aspect, facing the east, and a narrow lot which would preclude side windows of importance, were part of the conditions of the competition, benevolently intended to give trouble and let the competitors have an opportunity of showing their good judgement. If, however, there is an opportunity of placing this design upon a lot with sufficient freedom to the south, the living room and the bedrooms above should have south windows. It cannot be too often remarked that ill this country all rooms should have south windows, when the site allows it ; and all rooms should, if possible have windows on two walls. South windows, ill the winter, make the house warm and, in summer, they make it cool. But to make the coolness perfect there should be also a window in an adjacent wall, the east or the west ; or, where a room runs through the house as this living room, in both east and west walls. Rooms such as one meets with ill the country—with one window which will only open at the bottom, and must he propped with a stick, and has but a six inch stick provided, and is so guarded by paper shades and lace curtains nailed across it that there is great difficulty in getting the sash up further, after the host has withdrawn, by inserting the back of tile bedroom chair -these bedrooms, as a national production in architecture, are a tribute to our economy and endurance but not to our architectural sense.

Some internal changes are desirable in this plan. Tile larder, in the middle of the west side, is in about the worst place in the house for summer. The trouble connected with its position might be moderated by

making the window small and covering it with an awning But, if the larder is out of place on the west wall, the pantry would do there very well, and is not in a good place where it is. So it might he a good thing to move the pantry to the west, increasing its size, (which will always be a gain), so as to leave towards the east only space enough for a coat closet, opening at the foot of the stair. (Fig. I.)



























It is now necessary to spoil Mr. Ritchie's very nice hall plan by squeezing up his stair so as to get more room under the landing. The steps are evidently 7" x 10" which is handsome. Unfortunately 7½' x 9", which is much less handsome, makes a very comfortable stair ; and by its help we could get a larder under the landing which, if the way to the cellar opened out of it which would be quite ill the cottage style - —would he roomy enough for the purposes of housekeeping on this scale and with a north window, it would he not badly placed. The way to the cellar from the hall is of course is gone, but that is not a first essential in a no-servant family where the master of the house not only may seek the society of the cook but must.



Another way would he to block up the rather doubtful archway to the living room by a partition making an ordinary door ill it near the east wall, and starting the stair with winders against the partition. The handsomeness of the hall would then he transferred to the landing ; and there would he room under it for a sufficient larder, with the kitchen descent to the cellar separate from it, and a coat. closet on the hall side of the larder.



























All this is more or less murder ; and it is a pity to lose the front way down to the furnace, for this would make a very good house for a small family with one servant.

It would perhaps be best to leave tile hall alone, except for filling up the archway and having a door instead—placed opposite the stair so as get away from the front door.



Let us, however, still pursue the search for a northeast larder and a pantry with a window in the outer

