<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The rafters will not match on the valley as on an equal-pitch roof. It will be seen that it will take seven jacks on the steep side, while it requires only four on the other side, but the bevels will all fit.



From "Contractor."—Will you kindly describe and illustrate a good method of laying a solid Portland cement sidewalk and show cuts of tools required for the purpose ?

ANSWER.—In laying a cement walk the first of all the ground should be excavated to subgrade and well







































consolidated by ramming to prepare it for the sub-foundation of stone, gravel or cinders. The depth of the excavation will depend up the climate and nature of the ground, being deeper in localities where heavy frosts occur or where the ground is soft than in climates where there are no frosts. In the former case the excavation should be carried to a depth of 12 inches, whereas in the latter from 4 to 6 inches will be sufficient. No roots of trees should be left above sub-grade. The subfoundation consists of a layer of loose material, such as brocken stone, gravel or cinders,

The foundation consists of a layer of concrete deposited on the sub-foundation and carrying a surface layer or wearing coat of cement mortar. If the ground is firm and the sub-foundation will rammed in place and properly drained great strength will not he required of the concrete, which may be in such cases mixed in about the proportions 1-3-6, and a depth of only 3 to 4 inches will he required. Portland cement













Fig. 6.—JOINTER Used IN DIVIDING WALK INTO SECTIONS.





should be used and stone or gravel 'under I inch in size, the concrete being mixed of medium consistency so that moisture will shoe on the surface without excessive tamping.

To give a neat appearance to the finished walk, a top dressing of cement mortar is spread over the concrete, well worked in and brought to a perfectly smooth surface with straightedge and float. This mortar should be mixed in the proportion 1 part cement to 2 parts sand, sharp, coarse sand or screenings be-















Fig.. 7.—TOOL USED IN ROUNDING EDGES.





low 14 inch of some hard, tough rock being used. The practice of making the concrete of natural cement and the wearing surface of Portland is not to be recommended, owing to a tendency for the two to separate

A cord stretched between stakes will serve as a guide in excavating, after which the bottom of the trench is well consolidated by raining, any loose material below subgrade being replaced by sand or





















FIG. 3.—DETAILS OF CONCRETE WALK CONSTRUCTION.





spread over the subgrade and well tamped to secure a firm base for the main foundation of concrete, which is placed on top. it is most important that the subfoundation be well drained to prevent the accumulation of water, which,, upon freezing would lift and crack the walk. For this purpose it is well to provide drain tile at suitable points to carry off any water which may collect under the concrete. An average thickness for subfoundation is 4 to 6 inches, although in warm climates, if the ground is firm and well drained, the subfoundation may be only 2 to 6 inches thick or omitted altogether.

FIG. 8.—ROLLER USED IN FINISHING SURFACE.





gravel. The material for the subgrade is then spread over the bottom of the trench to the desired thickness and thoroughly compacted. Nest stakes are driven along the sides of the walk, spaced 4 to 6 feet apart, and their tops made even with the finished surface of the walk, which should have a transverse slope of ¼inch to the foot for drainage. Wooden strips at least  inches thick and of suitable depth are nailed to these stakes to serve as a mold for the concrete. By

