<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

THE MOLSONS BANK, TORONTO Branch MESSRS. <firm>Fin



LEY AND SPENCE</firm>, ARCHITECTS, MONTREAL.

This building is to be begun in May, on the corner of Bay Street and the lane which continues Pearl Street. The latter is at present a goods lane and in the drawing is gated off as if it is to continue to be a private road. The corner entrance is therefore without the usual raison d' etre of an approach from two directions and is evidently adopted only to face the point of principal view, which will be the corner of King and Bay Streets, almost exactly on the axial line of the entrance and the dome over it.

The lane side, which is pierced with windows to light the clerks' desks is kept quiet; ornament is concentrated on the entrance and front, where is the manager's room. There is to he a light well one storey deep in the centre of the building. The public space is below this and clerks' desks on the north side get their main light from above.

The upper storey is a residence.



THE <building>HOME BANK OF CANADA, TORONTO</building>. MR. <person>BEAUMONT JARVIS</person>, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.

For a single frontage like that of the Home Bank the greatest distinction is to be obtained from columns. The banks appear to have come to the fortunate decision that low buildings devoted principally to their own purposes make the proper type for a bank building. As they are surrounded by much taller buildings, the scale which is given by a single order of two or three storey height is desirable to enable them to hold their own in the street. The view of the Home Bank, or of the Yonge St. Branch of the Bank of Commerce, (illustrated in our February number), as one approaches them on the same side of the road, is striking, and adds much to the fineness of the street. This however determines the principle rather than the solution of it. One cannot help hankering after something founded on the proportions of the orders but not following them altogether in detail.

Here is a suggestion which at any rate opens up a way of some individual variation and will improve our universal rendering of the orders with an empty pediment. There is no Greek precedent for this. It was never intended that an order should be crowned by a plain pediment without sculpture. The pediment form itself is severe enough without being made a ground solely for the display of rectangular dentils and console ends. Sculpture in some form is demanded for the sake of its grace of line. And there is plenty of motive for its display in bank heraldry and titles, without it being necessary to revert to the affairs of the Lapithae and Centaurs and other persons in whom we are but coldly interested, and who, not having the expense of clothes, had dealings with no bank but that on which the wild thyme grows.

The Home Bank is interesting as being of reinforced concrete throughout.



THE <building>LINTON APARTMENTS, MONTREAL</building>. MESSRS. <firm>FINLEY

& SPENCE</firm>, ARCHITECTS, MONTREAL.



There is no mistaking the apartment house character of this building. The sparkling effect of the drawing will find expression, in the executed work, in the vane— gated surface of brick and stone, got by using quoins for every angle and by carrying through the head and sill courses. The wrought iron and glass at the

entrance contribute to the appearance of elegant co in fort.

The building is said to be without light shafts; for which purpose it appears, from the perspective, to have an plan, which is the main motive of the design. The floors and partitions are of terra cotta; wood is used only for flooring, doors and trimming. Other features worth noting, in the description of the building in one of the Montreal newspapers, are the abundance of bathrooms; utilization of the basement for a heating and ventilating plant, as also for fire-proof store rooms for tenants' property and a garage for their motors; and cold storage closets in the pantries, so that no ice need be brought into the building.



CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITION. Design BY <person>MR. VICTOR G. STEER</person>, TORONTO; AWARDED THIRD

PRIZE.



It is as a straight forward building plan, and at the same time convenient and pleasing in its arrangement, that this plan gets its position. It might be improved in execution by setting the east wall of the dining room two or three feet further out. There is no more walling involved and that room, which is very comfortably placed and will make a good living room, should have sufficient space.



The parlour, which stands between the dining room and the north wind, ought to have little window if any in the north wall; certainly not a mullioned sash-window as shown. A small casement, and high because of being in a wall close to the line of the lot, would have been more suitable for the problem before us, in which 40 feet was the specified width of the lot; but in any case, (supposing the adoption of the plan for actual building on another lot), it is not so much light that is wanted, when there is so large a window at the end, as a cross draught in summer. For this purpose the small window might be well repeated in the rooms above. It should he remembered also that a room looks best when the main light comes from one direction only.

It would improve the exterior somewhat if the large roof were carried past the ridge of the small one, for a few feet, and finished with a small gable.

The truly satisfactory condition for the exterior would of course he to find a reason for making a projection on the north wall equal to the width of the dining room wing, so that the main roof would have to run through and the parlour wing become a projection upon it.





















The reason might easily be found in a larger kitchen, and more interesting parlour, and space for closets for the bedrooms above.

These comments are made, not in criticism of <person>Mr. Steer's</person> plan, which fulfilled very well the conditions of the competition, but because one purpose of these competitions is to bring suggestions for suitable plans before those of our readers who build for themselves

