<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" FIREPROOF TEST " author="">FIREPROOF TEST.

A singular test of fireproof construction was made some months ago in a New York skyscraper, sixteen stories high, housing a factory that uses paper, printing- inks, machinery, and other inflammable material, with hundreds of employees. The architects were directed to spare no reasonable expense to make it fireproof, or, rather, what engineers term ''fireresisting," which to the laymen would often seem to be the same thing. says the Clay Record. The architects, on their part, undertook to deliver such a building at the lowest possible cost per cubic foot.

How severe an actual test would you he willing to put on this building?" asked thc owners of the architects when the structure was finished.

''Just as severe as you will authorize," was the reply. "Tests have never been made in a building of This class."

Prof. <person>Ira H. Woolson</person> of the engineering department of Columbia University, was authorized to conduct a test, and a testing chamber of brick was built on one of the floors. This was a square hut, 6 x 8 feet. with the ceiling for its roof, designed to bring intense heat to bear upon the cinder concrete protecting the steel girders. The New York Fire Department sent a squad of firemen; instruments for measuring great degrees of heat were installed, and when all was

ready a fire of dry pine was started in the test chamber. In a few moments a conflagration of utmost fierceness was raging against the ceiling, and the instruments began to register extraordinary degrees of heat.. One thousand degrees Fahrenheit, then 1,500 and T,700, until finally, at the end of two hours and fifteen minutes, 2,112 degrees were recorded, which is higher than the fusing points of zinc, silver, copper and gold. Then the word was given and the firemen threw a sixty-pound stream of water into the chamber, reducing the heat. in a few moments fully I,500 degrees. The cinder concrete held under this test, while the girder which it protected was defected less than a quarter of an inch. Virtually no fractures or impairment was found.- Improvement Bulletin.



Thc Architects Directory and Specification Index for 1905-1906 contains a complete list of the architects of the United States and Canada classified by Stales and Towns, indicating those who are members of the American Institute of Architects; also thc names of the officers and locations of the different architectural associations in the United States. Also a complete list of the landscape and naval architects of the United States and Canada, indicating who are members of thc American Society of Lands cape Architects, also the Society of Naval Architects and Engineers. To which has been added a list of the building departments of the leading cities, with the names of the principal officers. Published annually. Seventh edition. New York: <person>William T. Comstock</person>. One 8vo. vol.; red cloth, stamped in white. Price $2 net. Win. T. Comstock, Publisher, 23 Warren St., New York.

The <firm>Canadian Iron and Foundry Company., Limited Montreal </firm>Hamilton St. Thomas 

The <firm>Canadian Bridge Company Limited Walkerville</firm> Ontario Steel Buildings Roof Trusses

<firm>Consolidated Plate Glass Company Toronto </firm>Montreal The "Pets" corner post and transom bar