<doctype type="text">130	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" Every Man should have

a Trade.

" author="">Every Man should have

a Trade.

face is desirable; and it need not have all the shininess which we are accustomed to associate with glazed tiles. A street of highly coloured buildings might be a very nice thing. One would like to see the idea taken up and carried out thoroughly in some other town.



Apropos of the question of Trade Schools, it is worth noting that there has recently been a correspondence going on in the Times about the unemployed who make their annual demonstration in London. The idea is beginning to dawn upon those who interest themselves in the question that the trouble is not so much want of work as want of fitness for it ; that the unemployed are the unemployable ; and that they have become so by being made wage-carvers as boys without having learned a trade. The "little places" they fill provide only a little wage which soon becomes too small. ''They want more, fail to get it, are replaced by other small boys, and seek more remunerative employment elsewhere. Being wholly unskilled, they find it very difficult to get employment, lounge about for a year or two as unemployed, and by-and-by in very many cases—as a result, of course, of environment—drift into the steadily growing ranks of the unemployable." This is no doubt a true account of the life of most of the unemployed. The waste and misery of it might all be prevented if it was the custom for every boy to learn a trade as part of his schooling. In England the customary committee of eminent gentlemen (with "valuable support" they say from the labour leaders) has been considering the question and will, before Parliament meets, submit a report offering suggestions "designed to encourage the spread of handicraft and widely extend the facilities for technical training." In this country, where our eminent gentlemen are all seeking further eminence in the stock market, we must pin our faith on the efforts of the Education departments to establish trade schools.



Owing to the necessity of a reorganization of the Technical High School in Toronto, a committee of the Board of Education was appointed to visit certain towns and cities in the Eastern States to make investigation into the question of the most suitable buildings and other matters connected with Technical Education. A report drawn up by Mr. <person>Albert H. Leake</person>, Inspector of Technical Education, gives an account of the information gathered by the committee, and by himself in a week's further tour after the committee had completed its work.

They visited schools in Springfield, Boston, Cambridge, New York, Brooklyn, Philadelphia and Williamston. The description of the work done accords with the statement in the report that ''the tendency in the United States seems to be more and more in the direction of definite trade teaching." We find throughout the report curriculums comprising such subjects as drawing, carpentry, joinery. wood carving and turning, pattern making, forging of iron and steel, and machinists work with hand and machine tools. In combination with the manual work there is academic work which includes English, history, physics, mathematics, and in some cases French, German and Spanish. The summary of this part of its

<article title=" Mr. Leake's Report " author="">Mr. Leake's Report.

curriculum by the Central Manual Training School of Philadelphia gives the heads under which such training may be classified in the resulting mental culture. It defines its training as "I. Practical English- -the language of clear and forcible expression. 2. Practical Government—the basis of good citizenship," (whatever this may mean; it sounds like history and the catechism). ''3. Practical mathematics—for business, construction, engineering; Practical Science — The active working knowledge of the facts and forces of nature." The remainder of the course summarized as ''Practical Hand Culture" is shown in the report by illustrations from photographs of young men engaged at the carpenter's bench and in building and plastering actual brick walls under the direction of tutors. If the difficulties thrown in the way of proper apprenticeship are forcing this kind of results upon young men it looks as if the present state of affairs is but a 'cloudy porch opening on the sun'. This schoolwork is an apprenticeship worth having and it is recognized by the employers of labour. The Pennsylvania Railway Company takes one third of the product of the Williamson School of Mechanical Trades. But the pupils in that school are apprentices. They are bound for a period of three years. The school takes them at the age of sixteen or seventeen and feeds and clothes them for the period of their apprenticeship. Something of this kind must be done. The drifting in and out in attendance which has been a difficulty at the Toronto Technical School will not produce anything worth having. As the report says, 'the problem of trade instruction seems to be to get the boys at the proper age and to keep them long enough.' There is no difficulty about it at the Williamson School; they are only able to accept one applicant in five. There should be no difficulty about it anywhere if the school is doing a recognized work. And it is only reasonable that young men who get their traning at the expense of the community should undertake to fulfill the conditions necessary to make the training genuine.

The expense of a good school is considerable. The school at Springfield, which is especially spoken of as a model for Toronto, covers 30,000 square feet of ground, cost $350,000, including land and equipment, and the running expenses last year were $29,257. This is for a town about a quarter the size of Toronto; but the report states that one third of the total amount received from taxation is spent for educational purposes. It is apparently not being spent in vain in the case of this Technical School. There is an attendance of 500 boys and a daily percentage of 84.4. Tuition is free but attendance is not. Four years of varied practice in the use of hand and machine tools is required from every student who enters. The certificates granted by the school have, the report states, a recognized value in the community; and an opinion is quoted that in no part of the school system does a dollar go so far as here.

It is difficult to set limits to the value of a dollar invested in training the hands, (and minds), of the young men upon whom we are dependent in the end for the excellence of our manufactured productions. It is equally difficult to say, on the other hand, how far the process of degeneration in the work of the building trades will go, if some power does not intervene to train young men to good work and to give them a liking for it.

