<doctype type="text;ad">126	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



ing the difficulties we have had to contend with. I am gratified to see that we are still holding our own. This has been nevertheless, what I might term an up-hill fight, but I am sure the reverses we have undergone will eventually increase the ranks of our Association and that we will go forth with renewed vigour and determination, come what may, to take our stand for the promotion of our interests.

Nova Scotia has no provincial association, but I am pleased to say that there is a local association in the City of Halifax and which is very complimentary to them.

New Brunswick I find is in rather a more disorganized state, but trust to hear in the near future of some further developments towards organization.

quebec—In Montreal the conditions are more satisfactory, the Association being pretty well intact and increasing in membership. It appears to me to be the main-stay of the province, and I am looking forward for excellent results from this quarter.

Toronto has organized some fifty members, and hope by this time that she has increased her membership to such an extent that will be pleasing to all, also that Ontario has taken her place at the top of the ladder again.

Alberta and Provinces of B. C.—I am not in a position to make any report thereon as I had no reply to my last inquiry but trust those Provinces will make their own report which should be satisfactory.

Manitoba—Portage la Prairie and other towns throughout the province, I find organization at present out of the question as the plumbing business is as yet in its infancy; therefore they have no local association.

In my own city we are in much the same shape as when you left us, with a scarcely any prospect whatever of organization.

We are, at the time of writing, in the midst of a strike and we are directing operations through the medium of the Builders' Exchange of which about twenty Master Plumbers are members. Their grievance (the men's) was one what we could nut see our way clear to accept. They presented their new schedule on the 30th of June with no alternative but for us to sign this on  July 3rd or an immediate strike would ensue. A meeting of the Master Plumbers of this city was held July 2nd and it was decided not to accept their schedule in its present form and we notified them to this effect, but as there was no reply from the union they discontinued work July 3rd.

Up to the present there is little prospect of a settlement as every day we are gaining ground and hope to be finally masters

of the situation. The men up to the time of the strike were receiving a minimum of 35 cents and a maximum of 50 cents per hour. The new schedule called for 40 cents to 52½ cents per hour but it was not so much the extra wage we objected to as the most stringent measures they wanted to enforce in their new schedule.

At the last convention I had the honour of being appointed a delegate to the M. P's Association of U. S., but as I had this present strike in view and also our convention so close at hand I was reluctantly compelled to decline the proffered visit, but was fortunate in securing a representative in the person of our secretary Mr. <person>J. A. Gordon</person>. Mr. Mahoney also attended the convention, so there is no doubt in my mind that their report to this convention will be of benefit and that the Association was well represented.

I took the liberty of mailing Mr. <person>C. J. Boyd</person>, president of the N. A. M P. of U. S., the following letters of M. P. A. of Canada

To Mr. <person>C J. Boyd</person>, president N. A. M. P. of U. S., Atlantic City.

To the members of N. A. M. P.

GENTLEMAN,—On behalf of the Master Plumbers' Association of Canada I beg respectfully to tender their compliments to your Association.

I very much regret that in person I cannot he at the Convention though in spirit I shall be with you. However, I am sure it is the wish of each individual member of the Association throughout Canada that the meeting be a progressive one and that it will be the means of further extending the interests of the

N.	A. M. P. to U. S. A.

Wishing for the prosperity and success of your Association, I am,

Yours respectfully,

<person>A.	J. HAMMOND</person>,

President N. A. M. P. of Canada.

This concludes my report for the year 1905-06.

I thank you for the several honors conferred upon me, which 1 have tried to fulfill to the best advantage. It has been my sole aim on all occasions to promote the interests of the Association as a whole, which I hope has not been in vain nor without some beneficial results.

I wish to express to you my thanks for the way in which you have borne with me whilst I have endeavored briefly to expound the work of the Association and its praiseworthy objects. I

<firm>Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto </firm>Wrought Iron Fence

