<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	117



<article title="" author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

HOUSE FOR MR. <person>J. C. GORDON</person>, ASSINIBOINE AVENUE,



WINNIPEG. <firm>MESSRS. DARLING, PEARSON AND



OVER</firm>, ARCHITECTS, WINNIPEG.



The key to the plan of this house is evidently the clear outlook to the river in the rear. The kitchen department therefore comes to the front, compressed into the projection on the front, which, being a projection, clears the lookout from the front verandah and the rest of the house, and gives independence in elevation for the awkward diversities which are apt to occur between different departments of the plan. The high line of the window sill in the servants' bedroom is a note of distress on the other side of this question ; a suggestion of caution— -excessive caution one would say, considering the effect upon the room in connect-ion with the freedom of this window from over sight from the rest of the house. The kitchen lookout in front is stopped too, but there is no severity here as it is clear at the side. The rest of the house is pleasantly grouped round the staircase hail. The spacious verandah overlooking a private lawn appeals to the imagination in the present weather. This ought to be a typical Canadian verandah plan. We are an open air country and our verandahs are rooms out of doors. To plant this room as is usually done at the front door, in the way of arrivals, exposed to the dust, noise and publicity of the street, is not the proper idea at all.

HOUSE FOR <person>C. W. COLBY </person>ESQ., MONTREAL. MESSRS.



<person>P. E. NOBBS </person>A. R. I. B. A. AND <person>D. R. BROWN</person>,



ARCHITECTS ; MONTREAL.



A COTTAGE ON A HILLSIDE FOR E. RUTHERFORD ESQ.



PROFESSOR P. E. NOBBS, ARCHITECT,



MONTREAL.



The coloured originals of these drawings get little justice from photography, but the plans are fortunately



decipherable. These show that the Montreal house turns its back to the street, while its family rooms— dining-room and drawing-room, with sitting-room and balcony above—are turned to the view. This house is interesting as a study of simplicity that is not formal, or freedom within the limits of a Street front on a sheer building line.

The cottage on a hillside has this freedom unrestricted by limitations of site. It is not however, unrestrained. Each elevation is quiet ; but nothing is formal. No feature seems to be forced from its natural position, nor are there any extraordinary features. The slight touch of formality in the front door is charming. In all other respects the exterior features are quite simple but the elevations are full of life and interest and are well worth study.

If one may venture to sum up under one head, (as a point for study), the excellence of this design, as compared with so much Canadian work that can rank as an architectural effort, it is in the matter of scale. Anything in the nature of a cottage in this country, (following the United States), has always some Brobdingnagian feature that knocks out of it any claim to be "a cottage of gentility" ; some swaggering bay, with an avalanche of roof swooping round it ; or a "porch" that takes the air pompously to be seen of men.

Vulgar pomposity is for palaces, but cottages must be refined to please ; and one great secret of refinement is a modest scale consistently adhered to.

<building>OUTREMONT CONVENT, NEAR MONTREAL</building>. MR. <person>J. Z.



RESTHER</person>, ARCHITECT, MONTREAL.



Mr. Resther's handsome portico is a beautiful object, and no doubt, a satisfaction to beholders, especially his clients; but we must confess to an admiration for the simplicity of the old buildings built of this stone, and a regret that the sentiment felt for them by architects in Ontario does not seem to be fully shared in the province where the stone is used. The old path in this work is one which there can be no shame in following. It is good in all styles, for its excellence is in the breadth which is a border-land common to every style in its simple work. To try for anything else is up-hill work with coarse material. It is interesting- to note the departure from the old conventual manner employed here ; the progressive projection towards the centre, in harmony with the new idea. The composition is certainly spirited. But Mr. Resther has been guilty of making a comfortable top storey. whereas the law of true Renaissance composition is that this must be uncomfortable. One can see bow it would improve the grandeur of the building if the top storey were uncomfortable. It is better to sin against style than utility. But is there not a third way, in buildings that ought not to be expensive, viz., to hold to the inexpensive manner that is so charming in the old work?

SELECTIONS FROM PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN IN FRANCE AND



ITALY BY MR. <person>J. P. HODGINS</person>, TORONTO.



The Piazza della Erbe, (the market place), of Verona, is given by <person>Dr. Steubben </person>as one of his examples of the irregular shape of old places of this kind in Europe. It is wider in the middle than at the ends and wider at one end than at the other.

The view of Versailles is taken on the grand vista, from a spot that cannot be distant from the palace more than half the length of the vista; near the artificial water that forms the object of interest in the middle distance of the view. The scale of the grounds, all laid out in formal avenues, may be gathered from this. Mere size kills enjoyment of the palace, which depends as a design upon composition, and is too large to be seen all at once, except as a distant object, But with the grounds it is different. Size is their merit, In the soft French atmosphere the aerial perspective of long rows of trees has a kind of beauty one cannot see elsewhere; realizing a magnificence of conception which we are accustomed to expect only from the inexpensive art of the scene-painter.





<article title=" BUILDING RESTRICTIONS IN MONTREAL " author="">BUILDING RESTRICTIONS IN MONTREAL.



The Montreal City Council has recently passed the following enactment's regulating the construction of buildings, etc., in various thoroughfares:— "It shall not be lawful to construct, occupy and maintain any

factory or livery stable or other similar place of business, nor shall it be lawful to fit up or repair any existing buildings to be used as such, on the following streets, namely:

"(1) Both sides of St. James and St. Antoine streets, from Bourget street to St. Ferdinand street.

"(2) The east side of Ferdinand street; west side of Bourget street; both sides of St. Peter, Metcalfe, Agnes streets, Park terrace, Park avenue, and Annie street, from St. James street to St. Antoine street.

"(3) The east side and west side of Beaudoin and DeLinelle streets, between the Lachine canal and the G.T.R. Company's

tracks, and all the streets presently existing or which may hereafter be established within the district bounded by Beaudoin street, the <firm>G.T.R. Company</firm>'s tracks, DeLinelle street and the Lachine canal.

"Every new building erected on the lots fronting on either side of Guy street, shall have a frontage of ashlar or cut stone or cement, or iron or pressed brick of the best quality, capable of supporting a pressure of 750 pounds per square inch, or of any other durable and incombustible material (to the exclusion of wood, wood and brick, wood and stone, wood cased with sheetiron, for external walls). Ornamental terra cotta or cement may be used to ornament the frontage. The cornices shall be of sheet-iron, copper, stone, brick or cement.'

