<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES.

" author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

One of the first ideas of the Committee on Civic Improvement was to throw out the suggestion that new and wide diagonal streets should be opened up connecting the down town and up town sections of the city by roads of easy gradient. The proposal was to start two such streets at Victoria Square, the one leading to the right and the other to the left. During some recent discussion on the applications by the Street Railway Company to have more widening of streets carried Out in order to facilitate car service it was also proposed, with the same end in view, to run a diagonal street from the corner of Craig Street and St. Urban Street, extending to the corner of Sherbrooke Street and Amherst Street. This, of course, forms an alternative to the proposal of the Civic Improvement Committee. The object in view is virtually the same, and the question is whether such a diagonal thoroughfare would be better in this locality than in the other. [t may be pointed out that to bring merchandise down town by a road entering Craig Street at the St. Urban Street corner would bring it directly in face of Place d'Armes Hill, a most difficult street for heavy teams or vehicles of any description to negotiate—unless indeed a street car. This objection does not lie against streets arriving in Victoria Square, from which traffic can flow by way of McGill Street to the streets nearer the river, and to the wharves themselves, with little or no trouble as regards gradient. This seems to be a very material point in favour of the Committee's suggestion. If in any of these schemes the Corporation can find a pot of gold nothing would be more welcome, for at present the demand for better street pavings becomes more urgent from day to day, and the only response seems to be that the city coffers cannot meet the demand, and its borrowing powers are strained beyond moderate limits.

At present excavations are the order of the day.























































During the month of June permits for new buildings to the 'estimated value of $2,343,579 were granted,

and, as a consequence, yawning chasms are to be seen in all directions. One of these, in particular, has been attracting a good deal of attention. This is the excavation at the corner of Craig Street and St. Urban Street, where the new building of the <firm>Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company </firm>is to be built. The attraction here is the patent digger which announces itself as the <person>J. W. Harris </person>excavator. This is in the form of a crane operated by steam which, instead of carrying the usual wooden box on the end of a chain, works a vertical steel beam about 30 feet long, terminating in a grasping bucket, which opens in sharp pointed quarters, and is plunged down upon the soil, of which, in closing, it takes a large bite, which is quickly swung up and round and dropped into a cart for removal. Two of these bites fills a cart, and, when work is in full swing,. carts are filled at the rate of rather more than one per minute. The soft filled-in-soil at this particular excavation would seem specially favorable to the working of this appliance.

Sunday, the 24th of June, being the fete day of St. John Baptist—patron saint of the French-Canadians-—was made the occasion of the unveiling of the monument erected in honour of the French-Canadian poet <person>Octave Cremazie</person>, who died in 1879. The monument is happily placed among the trees in St. Louis Square. Some large granite steps form a base for an upright stone on which is placed a bronze bust of the poet. Upon the stones of the base is placed a bronze figure of a man in an expiring attitude, holding in his arms a flag. Below are inscribed the words, quoted from one of Cremazie's songs, "Pour mon drapeau je viens ici mourir." <person>Mr. Hebert </person>is the sculptor who has executed the work. Though of small dimensions this monument is a charming piece of work, and is a more than creditable addition to the monuments of the city.

Of new buildings recently announced as in contemplation, one of the most important is the office building for the Grand Trunk Railway System, opposite their present general offices on McGill Street. It is proposed to spend about $250,000 on this building, which is to be ten storeys in height, "constructed," it is said "so that if the by-law of the City of Montreal, limiting the height of buildings, is altered at any time, additional storeys can be added." Thus cheerfully does the commercial speculator look forward to the time when by-laws—fondly believed by the humbler citizen to be salutory—shall be improved away. Enthusiasm for this kind of largeness of enterprise has carried many cities a long way up in the air; but the man in the street must pay for these things in a congested outlook and deteriorated health.





NEW BUILDINGS IN MONTREAL.

At the present time when the estimated Value of buildings for which permits are being granted is surpassing all records the following particulars of some of the more important items on the list may be interesting.

Additions to <building>Windsor Hotel, Dominion square</building>; 110 feet 6 in. wide in front, 67 feet at the back, 244 feet deep, nine stories. Estimated cost $500,000. Architects, <firm>Hutchison & Wood. </firm>Contractors, <firm>Peter Lyall & Sons</firm>.

<building>Offices of the Royal Bank of Canada</building>, 143-149 St. James street; 60 feet x 100 feet, four stories high with marble front. Probable cost $300,000. Architect,

