<doctype type="text;ad">112	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and fundamentals relating to hygiene of which we formerly never dreamed. We realize as never before how plumbing and sanitation has advanced. We appreciate the dainty, immaculate bathroom with its walls and floor of tile, its bath of pure white enamel, the dainty one-piece enameled lavatory, and the porcelain enameled closet which has proven to be such an important step forward in modern sanitary appliances. We therefore welcome with thorough appreciation, the advent of the enameled closet tank, knowing that it adds to the health, cleanliness and beauty of the bath and toilet room.

The advantages of the porcelain enameled tank over wood tank are so numerous and evident that it scarcely would appear necessary to call attention to them. A few important points may be cited, however, inasmuch as the subject is one of marked importance in sanitation.

The wood tank, as everyone knows, is very easily scratched, marked or defaced, the surface being polished or varnished, and the polish will rub in cleaning. Moreover, the tank is made in several parts. The linings in wood tanks in most cases are of 8 or 10 oz. copper, through which the water will in time eat its way. When this occurs the wood is destroyed, the water leaking through the seams, destroying the polish and running over the floor of the bathroom.

The great advantage of the enameled tank is that it is made

n one solid piece (the top of course being separate), and is enameled both inside and out, making it an ideal fixture for the service to which it is put, as it becomes, as it were, a porcelain water vessel, and does not sweat, crack nor craze, is not affected by heat or cold, has no lining to weaken and break away creating leaks and can he readily cleaned both inside and out. The beautiful design and finish of the porcelain enameled tank make it a most attractive article. In short, the advantages of the enameled tank are the advantages of the china water vessel over one of wood and copper.

The <firm>Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co</firm>., Pittsburgh, Pa., has designed and placed on the market several different styles of porcelain enameled tanks for low down closets. The tanks are made in various attractive designs, and can bc furnished for syphon jet, syphonic or washdown closets.

In the matter of cost the enameled tank is slightly higher than the wood tank, which is of course to be expected, as the former is coated both inside and out with a heavy body of porcelain enamel, and in its construction only the very best materials are used. Moreover, the life of the wood tank is short, while the enameled tank will in the ordinary course of events, last a lifetime. There is really nothing to affect it, owing to its being impervious to heat and cold, no linings to rust out, etc. the durability of porcelain enamel being well known.

<firm>Jos Hogue Montreal </firm>Atlas building block

Low summer tourist rates west 

<firm>Detroit Column and Manufacturing Company Detroit Michigan</firm>

The <firm>Don Valley Brick Works</firm> Pourous terra cotta fireproofing Toronto