<doctype type="text">The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	'37



certain class of buildings in the city. One of the most flagrant instances is the older building of the Seminary of St. Sulpice in Notre Dame street. This until recently presented to the public a face of time worn but substantial and honest ruble work. It has now been cemented over with a particularly dirty ochrish colour, on which scrawly black false joint lines straggle about till what was delightful to the eye before is now gross and abominable. The wall enclosing the court-yard towards the street has received a wash of some very black and dirty stuff. We give a view of the rear of this building which is little known to the public, as it

<firm>American Tobacco Company</firm>, now being erected in the western part of St. Anthony street by the <firm>Dominion Construction & Engineering Company</firm>. This is, we believe, the first application in Montreal, on a large and thorough going scale, of the principle of reinforced concrete construction. The external walls are of concrete reinforced with round bars about two inches from each face and at about two feet centres. The columns consist of four vertical steel angles held in relation by wire, the whole filled and cased with concrete. The beams are of round bar and concrete— lower bars straight and upper bars with upturning ends as in the Hennebique system. The floors of reinforced concrete are laid upon centerings, each  centering being specially made and finished with a planed surface to receive the concrete. Indeed all the centerings, casings, etc., are of planed board previously prepared with a solution to prevent adhesion. All angles are rounded off and the junction of beam and column made with 45 filling or bracket. Whilst bricklayers' and masons' labor is dispensed with, a very considerable quantity of timbering, and consequently of carpenters' labour is employed. One advantage of reinforced concrete work being in the relative lightness or thinness of walls, it will be interesting to know what demands such walls in the winter climate of Montreal make upon the heating appliances.



looks out on the private garden of the Seminary, which still preserves much of its old world charm. The street front of the Seminary is no longer worth a snap shot from an artistic point of view. This is not the only building which has been suffering disfigurement, there are a number of buildings about the town—properties of the Roman Catholic Church which have been painting their faces in a most meretricious way, a circumstance the more to be regretted as in many instances they are, (though not to the same degree), buildings in themselves of an excellent quality. The Roman Catholic Churches have had the self respect and dignity to put it no higher—to erect a majority of their buildings, for worship and other purposes, with wholesome simplicity, and yet with the worthiness of appearance which stone even when it is of plainest rubble can better than all other materials express. The church of St. James and the church of Notre Dame des Lourdes, both near the corner of St. Denis street and St. Catherine street, do not perhaps rank high as architecture amongst such buildings, but at least they are of stone. The black and white paint

—both of the filthiest tone—with which they have lately been smeared gives them the air of a clumsy imitation of cheap-jack buildings in an amusement park. May the saints send better counsels.

It was announced some time ago, we know not with what prospect of immediate accomplishment, that a generous citizen had made a donation for the purpose of erecting a concert hall in the city. The object is a highly desirable one, and since the demolition of the Windsor Hall it is indeed a crying necessity which cannot be too soon met. For the coming season, however, it seems as it the old Victoria skating rink, now to be transformed into a concert hail, is to be our only hope.

Some interest attaches to the new buildings of the

<article title=" WINDOW CLEANING IS EXPENSIVE " author="">WINDOW CLEANING IS EXPENSIVE.

The following was clipped from the columns of one of the large dailies

"The cost of having house or apartment windows of ordinary size cleaned by professional cleaners is about 10 cents a window. So a man living, say, in an apartment having ten windows, would pay $1 for having his windows cleaned; if he had them cleaned twice a month $2, and if once a week, $4 a month; not a matter of very serious moment.

But when it comes to big buildings with many windows, the wndow cleaning question may easily be a very different proposition. The most recently opened of the city's great modern hotels has about 3500 windows. Obviously if it costs 10 cents each to have these windows cleaned the cost of a single cleaning of them would be $350.

If they were cleaned twice a month at that cost the expense would be $700 a month, or $8,400 a year and to clean them once a week at 10 cents a window would cost annually $18,200.

As a matter of fact the expense is much less than that ; but still the actual cost of the work, done partly by contract and partly by the hotel's own labor, amounts to a sum that many a man would he glad to have for a salary, or to have added to his annnal income.

The cleaning of the windows of this great hotel from the ground floor up to and including the parlor floor is done by contract by a window cleaning concern. On the twenty floors above the parlor, the window cleaning is done by men employed on the several floors, a man on each looking after the windows on that floor.

For its part of the work the window cleaning concern sends eight men, and the number of men employed by the hotel that work on the windows on the higher floors is twenty. Thus it takes a considerable part of the time of 28 men to keep the windows of the big hotel in order; and the annual cost of the work of this one simple item of window cleaning is here about $6,500.—Building Management.



The new building for the Canadian Bank of Commerce at Halifax, N. S., will be of granite from the vicinity of Terrence Bay. Altogether 1,200 tons will be required,

