<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	39



lesser groups. The whole conception is in the grandiose spirit introduced into architecture and sculpture by Michelangelo and elaborated under Louis XIV. It is art of the kind which supplies all the needs of the beholder—a great banquet if you like and you must taste it all. Nothing is suggested and nothing is veiled in mystery.

Then again in that splendidly kept park the Tiergarten where, in order that the green carpet may reach to the very roots of the noble trees, different varieties of grass are carefully grown, we have an all but grotesque exhibition of imperial pride. Leading from that most blatant of all monuments of victory, which celebrates the Franco-Prussian war, we find a noble avenue lined on one hand with a set of monuments illustrating the long line from which the Emperor springs. Now many of these ancestors were very ordinary princelings and some were quite nonentities while thc great Frederick and thc old Emperor William were men of international scale.

I suppose the fact that. the designers wish to express is that all these persons were equally great, mainly great because they were ancestors of the Kaiser. Anyhow they all have equal honour done them in a series of designs in various styles all of a size and all of one scheme.

In the focus of a raised semicircle of white marble stands the Ancestral prince while on thc dies of thc balustrade behind him are found- busts of his two chief advisers. The national passion for order is well evinced in this absurd scheme for if the old Emperor William, Moltke and Bismarck make a good trio it does not follow that the local nonentities of Prussian administrators in other periods deserve recognition at all. This is not the way to express history in art—one page to the man—it is neither good history nor good art and thc chief interest to a designer is to note the cold scholarly ingenuity with which something of the decorative, method of many centuries has been applied. (I use the word applied advisedly) to a Greek semicircular garden seat that focuses on the back of a Kaiser's ancestor, which appears of absorbing interest to the two henchmen behind.

Vienna is the centre of fashion for Eastern Europe, drawing to its mighty heart all the rank and style of not only the Austrian Nations but. of English, Germans, Poles, Russians and Balkans.

A glance at the plan will show how this old city has been remodelled by wise official care.

The original town is now enclosed by a car track instead of a wall and on each side of this main circular route we find noble spaces and parks with fine groups of public buildings

As this great boulevard wheels gradually around we are saved the extreme regularity and monotony which characterizes the great Commonwealth Avenue of Boston. Interminable boulevards are, to my way of thinking, akin to nightmares. The sense of helplessness one feels, on looking both ways down a street which vanishes to the horizon, may he impressive but it is not comforting, if one has to get to one end of it in a hurry. Axial planning has become too axiomatic with the T square designers of modern cities, and I think such a system as that of Vienna with its noble axial groups of buildings set picturesquely about an ever turning boulevard should get more attention than it has yet got. Vienna is one. of the most impressive capitals in the world. Nowhere has a sense of dignified luxury and pleasurable pomp, been better expressed in architecture. The buildings, themselves are not very striking; just the ordinary civilized European classic; but the massing and the disposition are unexcelled. There is a good deal of official statuary in commemoration of the exciting history of comparatively recent times.

I shall never forget the hazy winter morning when I first strolled through the city of Vienna. Here the busy narrow streets of the old town contrasted with the wide park circle, \with its great masses of building standing up in grey blue silhouette against the morning pink.

St. Petersburg or Petersburg, as those who have lived there call it, differs from the other European capitals in this that it was a city laid out and planned iii modern times. In 1702 it was a swamp with a Swedish fort overlooking the river. The city rose at the command of Peter thc Great, and the magnificent lay out or the plan was developed under Catherine II. whom, I regard as the last of the great royal builders of Europe. Petersburg is a city of brick and plaster. The classic Palladianism of its public buildings is only skin deep and requires continual patching and painting. The street architecture is tinted in the cheeriest colours; pink, yellow and pale green being thc favorites; but blue and chocolate are often met with. There is thus not much in the way of nobility or dignity in the architecture, and thc charm of

the place depends chiefly on the magnificent scale both of the buildings and the streets, and the skillful lay out of the city as a whole. To my mind the noblest official monument in Petersburg is the quay On both sides of the river there are about 5 miles of red granite quays, the parapet consisting of great blocks which are simply moved out of the way when a barge unloads its cal-go.

The famous Winter Palace is a plaster building, of pronounced Rococo type architecturally unworthy of its fame. It is painted in two shades of pink, and has a certain picturesque richness when seen across the river. The most original building is the Admiralty, which is painted white and yellow, with a green roof and a gold spire, and forms sides of a quadrangle facing thc river The bottom square has unfortunately been built up with residences and palaces, but the two great archways abutting on the river some 400 yards apart form splendid stops to so huge a building. Thc delicate spire (and spires and towers have. always been the strongest line of thc Russian architects) is placed at the focus point, from which the three great streets of the city radiate, and gleams from miles away. There is no finer effect in city arrangement than that of a dome or spire at the end of a great vista of houses or an avenue of trees.

A glance at thc plan of St. Petersburg will show that, if the individual buildings are spiritless, the tout ensemble is eminently interesting and noble; and, considering the flatness of the site, wonderfully picturesque.

As notable buildings I might mention (1) the Exchange, (2) the Holy Synod, (3) the Academy, (4) the University all of which are strictly government works, or official in character. With monuments Petersburg is well supplied and I might mention first St. Isaac's Cathedral which was built as a thank-offering to celebrate the victory over Sweden when Finland changed hands in 1809; the dome of plate gold, about 1/16 of an inch thick, swallowed up nearly all thc indemnity I believe. After the RussoTurkish war of 1877 a great church was erected in MOSCOW in a similar spirit of victorious piety. Of the architecture of Moscow I need say nothing here for it is not only a thing very much by itself but essentially non—European.

The Russians are great bronze founders and some excellent statues adorn the public squares.

Having now reviewed as much official architecture as will afford us food for reflection we may consider a few points of a general nature.

Of' the sameness of it all I shall have more to say in conclusion but we may here note that the classic style remains everywhere as the natural vehicle of official architectural expression. Gothic

public buildings have been attempted at Manchester and at Westminster with mixed success', and there is to he said for Gothic, that great groups hang better together than when classic motif is resorted to.

Classic buildings suffer from indiscriminate juxtaposition more than Gothic buildings do, the scale in Gothic work being essentially persistent while in classic it s proportional to the whole. Buildings of equal height in one and in three orders simply ruin one another if placed side by side while any Gothic group is held together by thc fact that mullions arc never very much more or less than 30 inches apart.

There is therefore all thc more reason why ample spaces and careful general schemes such as that of Vienna should be resorted to if classic public buildings arc to bc mutually improving instead of mutually destructive in effect.

Time does not permit me to say more than a word about Place and Street planning. Paris, which was ruined from the picturesque point of view when Haussmann drove its great boulevards for strategic reasons through the town, has came to be accepted as a commendable example of' city layout. In a recent paper on the plans of critics and public places in the R. I. B. A. journal, Mr. <person>J. W. Simpson </person>has gone into this question of great intersecting thoroughfares, basing his observations on Herr Stubben's monumental work Der Staedlebau forming part of' Das Handbuch der Architectur.

By the way, Wren's plan for thc rebuilding of London shows us both the right and wrong kind of spiders web system

Where streets radiate from a building or a bridge no harm results; but traffic is simply clogged by Union Jack plans with a central fountain to make confusion worse.

Mr. Simpson's paper is a plea for the asymmetric or picturesque arrangement of open spaces, and what he has to say about placing monuments along side great buildings, by way of contrast in scale and diversion of interest is very suggestive. His

