<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	143



ments the roofs are used more generally than elsewhere. They are the recreation places for many from sunny Italy or France, and not a few vendors of fruits and nuts ripen their green produce on the roofs in summer and fall.

"A number of owners of private houses in the aristocratic sections of the city have converted their roofs into winter and summer playgrounds for their children, and a good many of the older ones find time to go up there and have a snowball fight with the youngsters. They would never think of doing it in the street, but up on the roof it is quite a different matter. So you see, altogether the roofs of our cities are undergoing a great change, and from their final evolution we will secure great gains for city dwellers. I may be roof-crazy, but I would advise a young man to invest in roof leases rather than in ground leases. They are cheaper, and they have potential value that may mean a fortune ten years from now to the lucky owner of the leases."

—Bid/ding Management.





<article title=" BUILDING ON THE PERCENTAGE BASIS " author="">BUILDING ON THE PERCENTAGE BASIS.

Investors in real estate, architects and many building contractors are coming to realize that the most economical and satisfactory method of erecting buildings of any size is on the percentage basis instead of on the

the lump-sum basis of work is practically eliminated, and a builder is free from all temptation to "skimp" certain parts of the work to compensate him for unlooked-for inroads into his profits encountered in other parts of the work. With him all contracts are on the same basis, all can be treated impartially and the best interests of every contract can be served. This is particularly the case where the contractor makes a specialty of work on the percentage basis and declines all lump-sum contracts. The advantages to the builder of working on the percentage basis are indeed so many that many of the large builders, both here and in other cities, prefer operations of this character, though they are not prepared to refuse to work on the lump-sum basis if the owner so, desires it, as is often the case.

It is necessary, however, that the builder should use the proper speed in construction, otherwise the building may cost the owner much more in the end than he could have it erected for a lump-sum bid.

Many builders, however, complain that investors do not, as a general rule, look with favor on the percentage system of work. They desire to be relieved of all risks, evidently taking the view that the risks properly belong to the contractor, and for this reason they prefer to accept a lump-sum bid, which may seem to them to be high, rather than assume risks which their know-











































<article title=" A REVOLVING TOWER DERRICK FOR ERECTING BUILDINGS " author="">A REVOLVING TOWER DERRICK FOR ERECTING BUILDINGS.



basis of a lump-sum bid—that is the builder engages to erect the building or make whatever alterations are desired for the actual cost of the work plus a percentage as compensation for himself. Several of the large office buildings in Philadelphia have been built on this plan, and the indications are that it will not be long till it completely supersedes the old method of lump-sum bidding.

There are many advantages both to the owner and builder in this method of building. Though the owner may not know exactly what the building is going to cost him the expenditure of his money is always within his own control and easy of verification at any time. He receives from the builder an itemized account of the cost of material, labor, etc., and he is relieved of the danger of "extras". The work can be carried on so as to best suit his own interests, rather than those of the contractors, and any changes which may suggest themselves during the course of erection can be made without unnecessary expense.

Contractors, on the other hand, are always assured of a decent profit on their work. They are not harassed by unexpected rises in the price of material or by penalties for delay occasioned by strikes or other causes often totally beyond their control.

In other words, the element of risk inseparable from

ledge or experience cannot help them to avoid. The spectacle of contractors being forced into bankruptcy through contracts from which they had hoped to realize large profits, which occasionally presents itself, is not, it is true, calculated to reassure investors in real estate as to the wisdom of assuming most of the risks of building; yet failures of this kind occur so rarely as to have very little effect on the growing sentiment in favor of cost plus a fixed charge for all kinds of building work.—Quoted from the Philadelphia North American.





The incorporation of <firm>J. Vansickler and Company, Limited</firm>, is announced in the Ontario Gazette, the object of' the company being to carry on the business of builders, contractors and roofers.

Toronto is to be the headquarters of the company. The capitalization is $40,000. Messrs. <person>George H. Kemmis</person>, Toronto Junction, and <person>Gideon Grant</person>, Toronto, are among the provisional directors.



A syndicate of Victoria business men has been formed for the purpose of shipping building stone and other materials to San Francisco. The syndicate controls recently discovered marble quarries on Nootka Sound, sandstone quarries on some of the islands of the Gulf of Georgia, a large lime plant, and some deposits of brick clay. Thus a very wide range can be covered by the project, which is likely to be carried out on a very large scale.

