THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	iii



quest be granted, but the motion "'as lost, and the matter was referred to a committee.

The following letter, from the Builders' Exchange, is written ~n reply to this action of thc Board

11th June, 1906.

PAUL C. MARTINEAU, Esq.,

Chairman Catholic School Commissioners.

DEAR SIR,—-I note by thc public press of the 31st May that. at the last meeting of I-our Board a request was made by the Montreal Trades and Labor Council, and supported by Commissioner Allerman Gallery, that henceforth only Union men bc employed in the various works of construction required by our Board and that such request was ultimately referred to a subcommittee.

At the request of the Board of Directors of the Builders' Exchange I am instructed to enter a formal protest against any such action on the part of your honorable Board.

This Exchange comprises the leading contractors in  the building trades of Montreal, with an equally large representative membership of French, Irish and English-Canadian contractors, large employers of labor, and also large contributors both individually and collectively to the rates and assessments of this city.

As ratepayers and voters, who have at least as much right to the consideration of your honorable Body as the voters who presented the above unreasonable request to you, representing as they do only a sec/ion of the workers of Montreal, I beg to respectfully submit -

1.	An emphatic protest against any effort to drag our public bodies down to the level of electioneering campaign " tactics.

2.	The question as to by what right the Labor Unions claim any monopoly of Labor? The Unions do not comprise even 1024252f the workers are the larger half of the working-men to be deprived of the right to earn their daily bread at thc dictation of certain labor bosses," who in most cases arc not even Canadian citizens, but

 merely puppets worked by the wire-pullers from the United States ?

3.	That the policy of this Exchange is to protect the rights of all workers from despotic control, irrespective of its connection with unions or other labor—organizations.

4.	If h is the unquestioned right of the worker to sell his labor at the best price he can obtain to work or to quit work at his option to buy or refuse to buy where he will then it is equally the right of the employer to employ whom he will, according to merit and ability, irrespective of connection with unions or to refuse to buy the labor of certain persons or organizations if undesirable.

5.	The right to work belongs equally to the non-union man

He, toy, must live and 'support his family. Shall bread he taken out of his mouth, shall lie he eaten or killed (and this is no idle piece of imagination) because he does not see things even as others, and refuses to join a union?

My Board therefore appeals to you with confidence as an Influential public body, directing the educational affairs of the large majority of our fellow-citizens, to fearlessly assert the unalterable principle of justice to all workers alike—ignoring the distinction of" union" or non-union" labor; arid also on behalf of the members at large of this Exchange desires to protest against tin necessary and excessive expenditure of school-taxes

in payment of an artificial rate of wages imposed by a would-he monopoly of Trades-unions.

I am directed to ask you to kindly consider the subject of this letter at your next meeting, which I understand takes place on Tuesday 12th inst., and to let me hear from you at your earliest convenience.

I beg to remain, Sir,

Your obedient servant,



J.	H. LAUER,

Secretary.





ADVENT OF THE PORCELAIN ENAMELED WATER CLOSET TANK.

As the old fashioned wood rim bath tub and the unsanitary wood encased lavatory have been forced to give way to the beautiful porcelain enameled roll rim bath and the open, one piece lavatory) so the wooden closet tank is being supplanted by thc handsome, sanitary and serviceable porcelain enameled tank. Except in the case of very cheap work, the indications are that the wood tank will shortly b~ seen no more, the enameled tank having been demonstrated to he so greatly superior to it in every way.

We have come to recognize sanitation as one of the most important elements of civilization, and are beginning to understand that articles made of wood have no place in thc bath or toilet room. Dampness will smack the wood, and too much heat has a likewise injurious effect. It is therefore very evident that vitreous, glazed materials, such as porcelain enamel, are in every way superior to fixtures which have about them any parts of wood, marble or other porous substance. That the Porcelain enameled tank is destined to become as popular and universal as the porcelain enameled bath tub goes without saying, therefore. Thc public takes more interest in matters pertaining to the 1'atli, health and cleanliness than heretofore, and along with this interest, more attention is bestowed upon the particular devices and equipment of bath and toilet rooms. We are made aware of facts

Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto marble mosaic floors

<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



quest be granted, but the motion was lost, and the matter was referred to a committee.

Thc following letter, from the Builders' Exchange, is written in reply to this action of the Board

11th June, 1906.

<person>PAUL G. MARTINEAU</person>, Esq.,

Chairman Catholic School Commissioners.

DEAR SIR,—I note by the public press of the 31st May that at the last meeting of your Board a request was made by the Montreal Trades and Labor Council, and supported by Commissioner Allerman Gallery, that henceforth only Union men be employed in the various works of construction required by your Board; and that such request was ultimately referred to a subcommittee.

At the request of the Board of Directors of the <assoc>Builders' Exchange </assoc>I am instructed to enter a formal protest against any such action on the part of your honorable Board.

This Exchange comprises the leading contractors in the building trades of Montreal, with an equally large representative membership of French, Irish and English-Canadian contractors, large employers of labor, and also large contributors both individually and collectively to the rates and assessments of this City.

As ratepayers and voters, who have at cast as much right, to the consideration of your honorable Body as the voters who presented the above unreasonable request to you, representing as they do only a section of the workers of Montreal, I beg to respectfully submit

1. An emphatic protest against any effort to drag our public bodies down to the level of "electioneering campaign" tactics.

2.	The question as to by what right the Labor Unions claim any monopoly of Labor? The Unions do not comprise even 5057216710f the workers; are the larger half of the working-men to be deprived of the right to earn their daily bread at the dictation of certain labor "bosses," who in most cases are not even Canadian citizens, but merely puppets worked by the wire-pullers from the United States?

3.	That the policy of this Exchange is to protect the rights of all workers from despotic control, irrespective of its connection with unions or other labor-organizations.

4.	If it is the unquestioned right of the worker to sell his labor at the best price he can obtain to work or to quit work at his option to buy or refuse to buy where he will; then it is equally the right of the employer to employ whom he will, according to merit and ability, irrespective of connection with unions or to refuse to buy the labor of certain persons or organizations if undesirable.

5.	The right to work belongs equally to the non-union man

He, too, must live and support his family. Shall bread be taken out of his mouth, shall he be eaten or killed (and this is no idle piece of imagination) because he does not see things even as others, and refuses to join a union?

My Board therefore appeals to you with confidence as an influential public body, directing the educational affairs of the large majority of our fellow-citizens, to fearlessly assert the unalterable principle of justice to all workers alike—ignoring the distinction of" union" or "non-union" labor; and also on behalf of the members at large of this Exchange desires to protest against unnecessary and excessive expenditure of school-taxes in payment of an artificial rate of wages imposed by a would-be monopoly of Trades-unions.

I am directed to ask you to kindly consider the subject of this letter at your next meeting, which I understand takes place on Tuesday 12th inst., and to let me hear from you at your earliest convenience.

I beg to remain, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

<person>J.	H. LAUER</person>,

Secretary.



<article title=" ADVENT OF THE	PORCELAIN ENAMELED WATER CLOSET TANK.

" author="">ADVENT OF THE	PORCELAIN ENAMELED WATER CLOSET TANK.

As the old fashioned wood rim bath tub and the unsanitary wood encased lavatory have been forced to give way to the beautiful porcelain enameled roll rim bath and the open, one piece lavatory, so the wooden closet tank is being supplanted by the handsome, sanitary and serviceable porcelain enameled tank. Except in the case of very cheap work, the indications arc that the wood tank will shortly be seen no more, the enameled tank having been demonstrated to be so greatly superior to it in every way.

We have come to recognize sanitation as one of the most important elements of civilization, and are beginning to understand that articles made of wood have no place in the bath or toilet room. Dampness will crack the wood, and too much heat has a likewise injurious effect. It is therefore very evident that vitreous glazed materials, such as porcelain enamel, are in every way superior to fixtures which have about them any parts of wood, marble or other porous substance. That the porcelain enameled tank is destined to become as popular and universal as the porcelain enameled bath tub goes without saying, therefore. The public takes more interest in matters pertaining to the bath, health and cleanliness than heretofore, and along with this interest, more attention is bestowed upon the particular devices and equipment of bath and toilet rooms. We are made aware of facts

<firm>Luxfer Prism Company, Limited Toronto

</firm>