<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	99



<article title=" A TALK ON CEMENT.*

SECOND PART TESTING." author="Gillespie, P.">A TALK ON CEMENT.*

SECOND PART TESTING.



The unpleasant feature in the use of cement is the necessity of testing and the imperfection of the methods of testing. A perfect method, Mr. Gillespie says, has yet to be devised ; and a uniform method—or rather a method which with uniform material will give uniform results in the hands of all experienced operators has also yet to be invented. It is, however, possible for the general user to employ a few simple tests that will sufficiently for his purpose discover a good cement, and expose the pernicious qualites of a bad one. The usual tests are six fineness of grinding, specific gravity, tensile strength (neat and with sand), the hot test, and the time of setting.

Fineness of grinding is not a sure indication of the value of a cement, although all cements are improved by grinding. Fine grinding decreases the tensile strength of neat cement, but it increases the strength of mortar ; and as cement in practice is always used in combination, fineness of grinding is a first consideration. It is measured by sifting a given quantity through sieves of various sized mesh, usually fifty, one hundred and two hundred to the lineal inch. The residue left on the sieves, expressed as a percentage of the original weight, classifies in the scale of fineness the cement tested.

The specific gravity test is considered to be a means of detecting under-burning, over-burning or adulteration. Specific gravity is the relation borne by the weight of a body to the weight of an equal volume of a certain specific body which is taken as the standard of comparison. That specific body is water. Water— besides the fact that it is always procurable—has two other qualities which fit it for the purpose :—first, a given volume of water always weighs the same at the same temperature; secondly, it is easy to compare other bodies with it, volume for volume, by simply measuring the amount of water they displace when immersed in it. In testing cement—since water acts upon cement--it is necessary to use some other liquid

—usually kerosene or turpentine— for the purpose of measuring volume, but, when the volume is ascertained it is still the weight of an equal volume of water to which reference is made as the standard of comparison. The operation is performed with a glass vessel of tube-like shape; there is more than one form, but the essential feature is a scale of volumes, (usually of cubic centimeters), marked on the glass, so that a rise in the liquid within can be accurately measured off. The vessel is then filled with kerosene or turpentine up to the lowest mark on the scale; a weighed quantity of cement powder is introduced, (carefully, to avoid air-bubbles), and the amount the liquid rises on the scale marks the volume of the cement powder. The weight of the cement powder divided by the weight of a volume of water equal to the volume of liquid displaced is the specific gravity of that cement. The test lies in thc comparison of this specific gravity with that of good Portland cement. An overburned fused clinker will give a heavy cement while an underburned one is likely to be light. Adulterants being usually of less density than cements, their presence will reduce the specific gravity. In

*	Based on a paper on The cement Industry of Ontario by Mr. P. Gillespie in thc Report Bureau of Mines of Ontario; Vol. XIV., Part 1.

order that the volume of liquid may be invariable during the operation care must be taken to prevent draughts of either hot or cold air. Care must also be taken to prevent reduction of volume by evaporation

—either from a too lengthy exposure or from the use of a too volatile liquid.

To make the tensile test the cement is made into a stiff hatter and placed in briquette moulds of a least cross-section of one inch. After setting for twenty-four hours in moist air, the briquettes are removed from the moulds and placed in water for varying periods. These periods are usually three days, seven days, twenty-eight days, and three, six or twelve months. At the end of the interval desired they are broken in some kind of testing machine. The point of carrying on the test over these long periods is that over-limed or under-burned cement shows a dropping off in ultimate strength after a time, while the strength of good cement increases with age. A test occupying a year is therefore desirable to establish the character of a brand of cement. For ordinary work a shorter test is made, and the briquettes are usually made of cement and sand in proportion of one to three. The tensile test is used, (though in practice cement is not much subjected to tensile strain), because it is more easily applied, (requiring less force), than a test by compression. The relation of tensile strength to compressive is sufficiently constant, (being from one-seventh to one—tenth), to make it possible from a tensile test to calculate properly for compressive strength. This valuable test unfortunately requires a machine, but it is possible to procure a spring balance testing machine for from 60 to 80 dollars.

The hot test is also a valuable test and can be applied more easily. This is a test for ''soundness." It is also called a test for ''constancy of volume." If any matter, that is to say, is present which will cause disntegration or unsoundness in a pat of cement, it will operate by altering the constancy of its volume. The usual cause of unsoundness is excess of lime, In the course of time the cement disintegrates, usually from expansion. But, as one cannot await the course of time for a test, the hot test has been devised as a means of accelerating the operation of disintegrating forces. It consists in exposing the test pats of cement for some time to the action of moist air above a hot bath, (about the temperature of which there is some variety of opinion), and then lowering them into the bath for another period. Mr. Gillespie's bath, for testing Ontario cements, was kept at 120° F. He suspended his pats in the vapour of this bath for six hours and put them into the bath for the remaining eighteen of the twenty four hours. This is a test that might he easily applied by cement users, and for ordinary purposes makes a good test. If after it the cement gives a ringing sound and has not expanded or warped it will do. Otherwise further testing must he procured.

The time of setting is tested at two stages --initial and final—by means of two " needles," as they are called, or fine steel rods weighted with balls attached to the middle of the shaft. One measures one twelfth of an inch in diameter and is weighted with a quarter of a pound ; the other measures one twenty fourth of an inch in diameter and is weighted with a pound. The time of initial set is defined as the interval elapsing from the addition of water to the cement until

