<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



principles, if the desired results are to he attained, and, once completed, it receives little or no thought or care on the part of the owner or user; such as a similarly complicated and expensive apparatus would receive daily if it formed part of the plant of a manufacturing concern. No one even thinks of seeing that moveable parts, from time to time, are oiled ; that lost motion is taken up ; that nothing is clone with, or to it, except what is legitimate, and according to the intention and purpose for which it was designed, and constructed. It is only when something goes wrong that, in the vast majority of cases, the plumbing apparatus receives a thought ; and then it is looked upon as an outrage and robbery that something has to he done and money spent. Great pressures are constantly at work day and night, year in, and year out, trying with varying force to tear it apart ; expansion and contraction from varying temperatures is always at work to break it ; in our climate the cold never fails to get in deadly work, when the slightest opportunity is afforded it ; added to all this, is a carelessness on the part of the users that you would scarcely credit. Is it any wonder that troubles are frequent? The wonder is rather that there is so little to complain

of.

There is a further complicating factor in the difficult problem we are considering and that is a the constant change that is going on. During my time men, methods, and materials have changed completely, and more than once. In the early days of the trade in this city, all soil, waste, and water pipes, were of lead ; sewers were constructed of brick or wood ; there were only ''the pan closet," and ''the hopper" and ''trough" sinks were of stone, wood or lead lined, "sewer gas" was unknown ; back venting and soil pipe ventilating were unknown quantities. The discovery of the germ theory of disease, and the necessity of guarding our dwellings against the entrance of the disease-producing little microbes, completely revolutionized the old fashioned plumbing methods. To-day iron has almost entirely replaced lead, as a material for soil and waste pipes ; the modern porcelain closet has replaced "the pan" ; the same material has largely replaced the sinks and baths of our fathers ; and brass and copper, as well as iron, have largely taken the place of lead for water pipes. And the end is not yet, for they are hard at work, experimenting with a view to the introduction of glass, as a material for the conveyance of the water and sewage of our dwellings, and when success is attained, as I have no doubt it will be, we will have an ideal material for the purpose—and present indications are that it will be "made in Germany."

My intention in the foregoing remarks was to fully impress you, if possible, with the importance of the subject we are considering, and to bring as forcibly as possibly to your understanding the difficult and complicated problem offered for solution. Did I go no further you might consider the time so far devoted to the subject as wasted; but there is no intention of wasting your valuable time, and it will be my endeavour to now present for your consideration something practical and useful for at least a partial cure for some of the ills we mutually suffer——as in this matter the architect and plumber, are as completely joined as were the celebrated "Siamese twins,' and any attempt at severance of the connection would in all probability he attended with serious, if not fatal results to one or both.

The first factor to he considered in the solution of the problem, from your point of view, is the plan. At the risk of being considered presumptuous, permit me to say a

words, from a practical man's point of view, of this important part of the subject First, you must attend to the sanitary features of the case; plan for health. You are building dwellings, homes, for rich and poor; places of life, light and enjoyment. The first, the greatest requirement of a dwelling is that it be healthy ; honestly built, on healthy site, amidst healthy surroundings. You can not control all the conditions; the site is not yours in the choosing; the surroundings are beyond your power but your knowledge and skill must he such, as to attain the best possible results from the conditions you have to deal with. If the site is damp, or boggy, or subject to occasional flood, you must plan for not only sub-soil but also surface drainage. Water in itself is one of God's good elements; it is only when it is 'matter out of place", that it becomes a menace to life and health. No one dreams of considering the water of the river, lake or ocean, a danger to those residing in its vicinity; we naturally go to the water in the heated summer term, for health; but the undrained swamp, the stagnant pool, the damp cellar and moulded walls, are dangerous to a degree; and no one can have them as neighbours or harbour them in the dwelling without sooner or later paying the penalty imposed by nature for a violation of its laws.

The removal of sub-soil water presents many difficulties; but in our city there should be no trouble, provided you establish the principle of never erecting your buildings at such a level, as to be below the sewers made and provided by the city for sewerage and drainage purposes.

Such a remark may seem unnecessary and uncalled for, but I know that it is done every day. I could name a number of buildings that are periodically flooded because the cellars are either below or too near the level of the city sewers. There must always be a margin of safety. The crown of the street sewer, with an allowance for proper fall, should be your starting point. I know the owner will fight and argue against steps, to business blocks, and insist on a cellar of given depth; but let me assure you that, when the water rises in the cellars and so renders them useless, or goods ,are damaged, he forgets all your arguments against going too deep in the ground, and the fact that he insisted upon having things as they are, is no longer in his mind; but he does not forget to talk of the foolishness of the man who built him a useless basement, and the stupidity' or worse of the plumber who carried out the plan. if necessary, I could mention a number of cases in point. Of course artificial means of drainage may be employed in certain cases; and, where large plants are installed in charge of skilled men, such means may safely be adopted; but outside of this for the ordinary shop or dwelling, there is only one safe plan, and that is to so construct your building that the natural drainage will always be available. In planning for the erection of buildings on low and swampy sites, provide for a system of sub-soil drains so laid that they may easily and safely discharge the sub-soil water into the existing sewers; taking care that they be properly trapped at their junction with the main sewer; and further taking care that, during the dry seasons, these traps are supplied with water enough to keep them safely sealed against the entrance of air from the sewers. This is

