<doctype type="text">90	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION. 

" author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION. 



[ Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will. nevertheless. endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From '' Builder " In 1 lie building of small church— Episcopal in a country village, would you advise me to build in stone (sample sent) or in brick? The stone can be obtained close by the work, and there are no bricks to be had within a radius of 25 miles, so that the cost will be about the same in either case. Please advise me through your journal, also give me your idea









































as to the wearing qualities of the stone, sample sent



ANS. T lie choice of a suitable stone is of very great importance to all who are interested in building work, and careful attention should always be given to the subject. We have seen a comparatively new and













































exceedingly costly building, in the construction of which stone from a quarry of good reputation was extensively used. The stone proved to be very absorbent of moisture, and this caused it to weather badly, losing its face season by season and spoiling the appearance of the building ; but more than this, the moisture

was conducted quite through the walls, and rotted the ends of the timbers which they supported, letting down floors and ceiling, and destroying cornices, and so necessitating extensive repairs in addition to the substitution of sounder stone. Not only do stones from different localities exhibit very different weathering qualities, but apparently similar stones from different beds in the same quarry exhibit differences equally great. The experience gathered by constantly noting the behaviour of different stones and of the same stone

























under varying conditions is the only sure guide. The sample of stone sent is rather a poor example of sand stone, and is very absorbent. We do not think this stone will weather well as both wet and frost will cut on it and finally destroy it. If, as you say, the cost will be about the same, we would advise you to use good hard bricks with trimmings of Port Credit stone.



From ''Young Carpenter". Will you kindly show how a dog-legged stair to go between two walls six feet apart should be constructed, giving such details and explanations as you may think necessary?

Ans.—The term Dog-Legged implies that the second flight returns in a direction contrary to the first, without leaving any space between them Figs. I, 2 and 3 are plans and sections of such a stair.

The treads are horizontal boards on which the foot is placed. The risers are the vertical boards between treads. The nosing is the projection of the tread at its intersection with the riser. A flight is the whole

	of steps between	landings The going

series	two	.	is

the horizontal distance between the fronts of two consecutive risers, and should not be less than inches.























The rise is the vertical distance between two consecutive steps or treads, and should never be more than 7½ inches. The pitch is the angle at which a flight rises. In Figs. 2 and 4 the stairs are constructed by housing the treads and risers into an outer string, the latter of which is nailed to plugs driven into the brickwork. The housings in the strings are made wider than the thickness of the tread and risers, so that wedges coated with hot glue may he driven into the joints. The riser is housed or rebated and grooved o the treads above and below it, and the upper joint is

