<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	121



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES." author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

There is from time to time talk of a new bridge which is to span the river opposite the city Just at what point has not, we believe, ever been precisely defined—perhaps because not definitely known, perhaps for prudent financial reasons. It has recently been announced, however, that preliminary operations are now well under way and various particulars have been published in daily 

papers. This project if it is to be immediately carried into effect as announced-for it is said that two years will see the completion of the work—must materially affect the aspect of the city. An integral part of the project is to be a railway station and hotel, for it is expected that the Delaware & Hudson and other railway lines on the south shore will obtain running powers over the new bridge. The promoters are the <firm>Montreal Bridge and Terminal Company </firm>and it is expected that the tolls levied will in time pay for the erection of the work. The actual bridge is to he of cantilever principle, with a main span of 1,500 feet and clear headway of 150 feet. It will consist of two roadways at different levels—the lower for trolley and general traffic the upper for railroad business It must therefore practically pass over the down town

portion of the town plying across St. Paul, Notre Dame, St. James, and Craig Streets and joining the up town traffic about St. Catherine Street, probably not very far from Bleury Street. The upper line will have to travel some distance farther inland before striking terra firma. The designer is Sir <person>Douglas Fox</person>, who designed the bridge over the Victoria Falls, on the Zambesi River, The cost spoken of is $12,000,000, the capital being raised in England.

It has already been remarked in these notes that as in London, England, enterprising people dream garden cities where the men of the future shall live in health amid the beauties of nature, so in Montreal aspiring minds dream grand hotels and apartment houses. In both cases, of course, a number of the schemes come in time to fruition. One of the most recently announced projects of this nature is the formation of the St. James Realty Company to erect and operate a great down town hotel. The eastern portion of St. James Street and Victoria Square are mentioned as probable sites.

Last month it was noted how many yawning

chasms appeared in all the principal streets of the city. This month from these pits have been growing great crops of tall steel stanchions and framing—a sort of forests which resound with the deafening purr of the rivetters. Another ten-storey building that fur the Canadian Ex— press Company, is preparing for McGill Street.

Whilst a good deal is being done to abate the telephone pole nuisance another forcibly argument against them has asserted itself. On one (lax—the 29th July —two street car conductors were killed while collecting fares on the step of their cars by being dashed against these cumberers of the ground Considering tile great rapidity with which during the past few months the mo—

tor car has been coming into vogue one might almost be permitted to hope that the trolley car  with their horrible and dangerous overhead wires mar themselves be superseded before very long, and then at last we shall have a chance to see what the architecture of the city is really like.

We publish a view of the new Cremazie monument in St. Louis Square, which was mentioned last month. Application has been made to have

MONUMENT TO	<person>Octave CREMAZIE</person>, ST. Louis	SQUARE, Montreal





a railing put round this—not in itself a desirable object but apparently necessitated by the disrespect of the local small boy, who insists on making the soldier's cocked hat a receptacle for dirt and rubbish! Children have also a fancy for scrambling over the poor old fellow and sitting on his knee, which seems not so unnatural or harmful





<article title=" THE P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB " author="">THE P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB.

THE <assoc>P. Q. A. A. SKETCHING CLUB</assoc>

On Saturday, July 14th, the Sketching Club visited the ancient town of Chambly which has been in existence since 1665. Besides the well known fort there exists quite a number of old stone houses, amongst which are some of typical colonial character, others are more thoroughly Canadian. The De Salaberry house has a verandah with quaint Doric pillars. The little old Protestant church has a colonial porch and a twinkling tin-scaled belfry which has quite a charm. At Chambly Canton the woolen mill is a picturesque group of buildings, the old rubble of which is full of delightful colour.

On August 4th the visit was to the new Commercial and Technical High School which the Protestant School Commissioners are building on Sherbrooke Street. Class rooms are provided for the teaching of drawing chemistry and physics, cooking, sewing and other subjects. There is a large assembly hall and gymnasium in the

