<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	123

<article title=" TWO PAPERS FROM THE INTERNATIONAL

CONGRESS.*

" author="">TWO PAPERS FROM THE INTERNATIONAL

CONGRESS.*

<article title=" THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN ARCHITECTURE " author="Belcher, John">THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN ARCHITECTURE.

By MR. John BELCHER, A. R. A.



The following are abstracts of the paper read

The first step, as so often is the case, will be for the public to unlearn much that has been wrongly learnt. The superstitions of antiquity and the "style" must he exploded. It must be made plain that neither a smattering of archaeology nor a superficial study of styles affords a sound basis for a critical judgment in matters of present-day architecture, which must be presented to the eyes and ears of men as a living art, founded upon past achievements, it is true, but instinct with a power and vitality of its own.



Neither is architecture merely a matter of a beautiful exterior; the importance of the "plan" of a building and of sound principles of construction must be pressed home. In other words, architecture is a science as well as an art, a blending of the two in such a way that the practical knowledge of the builder or engineer is interpenetrated by the artistic spirit, and made without prejudice or loss to subserve its ideals.

Instruction of a positive order will range itself under the three heads of Principles, Qualities, and Factors.

The principles of architecture are two, Truth and Beauty.

Truth requires that a building, both in its entirety and in its several parts, should never seem to be other than it really is.

This excludes all pretence of antiquity where no such claim exists.

It requires that a church should look like a church, a townhall like a town-hall, and a private residence like a private residence. 

An external shell of plaster over brick must not present the appearance of blocks of stone, nor a steel structure cased in terra cotta suggest solid masonry.

Good architecture never deceives the eye even for a moment. There must be no false suggestion as to the purpose or construction of the building, nor any hiding under one external feature that which is usually expressed by another.

The principle of truth, however, finds its widest scope in the true use of materials.

Every material has essential characteristics of its own, and therefore a proper place and purpose in building. There is a time and a use for stone and for each kind of stone, for wood and for each kind of wood and so on.

To defy, neglect, or misuse the natural qualities of materials is not good architecture. These natural qualities will be roughly indicated under the head of Factors.

Beauty is the second great architectural principle. Its elements do not admit of popular exposition, but the public may be trained to recognize its presence by the appeal that it makes to their imagination and emotions. The fact that beauty can he felt, but not (ordinarily) analyzed, is of importance in the education of the public, as tending to withdraw their attention from mechanical rules to the spirit that animates and pervades, like a living thing, the highest architecture.

An appreciation of beauty of form is less common than susceptibility to colour effects, and needs training and development.

The qualities that distinguish good work from bad may be classed as follows:

Strength.—It is not sufficient that a building be, in fact, strong and secure; it must be so; it must satisfy the eye.

The engineer may by exact mathematical calculation know that the conditions of security are amply fulfilled, but the architect has to see to it that the work presents an appearance of strength and solidity. ·The larger and heavier parts must be below; every arch must have sufficient abutment or even a tie-rod as well; solids when placed over voids must he strongly supported, and so on.

Methods of support and resistance must be clear and well defined.

granite in the upper storey of a half-timbered house may, as a matter of fact, be quite safe, but it seems to threaten danger; placed below it satisfies the eye with its impression of solidity,

Vitality.—Evidence of life and growth, most plainly illustrated in Gothic work, where the perpendicular lines rising heavenward and clothed (as it were) with luxuriant ornament suggest the life of a tree or plant.

It is vitality that gives ever fresh combinations and effects from the same primary elements.

*Reprinted from The Builder.

Restraint. —The limitation of means to an end, the supression of all unnecessary parts or details.

Whatever he the nature of the building, there should be purpose, definite purpose, in every feature or ornament.

This may be illustrated under the head of Proportional Divisions (see Factors); but the general principle is one which will be readily grasped by the intelligent layman, to whom it will often suggest a line for thought and inquiry.

Refinement is impossible without restraint, but it includes also purity of form and perfection of material.

Everything must not only be the best of its kind, but so suited to its purpose that Nature will seem to have expressly designed it for that use and place.

The fitness of certain materials and forms for defined purposes and effects is subject-matter for an important chapter in the education of the public.

Repose.—Every really good work is clothed, as it were, in an atmosphere of repose. There is a sense of power, but it is latent power; there is evidence of vitality, but it is restrained vitality.

Effects too pronounced hurt the eye; ornament too profuse wearies both the eye and the emotions. There must be no "loud" or vulgar elements.

Grace. —A dignified seriousness of purpose should he observed in the appearance of all public buildings, but an expression of the graceful courtesies of life should not be lacking. In domestic buildings this element of grace takes a more prominent place, and assumes a higher and more refined form, corresponding to the tender sentiments of home life.

The public interest ought to be readily roused in this direction, and a demand created for a better class of small suburban residence.

Breadth, —The treatment of the subject as a whole in a simple grand manner, the proper massing of the several parts, the subordination of detail to the larger forms of the composition and to the bringing of the whole design into unity.

An attempt may be made by illustration and comparison to explain this somewhat technical term, that the public generally may be led to understand and appreciate this quality of breadth which is so conspicuous in every great architectural work.

Scale.—The right relation of the several parts to one another and to the whole in point of size.

It will be pointed out that there are different scales in architecture as in musk, and that the varying effects upon the mind and heart are as powerful and distinct in the one case as in the other.

Also that the scale should be appropriate to the character and purpose of the building. A building of a monumental character or of great public importance should be designed and built on a large scale, and each part and every moulding should be of a proportionate size.

Factors. —In dealing with factors—the means which the architect has to his hand, as it were, for the attainment of his ends—— it will be necessary to emphasis the fact that most, if not all, of these factors have their origin in utility, and answer some practical need in the construction or preservation of the building,

To forget this primary purpose and use them as means of artistic embellishment is to sacrifice use and convenience to artistic ideals, and is not true architecture.

The public are quick to recognize the importance of this in respect of window and door openings, floor divisions, chimneys, etc., but are apt to think of columns, pilasters, sills, hood wouldings, cornices, and perhaps even buttresses as decorative rather than useful, and to suppose that the architect has a free hand in the disposition of them. Education in this matter will include instruction in the primary use of purpose of the common architectural forms, and will give an insight into the difficulty of making these forms serve the ends of use and beauty at one and the same time.

Such an insight—like propounding a problem—will go far to quicken interest.

The subject may be dealt with under the four heads of Proportion, Light and Shade, Solids and Voids, Balance and  Symmetry.



Proportion.—Certain proportions are pleasing to the eye, and effects of proportion are obtained by the relative size of different parts.



The various ways in which the constructional parts and features of a building may be utilized to obtain proportional divisions, both horizontal and perpendicular, might be described in detail.

