<doctype type="text;ad">110	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of eye and head as well as manual dexterity. To quote prominent educator: "The days of self-made men are over. The demands of our day and generation are for men of special preparation and special ability in certain lines; and he is best made who is best trained and best equipped for the chosen calling of life."

There can then be no question about the desirability of the establishment of proper technical schools. In this connection I would refer you to my last annual report of this Exchange, wherein we stand on record as strongly urging their extension and competent endowment by each Province. An institution that will open the way for our young men to become masters of trades instead of spending their lives as day-laborers cannot but be a benediction to each Province.

"Polytechnics" as they were termed in the old country, have been in full swing for over 50 years in Britain, and have been of incalculable benefit to all classes of mechanics. In Montreal we have a school on similar lines—the "Ecole Polytechnique——with an endowment of $15,000 per annum from the Provincial Government, for which it has to maintain classes in other centres, (Three Rivers, Sorel, St. Johns, etc.); but as only evening classes are taught, and only a limited number of subjects offered (in the building trades, only Carpentry and Stairbuilding, Freehand and Architectural Drawing, Modelling and Plumbing) it is capable of far greater usefulness and extension, with increased resources. Its teaching is gratis and some young men of recognized talent have been recipients of its instruction, notably Herbert, the famous sculptor .In New York, the Trades School has developed into an important institution, now taken over and supported by the State. There, the whole of a building is taught, practically and theoretically, with actual bricklaying, plastering, carpentry and plumbing; students are moreover taught to read and understand plans and drawings; and regular lectures are given daily by competent professors in the different trades. By this means a mechanic gets a wider theoretical knowledge of a building as a whole, in addition to his special trade, than he would as an apprentice unless under exceptional circumstances. 

The concensus of Opinion of some of our leading contractors in the Builders' Exchange confirms the following deductions:

That the Technical School offers the mechanic the equivalent of his "college training", and leaves him with much the same mental and technical equipment as the doctor or lawyer who has just graduated from his college course. Neither is of much value without the practical experience which results from actual,

active operation in his particular line. A mechanic who in addition to serving his apprenticeship takes up technical course, either concurrently or subsequently, is a more valuable man in every way than another who works only by "rule of thumb". At the same time a mechanic who studied only at such

school, without practical work outside, would stand on par with a doctor who had passed his course but never practised; he would be apt to be a mere theorist and ignorant of the hundred and one little details which can only be mastered by contact with actual conditions.

By all means encourage the multiplication of Technical Schools as a most valuable adjunct to, but not a substitute for thorough

apprenticeship.	Faithfully		yours,

		<person>J.	H LAUER</person>, Secretary,

			<assoc>Montreal Builders' Exchange.</assoc>

The following are extracts from the annual report to which

Mr. Lauer refers	Technical		Education—a worthy field for

practical philantropy, following the lead given by Sir. Win. Macdonald in other branches. The crying need of all trades to-day is for competent mechanics. The Unions, whose pride it should have been to admit only suck to full membership, have exerted their influence steadily in the opposite direction, in the persistent effort to establish an artificial uniformity both in output and wages—a glaring injustice to the capable mechanic as well as to the employer. All incentive to self improvement is thus taken away from the worker.

The practical abolition of the apprenticeship system and the fatal facility with which many things are learned superficially, from laying bricks to legislating for the nation, has filled the land with "half-baked" men—men trained for nothing in particular and good for nothing in general.

The practical solution is for Employers to revert to the former well-tested system of "articled apprenticeship", and to take

personal interest in training the young men so bound, making this youthful period of life attractive by encouraging friendly competition in technical schools."





<article title=" EMPLOYMENT OF UNION LABOR " author="Martineau, Paul G.">EMPLOYMENT OF UNION LABOR.

At a meeting of the Montreal Catholic School Board, held on May 3oth, a request was considered from the Montreal Trades and Labor Council asking that only union men be employed henceforth in the various works of construction required by the board. After a brief discussion, it was proposed that the re

<firm>Canada Foundry company Limited Toronto </firm>Wrought Iron Fence