<doctype type="text">92	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" SHINGLE STAINS " author="">SHINGLE STAINS.

It sometimes happens that a well planned house is spoiled in the making by some oversight or makeshift, or an artistic exterior spoiled by the color placed on it, for the reason that the architect may not have specified just what was wanted or has allowed the contractor to use something "just as good", or both architect and builder have been unable to obtain the material wanted.

We have been doing some investigating to see why the colors on so many roofs and gables seem to go to a frazzle and become old before their time. Sometimes a single winter takes the life out of a stained roof and leaves plain, bare wood in spots. Then somebody is blamed because the roof is an eyesore.

A stain should not be paint, the difference being that a stain enters into the material to which it is applied, while a paint remains on the surface. Stains are applied to undressed wood which has not been treated in any way and which presents what might be called a raw surface, while paints are applied to a wood which has been primed or filled, so as to prevent the paint from sinking in. In fine wood finishing when a stain is to be applied to a hard wood in order to show up the grain, the wood is first "filled", then the stain is applied with a brush, but all the superfluous color is rubbed from the surface with a cloth, leaving only such color as has entered into the fibre of the wood. This is not the case with stains applied to shingles or sidings.

Stains consist of two parts, the color, and the vehicle which carries the color, and perfection in one part is as essential to a good stain as perfection in the other.

In many cases the stain for a roof or siding is made by the workman on the job by rule-of-thumb. A certain quantity of cheap adulterated dry color or pigment is mixed with some mineral oil and benzine, and is applied to the wood. '[he vehicle promptly sinks into the wood, while the coarse color stays on top. We tried this and found that when this alleged "stain" had become perfectly dry and hard, we could scrape all the color from the surface with a dull knife or scraper. The cheap dry colors usually employed have a perceptible grain and feel like fine sand between the fingers, and, in some cases, like coarse sand. These particles of color will not break up or dissolve in the vehicle without grinding, excepting to a very slight degree, and as these particles are of a larger size than the pores of the wood, they have, of necessity, to remain on top while the liquid part only goes into the fibre. It is the old story of a two inch plug not going into a one inch hole, no matter how much lubricant is used.

Therefore, colors for stains must be ground even finer than for paints, and as a stain must not cover up the effect of a wooden surface but simply give it color, the color used must be absolutely pure and without adulteration. Any color adulterant used would simply fill up the fibre of the wood without staining it, and would, to just that extent, destroy the character of the finished surface. Therefore, the purest, strongest colors make the best stains, because the stronger the color the less the quantity required to produce the result.

The fading or the unfading property of a color is by no means a small factor in the making of stains, particularly those to be applied to exposed surfaces, such as roofs or gables. Certain kinds of reds, greens and other colors will be affected by light to an almost imperceptible degree as compared to those which may have the same general appearance, the difference being in

the chemical composition of the color. The color or pigment for a shingle stain must, therefore, be one showing the maximum resistance to sunlight.

Stain for roofs, gables and sidings are used as beautifiers, and it follows that all colors, shades and tones should he soft and harmonious, and that all harsh, heavy and severe effects should be avoided.

As the pigment used in the stain is for the purpose of filling arid giving an artistic color effect to the wood, it necessarily follows that the remaining value of a shingle stain is in the vehicle. This vehicle must be thin enough in its consistency to enter readily into the wood fibre; although of thin consistency, it must still have a sufficient degree of body to hold in suspension the coloring matter in a uniform manner; it must have the property of drying with uniformity in the right time, and thoroughly, so that it will not run or bleed; it must have sumcient of the wood-preserving property to prevent the formation of fungus growths and the burrowing of insects, both of which open the way for the entrance of water and ice, and the consequent cracking-, warping and final destruction of the wood; and it must have binding property to thoroughly unite and bind together all the elements of vehicle and color in order to produce a homogeneous mixture and a resulting satisfactory product.

The absence of any one of these properties is practically fatal to the life of the stain and of the wood, and, furthermore, a stain might contain all these properties and yet be lacking in value, due to the percentage of some one or two of the ingredients being too high or too low. It is impossible in this article to go into the details of percentages and materials necessary for the production of a thoroughly practical and effective shingle stain, for even with these details, the mechanical and practical knowledge of method in producing the combination cannot be transmitted, and, furthermore, the chemical properties of the various colors used make it necessary to vary the percentages of the vehicle.

While great care is taken in the selection of a proper paint for a building, both interior and exterior, the selection or making of a stain for the roof and gable, where the exposure is greatest, is often left to the carpenter. The obtaining of a stain with the requisite penetrating and preserving quality, as well as the selection of the colors, is second in importance to no other work about a house. The reason stains are not used in relatively as great quantity in this country as in the United States is owing, primarily, to the indifference which has been shown by the property owners in demanding an article possessed of proper merit, and, secondly, to the poor results which have been obtained from the methods in vogue. Much more outside staining will he done than at present if the results of properly stained and protected wood by the use of proper materials are more frequently seen.

Our investigation proves to us that the making of a high grade stain is a scientific piece of work, that its admixture must be in the hands of thoroughly practical men, that cheap materials make cheap products, and that the off-hand rule-of-thumb substitute is an expensive expedient in the long run.





A gothic roof of reinforced concrete has been built for a church in Belpium under the direction of Messrs. <person>Aronstein</person> and <person>Lunder </person>of Brussels. It has a central span of 23 ft. and side spans of 11 ½ ft. The concrete is covered with mortar and plaster moldings.

