<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	<firm>C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY</firm>	-	- PUBLISHERS.



OFFICES: <building>CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO</building>, CANADA.



VOL XIX.—No. 228.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS. DECEMBER, 1906.

<building>McGill College Students' Union</building>, <person>Percy E. Nobbs</person>, M. A., and Messrs. <firm>Hutchison & Wood</firm>, Montreal, Conjoint Architects.



ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

House for Duncan Macdonald, Esq., Toronto, Messrs. <firm>Bond & Smith</firm>, Architects, Toronto.

CONTENTS

Editorial - -	-	-	-		-	177

Building for the year	- 	- 	- 	 - 		178

Montreal Notes -	-	-	-		-	179

Sketching Club, P. Q. A. A.		- 	- 	 - 		180

Students' Competition	-	-	-		-	180

Our Illustrations - - - - -

Montreal Builders'	Exchange 	-		182-183-184-185

Canadian Clay Products		Manufacturers  	-			186- 187

Grogs in Brick Making -						188

Design for Moderate Cost House	- -	-	189

Manitoba Association of Architects	-	-	190-191-192

Architectural Eighteen Club	-	-	-	ix

Canadian Architect and Builder Students' Competitions	- x

Toronto Marble Workers and Stone Dealers Dissatisfied	x

Personal	-	-	-	.	- xi

C.	A. & B. Competition for Advertisement Designs	-	xii

Successful Draftsmanship		-		-	-		xii

Publications	-		-	 -		-	xiii



<article title=" Elevator Inspection " author="">Elevator Inspection.

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS

On the first of January, 1907, the price of the Regular Edition of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT and BUILDER (without the Weekly Contract Record) will be reduced to $1.00 per year, and the price of the Architects' Edition (without the Weekly Contract Record) will be reduced to $2.00 per year. This reduction in price has been decided upon for the benefit of such of our subscribers as may not be interested in or benefited by the information published in the Weekly edition, the Contract Record. Those subscribers who wish to receive the Weekly Contract Record, as well as the monthly edition, the ARCHITECT and BUILDER, will be charged the same prices as heretofore.

A number of changes and improvements will be introduced with the January number, such it is hoped as will meet with the approval and appreciation of our readers. An earnest effort will be made to present in the pages of each number of the ARCHITECT and BUIDER, the latest and most helpful information concerning every department of the building business. The co-operation of subscribers is invited for this object. Questions and expressions of opinion, etc., will always be welcomed, and will tend to add interest to the publication.



There have been two serious

elevator accidents in Toronto, recently. One, a simple case of a broken rope which let the cage drop to the bottom, seems to point clearly to the necessity of periodical inspection. At present the law requires an initial inspection, which guarantees sound installation ; but maintenance in good order is left to the individual. When we reflect on the continual jerking to which the rope is subjected ; on its constant bending and straightening as it passes over the wheel ; there is reason to suspect such molecular changes in the structure of the steel wire of which the rope is made, that its tenacity may be much reduced without there being any change in the external appearance. On this point alone—and it is not alone in the risks to which we are subjected from the deterioration of elevator mechanism—it is reasonable to want some guarantee of permanence. And we should have it soon, for it is about now that the first symptoms of age must he showing themselves in many elevators.



The treatment of this question.

at the banquet of the Builders' Exchange in Montreal, and in the comments upon it in our Montreal Notes, will be read with interest. The country is ready for this question, not merely, as is sometimes said, as an unavoidable substitute for apprenticeship, but as an improvement upon that system. The apprenticeship process was too indirect for our day. A boy wasted too much of his time in the manual occupations by which he paid for the

<article title=" Trade Schools " author="">Trade Schools.

<article title=" Ontario

Association of Architects.

" author="">Ontario

Association of Architects. <assoc>Ontario

Association of Architects.

</assoc>

privilege of learning to do what he saw done in his trade. The method was doubtful, and the result was not sufficient, It is not only what is done that a boy should learn in his trade, but what ought to he done. This is where the trade school will excell the old system, and suit better the perpetual tendency to new methods, which is characteristic of our time.



It is likely that the Convention of the Ontario Association of Architects, which is to be held this year at Ottawa, will for

that reason be more than usually important. The dinner, to which we understand Earl Grey is invited, is intended to be especially interesting. As to the papers, Mr. W. L. Price, of Philadelphia, and Prof. Nobbs, of McGill University, are speakers sure to present valuable matter in an attractive way. Prof. Nobbs, remarks, at a meeting of the <assoc>Sketching Club of the P. Q. A. A</assoc>., indicate that his paper will deal with perhaps the most important subject that can be presented to architects—our own style. The will be also discussion upon the question of registration, (which is becoming alive again by dint of activity in this direction in other parts of the world), and a demonstration, by a member of the Geological Survey, of available building stones in this country. There will he an exhibition of drawings by members, from which the more is hoped that there has been none for a few years past. Outside the meetings, there is much to be seen, under the guidance of the Ottawa Chapter. There are the buildings and the city improvements, in which Ottawa is giving a lead to other places. There is the site of the new Government buildings on Major's Hill, The conditions of competition are only just issued ; the time for the competition is extended, and the Convention will be in time to allow intending competitors to make a thorough study of the site. More than this, (and this is one reason why we are so carefully setting forth the advantages of attending this Convention), there is still time to procure a change in the condition which puts the execution of the work in the hands of the Public Works Department instead of in that of the premiated designer—and this Convention ought to procure that change, and should he well attended for the purpose. Clause 13, of the condition, regarding questions and further information, may be made to give an opening for a new settlement of clause 12, which excludes the successful designer from taking part in carrying out his work. The 15th, day of January, the opening day of the Convention—is the last day for sending in such questions. The Convention is just in time and the question, whether that condition should not be changed, ought to come in the form of protest from the Convention.

