<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

<building>EMMANUEL CHURCH, MONTREAL</building>.	MESSRS. <firm>SAXE AND



ARCHIBALD</firm>, ARCHITECTS, MONTREAL.



To one who has studied the churches of Wren and his followers, this type of plan seems to embody the idea of a Protestant church. It is eminently fitted for preaching, without losing the form which we are accustomed, for good reasons, to look upon as peculiarly suited to common worship.

The plan before us seems to be worked out perfectly in every respect. The conditions point to a symmetrical arrangement of the rear. It would be equally good, in the style, if the conditions forbade symmetry, and required that most beautiful kind of composition the classical picturesque.

































TRANSVERSE SECTION.





It is the low-pitched roof that generates the classical feeling. It suits our methods of construction, and harmonizes with our general manner of building. It gets over the objection to Gothic, as usually practised, that it is out of keeping with our time and the buildings in which we live our daily life. If there is any influence of architecture upon the mind, it cannot he a good thing to have religion associated with surroundings that are so distinctly not of our own century.

Gothic architecture, (real gothic), is lovely, and the Orders are a bore. If we must abandon the one we do not want to fall entirely into the clutches of the other. It is interesting to note, in the side elevations before us, slender pilaster shafts at the windows that are more than half Christian. If their sire was a pilaster their dam was certainly a vaulting shaft. Their proportions are unknown to Vignola, but they are as classical as anything measured by diameters; because the face of the pilaster is the same as the face of the wall, and the ornament, (cap and base), is an excrescence beyond this line. The ornament is aesthetic not constructional. That is why it is classical in feeling, and that is why our work tends to be classical. The question has nothing to do with the Orders.

The building is being erected on the east side of Drummond street within 200 feet of Sherbrooke street. The materials of construction are grey pressed brick and Indiana limestone. The interior is finished in hardwood and the windows of the church proper will be leaded. The entrance vestibules will have marble floors and the walls, to a height of nine feet, will be lined with marble. Above this will be an ornamental plaster ceiling The ceiling of the Auditorium will have flat panels and intersecting plaster beams, ornamented on the soffit. The building is heated with a

combination system of hot water and hot air. The cost, including all furnishings, is to be $100,000.



HOUSES IN VICTORIA, B. C. ; THE WORK OF MR. <person>F. M.



RATTENBURY</person> AND MR. S. MACLURE.



The lovely setting of these four houses gives them, at first sight, a similarity in appearance that disappears upon closer inspection. Mr. <person>Maclure'</person>s cottage classes with American work. It is an architectural composition which can be stated—-large and small mass similar to one another, linked by the dormer which is similar to both. The details also have an established form which to some extent conditions the design. All this formality in so small a house is difficult to keep within the limits of refinement. The success iii the present case will be seen to be due to simplicity. Besides the dormer, there is but one feature, the colonnade; and that is so continuous as to be an integral part of the mass.

It is not so easy to put the composition of Mr. <person>Rattenbury</person>s houses in a formula. They exemplify very well the idea of the natural growth of elevation from plan and give pleasure rather after the manner of natural objects, without inviting to analysis or criticism. Neither systematic features nor ornamental details are likely to develop much under this elastic method of work. Details in simple work, will be purely constructive, and unnoticeable. It is the handling of material in the mass that gets particular at tention,—as in these interesting rubble walls. The result is a harmony with nature that makes this type of house, much more than the formal design, a part of the landscape. If the reader will take a magnifying glass, so that he may place his eyes close to the cut, at the point of sight for the perspective, he will find in the left hand corner of No. 1, along the lower storey of No. III, and at the entrance of No. IV, a harmony of house and garden that is as charming as one could wish to have it.





<article title=" BOOKS.

" author="">BOOKS.

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND DRAWING, BY <person>CHARLES F. MITCHELL</person>, ELEMENTARY COURSE. PRJCE 3S. BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, BY CHARLES F. MITCHELL, ADVANCED AND HONOURS COURSE. PRICE 5s 6D. NEW EDITJONS. PUBLISHED BY <person>B. T. BATSFORD</person>, 94 HIGH



HOLBORN, LONDON, W. C. The need for new editions of these works occurring at a time of great progress in the science of construction and in the direction of the standardization of materials, the original matter is rewritten to a great extent and largely extended, and there is a new chapter on the subject of reinforced concrete construction. The author has modernized and simplified the calculations, and included specifications of the <assoc>Engineering Standards Committee </assoc>relating to portland cement and structural steel work and British standard sections.





Some time ago, says Indian Engineering, the consulting architect to the government of India was ordered to be supplied with photographs of all new buildings, with a note thereon of the date and hour that they were taken, in order to enable him to judge more accurately as to the effect of the sun on the buildings. it has now been decided that the usefulness of these photos would he further increased with the supply of information as to the plinth area rate, and details of the materials used in construction.

