<doctype type="text;ad">174	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



(2)	Spruce, poplar and balsam are all right for lath, ont of course not so good as pine. Still we think that if the trade were not so prejudiced in favor of pine these woods could be used in lath satisfactorily to a great deal larger extent than they are.



(3)	Balsam we think would not make good weather boarding for the same reason that we think it would not make good shingles, it would be too apt to warp.





(1)	We think balsam would be useless for making shingles, for the reason that its lasting qualities are exceptionally poor where there is any dampness.



(2)	I presume any of the three woods mentioned would make satisfactory lath, as they would always be dry.



(3)	I would not want to use balsam for any work where it was exposed to the weather, but for flooring or other purposes where it was not exposed, I think it would be quite satisfactory.





(1)	Would say not, owing to its warping in the sun so readily and it would decay very early.



(2)	Spruce or balsam would no doubt make very fair lath. It would certainly be apt to split readily with the nails and probably cost more for putting on.



(3)	No. For the same reason that it would warp as in shingles, and it is very short lived, that is, it would possibly decay inside of four or five years.



(1)	We have never seen or handled any balsam shingles; if they have been used at all it has probably been in back country villages and the product of small mills. Their value can only be determined by the test of experience.

(2)	Spruce makes a very good lath. We do not know anything of poplar or balsam, and do not think these woods have ever been manufactured into lath. The spruce lath now on the market comes almost entirely from Quebec, as Ontario spruce does not grow large enough to make any quantity of lath.

(3)	We have never seen balsam used for weather boarding

It is very frequently, perhaps unsually, mixed with spruce when sold in the wholesale market. The percentage of balsam handled in this way is small. Whether or not balsam will make good weather boarding can only be determined by the test of experience. We do not feel competent to express an opinion on this merely from a knowledge of the wood. Like balsam shingles, it might be possible to find evidence in regard to these woods in backwoods villages near small mills.





(i)	Emphatically No.

(2)	Spruce, good; balsam, fair; and poplar, doubtful.



(3)	Balsam is a soft spongy wood, with very little life in it at any time, and on that account it is very easily destroyed by exposure to the weather, and I would not hesitate to condemn



as a weather board, but if balsam were used as matching for



inside work, such as summer cottages, and a good quality of lumber is used for such purposes, I would not hesitate to recommend it as a good cheap material.





(1)	It has no lasting qualities when exposed to the weather.



(2)	Only fair.



(3)	No, for the same reason as outlined in 1. It would, how ever, have a tendency to last longer if well painted.





(1)	I would not think that balsam timber would answer for shingles at all, as this timber rots very fast and would only last for a few years.



(2)	I do not see any reason why spruce, poplar and balsam would not make good lath, and they should make lath superior to hemlock lath, being stronger and not so liable to break.

(3)	I would not think that balsam would make good weather boarding, as it is so liable to decay quickly, and I understand that it does not hold the paint well.





(1)	I do not consider that balsam makes a good shingle.

(2)	Spruce, poplar or balsam makes a fairly good lath.

(3)	Balsam does not make a good weather board, it wears

The <firm>Locomotive and Machine Company of Montreal Limited Montreal </firm>Structural Steel for all Purposes

