<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



 [Communications sent to this department must he addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached of necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From an ''Apprentice" -Will you please describe how to make an adjustable rack for a book-case so that the shelves can be moved to accommodate any sized book?

ANS.—We show in the illustration Fig. 1, 2, 3, how this may be done in two ways, Fig. shows what is termed the zig-zag or saw-tooth method, which is very old, for supporting the shelves. A much better way and more simple is to take a piece of thin pine board, say half' an inch thick, and bore a number of' holes along the centre as shown in Fig. 3, with a fastener or other suitable bit, and then saw it down thc centre. The sketch explains what I mean. Besides being made in far less time it is much stronger and neater than the older method.



From ''Old Country Contractor" I have the interior of a drug store to design and finish, the woodwork to be in white pine painted white, also prescription desk. The room is 31 feet long and 15 feet wide. Prescription desk or case to be in the rear. Please

connection with the same, we may mention some of the remaining fixtures.

Fig. 4 represents a longitudinal section taken through the front window and main part of the store, showing a part of the elevation of one of the wall cases behind the counter.



























Fig. l.—Old style. A, A, Uprights; B, Bearer. Fig. 2.—Improved mode. A, A, Uprights; B, Bearer. Fig. 3.—Mole of preparing uprights,



<article title=" BEARERS FOR BOOKSHELVES " author="">BEARERS FOR BOOKSHELVES.





This show window on the inside, is provided with sash doors glazed with plate glass, which may he hinged to swing in. The sash can easily be arranged to slide if desired, and this is, by some druggists,































































Fit;. 4. -INTERIOR OF DRUG STORE.



show a design for shelving and give me such other information regarding the finishing of' shop etc., as you may think would he of use to Me.

ANS.—To answer all these queries in full would take up more space than is alloted to this department. However, we submit the following: Having determined the proper arrangement and dimensions of' the counters, as well as the drawers, shelves, etc., the

considered the better method, as the glass is not so liable to get broken, and the opening of the doors does not take valuable space. Underneath the window stool are two tiers of drawers for fly papers, etc. At each end of the case is a compartment for patent medicines and labeled goods. These compartments are also provided with glass doors to protect the goods from dust and flies.

