<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

recommended for architects and builders, appear to be original compilations.

With the exception of the tables, the matter of the book, index and all, is given first in English and afterwards, in a second part, in French.

THE BUSINESS OF CONTRACTING, BY <person>EARNEST McCULLOUGH</person>. PUBLISHED BY THE <firm>TECHNICAL BOOK AGENCY</firm>, P.O. Box 691, CHICAGO. PRICE 50 CTS.~

'[his is a small octavo paper book of 45 pages. The reviewer has read every word of it with interest and even fascination. It is written by one who knows his subject from personal experience. He appears to be an engineer who has been engaged in carrying out contractor's work. There is much practical advice about the management of a contractor's office and works. There is everything in method and much in machinery; but in the end it all comes down to men. The management of men is the contractor's business; and the interest of this book, and its value to contractors, lies in there being not only a full account of method but also full recognition that it can only be carried out by others; and the burden of the book is therefore the handling of men. It is a book that every contractor ought to read.

HOUSE HINTS FOR Those who BUY, IMPROVE OR RENT BY <person>C. E. SCHERMERHORN</person>. PUBLISHED BY THE <person>HOUSE HINTS PUBLISHING Co</person>., PHILADELPHIA. PAPER.

PRICE 50 CTS.— There is a great deal of information and opinion about house building and furnishing packed in the fifty pages of this book. It is not explanatory so much as sententious. Brief opinions upon every point are given, mainly from the practical point of view, with reference to comfort and durability, but also from the point of view of taste. Each subject considered is paragraphed with a heading. The order of arrangement is that of the progress of a house from Site to DRAPERIES, but the first page consists of an index in alphabetical order of the section headings, so that an opinion upon any one point can be readily found. The author's description of his work as " an earnest attempt to enlighten the house owning and acquiring public to a general correct knowledge of practical home building and equipping " is a very good account of its purpose. We have described his method; an extract given elsewhere will show the style of' the book.

Trussed ROOFS AND ROOF Trusses BY F.E. KIDDER. New York. <person>WILLIAM T. COMSTOCK</person>. LARGE 8vo.; 292 pp.; 306 ILLUSTRATIONS. PRICE $3.00. Mr. Kidder's works are so well known that they need no commendation and little description. Those who already possess the first two parts of his series on Building Construction and Superintendence will understand the nature of this volume, which constitutes Part III.

The best possible description of the book is in the preface written by the author. He says, "the aim has been to describe nearly every type of roof construction commonly met with in buildings such as architects have occasion to design, to point out the advantages of the different types of wooden and steel trusses for different spans and building requirements and to explain the process of computing the loads, drawing the stress diagram and proportioning the members and joints to the stresses. Special pains have been taken to make the mechanical principles involved as plain as possible and to describe the method of obtaining the stress so that any intelligent person can apply them and that without violating any scientific principle".

What an architect principally likes to know is what has been done and it has been <person>Mr. Kidder's</person> method to show this, as the main subject of his discourse, with a running commentary upon its reasonableness and appearance. This is the method of the present work; enlightened, as he describes in the preface, by analyses of the different types and by illustrations, showing both general form and detailed construction. Copying trusses, except perhaps in the method of framing, is not good practice nor the intention of the author. Each truss must have its own computation. The last

two chapters are concerned with this ;—the one with the question of loads and their computation, the other with graphic statics and its application in making stress diagrams. This is the essential attainment for truss designing. The author thinks that any person of average intelligence can master the principles 01 graphic statics if he makes the necessary effort, and, these once mastered, the stresses in ordinary types of trusses can he easily and quickly determined.

CREMATORIA IN GREAT BRITAIN AND ABROAD BV <person>ALBERT C. FREEMAN</person>. LONDON, ST. BRIDE'S PRESS, 24 BRIDE LANE, FLEET ST., E.C. The modern revival 01 cremation has a sanitary motive. According to Darwin's estimate, earthworms in one acre of ground will cast up 15 tons weight in a single year. Pasteur, acting on this hint, experimented with worms from earth in which animals that died of splenic fever had been buried and found that the earth they carried and earth which he obtained otherwise from beneath the surface were both full of the germs of the disease, and he was able to infect animals fatally from both specimens. That in brief is the case for cremation. Earth does not purify. Noxious gases rise from the soil and water that percolates through the soil is contaminated, when there is mere decay'. Much more is there danger when the bacilli of specific disease are buried with the body. There is no certainty as to when the germ will die, if buried ; cremation, on the other hand, surely destroys it. Herein is the reasonableness of the practice, and, however little we may like it, this we must

admit.

<person>Mr. Freeman's </person>work is a study of the buildings that have been erected for the purpose since 1872, when a modern scientific process was made the subject of experiment in Italy and the results exhibited at the Vienna Exhibition in 1873. Mr. <person>Andrew Taylor's </person>crematorium in the Mount Royal Cemetery at Montreal comes in for a brief description. The illustrated examples are English, European and American. The English, to an English eye, contrive to get most of the usual feeling we are accustomed to in buildings connected with the disposal of the dead.

The crucial question is the method of obtaining rapid and complete incineration ; consuming all gases and leaving nothing but the ashes of the body ; and the most valuable part of Mr. Freeman's work is the description of the methods employed in the different crematoria he describes.

The coffin is generally placed on a catalalque in a chapel adjoining the incinerating chamber and, at the conclusion of the burial service, moved by mechanical means, without handling, through a door in the separating wall, into the furnace, where a heat of from

1500 to 2000 is obtained.

The painful part of the process is the long waiting upon the process of incineration ; and not less unsatisfactory is the question that then arises as to the disposal of the ashes. The resulting ashes are remains not only of the body but of the coffin as well. To contain them a box urn measuring 8 in. by 8 in. by 16 in. is said to be necessary. The question is, what to do with it?

The practice at present is to build acolumbarium, in connection with the crematorium, and there dispose of the urns in niches, as close together as possible, to make all possible use of the space, and holding " as many as ten urns in one niche." The price is given of the niches in the Fresh Ponds Crematory. New York

--'' in the upper row all around the building $10 each, in the next row $15, and then $20 and $25.

The suggestion of such a building is of gloom unenlightened by sentiment. But how else to bestow the ashes? One would like to revert to the old order of things and bury the urn.



NAME.

"Well, the congregation have become so fashionable that they wont stand for the old name any longer. They want something modern.

"What will they call it ?'

''I don't know but I should think the Church of the Holy Limit would be about right."— Puck.

