<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	19



unnatural if at this stage of the history of Toronto we had not something very serious to do. The real point is, not that we have it to do but at this moment when we are touching 300,000, when we have had a most extraordinary growth, when the people of Montreal are wondering if Toronto is going to wrest the supremacy of trade from them, wondering why the people of the west deal more at Toronto than in Montreal, when we see this, are we, the people of Tor onto, ready to seize the advantage which is ours at the particular moment, and surround our city with forms of beauty and convenience, with just those things which every man would like to have about himself and which we as an aggregate of citizens must desire to have about ourselves? Are you going to attempt these things, not regarding them as dreams for the future, but as the absolutely essential things for a self respecting city which has a care for the health of its people, for the easy transportation of its citizens, things which cause people to desire to come and live here—because men who sneer at architects still somehow choose places to live in that happen to be beautiful, somehow or other they have that much sense? (Applause).—Are we then as citizens going to take the steps, the serious steps which will involve making all the leading men interested in Toronto—men like <person>Mr. Hays</person>, who was here yesterday, (I talked to him about this plan and he was quite interested in it,) the officials of the <firm>C. P. R</firm>., <person>Mr. Mackenzie</person>, the Toronto Street. Railway, every interest there is in Toronto --make all these people firmly impressed with the fact that it is necessary to make this a city that it is good to live in. Are we going to make them all feel this so much that we will take this plan, or something developed from this plan, and make it a law for the people of Toronto which no new Council can change—they would have to go to the Legislative Assembly to change it. And then shall we say that we are ready to spend the money necessary to carry it out?

Now let us consider what the spending of the money means. The President spoke about me as being interested in the artistic side, but I fancy it was intended that I should speak about the financial side. When the new Government in Ontario came in, I was one of those who had charge of seeing whether we could get some money for new buildings for the University of Toronto. We needed half a million dollars, and the very prudent treasurer had said to <person>Mr. Whitney </person>that he did not know where they could readily find half a million dollars. This difficulty was pointed out to us and I was the one who was to present the financial situation to the Premier. I said to the Premier, that in Ontario we always talk about giving cash subsidies to railways of $3,200 a mile, but we never give any cash, we give annuities for 30 years based upon 3-½per cent. and issued in such a way that the railway can sell them to get $3,200 or thereabouts for them. Why not help the University in the same way? $30,-000 for a term of thirty years will give us all the money we want Mr. Whitney had only to hear this and it was done. Now, if the city of Toronto by legis- lation through Parliament, levies a tax rate for a particular purpose and which must he levied every year, it can realize relatively an enormous amount of present money against this, without a very heavy tax rate in any one year. I believe the income from a great deal of property, which the city owns and which

is not necessary for civic purposes, belongs to the Parks and Gardens Committee. However that may be, we might spend apart from this, say, $100,000 a year. If $100,000 is so raised each year, and if no incoming Council can divert this particular item, it becomes part of the uncontrollable expenditure, and we can do an enormous amount with such a power of taxation as that. Now if we raise that money and spend it, not in accordance with the particular view of any particular council—and this is not said in criticism of what any particular council has done or may do, it is said in criticism of the system which causes a new set of men to be elected every year who may not have ideas consistent with those of previous councils—but if we can have another set of men so organized that a coherent idea will run through that body, and if this money is spent in accordance with a plan which has been approved by the Legislative Assembly, we can in 10 years do so much that I am convinced our people would be impatient to see the rest of the plan carried out. (Applause). If such a plan were made law, and a model of it erected in the City Hall or somewhere else for people to see—I should also like to see it printed in colours in every directory published in Toronto and in every other form in which the map of the city is published, so that the people will have before them always the problem which they are trying to accomplish----and if we are hewing to that every year, we shall soon see that the people of Toronto will be behind us in a most uncomfortable way to get the plan pushed ahead and finished.

Now I lived in New York not very many years after Central Park was created, and very few people lived above the lower part of Central park. I am unfortunately old enough to remember hearing New Yorkers deplore the folly of building Central Park; how absurd it was to take a lot of swamp and rocks and muck-heaps and turn diem into a park, miles in advance of settlement. And I have seen the City of New York applying to the Legislature for power to buy park lands which were not in the area of New York at all, which were miles above the then boundary line; because they knew what the requirements of the city would be and if they waited until such land was in the city limits and then sought to buy, the problem would have become almost impossible. Now you can start at Central Park and drive miles through parks and these have all been created in the last 20 or 30 years, and many have been bought when they could he bought by the acre. I mention this because the Mayor seemed to think there would be some difficulty in buying, for instance, the banks of the H umber. But it Ontario is the same as else where in the matter of Municipal Government, there would be no difficulty in our getting power to buy land beyond the boundaries of the city. So far as the city is concerned we can remember the time when it was perhaps a third of its present size, and the general impression most people had of Toronto was that it was an unusually uninteresting place. It was not exactly flat, but a flat slope. Now that it has grown larger and by means of street cars we can reach the Humber and the Don and the Rosedale valleys, we realize that it is not by nature an ugly place at all, but that it is by nature a very beautiful place. We realize also that much of the land around Toronto is of no use for agricultural purposes and that there surely never

