<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	103



sockets point straight down as indicated in sketch No.

II.



DINING Room.—This room requires a great deal of light. The walls very dark with 7 ft. panelling in mahogany, and the reflecting value of the ceiling is greatly lessened by the many beams. In fact the average coefficient of reflection cannot he assumed above 10. thus making the ratio between total and direct illumination 1.11. This applies only, however, to the general illumination, and is somewhat increased by the brilliantly lighted table which has a high diffuse reflection.

The position of the table being fixed by the location of the central fixture, this is moved slightly off center towards the service and away from the fireplace and entrance. Sketch No. 13 indicates the fixture to be used and is intended to illuminate the table very brightly, avoiding any direct light in the eyes of the diner except that which is not absorbed by the art glass shade, and at thc same time keeping the fixture well above the tables. The reflector used on the 32-c. p. lamp in this position gives 3 candle feet illumination at the center of the table falling off to 2 candle feet near the edge or where the light is cut off by the enclosing shade. The four 4-C. p. lamps, arranged to be turned on subsequently or alone by the electrolier switch, are for the purpose of producing brighter illumination of the art glass when desired. It may seem to the reader that both of these purposes could have been served as well by using lamp with no reflector in the shade. In fact, however, it would require a 100 c.p. lamp to produce the same illumination on the table allowing a generous reflection from the inside of the art glass, and the result would then he less effective due to the higher relative brilliancy of the visible shade.

For the general illumination of the room it was decided to use brackets located in the upper panels of the wainscot. The number and location of these is indicated in the plan and the direction of sockets in sketch No. 15. As it is necessary to use 8-c.p. lamps to produce the illumination that would he required on some occasions, the lamps are furthur shaded by pink enamel coated prismatic reflectors of the form giving a good distribution as located and avoiding to a degree the useless spots of light on the panelling. The pink tint serves to accentuate the illumination of the wainscot and to prevent undue contrast. The effect is not only more agreeable, but less trying on the eyes

A pendant light in the window equipped to thoroughly illuminate the bay, and an ornamental lantern swung from a beam opposite the breast of the chimney, complete the installation for this room.

It will be observed that while every provision has been made for supplying requisite illumination in these rooms, there is no light source of high intrinsic brilliancy placed where it can ordinarily be within the direct range of vision. It is for this reason that the illumination is visually efficient, in addition to the increased economy obtained by directing the rays where needed; in other words, the lighting is comfortable The illumination in a light finished room is easily doubled by diffuse reflection. Yet with the proper accessories the illumination from the same scource may be as easily multiplied four or five times in the plane where it is of use.

But not many rooms require to be treated as problems in illumination to the same extent as those just described. It is true that the human eye has been

educated by day light conditions, and yet it is by no means essential to attempt to simulate these conditions in either distribution or color if the teachings of actual physiological experiment are observed. It is well, therefore, to consider for every room whether a ground work of fairly uniform illumination is necessary, for in many cases it is not. The following outline of equipment for the more important roams contains illustrations.

Basement, 8 ft. in. to ceiling

Laundry 15 tt. X 22 ft One 34- c.p. at ceiling with 12 in. opal reflector, one 16-c.p. drop, over near edge of tubs with, 10 in. opal reflector One 8-c.p. with 6 in. opal reflector on bracket over sink.

Drying room 21 ft. x 13 ft. Two 32-c.p. lamps with 24 in. opal reflectors at ceiling.

Furnace room. 18 ft. x 28 ft. One 32-c.P. near ceiling in front of furnaces with opal reflector, two 16c.p. similarly located opposite fuel room.

Man's room. 14 ft. X 15 ft. One 16-c.p. and one 8-c.p. on brackets near dresser and table with reflectors which produce a 1/8 candle foot illumination in the furthermost parts of the room.

Billiard room. 30 ft. x 15 ft. with two bays. The table is located at one end and is lighted by only two 16-c.p. p. lamps arranged with reflectors concentrating nearly all of the light evenly over the bed of the table. These lights are also provided with special opalescent shades cutting off direct rays beyond the edge of the table. They are also made to allow. sufficient light through the top to illuminate the string and the ceiling.

At the other end opposite the fireplace is a drop fixture with a shaded 32-c.p. lamp and reflector, carried on a wireless cluster with four—4 c. p. frosted lamp outside of the shade and controlled by an electrolier switch.

Lavatories both here and on the main floor ft. x 8 ft. and 8 ft X 10 ft. one 8-c.p. and one- 10 c.p. respectively on brackets over wash basins.

Stairways. Two of these are each lighted by an 8-c.p. lamp studded in thc ceiling over the bottom of the stairs with a concentrating reflector giving an average of about 1.3 candle foot on the steps without shadows. A third stairway is properly lighted by the lamp opposite one of the fuel rooms.

First floor. 10 ft. 3 in. to ceiling.

Front porch, 11 ft. X 12 ft. Hanging porch lantern with concealed reflector as near over steps as convenient and designed to effectively light the steps, porch and house number with one 16-c.p.

Verandah 46 ft. x 11 ft. Two 16-c.p. lamp hung 8 ft. above floor with reflectors giving broad downward distribution over whole verandah and fair reading intensity under each light under the ordinary conditions of dark surrounding.

Vestibule, 7 ft. x 7 ft. Cove lighting. Arranged to turn on four 8-c.p., four 16-c.p., or both. The lights are provided with aluminum reflectors concentrating most of the light evenly over the arched ceiling This is a beautiful though expensive method of lighting and in this cause is only used to produce a comfortable transition from comparative darkness to the well-lighted interior.

Alcove. 7 ft. 7 ft. next to vestibule. One 16 c.p. pendant in a prismatic reflector with frosted bowl beneath. This is a very useful combination.

	Main hall. 18 ft.	22 ft with open stairway in

