<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" McGill STUDENTS UNION AND MOUNT ROYAL CLUB." author="">McGill STUDENTS UNION AND MOUNT ROYAL CLUB.



Members of the Sketching Club visited the Students Union and the new building of the Mount Royal Club on Saturday 9th June. This visit provided an exceedingly interesting object lesson in two different ideals in architecture. The Union by Professor Nobbs is typical of the English school of Architecture which finds an inspiration in the varied characters of its materials and in the methods of their application and processes of manipulation. By observing and giving values to these qualities the works and process of nature become the craftsman's standard. In the matter of proportion

—purpose efficiently fulfilled is the fountain-head whose influence permeates all and whose stream must never he entirely drained by its surroundings which should only be those natural growths which it feeds. In decoration sentiment pertaining individually to the work is the motif; not introduced with rigid formality, empanelled and isolated, but cropping up on all occasions where the disposition to decorate is felt.

The <building>Mount Royal Club </building>is in its general lines at least, the design of Messrs. <firm>McKim, Mead and White</firm>, and, while not for a moment to be placed in comparison with their work at the Bank of Montreal, is characteristic of United States (and French) ideals. Severely classic throughout, the conventional forms of architecture—orders, columns, antae etc. , reignsupreme over all. Refinement of proportion, with an eve all the time on the masterpieces of the 'styles' as a standard, is the source relied on for beauty. An excellence, abstract and absolute is the ultimate aim. The desire as regards technique is for polish. The machine with its precision and regularity carries out the idea of the master, eliminating the tendency to err inherent in the crafts man's hand. Material is secondary, and a cornice in plaster, taking as it does the same form as one of wood, may legitimately he painted to appear as if it were actually part of the wood trim, for forms are used for their own sake as being equally beautiful in all materials. Ornament is conventional in character and sentiment, if introduced at all, is of the guarded and formal sort which is elaborated in pediments and centralized over chimney-pieces. Law and Gider are he watch words of this school, as Liberty and Life are of the other.

The following prizes have been announced as open to the competition of all members of the Sketch Club.



SUMMER WORK PRIZES.



The work submitted in competition for these prizes is to he delivered to the Secretary not later than Wednesday 31st October, 1906.

All drawings to be the ''bona fide" work of the student submitting them, and drawings previously submitted are not eligible this year.

A prize of the value of $30 in books on Architecture is offered by the P. Q A. A. for measured drawings of old local work.

A.	Plans, Elevations and Section, preferably to the scale of ¼" to one foot, and not more than six drawings in all, of at least one old building—Farm House, Seigneurie, Civic Building, or Church in the local style of Quebec or the Maritime Provinces, with details of interesting features, internal or external, to a larger scale. Rough measuring sketches to be submitted.

B. Sketches of old furniture, fittings, etc., of artistic or historic interest.

Tracings or blueprints of the winner's principal drawings to he deposited with the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>. On receipt and approval of these the prize will he presented.



BUILDINGS SUGGESTED AS SUBJECTS FOR MEASUREMENT.



The Inland Revenue Office. Place Royale, Montreal; Old Houses in Montreal, at Chateaguav, St. Genevieve, Varennes, Rosemere, etc.

Old Churches at Point-aux-Trembles, Sault-au Recollet, St. Denis, St. Genevieve; Episcopal Cathedral at Quebec, etc.

A prize of the value of $10.00 in books on :\architecture is offered by the P.Q.A.A. for perspective sketches illustrative of old buildings of local character. The sketches to he in any medium the competitor may prefer. The faithful representation of the building to be the first consideration. All comp titers are expected to lend such of their drawings as may be asked for to the P.Q.A.A. for reproduction in ,the Year Book and elsewhere.

3. A prize of the value of $10.00 in books is offered by Mr. <person>W. S. Maxwell </person>for the best exhibit of sketches done in water colour from nature, studio work not admitted, the subjects to he those in which some building or buildings occupy a place of some importance. Street Architecture or buildings with landscape surroundings are suggested as subjects.

The Committee to adjudicate upon the above competitions consists of Messrs. W. S. Maxwell, <person>P. E. Nobbs</person>, and <person>j. 0. Marchand</person>.

SHOLTO SMITH, R. CHARBONNEAU,



Joint Secretaries.



5 Beaver Hall Square, Montreal, st May, 906.



<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE  - Vancouver" author="">CORRESPONDENCE.

VANCOUVER, B. C., 16 May, 1906.

Editor	"Canadian Architect AND	Builder' Toronto, Ont.



Dear SIR, In your description of the <building>Linton Apartment </building>building in the April Number, page 53, you mention the cold storage closets in the pantries. I am curious to know something about the construction of these closets and the insulation of the pipes running to and from them. 1, and I am sure, many others of your readers, would he interested to know more about this hand— sonic building and the interior fixtures particularly in the pantries, kitchens and lavatories, and the electric fittings for lights etc.

Another topic of interest would he the percentage paid nit Eastern cities upon buildings of different classes when same arc built on a percentage basis. Recently I saw it stated that on much of the day work done in the East the builder in charge received 2 cents per hour per man employed this amount seems very small pay for management and the use of staging. plant office work, etc. Possibly I is supplemented by a small per centage on the cost of materials purchased for the work which would be only fair as a builder's experience in buying proper materials at right prices and securing their delivery just at the right time; neither too fast or too stow; is just as valuable as the



proper management of men.

Another thing which the builder should be paid for is Employer's Liability Insurance (in case he carries it of course). This costs, in this province, from 2 to 316237n the wages paid, and is usually estimated on the annual pay roll. The rate on the coast here runs from to 1 2 per cent. exetosive of the cost of insurance, according to the size and character of the building. The percentage basis is found very convenient for jobs such as t he renovation and enlarging of old buildings where it is easier to plan the work as it progresses than before its commencement as would be necessary in case it was to be contracted for. Of course much depends upon the honesty and judgment of' the builder when this method of building is adopted.

Hoping you will soon have some space to spare for the discussion of the above topics,

Yours truly,

