<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	<firm>C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY</firm>	-	-	PUBLISHERS.

	<person>W.	A. LANGTON</person>	-	-	-	- -	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: <building>CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO</building>, CANADA.





VOL XIX.—No. 227.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

<building>Emmanuel Church, Montreal</building>. —Messrs. <firm>Saxe & Archibald</firm>, Architect Montreal.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION. Houses in Victoria. B. C.

October, 1906.

CONTENTS



Editorial	-	-	-	- -	-	145-146

Reason and Tradition	- -	-	- .	147

The Duty on Foreign Plans -	- -	-	148

Our Illustrations	- -	-	- 149

Books	-	- -	- -	. -	149

Seventh International Congress of Architects	- 

Montreal Notes	-	-	-,	-	- 151-152

Intercommunication	-	-	- 153-154-155

The Extermination of the Mosquito	-	- 

Canadian Architect and Builder Competition	- 157—158

Competition for Advertisement		Designs	 -	 -		159

Soda to Set Cement	-	-	-	-		iv

Origin of the Word "Mews"		-	-	-	-	vi

What Truth -	-	-	-	 -	 -	X

Testing Materials by Sand Blast	- -	- xi

Architectural Failures	-	- -	- xii,

The Country Carpenter	-	-	-	-	xiv





<article title=" To Designers " author="">To Designers.

























<article title=" Experimental Disposal

of Sewage.

" author="">Experimental Disposal

of Sewage.

The attention of designers is



directed to a competition for advertisement designs by the

publishers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Particulars regarding this competition are printed on another page of this number. There should be a large number of competitors in this new field of effort.





The thing that daunts a municipal council in the question of sewage disposal is, more than

anything else, the doubts that hang about the question. To spend a large sum of money in works that have something of the character of an experiment is not good business. When the thing is done there is every possibility that it will immediately become evident that it ought to have been done differently. There is, it is true, the experience of other towns to look to for evidence as to what method of work to adopt, but, quite apart from the fact that a big city cannot afford to wait until its problems are solved elsewhere, there is this peculiarity about the question that what suits one city will not. necessarily suit another which is apparently the same in size and general conditions. Circumstances—the kind of manufacturing that prevails, or other conditions—-—so alter the character of the sewage that the method of treatment that suits well the sewage of one town may require modification before it will treat satisfactorily the sewage of another. It is a matter of experiment after all. But there is no occasion for a full size experiment. Any large business concern with a problem of this kind ahead, would spend time and money in making preliminary experiments so as to arrive at a certainty before launching upon the large undertaking. This is what should be done by large city like Toronto—in which

the sewage question has become acute. As the lake is both the receptable for sewage and the source of the water supply the sewage must be rendered innocuous before it is let go even into the bay. The population of half a million that is promised to the city in the near future will spread for a long distance along the lake shore and will make a mighty flood of sewage, There does not seem to be much safety in letting it go crude into the lake or into waters confluent with the lake. So Toronto is face to face with the need for a thorough understanding of the nature of its sewage and how to denature it. Apparently this knowledge does not cost much. The city of Columbus, Ohio, had an experimental station going for a year at a total cost, for plant and operation, of $44,000. There were employed: An engineer and two assistants; a chemist and two assistants; a bacteriologist and two assistants; three inspectors; a stenographer, and a janitor. The station was connected with a main artery of the sewage system so that the character and quantity of the effluent was under observation at all hours of every day for a year. The result is a certain knowledge of the nature of the sewage and how to treat it, reported in a volume now before us, which fortunately it is not necessary to read—only to point to as an example of what should he done.





There was some discussion recently, at a lunch of the <assoc>Toronto Chapter of Architects</assoc>, about the

character of drawings for competitions, with special reference to the Ottawa competition. The conditions as published in the newspapers, (one wonders how, for they are not yet issued), speak of line drawings, with blacked sections and windows—in fact the clauses drawn up by the Architectural Associations, in regard

<article title=" Competition Drawings " author="">Competition Drawings

