<doctype type="text">38	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE OFFICIAL ARCHITECTURE OF EUROPEAN*



CAPITALS " author="Nobbs, P. E.THE OFFICIAL ARCHITECTURE OF EUROPEAN*



CAPITALS.

Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen:

It. is with very special pleasure that I find myself again before you after a lapse of two years, for the kindly welcome which you extended to me when first I visited Toronto as your guest. is one of my most cherished memories. I was then new to Canada and to my duties at McGill and had been here just long enough to fully appreciate the difficulties of my task and not long enough to realize how best to assail the problems that presented themselves to me. Your sister association had not taken any pains to veil its candid opinion that a school of design at McGill was not to be taken seriously. It was thus with very uncertain feelings that I journeyed hither, in 1904, and I am delighted to have this opportunity of thanking your association for the moral support I then received—really gentlemen I went back from Toronto on that occasion very greatly strengthened by your kindly welcome and I find myself again among you with sincerest pleasure.

I must congratulate you gentlemen on the spirit of striving after better things which the subject of this year's conference makes patent. Let us hope that your example of civic pride and interest in the questions of city improvement may one day he felt even as far as Montreal and may help to bring even her authorities to a sense of their responsibility and duty to the future inhabitants.

Our theme this morning is the Official Architecture of' the European capitals and from its nature this discourse will have to resemble somewhat a ''personally conducted" lantern show to some extent. It is, however, not part of my intention to bore you with anecdotes, name or dates, and I may as well say at once that. the important points, I wish to bring out, have not much to do with the actual architecture we are going to look at which, as a body of work, I find inexpressibly uninteresting.

First, we shall hastily review the ancient world's official architecture with a view to forming an opinion on what such work has always and should ever express. The origins of the modern school of official architecture in France will be touched on, but the scope of the paper will not admit of any serious consideration of Paris; which may be the less missed as it is so well known. With London we shall have nothing to do; not because official art is there wanting, but because her official buildings are in a class by themselves, not belonging to the general schools of work inspired by the Grand Siecle in France.

St. Petersburg, Berlin and Vienna are our particular prey this morning, and after reviewing these we shall formulate some theories and derive some lessons      

What precisely is meant by official architecture may be best explained by a glance at the history of our age.

I hold most strongly that in general, rapidly traversed history is always dull; but it is essential to my effort to analyse what official architecture does and should express; to trace its earlier manifestations. I beg your patience while I say a few words on the official architecture of Rome, which was the link between the ancient art of Greece and the modern classicism initiated at the time of the Renaissance in Italy.—For it was from the Roman and not from the Greek remains that the Italian architecture of the XV and XVI centuries derived the traditions which have ever since remained the basis of the language of official art.

<person>M. Viollet le Duc </person>in those lectures, which in spite of the way that. archaeologic research has tended to upset his favorite theories, will always remain a source of immense inspiration to those of us who take the trouble to ponder over the whys and wherefors of our art, has aptly summed up the Roman position with regard to art, maintaining that the art of government of men was the one native and natural accomplishment, and that the Roman gladly borrowed his plastic art from those he conquered but used it then in a characteristically political way for the glorification of the Senatus Populusque Romanus and for the good of the conquered people.

The great combined groups of buildings set out in axial systems were the Roman contributions to our subject; and not only in Rome but in all the provinces it was the policy to erect official Halls of Justice, baths, theatres, temples and monuments.

Such, then, were the aims and the ideals of Roman official art

—art definitely fostered by a government for definite political purposes for the first time.

Christianity with its humble beginning was destined over and over again to manifest her inheritance of Roman ideals by great architectural enterprises which cannot be described as other than official.

* Paper read at the annual meeting of the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>by Prof. Percy E. Nobbs, of McGill University, Montreal.

Santa Sopha at Constantinople, finally dedicated by Justinian in A. D. 563, was the work of one of the last great builder Kings of the ancient order of things when war and building were the chief duties of Kingship

The building of the Gothic period is of an essentially different intention from the official work of the ancient and the modern world. It is in spirit spontaneous as opposed to being inspired. Cities and nations united to engage in great architectural enterprises it is true, but the political stimulus is absent. Even in the instruction of the Florentians in 1294 to Arnolf, the architect of the cathedral" to make a design with the most exalted and most prodigal magnificience in order that the industry and power of man may never create or undertake anything whatever more vast or more beautiful—the note of

 sacrifice to the glory of God is more clear than the note of civic pride, which is also, it must be conceded, present.

Leaving the Gothic Period as essentially non-official, the next  cklunada on our course is the erection of St. Peters at Rome. Founded by Pope Julius II in 1506 as a private mausoleum

proportionate to his sense of his own dignity, and completed in 1626 as the central church of christendom, this building expresses the close association of Christianity and Neo Paganism in its time. The Pope had become the true successor of the Roman experts and, as Symonds aptly says in his life of Michelanglo, "the new temple embodied an aspect of Latin Christianity which had very little indeed in common with the piety of the primitive church. St. Peters as we see it now represents the Majesty of Papal Rome. It is the visible symbol of that Schism between the Teutonic and the Latin branches of the Western church, which broke out soon after its foundation and became irreconcilable before the cross was placed upon its cupola.'

Besides St. Peters and the many palaces of the princes of the church, we have in the group of buildings in the capitol, a deliberate reminiscence of such great. schemes of official art as the Forum of Trajan.

The XVII and XVIII century official buildings of Paris, and even more, the arrangement of public places by the Kings architects, must be touched on (though I do not propose in any sense to review the official buildings of the Paris of to-day). These works constituted the models for all the European official architecture, even as the French official system of administration, as evolved in the Grand Siecle forms the model European government to this day.

We must now turn to the German Capital.

Berlin was a very unassuming business city till after the Franco-Prussian War, for it was with the milliards extracted as war indemnity from France that the Imperial government set about adorning its capital.

The Palace and the old Brandenburger Thor, at the enhance to the park, gave the cue to the city improvements commission and the great boulevard known as Unter den Linden connects the palace with the park.

A glance at this quarter of the city shows how active the authorities have been during the last 30 years ; for the " Prussian Diet " the " Reichstagsgebeude " or imperial parliament house, the museum and picture galicries and the Cathedral, are all modern as are also the University buildings and technical schools, which, under so paternal a government as that of the Hohensollerns, may well be classed as official.

These buildings need riot detain us long. They are all externally well built and ably planned. They all Jack to my mind the highest qualities of architecture. It is remarkable that the Teutonic temperament with all its intense sentimentality, extreme earnestness, and enormous vigour, fails so conspicuously in the arts. The essential coarseness of fibre in the German character permeates German art. The natural graces of the national character, the. kindliness, the sympathy and the culture seem strangely enough to fail to find expression in their art, and particularly in their official art, which is somehow always imbued with the bombastic swagger of the jingling spur and the mailed fist.

It may of course be personal idiosyncrasy on my part which prevents my appreciating German art. At least let me say that I do appreciate German kindness and German culture.

The intemperate swagger of German heraldic decoration has pervaded the Denkmaeler or monuments, with which a keen sighted government has adorned the city and advertised the virtues of the Imperial house it serves.

Opposite the palace is an equestrian statue of the grand old emperor William, backed by a colonnade and surrounded by

