<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

<article title=" DECORATIVE PAINTING " author="">DECORATIVE PAINTING.

This subject—carried over in continuation of last month's notice of the Annual Exhibition of the Ontario Society of Artists—has the special interest that there is likely to be some decorative wall painting done soon in the entrance halls of the Parliament Buildings in Toronto.

Any arrangement of form or colour is decorative, if it is only an arrangement; indeed there is some excuse for associating particularly with decoration a certain emptiness of idea, inasmuch as there is such a thing as decoration which consists in form and nothing else. For this reason no doubt the Ontario painters of decorative studies in landscape simplify their work as they do, excluding everything that may distract the eye from appreciation of the general arrangement of colour form which is the primary motive of the study.

It is this latter point—making decorative handling the equivalent of omission—that we should like to discuss with them. There is such a thing as leaving out because one is not able to put in and producing decorative pictures as a measure of prudence ; but that is not a phase of the matter that concerns us now. A chief example is in the work of a painter who has demonstrated both in easel work and a large way, many times, his capacity for decorative work of more than one kind, It is an idea adopted by choice, not a necessity of lack of skill ; and this article is a controversy rather than a criticism. The example in question was a pair of Canadian landscapes—the one farm land with barns in the middle distance the other a road retreating into the middle of the canvas, viewed from a bridge in the foreground, with houses on the left and a rail fence, trees etc. on the right. These paintings were framed heavily and simply in pine, stained brown, which showed them to be excellently adapted to fill large panels, over a mantel-piece or otherwise. On first sight, in taking a hasty look round the gallery to see what was best worth looking at, the writer was struck forcibly by these paintings and thought "at last the poet of everyday Canadian scene!" But a return to them brought dissatisfaction ; and this not that what was done was not good, but that there was not enough done to give content. From whatever point of view—distant or near—definition was incomplete. Something like this may he the appearance of landscape to the short sighted man; but we consider normal sight to be the standard, and the short sighted man himself supports us in that position to the extent of wearing glasses. Now on a clear, early summer day, such as these paintings seem to represent, anything that is seen in full daylight is seen distinctly; too distinctly it is said ; but if that is a characteristic of the atmosphere in Canada, a Canadian country road can only look like itself when its details are thus defined.

It is at this point in the argument that the camera usually gets some uncomplimentary mention, but it is quite out of place. There is no proposal for complete representation ; it is proposed only that so far as it goes representation should be distinct.

When a recent pair of Sunlight Soap posters were on the hoardings, we had an excellent representation of little girls making child's play of wash day with a lace curtain and a tub of water in a meadow. What went to make it up? Nothing but the figures, outlined and washed with local colour. No sky, no ground

nothing else but the tub and curtain. Accurate and expressive outline-drawing of the simplest kind told the whole story. I should not myself have noticed how little there was in it but for hearing a question asked-—- -why those children looked all right when they were standing on nothing.

If, in the lower walk of decorative art, it is possible to present a large range of idea by the selection of the poetic facts, and their definite expression, it cannot be the distinguishing mark of greater art to suggest vaguely and leave definiteness of idea to the mind of the beholder.

So far we have been speaking of the fantastic vagueness that would make nocturnes out of daylight and people a land of milky atmosphere with forms of two dimensions.

Perhaps the real nocturne—the whole family of twilight effects that exist in nature and should have pictorial existence as well—will he claimed by the decorator as peculiarly his own. Perhaps ; but not, one would say, in the field of serious effort.

If one thinks of all the great decorative painting one has seen, with a view to discovering in it what differentiates it from the picture: —the one quality that runs through all seems to be an avoidance of occasional or unusual effects of light, in favour of an academic lighting that attracts no attention to itself but serves merely to define the forms that are the subject matter of the composition. Even in pictures, when the theme is great, it is an impertinence to make the representation a vehicle for atmospheric effect. Therefore in decoration particularly, where, from Dutch tiles up, the principal concern is with form, and there are limits in other directions, all superabundance or dimness of light is discarded in favour of a clear, calm, almost shadowless illumination in which every form is distinctly seen.

	-	<article title=" BOOKS

" author="">BOOKS

CODE OF BUILDING LAWS. By <person>ALCIDE CHAUSSE</person>, ARCHITECT. PUBLISHED BY THE <firm>GUERTIN PRINTING Co</firm>., MONTREAL. PRICE $2.50.— As Chief Inspector of the Bureau of Building Inspection of Montreal, Mr. Chausse has given his chief attention to the Montreal Building Laws, which are clearly set forth in paragraphs under title headings, and these headings appear in the index so that the point conveyed by each paragraph may be easily looked up.

But the building laws of Montreal are not. the only laws which affect building matters in Montreal. There are Provincial regulations respecting public buildings and industrial establishments, which Mr. Chausse has extracted for his book ; and here he touches not. only architects and builders and building owners in Montreal but a general public, throughout the Province of Quebec, which is engaged in industrial pursuits.

There is a section called Extracts from the Code of Lower Canada which gives common law in building matters. An example will Show the kind of decision made:—"When the different storeys of a house belong to different proprietors, if their titles do not regulate the mode of repairing and building it must be done as follows: All the proprietors contribute to the main walls and the roof, each in proportion to the value of the storey which belongs to him; the proprietor of the first storey makes the stairs which lead to it; the proprietor of the second storey makes the stairs which lead from the first to his, and so on."

The book concludes with a dictionary of building terms and some tables and practical information useful for architects, builders and superintendents. Some of these are new or unusual; some, like the list of books

