<doctype type="text">4	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



them its administrators could borrow and go on with some considerable work. It would not be necessarily all expenditure. Some improvements make returns and, under good management, the power to use a considerable sum would sometimes produce results commensurate, from a financial standpoint only, with the expenditure involved.

Such management would have to be independent of the municipal election system. It should be a permanent commission, perpetuated by appointment

able to carry out a continuous policy and acquire skill from experience. Under these circumstances we could find men of standing who would be willing to serve as commisioners, For the work would be worth doing.





<article title=" BRITISH FIRE PREVENTION COMMITTEE TEST, A CEMENT CONCRETE FLOOR." author="">BRITISH FIRE PREVENTION COMMITTEE TEST, A CEMENT CONCRETE FLOOR.

This test was made to enable some decision to be made as to the peculiarities in behavior and the comparative reliability of aggregates for concrete floors intended to he fire-resisting-.

A brick testing hut was built, measuring 10 ft. 2 in. by ft. 4 in. internally. This was covered in at a height of 8 ft. 3 in. above the pavement of the hut with the floor construction which was to be tested.

The floor was divided into seven bays by six steel beams, measuring 6in. by 4½ in. and weighing 20 lb. per foot. The ends of the beams were built into the side walls of the hut, 1 in. clear space being left at the ends of each joist. Each joist was encased with coke breeze concrete, 9 9in. wide by 1034 in. deep, so as to give a minimum of 2 in. of concrete all round the joist.

The seven bays thus made each measuring 10 ft. 2 in. long by 2 ft. 7 in. wide between the concrete casing of the beams, were filled in by slabs of concrete 5 ½in. which were quite separate, resting on a 4½ in. set off all round the walls of the hut and on the concrete casing to the girders. The slabs were not fixed on thc girders ; and their edges were free all round from contact with the walls and each other, by a space equal to the thickness of the wood strips which enclosed them when being made.

The different concretes were made in the same manner. The material was turned both in its dry and wet condition, and the concrete to form each slab was laid on the centering in a rather wet state. 1. 2 gallons of



water were used for each cubic foot of concrete, approximately 20 per cent. of water by volume.

The cement used was the same for each slab, viz. Portland; a London make called "Ferrocrete"; ground very fine so that there was only a 14 per cent. residue on a sieve with 32,400 meshes to the square inch ; of great tensile strength, and expansion not exceeding 2 m.m. under the Chatelier test.

The sand when it was used was also the same for each case viz, clean pit sand.



The aggregates used and proportions of material for the seven bays were as follows

	Parts by

	volume.

	Blast furnace slag	3

I SLAG CONCRETE	Sand

	Cement

	Broken brick

II BROKEN BRICK CONCRETE	11 Sand	2

	  Cement



	GRANITE CONCRETE	 Broken granite	3

		 Sand



		 Cement

IV	BURNT BALLAST CONCRETE	Burnt ballast	5

 Cement

V Coke BREEZE CONCRETE	Coke breeze

	Cement	I

		Furnace clinkers	3

VI	CLINKER CONCRETE	Sand	2

		Cement	I

	                            Thames Ballast	3

VII	THAMES BALLAST

	CONCRETE - Sand	2

	Cement	I



When the work was completed the hut was covered with tarpaulins. The centering was removed 14 days after the slabs were formed. After five days, the coke breeze casing to the beams was rendered with plaster, 1/4 in. thick. After 9 days, each separate bay was loaded with bricks equal to a distributed load of 224 lb. per ft. super. A month after completion a coke burner was kept alight in the testing chamber for seven days. On the following day the covering was removed from the roof and the test was made.

The test consisted of the application of heat by means of gas for a period of three hours, reaching 900 Fahr, in the first minutes and continuing to rise during the rest of the time until, about the close of the test, a temperature of 1920 was reached at the hottest spot.

After the first ten minutes the plastering began to fall off the beams, and continued to fall in patches throughout the test., but nothing noticeable occurred to the beams. When, at the close of the test, water was applied for three minutes, more plaster was washed off the beams but nothing- further could be observed.

During the test it was seen from above that the edges of slabs Nos. I, VI and VII, where they could be seen in the space between their ends and the wall, were red hot.

On the next day the bricks forming the load were removed. Observations of the under side were made on that day and of the top two days later. The observations were as follows

BAY- No. I. SLAG CONCRETE.



SOFFIT. Practically flat. Slight cracks corresponding to those on top.

Top. Cracked across into about three equal parts, curved downwards about 1/4 in.

BAY No. II. BROKEN BRICK CONCRETE.



SOFFIT. Curved downwards 1/4 in. Slight cracks corresponding to those on top.

Top. Cracked across into four unequal parts. Very slight curve downwards.

BAY No. III. GRANITE CONCRETE.



SOFFIT. Curved downwards ½ in. About 1 in. washed off the surface in one part and the surface slightly washed off over the area struck by the water.

Top. Slab cracked across into four parts ; curved downwards about in.

BAY No. IV. BURNT BALLAST CONCRETE.



SOFFIT. Roughly curved downwards about 1/4in. About 3 in. in depth washed off the surface in one part.

Top. No cracks not curved.

Bay No. V. Coke BREEZE CONCRETE.



SOFFIT. Flat. About 1 in. washed off the surface all over where struck by the water.

Top. No cracks not curved.



Bay No. VI. CLINKER CONCRETE.

SOFFIT. Flat. Surface pitted in places about in.

