<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" STANDARD SANITARY MANUFACTURING COMPANY,

TO ERECT A PLANT IN THE EAST " author="">STANDARD SANITARY MANUFACTURING COMPANY, TO ERECT A PLANT IN THE EAST.

The interesting announcement is made that the <firm>Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company</firm>. Pittsburg, Pa., manufacturers of the celebrated "Standard" porcelain enameled baths and sanitary goods, will this year erect a large modern plant for the manufacture of these goods in the East. Land has been acquired at East Camden, N. J., directly across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, and a factory, designed upon the same elaborate scale as the great plants at Alegheny, Pa., New Brighton, Pa., and Louisville, Ky., will bc constructed. The new works will be completed this year and will employ in the various departments about 1,000 hands. The cost of thc plant will be approximately $500,000.

The most thorough and elaborate mechanical equipment will he installed in the new factory, in order to facilitate the various processes of manufacture, and produce goods of such noted quality as has long been indicated by the name "Standard" as well as to ensure the prompt execution of contracts. A full line will bc manufactured including the various types of bath tubs in all sizes, lavatories in the different designs and sizes, sinks and laundry trays, closet bowls and tanks, urinals, drinking fountains, wash sinks and other articles used in plumbing and sanitary installation

The erection of a factory in the East was found to be an imperative necessity. owing to the enormous trade which has developed by the company in the large cities of New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore and other centers. The company's export trade also has grown to such large dimentions that it was found by locating a plant near the seaboard, great savings could be effected in freights as well as raw materials, and deliveries could be made more promptly and satisfactorily. The new plant will therefore be a great convenience to the Eastern trade, as when the factory begins operations the goods can be secured quickly, and delays unavoidable in the case of long shipments will be obviated.

The company was the first concern in the world to successfully attempt the enameling of cast iron sanitary articles with a powder (known as the "Dry Process ") instead of applying the preparation in liquid form by the "wet process". Indeed the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company was the first concern in America to manufacture enameled baths and sanitary goods successfully at all, and prior to the advent of this company in the field. the public had no faith in the porcelain enameled bath and wash stand Other manufacturers had attempted to produce these goods, hut the enamel would crack and craze, the casting was rough and clumsy in appearance and invariably any enameled goods sent out would be returned. Along in the 70's the Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company began a series of experiments to learn the secret of the manufacture of perfect

porcelain enameled ware, and by persistent efforts, succeeded in devising means and methods of manufacture that have never been equaled

While the plant at East Camden will not of course he able to supply the company's eastern trade, the output, will relieve the other factories, and will enable a more satisfactory distribution of the products. So large a business has been developed in the Western States and on the Pacific Coast that at the present time a considerable proportion of the output of the three big factories is sent to that point.

<firm>Wettlaufer Brothers and Sons Stratford Ontario </firm>Manufacturers of pea harvesters

<firm>Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto </firm>Marble Mosaic floors

