<doctype type="text;ad">78	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" A NEW ARCHITECTS' ASSOCIATION " author="">A NEW ARCHITECTS' ASSOCIATION.

A call is shortly to be made for the formation of an Association of Architects and Structural Engineers in western Canada. It has long been felt necessary that such an association should be formed, and we understand that a large number of names have already been handed in of those desirous of becoming? chartered members.

'[he proposed name of the Association is the <assoc>Western Canada Architectural Association</assoc>. It will be composed of honorary members, active members and probationary members. The latter class has been made purposely to allow the draughtsmen to be enrolled as members of the Architectural Association, and should be a great help to them.



Owing to the present busy building season, and at the request of a number of the outside architects, the matter of organizing has been deferred until July, although the preliminary work is now well advanced, and the advent of the Association is absolutely certain.

The Association will likely procure a Dominion Charter and all architects, structural engineers, and draughtsmen from Port Arthur to the Pacific Coast will be eligible to membership. Those wishing to he placed on the charter list should send in their names to the secretary prostem: Western Canada Architectural Association, P. 0. Box 347, Winnipeg Man., or to P. 0. Box 189, Regina, Sask.



The Association will not interfere with or be in opposition to any local or provincial organization, but

will itself endeavor to form the membership into provincial and town branches.





Building Construction	or Structural Engineering as it is ususally styled has been developing so rapidly in recent years that

"specialists" are devoting their entire time to this work. Two decades ago the railway bridge engineer was called in to design the structural features of steel and masonry buildings. To-day the engineer whether called as consultant or designer must be more than a bridge expert. He must bring to his work a sympathy with the architects problem and he must also be able to enter into the spirit of the work before he can properly solve the structural problem involved therein. In other words he must have had sufficient experience in the practice of architecture to know the language of architects without the use of a key. Architects will be interested to learn that Mr. <person>William Fry Scott</person>, structural engineer, author of Structural Designers HandBook, graduate of the school of Practical Science, Toronto, member of the American Society for Testing Materials, member of the International Association for Testing Materials, after having gained experience of methods of construction adopted in the leading cities of the United States, has opened an office as a consulting engineer in Toronto. His card appears in another  column. 

<firm>Brantford Roofing Company Brantford Ontario</firm>

<firm>Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto </firm>Wrought iron fence

