<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	125

<article title=" THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF

MASTER PLUMBERS " author="">THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF

MASTER PLUMBERS. THE <assoc>NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF

MASTER PLUMBERS

</assoc>The National Association of Master Plumbers Steam, Gas and Hot Water Fitters, of Canada held its Seventh Annual Convention in Ottawa on August, 9th.



The following is the Presidents' Report, presented by Mr. <person>A. J. Hammond </person>the late President:

WINNIPEG, July 30th, 1906.



To the National Association of Master Plumbers, Steam, Gas, and Hot Water Fitters of Canada.



GENTLEMEN,—I take it as a pleasure to submit my report to the Eleventh Annual Convention of the National Association.

On looking through the work of the past year it gives me cause to be gratified for the estimable way in which the business of the Association has been carried through, and the most considerate help derived from the co-operation of the various officers of the Association.

It may interest the Association to know that I have received and replied to something like seventy letters during my term of office. It has always been my endeavor to reply to any queries submitted to me for approval and appertaining to the general interests of the Association.

I feel proud of the work that has been accomplished and I am sure the Association will agree with me when I say that our efforts have not been fruitless and that a large amount of good has resulted thereby. My personal views are that the complication in the trade goes to prove that organization is the only visible means to save us from the evils now existing and arising partly from the uninformed and from the misrepresentations reported in the press.

I am quite certain the day is not far distant when the Master Plumbers, one in all, will have to band together for the protection of their interests and the sooner we awaken up to these facts so much the better.

It can be clearly seen that the only way to avoid a repetition of the past events and to alleviate our burden, is to be more thorough in organization on a sound basis. This is the only remedy from which we can derive any satisfaction and it is our bounden duty to up-hold any measures put forth from any individual member that will further tend to strengthen the work which we have before us.

At the close of Convention last year in accord with the recommendation that sub-Executive be appointed in one city, Messrs. Ryan and Hughes were appointed to act in conjunction with Mr. <person>J. A. Gordon </person>as sub-executive for the current year.

One of the first matters undertaken was the printing of annual report, which was somewhat delayed on account of said report being lost through the mail and thereby necessitating another copy being written and these did not reach the Executive until the later part of December.

I would therefore recommend in future that when the minutes arc to be mailed to secretary the handling of these be left to someone resident in the city where the convention is being held, thereby ensuring prompt delivery to secretary and not left entirely to stenographers.

The usual grant was made to Mr. J. A. Gordon for previous year, also grants to Provincial vice-president, including Ontario V. P. which was passed by Executive.

Mr. J. A. Gordon and Mr. <person>P. Ogilvie </person>attended semi-annual Convention of Ontario at Toronto in October last and were well received. At this Convention a committee was appointed to meet a committee of the N. A. M. P. of U. S. A. to talk over certain mutual concessions, this same committee to report on all benefits to be derived therefrom. <person>Mr. Mahony</person> will most likely satisfy us on this point.

I am sure we were all sorry to hear of the late disaster at San Francisco, and hope that the M. P. of Canada made a hearty response to the request through the Journal for subscriptions towards the relief fund towards Master Plumbers there. A request was made for our Association to subscribe the sum of $50, and I anticipate this was forwarded in due course.

I am desirous of bringing before the members of this Convention a matter that has been somewhat prominent in my mind of late, namely, that of Incorporation. My opinion is that if our Association were incorporated we would not as individual members have the sole responsibility on our own shoulders and in case of any legal expenses being incurred at any future date they would be borne by the Association as a whole. I am inclined to think that it would place the Association on a stronger footing, and put us in a position to overcome any further obstacles that may threaten us. This I recommend to the Association for careful consideration and discussion.

I would also recommend that we prepare a Dominion Directory of members of the N.A.M.P., also a list of manufacturers and jobbers in accord—this list to be revised from time to time. This recommendation I am well aware was left in the hands of the in-coming executive last year but this remains in statu quo. This gives us further proof of the necessity of a permanent secretary which I regret to say we have up to the present been unable to procure, for what reason I need hardly explain.

During my term of office I have kept in touch with the various local associations within my reach and have thus in a sense, obtained a birds eye view of the work being done and consider-

The <firm>Sanitary Ideal Sanitary Company Limited Port Hope Ontario </firm>Porcelain Enamelled Cast Iron Baths

