<doctype type="text">98	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" The Toronto

Civic Investigation 

" author="">The Toronto

Civic Investigation 















































<article title=" Master Painters in

Convention

" author="">Master Painters in

Convention

ter of the place as a shopping centre, there will be a decided impetus given to the progress of the more architectonic shop-front.





The County Judge's investigation into the conduct of building operations for the city of Toronto

has resulted in a report implicating certain contractors and architects and an alderman in conspiracy to defraud the city. The Mayor at once forwarded a copy of this finding to the County Crown Attorney instructing him to proceed against the persons named in the judgment as being guilty of corruption, and trials arc at present in progress.

Much as we may regret the occurrence of such operations, that this inevitable recognition by the law should be prompt and decisive is the best thing that can happen now to prevent the further growth of this evil.





The Convention of the <assoc>Master Painters' and decorators' Association of Canada </assoc>is being held

as we go to press, in Windsor Ont., on July 24th. Besides a Question Drawer there are seven practical papers announced as follows -~

1.	Paper, "The Master Painter as a Business Man," by <person>George Metcalf</person>, of Hamilton.

2.	"The Apprenticeship Question," by <person>J. M. Fair-cloth</person>, Toronto.'

3.	Paper, ''Blistering and Chalking of Paint; Their Causes and Remedy,' by <person>T. McMahon</person>, of Kingston.

4.	Paper, "The Master Painter as an Educator of Original Decoration," by <person>H. R. Reynolds</person>, of Guelph.

5 Lead tests by members of Hamilton Association.

6.	Paper, "The Paint Shop, Its Plant, Its Cost and How to Care for It," by <person>Robert Simpson</person>, of  Sarnia.

7.	Paper, ''The Local Association, Its Advantages to the Individual Master Painter," by <person>James Phinnemore, </person>Toronto.

We have seen the papers read at a previous Convention. They were good. Two of them were reprinted in this journal. There are other authors this time, and it will be observed that they come, for seven papers, from six different towns. There is no local monopoly of the production. The whole country seems to share the talent or energy or esprit de corps

whatever it is. What it is is a question which might well form the one and only question in a questiondrawer for the Architectural Associations, for whose Conventions, the production of papers is always a difficulty. Architects are busy men and their want of time is genuine. But what about the painters? They are not our leisure class. And time is so adaptable; the time required for what one does not want to do, compared with that required for what one does, is as ten to one. It is evidently a great saver of time to do things with a will. But that conclusion does not help us. It seems only to strengthen the evidence that architects do not prepare papers willingly, and the question is still—why? Yet our lady clients are right; architecture is 'such an interesting profession'. It is also full of difficulties. One would think that every man in it would want to talk to other members of the

<article title=" Stanford White " author="">Stanford White.

profession about something and hold them to his subject. Here then is his chance to have the talk all his own way without anyone having the right to call him a bore. He will be much clearer in his ideas for putting them together in a paper and will learn a good deal when he reads it.





The criticisms of Stanford White's work, that have been published, explain the adaptations of old work which were so frequent in the work of McKim, Mead and White. Mr. White was responsible for them. He is said by his friends to have been rather a painter than a architect. This account of him suggests a process of mind that would account for the disappointing character of much of his work which one cannot but nevertheless admire for its beauty. A painter's work however original is based on studies from nature. His virtue consists in truth to nature. His effects must all be found somewhere in nature. lie merely points out the beauties of nature to the unobservant. And as the scenery of the world is the painter's study book, so was the world's architecture a study book for Stanford White. The architectural process does not appear to have occupied his mind so much as the results. In other words he had, as is said, a painter's mind, rather than an architect's. A comparative estimate of painters and architects in the scale of merit would be difficult ; they are not in the same category when there is a distinction drawn between them. But when the painter carries his painter's mind into thc other 'profession, inferior rank is inevitable. To associate, as has been done, Stanford White with <person>H. H. Richardson</person>, as workmen of the same class, is absurd. It seems true, however, that White has had the greater influence. The influence of Richardson is in fact yet to come. His work is there, and the study of it by those are ripe for it will not produce—has not produced—Richardsonian Romanesque ; but it will produce architecture. In the mean time it is very likely that a strong influence in the direction of this ripening has been that of Stanford White. His adaptations of the good things of other lands and generations—copies that have lost nothing from his handling

—have done much to improve the taste of his day, and to give credit to scholarship among a people who might easily have turned to excesses of crudeness in the pursuit of another idea. To see the gulph that was between the architecture of New York and the architecture of Italy or Spain leaped over all at once, and beauties both foreign and ancient planted down unchanged and looking very much at home, was, for the public, more than an education, it was an impulse. The American Romanesque and Americanism generally was about then given up in favour of tradition-including their own tradition of the Colonial style, which was also a favorite motive with McKim, Mead and White and there is no doubt that Stanford White's pictorial exercises with bricks and mortar (and marble) is rightly looked upon as a principal if not the principal cause of this diversion of aim, and he may he classed as one of the educators of the nation -an influence in the progress of architecture in America towards that original excellence which he did not aim at himself.

