<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	133



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

PROPOSED COTTAGE FOR <person>DR. ADAM</person>, AT WINDERMERE, B.C.



PROFESSOR <person>PERCY E. NOBBS</person>, A.R.I.B. Architect



MONTREAL.



The summer house with plenty of bedrooms and simple living quarters is a sort of thing much required in this country. When placed, as is usual, upon the water, so that the morning bath is taken out of doors, there is no occassion for anything but the structure, and this is built only for shelter, not for warmth. But there is a certain amount of indoors life. A wood fire on a chilly evening is one of the pleasures of the summer cottage. There is nearly always a good deal of hospitality exercised and the owner of a good summer house is identified with it, in the minds of his friends, almost more than with his less individual abode in town The summer house in fact, for most of us, is the nearest thing we have to a family seat, which is the only thing that can be properly called a home. It is worth while therefore to spend a little more thought and care upon it than is usually done ; so as to give it some distinctiveness and beauty. The invitation to design, though the materials are simple, requires some power of design to make a proper response, for it is not school architecture and the details are nothing to depend upon. It is a matter of form within very close limitations.

Now, if we examine Professor Nobb's cottage from this point of view, we see how much has been made of it without any exaggeration. The bedrooms are numerous, and the central living room, about 17 feet by 34, and two storeys high, makes a sufficient space for the general indoors life, with a small study off it for the host's private life or for the studious to find a place of retirement. The service department touches the room at one corner. There is plenty of character here and one can imagine what a help to the pleasure of our agreeable summer life such a country house would be.

In some respects it is not so well suited to our less moderate summer in the east than to the rather English climate of British Columbia. We should require the kitchen to extend in a wing, cut off from the house by an open passage or verandah ; and the large verandah on the south would require a covering. The two storey hall gives a fine opportunity to do this without darkening the hall, as an abundance of light would still come in from above. There would be some reduction of the upper window space if a verandah roof were inserted ; but it would probably be a flat deck-roof, making a balcony on top reached from the gallery, and the windows could be kept large, with very handsome effect, by carrying them up into the roof, with dormer tops, and eaves projecting well so as to keep out the vertical rays of the summer sun on the south. Venetian shutters in addition could he easily managed from the balcony.



<building>OAK	BAY HOTEL, VICTORIA</building>, B. C., C. P. R. OFFICES, VICTORIA, B. C., <person>M. F. M. RATTENBURY</person>, ARCHITECT ; VICTORIA.



There is a certain distinctness of type about British Columbia building that suggests the influence of the English architects who have settled there, and the English type of the climate. The conjunction of tower and gable in the Oak Bay Hotel is one of the privileges in composition which flourish in English work

but are denied to us who have to look out for snow. The large gabled window in the C. P. R. Offices building is also reminiscent of England and it is it, more than any thing else, that gives a sort of transitional character to the whole building. Its scale belongs to the many gabled type of building which is not our type. With our need for simple roofs, and simple, well-separated gables, we cannot very well have, as they do in England, a large building with a small scale. Our scale grows naturally with the building.



RESIDENCE FOR MR. <person>ROBERT WIGHTMAN </person>B. A., CORNER of POPLAR PLAINS ROAD & BALMORAL STREET, TORONTO.



MESSRS <firm>GORDON & HELLIWELL</firm>, ARCHITECTS,



 TORONTO.



Here is a house of definite character. If the antithesis of the classical is the romantic, this is romantic design. An upper storey for the most part wooden, combined with the roof in such a manner that there is no particular place where the vertical ought to come, separates the upper floors from the ground floor so that the upper floor may have different dimensions from the lower and there is no particular boundary line for the lower floor; it may break out into any bay or projection that a pliable roof, with three pitches visible, can be stretched to cover.



The freedom in plan, however, extends no further than to the small irregularities that give variety of shape to individual rooms. The ''lay-out" is strictly according to the rules of correct aspect for the living and service rooms, viz -dining room, south and east; drawing room, south and west ; kitchen, north and east ; and study, anywhere that is left. Inside of these four walls of correct aspect, variety is welcome.



SCENES IN VENICE ; FROM PHOTOGRAPHS BY MR. <person>J. P.



HODGINS</person>, TORONTO.



The CORTILE SAN Gregorio formerly the cloister of an Abbey, is of the Gothic period, contemporaneous with the Ducal Palace. It will be observed that the tipper storey rests on wooden beams, with templates cut in a manner suggestive of the east, with which her commerce brought Venice so much into communication. The columns are of marble, with capitals of great beauty. The little cloister is one of the most charming spots in Venice.



The view of the CHURCH OF THE SALUTE is taken from the canal of the Giudecca, in the rear, and is interesting from the combination with the trees of the garden behind ---a rarety in Venice. It is not, however, as good a view of the church, in itself, as that which one usually sees, from the grand canal in front. The views from the grand canal show with more certainty the alignment of the domes, one behind the other, and that the dome behind is smaller than that in front.



The Toronto Builders' Exchange have removed from the quarters which they occupied in the Yonge Street Arcade, and are temporarily located in the Sons of England building, corner of Berti and Richmond streets.



There are old abandoned quarries which it no longer pays to work for building or rubble stone that would yield a handsome profit if a crusher were installed and the product sold to the worker in concrete In all large cities the demand for this crushed stone is ever on the increase. In many places there is a positive dearth of sand or other material for concrete work and slag and ashes have been utilized. This, however, is not nearly so satisfactory as crushed stone and is usually used only as a last resort. Sand is getting higher in price as it becomes scarcer. The cost of hauling from great distances places the crushed stone on an equal footing.

