<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	185



technical schools, and Mr. Weir cited the fact that one United States correspondence school had twenty thousand Canadians on its books. It was a national shame and disgrace that there was not sufficient public spirit among the wealthier class of the country to provide, within the borders of the Dominion, sufficient technical education for the young people.

In 1898 there were attending the classes of the <assoc>Council of Arts and Manufactures</assoc>, in Montreal, Quebec and Sorel, 821 pupils. Last year, the numbers had grown to 2,221 or 300 per cent. increase. Parents were continually feeling the lack of opportunities for the technical education of their children. Universities like Laval and McGill might well follow the example set by the little University of Dalhousie, in Nova Scotia, which, feeling the urgent need of technical education, had established schools in five different towns of that province, a great deal of the instruction being given free by the professors and alumni of Dalhousie.

 He had recently visited the classes of the Council of Arts and Manufactures at the Monument National, and had been grieved to see the number of young men and women amidst such surroundings and in an impure atmosphere seeking to obtain knowledge. Such a condition of affairs was a disgrace to the citizens of Montreal. Why was not the example, set

work, but he thought it was a mistake for them to limit the number of apprentices and make it difficult to acquire a knowledge of the various trades.

The chairman's speech was along similar lines, but broadening out to include other questions of interest to the building trades, such as accidents to workmen, builders' liabilities in construction, etc. He also advocates the formation of an employment register, and more comodious premises for the fast-growing Exchange.

Then followed a bright, interesting programme of

MR. <person>N T. GAGNON</person>, PAST PRESIDENT 





speeches, music etc., that lasted, with merriment and cheer, away on into the 'wee sma' hours.'

Only after repeated and urgent requests, was Mr. <person>Lauer</person>, the secretary, and incidentally, the musical accompanist of the evening, induced to speak to the guests. His reception was evidence of the recognition of the worth of his services.

Mr Lauer commented on the fact that hostile criticism had been directed at the Exchange, because of these social gatherings, but he pointed out, that, as









Mr R. <person>GEORGE HOOD</person>, PRESIDENT 





by such cities as New York, Philadelphia and Springfield, followed ? In these cities institutions for the technical training of the young men had been built out of the pockets of the people. It was the exception in the United States for any such institutions to be subsidized by the state. Toronto also had a technical institution, built by the puplic-spirited citizens, with the aid of the corporation. Why should Montreal be behind hand in this direction ? The members of the Manufacturers' Association, out of their wealth, should take a practical interest in this question. A high tribute was paid to the munificence of Sir <person>William Macdonald</person> in the establishing of such institutions as the one at St. Anne's.

The little country of Saxony, with a population of four millions, head 231 technical schools, with an attendance of 29,000 pupils, There were barely a dozen such schools throughout the length and breadth of Canada. Was Canada to be subordinate to the trained artisans of Europe?

"Don't forever be looking to the Government," was Mr. Weir's final advice. " Do something for yourselves. Poor as we are—for reason that you will not give us enough taxes—we will help liberally any steps taken towards the establishment of technical schools throughout this province of ours."

Mr. Hood, the chairman, in the course of his remarks, stated that the labor unions were doing good

MR. <person>J. H. LAUER</person>, SECRETARY.



a result of these affairs, business men met their competitors on a friendly footing, and learned to respect one another. These gatherings, as well as the casual meetings at their Exchange Rooms, give opportunities for a greater volume of and improvement in business.

It may interest our readers to learn that whereas in May, 1905, the Exchange numbered only 59 members, that it has now over 230 of an increase, due largely to the energetic administration of Mr. Lauer.

Already the Exchange needs larger quarters, and there is even now some talk of erecting a building suitable for their fast growing needs.

