<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	13



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

A short time ago a lady whose record for artistic accomplishment is somewhat beyond the reach of material missiles expressed the opinion when in Canada that this country lags behind in the finer works of the human mind. The reply she met with must have convinced her that there was more truth in her criticism than she had fancied. Certain of us have, however, higher aspirations. Sir <person>Gilbert Parker </person>has been urging us to remember that progress in material things will profit us little if we lose the ''soul of things that matter". lie suggests the foundation of a National Art Gallery and say's that if Canada does not within ten years possess such an institution he would believe that the people lacked that spirit of imagination without which real progress is impossible. Recently we have a suggestion from one of our own aldermen that, as the inclusion of St. Henry, St. Cunigond and Villeray in the city is likely to lead to a state of congestion in the offices of the City hall, a new and improved City Hall should be built on the Champ de Mars and that the present City Hall Building should be utilized as a museum and art gallery. Such a suggestion aims well but fails in two respects. The makeshift way of arriving at a museum and art gallery, apparently as a very passable way of utilizing a discarded building, is not the most likely to lead to the best results and further we cannot afford to lose the open space provided by the Champ de Mars. There is property on Craig street directly or almost directly opposite this open space which is crying out to be improved and which would form an excellent site for a public building. If it be objected that Craig street is not a fine enough locality for such a building it need only be pointed out that it is the widest of the down-town streets and is certain to become the finest. The recent widening of its continuation in St. Antoine St. will prove a great stimulus to its improvement, as it now forms a wide and convenient highway connecting the railway stations at the west end with that at the east end of the city. The recent purchase of a large block at the corner of Craig street and St. Urban street by the <firm>Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company </firm>is likely to he followed, one may expect, by the erection of another substantial building, and a few more such will soon change the somewhat poverty stricken appearance of this part of the thoroughfare.

As regards the Museum and Art Gallery itself, we should prefer to see the subject approached from the point of view lately suggested by Professor <person>Nobbs</person>, that is, as an exhibition of skilled work having for its purpose the raising of the artistic quality of Canadian industrial products. Such a collection is an urgent necessity and would be a living influence and inspiration in our midst. An Art Collection made merely with a view to increasing the City's magnificence would be apt to sit like a gilded and neglected sarcophagus amongst our thousands bent on earning their bread by the sweat of their brows and with little time to spare for what has no obvious bearing on the work of their hands.

In the December number of the Canadian Architect and Builder attention was called to the general air of untidiness caused by the overhead wire nuisance in Toronto and if any Montreal councilmen are anxious to distinguish themselves as reformers of the aspect of the City they could not do better than begin by dealing

severely with the companies which, by virtue of powers said to be conferred on them by Legislature, gaily make unsightly wildernesses of our streets.

According to the Building Inspector's report the total value of buildings for which permits were granted during the year 1905 amounted to $5,590,698, which is in excess of previous years. True to the reputation of the city for conservatism the character of most of the work shows no radical departure from customary usage. From a purely architectural point of view conservatism is oftener than not one of the highest virtues and in regard to the choice of materials one cannot be too glad to see the continued employment of and the grey limestone of 1\Iontreal and the district between Montreal and Quebec. It is true that the refractory nature of this stone does not lend itself readily to the sumptuous quality of carving that pretentious office building is supposed to require, and hence for such buildings Indiana and other sandstones from the United States are coming more into vogue, as in the Sovereign Bank Building in St. James Street, the uncompleted <building>Lindsay Building</building> in St. Catherine Street, the dressings of the building being erected for Messrs. Joyce in Phillips Square, and the recently finished <building>Strathcona Hall</building> in Sherbrooke Street. In the basement stage of these and many other buildings one sees more and more grey granite employed from the Stanstead and Mempremagog district. The buildings of Mount Royal Club and of the <building>McGill Students Union</building>, both in Sherbrooke Street, are faithful to the Montreal limestone and both have sufficient breadth of surface to exhibit well the unsurpassable delicacy of tone of this great stone.

In brickwork the facing of the <building>Joyce Building</building>, already referred to, in Phillips Square, affords a very agreeable innovation in a pale reddish brown brick made by the Montreal brick syndicate, and in the McGill College Avenue elevation of the Strathcona Hall as well as in the new Hampton Court Apartment Houses in Mountain Street an extra long yellow brick of fair appearance, building six courses to the foot, has been employed. The <firm>Laprairie Brick Co</firm>., which has lately extended its manufacturing premises, is promising a larger output and asking counsel of architects regarding the desirability of having on the market bricks of specially' large and flat proportions.

Some experiments if only in a smell way are being made in concrete building the purpose being generally the cheap construction of small dwellings. Some houses of this class have recently been built, out St. Denis Street, of concrete or artificial stone blocks. Another has been constructed with one foot walls of concrete thrown into boarded casings in situ. At the new Agricultural College Buildings, being erected at St.. Anne's, the walls of the basement storey, carrying internal walls over, are made thus one foot and a half thick, but the external walls are of' stone. The facing brick of these buildings are from Milton West. A novel experiment has made its appearance in the start of a new building apparently' a dwelling or set of flats in Dorchester Street at the corner of St. Matthew Street. The basement, which is all that has been erected so far, is made of re-enforced concrete hollow walls. The face of the wall consists of L shaped slabs about 10 feet by 2 ½ feet and about 3 inches thick with the return end about 11 inches long. These are re-enforced with round bars the ends of which

