<doctype type="text;ad">46	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



out being itself subject to motion, and so prevents strain and creeping.

The mains are twelve inch pipe. Lateral branches decrease according to the amount of service required of them.

Where a building is already equipped with steam radiators, but a few minor changes are required. Hot water radiators can be adapted to the service; or, if the customer wishes to continue heating by hot water, steam is supplied to a special form of water heater which is installed. It is simply, in effect, the use of steam instead of fuel to heat the water in the boiler. The condensation from the steam is conveyed to a cast iron economizing coil, or form of hot water radiator, in the basement. This coil is placed in a tin lined enclosure, together with a steam trap. A register in the ground floor delivers the heat from the coil to the room above. After all available heat has been utilized, the water flows to the meter, which records the condensation in pounds and the customer pays a price per thousand pounds of water. Every pound of water registered by the meter shows a given number of British thermal units delivered in dry steam.

Steam heated buildings have their use of steam rated in the same way, by meter. It is obviously fairer than a flat rate; for not only are equal spaces different in exposure, glass area, and excellence of construction, but the habits of the occupants are different. People have various tastes in heat and some buildings are not heated all the time. Under the meter system, heat not used is saved. Churches, schools, lodge-rooms, stores,

can be charged exactly according to their use of heat, and will use it exactly as they wish to be charged.

<article title=" THE BUILDERS' EXCHANGE OF MONTREAL " author="">THE BUILDERS' EXCHANGE OF MONTREAL. THE <assoc>BUILDERS' EXCHANGE OF MONTREAL</assoc>

The Annual Report of the Builders' Exchange of Montreal is a document of considerable interest. We extract a portion which has passages referring to matters of general interest to the building trades and others.

The one source of " danger ahead in the activities of the coming year lies in the ever-recurring labor problem. It labor leaders would be well-advised as much in the interests of labor as of capital, they would hesitate in forcing wasteful and pernicious strife upon the building trades' employers. With legitimate trade-unionism we have no quarrel the spurious article we shall contest in the future as in the past. When unions assume an attitude of despotism by their latest methods of endeavoring

to restrict output to refuse apprentices to interfere with internal control of shops and factories by walking delegates to boycott particular employers by black-listing their goods and to induce sympathetic strikes in trades with which they have no quarrel, we must in self-defence co-operate by being thoroughly prepared and organized. "Whoever pays the piper has the right to call for he tune,' and employers must fearlessly assert their liberty to employ competent workers irrespective of being union or non-union men. Contractors do not begrudge just wages to competent workers, and wages can always be satisfactorily adjusted by mutual conference ; but arbitration with irresponsible bodies without liability for breach of contract, is mere waste of time.

This leads us to the subject of technical education—a worthy field for practical philanthropy, following the lead given by Sir <person>Wm. Macdonald </person>in other branches. The crying need of all trades to-day is for competent mechanics. The unions, whose pride it should have been to admit only such to full membership, have exerted their influence steadily in the opposite direction in the persistent effort to establish an artificial uniformity both in output and wages—a glaring injustice to the capable mechanic as well as to the employer. All incentive to self-improvement is thus taken away from the worker.

The practical abolition of the apprenticeship system and the

The <firm>Standard Ideal Sanitary Company, Limited </firm>Porcelain Enamelled cast iron baths Port Hope Ontario