<doctype type="text">88	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



efficiency of the best ceiling reflection is very much below that produced by reflectors that give a predeterminable distribution. The benefits accruing from the skilful use of accurately made accessories will be illustrated in the succeeding articles of this series.

The above remarks have touched only one form of electric lighting, but like considerations obtain in the use of any illuminant. It is necessary to know the quality and pressure of gas in the mains and to insure known conditions at the outlets. Inverted gas burners have entered the field, with many imperfections it is true, but offering a wealth of possibilities when properly used. Various forms of gasoline vapor and acetylene lighting must be considered in their place. Vacuum tube lighting and Nernst lamps have their peculiar characteristics and efficiencies. The luminous arc has appeared as a formidable competitor with the enclosed arc for some purposes only. Is the architect to take a contractor's advice in such a field as this, or, on the other hand, to protect himself by putting in an abundance of light sources ? Is he really alive to the fact that the efficiency of lighting equipment must be measured in its operation. ?

In order that succeeding examples may be perfectly understood a few remarks on the physiological side of illumination will not he out of place. It is very commonly considered that incandescent, lamps are hard on the eyes, and probably no other illuminant has suffered so bad a reputation in this respect. But neither has any other form of lamp been so easy to hang in front of the eyes and in positions impossible for a gas or oil lamp. The bare filament of a 6 candle power incandescent lamp has an intrinsic brilliancy of some 50 candle power per square centimeter, and should never be allowed in the line of direct vision. Not the least among thc economies of good lighting, is that obtained by keeping the eye of the observer sensitive to the actual illumination through the avoidance of eye strain, and this is said without reference to the tremendous human economy in eyesight itself.

If the foregoing shall have created any impression that economy in lighting must be obtained at a sacrifice of decorative requirements, this should be corrected. True art may at least conform to essential mechanical requirements, and the limitations imposed by these are not so narrow as might be supposed. In view of this the eminence of some mistakes is remarkable. I will quote the words of Dr. Louis Bell before the Illuminating Engineering Society

One does not have far to go to see some horrible examples of inartistic and thoroughly bad illumination. Sometimes this is noticed and remedied; sometimes it is not. The delivery room in the public library in the city of Boston in its early stages was perhaps the must shining example of the malapplication of light that I have seen. In that room the mural paintings are sunk into deep panels, the reason for which I have been unable to discover. That room was originally lighted by two gigantic chandeliers which came down one-third of the way to the floor, and were dotted with incandescents, entirely defeating any object of lighting up the mural paintings and in fact preventing anybody from seeing them That was finally remedied, but even when it was done, it was not done well. If you will go there to-night you

'will find that the lights intended to illuminate the paintings are not so directed that they do it to the best advantage, for the very' simple reason that the scheme of decoration which had been adopted for the room, utterly irrespective of the possibility of having paintings there which anybody might want to see, was such that it did not seem wise to put the lights where they would do any particular good. It is that sort of thing which ought to be given a great deal of careful attention. We want to know not only how to get good light for general illumination, but how to use it for particular illumination, as in a case of that kind, with the best benefits possible."

It is true that many artistic features have been ''designed", which seem in every way beautiful until their utter uselessness as a support for light sources is understood. But these things are passing. Some day the fixture designer will judge the beauty of his appliance by its purpose, to the same extent that an Architect feels intuitively as well as intelligently the relation between the shape of a beautiful arch or column and its ability to support a load.



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES " author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

The special committee of the <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects </assoc>which has been appointed to deal with civic improvements has prepared a sketch plan embodying a number of suggestions the general aims of which are, first, a better communication for heavy traffic between the up-town and down-town sections of the city and, second, the formation of a number of fine avenues forming uninterrupted circuits and connecting the principal parks and open spaces. This plan is a tentative scheme prepared with a view to inviting a more thorough and general discussion and consideration of the question. When the details of the projects which meet with most acceptance and are felt to be most urgent have been discussed, the Civic authorities will be invited to take action. It is the purpose of the Committee to increase its influence by adding to its members, as associate members, such influential citizens as they can find desirous of furthering their aims. With a view to extending interest in the subject a meeting was held, on Friday, 1st of June, at the Beaver Hall Square rooms, at which <person>Prof. Nobbs </person>presided. and to which were invited members of the Board of Trade and a number of other influential citizens. Amongst those present were Messrs<person>. H. V. Meredith</person>, <person>John Dougall</person>, <person>L. J. A. Surveyer</person>, <person>H. Godin</person>, <person>J. 0. Labrecque</person> arid <person>Fortunat Bourboneire</person>, Professor <person>Cox</person> and ex-alderman <person>Robertson</person>. In its present form the most expensive item of the scheme is the suggested formation of two diagonal roads from about Victoria Square to St. Catharine Street in such a manner that the one going to the right hand and the other to the left they could form a means of arriving at the up-town section without the necessity of climbing the very abrupt and difficult Beaver Hall Hill. It is claimed that such roads could he formed almost entirely through districts consisting of the poorest sort of property, and that the enhanced value they would give to the property traversed would

speedly repay their construction. A good prima facie case can be made out for the scheme, and, if any one thinks he can make out a better, now is the time for him to make his suggestions.

