<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

DOCKLANDS, INGATESTONE, ESSEX.



Most villages in the agricultural districts of England have a house or two of the larger size closely connected with them. Often the entrance is from the main street; but the house is likely to be retired in grounds which according to our standard would be called large. Of this class is the home before us which is worth examining as an example of the great simplicity that is usually found in the design of such a house.

The south side of the house looks upon the lawn and flower borders; the north side looks towards the village





































street from which the house is approached by a drive of some length overshadowed by trees. The principal rooms give upon the lawn side, and on the ground floor open directly upon the gravel walk. The service department is in a wing a little retired, (towards the front), and looking upon the kitchen garden.

An interesting feature in most English houses of this type is a broad gravel walk, somewhere in the garden, protected on the north by a brick wall, so as to make a warm place in winter, where elderly or contemplative people, can "secure a walk' in the fine part of the day. There is much green in an English garden in winter, and, in such a garden as this, even in the northern counties, there would be more than a dozen kinds of flowers blooming in February.



THE <building>AGED WOMEN S HOME, TORONTO</building>. MESSRS<firm>. LANGLEY



AND LANGLEY</firm>, ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.



This institution is now twenty-three years old, and has grown in that time from the use of a few rooms, set apart in another institution for the accommodation of aged women, to the point that a new building, containing accommodation for a hundred, is found to be necessary. The purpose of the institution is to provide comfortable and suitable accommodation, with a room that they can call their own, for aged women whose relatives, though willing to support them, are not able to accommodate them comfortably. The promoters of this excellent work have been properly praised in the newspapers, in the reports of the ceremony of laying the foundation stone on the 12th of this month. It remains for this journal to mention the name of the architect, and to direct attention to the satisfactory character of his work. The design was selected from several sent in competition. The theme—an aggregation of similar small parts— naturally tends to simplicity. The one emphatic point, the entrance, will get more emphasis in perspective than in the elevation before us.

CASA DE LAS CONCHAS, SALAMANCA.



The shells (conchas) which enrich the facade of this building are the heraldic badge of the owner. The reja, or wrought iron screen, protecting the lower window is interesting. The fantastic character of the

























courtyard design has the merit of harmony—harmony with variety.

The jointing of the lower arches, shown in the cut, is reproduced from a sketch.



HOUSES OF SMALL COST IN A COUNTRY TOWN. NO. VI.



DESIGN SUBMITTED BY 1,500.



This drawing, the last of those selected from the

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER competition of last February, has been kept back hitherto because in the zeal for secrecy as to the names of the competitors the name of this competitor has been lost, and efforts to discover it have been unavailing. Perhaps the publication of the drawing may make it known to us.

The design was selected for publication chiefly on account of the combination of style and economy in the exterior design. In other words it is a good cottage design.

The plan could be made comfortable if the partition between the living room and hall was run right across the house, with a door opposite to the stair, and the fireplace turned to open in the living room. As the west end is in close connection with the kitchen it will be, (as shown), the dining end of the living room, where the fireplace will be less convenient than at the other end. This incompatibility between the best position of the fireplace and its distance from the kitchen is apparently to be bridged only by the erection of two chimneys, if the plan is to remain otherwise as drawn. There ought to be a furnace flue included in the kitchen chimney so that this chimney would remain as it is shown in the upper floor. A single flue for the fireplace would not occupy much room in the closets of the bedrooms in front. As to the cost—one can only say that it would be worth while.



<article title=" THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

" author="">THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF

ARCHITECTS.

The Annual Convention of this Association will be held on January 15th next at Ottawa. In addition to papers that are being arranged for, it is proposed to make visits to the park improvements, the buildings on Parliament Hill and the site of the proposed buildings on Major's Hill. This is the first time the Association has met outside of Toronto, where the greater number of architects live. There have often been proposals made by members living in other towns that the place for holding the annual meeting should vary. The first proposals came from an Ottawa member. It is an excellent idea, if well carried out, but will involve some activity upon the part of members residing in the place of meeting, so that the convention may be well attended and the discussions warm. It is expected that the papers will maintain the standard of interest of recent meetings.

