<doctype type="text">44	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



bend easily. Make a form by tacking blocks on the floor, wetting the pieces with warm water, and then as it is bent around the form follow closely with two strips 3/8 X 1-1 2 or 2 inches, nailing them as you go. These strips should he on the edge next the floor, and when nailed all around turn the circle over and nail strips on the other edge the same way. When finished the circle will retain its shape, the face will show no sign of kerfs and will be stronger than if done the other way. I would suggest to readers of the paper and especially the correspondent inquiring, that the plan be tried. I could send you several other methods























but the ones shown are among the best. With regard to books, methods of kerfing can be found in nearly all books on carpentry. If the "kerfing" is to be made for work on a "rake" the saw kerfs should be sawn on the same rake or bevel as the work itself, and then the kerfed piece will bend properly around the raking circle. This method is often employed in building up circular strings for spiral stairs.



From "Draftsman" :-—Will you kindly answer the following question and oblige an "old Reader". Would a small reception room look well in white enamel with white stairway and treads, but has a cherry-rail? About how much would it cost to have the upper sash of the windows cut into diamond lights? Should the hangings and other furnishings be in accord with the detail finish of the house? Would putting up fluted columns between hail and parlor spoil a plan for mission furniture in hall ?

ANS. To the first we may say that your reception room would look very pretty if properly treated in the manner you mention. The cost of putting in diamond lights would prohably be about one dollar per pane. We do not consider that it is absolutely necessary that furnishings must be in accord with the detail finish of the woodwork of the house. Of course, if mission columns are used, it will be necessary to make them exceedingly plain; and straight and void of fluting. Indeed, it would be better to have them made square as that shape would be more in keeping with mission style.



From "Decorator" :—Will you please describe the kind and number of tools required for gilding and furnishing and oblige.

Ans.—We give herewith a number of tools employed by the gilder.

Paint brushes, of various sizes, are useful for laying on the size and for fastening the gold-leaf. The latter is of varions thicknesses and tints, and is termed ''single", "double" and ''thirds", being sold in books of 25 leaves, 3¼-in. X 314.

A gilder's knife is long and thin with a very sharp

and smooth edge, and is required for cutting up the leaves as they lie on the pad.

The cushion or pad, is a piece of flat wood, about 8-in. x 6-in. on which the leaves are cut to the size wanted. It is covered with several thicknesses of flannel overlaid with chamois leather and partially surrounded by a screen of parchment to ward off draughts and prevent the gold leaves flying. It is held by the insertion of the thumb in a 10 pp beneath.

The tip is a broad, thin brush made by glueing camel's hair between two pieces of cardboard, 3½-in. wide and 2-in, long, and with it the ragged portions of the leaves, etc., are softly smoothed away. It is also used for removing the gold-leaf from the cushion to the part to be gilded.

A bob is a ball of soft chamois leather stuffed with cotton wool, for pressing the leaves down.

Burnishers, of agate or flint, are likewise employed and pieces of clean cotton wool, wet and dry.

Note We have a number of querries, which, owing to their late arrival, are held over until next month.



<article title=""PAUL'S CROSS."" author=""> "PAUL'S CROSS."

In the north-eastern corner of the churchyard of St. Paul's Cathedral, close to the wall of the church, is the site of Paul's Cross, an open-air pulpit from which, from very early times in the history of London, sermons were preached and proclamations made. In several Continental churches—notably the Cathedral of Perugia

--such external tribunes still remain, generally against the church wall, with access by a door from the inside. But Paul's Cross, the London mediaeval and later example, was a detached structure. An illustration in the issue of the Daily Graphic, of January 27th, shows it as it was in its later days, with its little room, its projecting pulpit and enclosing wall, within which the privileged—sometimes Royalty itself—sat, and its open surrounding space where the citizens, seated on benches or standing about, listened to words of wisdom- or otherwise.



<article title=" PREPARING A CANVAS COVERED PORCH FLOOR.

" author="">PREPARING A CANVAS COVERED PORCH FLOOR.

Answering a correspondent of that journal who asks how to prepare a new second-storey porch floor to be covered with canvas and then painted, a recent issue of the Painter's Magazine has this to say: ''The floor should be oiled first and then coated with a very stout pure lead and oil paint, in which the stretched canvas is laid and nailed down with galvanized iron tacks. The canvas is then given a good coat of pure lead and linseed oil paint, on which a finishing coat of good floor paint should be applied."



Over 100,000 men employed in the building trades in the city of New York have agreed to fixed conditions with contractors regarding wages etc., for a term of three years, the agreement taking effect on January 1st this year.

The splitting of stones, rocks, and the swelling up of moist ground during frost arc caused by the fact that water penetrates into the pores and there becomes frozen ; in short, the great expansion of water on freezing is the most active and powerful agent of disintegration on the earth's surface.

The effect of retempering mortar of Portland cement and crushed quartzite has been investigated in the laboratory of the United States Office of Public Roads. There were five briquettes in each set of specimens, one set of neat cement and the others of 1 1, 2and 3 mortar. The briquettes were made in three series, A, of mortar put in the molds immediately after mixing; B, of mortar allowed to take an initial set, and then broken up and made into briquettes; C, of mortar allowed to take its final set, and then broken up and made into briquettes. Series B showed practically the same or higher strength than

Series	A except in the	3 mortar, where the falling off averaged

Si pounds. Series C showed a falling off ranging from 5 pounds

with	2 mortar to 117	pounds with neat briquettes. Enough

water was used in tempering to give normal consistency to the mortar.

