<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



structed of the body of the animal—a disgusting piece of realism; the body of a swan hollowed out to hold flowers; all these are evidence of a debased taste and one looks in vain for a remedy.

The remedy is to be found in a patient education of the public taste, but at the moment of mention a difficulty is foreseen. Manufacturers do not claim to be educators. They have large capital invested and must earn dividends. They have also a large number of people dependent upon them and the pay-roll must be met. The general opinion is that plain or undecorated wares will not sell, and by the man in the street the demand for ornamentation is looked upon as evidence of the appreciation of art.

The burden rests, then, upon the few. They must preach and illustrate in spite of deaf ears and blind eyes. Well it is for them that they live in an atmosphere of truth, for the world will not afford them breath.

It is a consolation to know that truth has always been compelled to fight error—that in the end, somewhere, somehow, truth must prevail. Happy is the man who is not compelled, by the insistent demand for money, to pander an evil taste. But upon him all the more heavily rests the great responsibility. "Woe is me," cried the great apostle, "if I preach not the gospel," and something of this impelling force must be felt by every one who knows the truth.—Brick.





<article title=" TESTING MATERIALS BY SAND BLAST " author="">TESTING MATERIALS BY SAND BLAST.

Abrasion tests of structural materials, whether conducted by grinding machines or by tumblers, do not lead to reliable conclusions say The Builder. In the former class of apparatus, the detached particles are

apt to increase the grinding effect or to reduce it by filling up the interstices of the material, and the grinding medium itself becomes worn after a time so that its effect diminishes, In the latter class of apparatus the interstices of the material becomes filled up and so lead to inaccurate results. A new method by which such difficulties and errors attending the use of existing apparatus can be avoided, is afforded by a modified form of the sand blast apparatus as applied in the Prussian Royal Testing Laboratory at Gross-Lichterfelde. Tests there conducted on various kinds of building stone, road metal, timber, linoleum, and other floor-covering materials, show that exposure to the sand blast for the short period of two minutes is sufficient to furnish a reliable indication of the structure and relative resistance of any material. The method is specially suitable for tests of building materials intended to be placed in position where they will be exposed to abrasive action.



The sale of the immense limestone deposit at George's River has been concluded whereby the transfer of an area two miles long and half a mile wide, and estimated to contain two hundred million tons of limestone, has been made by Rev. <person>M. A. McPherson</person>, of Little Bras d'Or, N.S., to the <firm>Dominion Iron and Steel Company</firm>. The steel company had the areas bonded for some time past, and last winter used about two thousand tons of the limestone at their plant at Sydney, N.S.

<firm>Chamberlin Metal Weather Strip Company Limited Toronto 

</firm><firm>Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto </firm>Wrought Iron Fences

