<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



quicker than spruce or pine as it is much softer and not so strong, hut I presume under paint would be better.



(1)	I might say that I have never handled any balsam shingles and do not think that they would give satisfaction, as balsam is a wood that, when exposed to the weather as a shingle is, is bound to warp and crack.

(z)	Yes. Lath have been manufactured from these woods for some time and they give good satisfaction. While not equal to white pine, they are a very good substitute when pine is scarce.

(3)	I know of house in Leamington that was sided with spruce and balsam thirteen years ago and painted at that time. This house was examined a few weeks ago and found to he still in good shape. The siding had not rotted whatever and all it needed was some more paint to make it look as good as ever.



(1)	Assuming that balsam to which you refer is indentical with our fir, we reply, yes.

(2)	Spruce and balsam make good lath ; we have never known poplar to be cut into lath, but, as it is a tough, strong wood when dry, we assume it would make good lath.

(3)	Assuming, as above, that balsam is identical with our fir, yes. The fiber of fir or balsam is not as strong as spruce, but is yet of fair strength and when dry is a good wearing wood. As to the warning qualities of balsam as a shingle, we do not imagine they are equal in quality to spruce or pine, as it is

lighter wood and we assume would wear out by exposure more quickly.



(1)	Balsam does not make a good shingle, it has not the lasting qualities.

(2)	Spruce and poplar make a fairly good lath. Balsam not so

(3)	Balsam makes very good weather boarding.



(1)	Balsam does not in my opinion make a good shingle. The wood is shaky and does not stand the weather.

(z)	Spruce, balsam and poplar make fairly good lath. How-

ever, 1 would prefer the spruce to the balsam and poplar, and would not care to use either of the latter in a house were I owner of it.

(3)	No shaky lumber stands well to the weather, and for that reason balsam does not make a good weather board. It also warps very easily, which would make it unfit for that use.



(1)	We have not had experience with balsam, either as a shingle or as weather boarding. It does not appeal to us as being a satisfactory wood for either purpose.

(2)	In regard to spruce lath, we may say that the Boston and New York architects specify that spruce lath must be used in preference to other lath. They are in general use throughout the United States. We have never used poplar or balsam lath.



(1)	We have never known balsam shingles to he used and cannot say how they will last, but our opinion is that they will rot quickly.

(2)	Balsam makes very good lath and good weather boarding if it is kept painted. In some sections the spruce is harder than others. Soft spruce makes good lath but the hard spruce is not so good. We have not had any experience with poplar lath, but we believe good poplar will make good lath.



Mr. <person>Carnegie </person>told a story of a Presbyterian minister who had been bold enough to introduce the hated innovation of stained glass. He was showing it in triumph to one of his parishioners, and asked her how she liked it.

"Ay, it is handsome," said she, sadly, "but I prefer the gless just as God made it."



"We hear some strange things in this office sometimes,' said the superintendent of sewers.

"One of our inspectors went one day to inspect an old house in the country. There was a good deal of smell about the old place. The inspector walked about sniffing.

"'Dear me,' he said, 'what an unpleasant odor. Can it be the drains?'

The owner of the house shook his head positively.

"It can't be the drains," he said, 'because there ain't none.

<firm>Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company Pittsburgh </firm>Porcelain Enamelled Sink

