<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



members requiring such help may avail themselves of the list at any time.

I may also say that the Secretary has corresponded with the Dominion Minister of Public Works relative to the Competition for new Departmental Buildings at Ottawa. There is also I believe to he a competition for the Government Buildings at Regina with whom the Secretary has also corresponded. The members of the Association will be duly notified if any information is received regarding these competitions.

The above then is a brief outline of what the Association has been able to accomplish since its formation, and although a great deal cannot be claimed to have been accomplished, still a good start has been effected, and we can look forward with confidence to the future, when great things may be done—and all will admit that there is a great deal to do.

In the first place active men must be elected to the Council and every effort made to bring in all the charter members possible, the time for whose admission will expire on the 25th inst.

Then a room, or rooms, should be secured as a home for the Association where members could gather daily, and a commencement should also be made towards the formation of a Library. This would doubtless be another important step, which together with arranging for lectures, essays, etc., on different subjects at the regular monthly meetings when possible, would pave the way for still greater expansion and work in the near future, the final accomplishment of which will, without doubt, benefit, as is the intention not only the Architects themselves, but the entire community. I might say in speaking of this subject that the Secretary has received a reply from Mr. <person>E. C. White </person>in which he states that he will be pleased to favour the Association with a lecture on the Illumination of Buildings, illustrated with special apparatus, at the February meeting. The Secretary has also communicated with Mr. <person>Cambridge, </person>City Electrician, asking him to give a talk on wiring of buildings at a future meeting.

It was suggested at the last Council meeting that the annual meeting be preceded by a formal dinner, but the prevailing feeling was opposed to this, and a 6.30 dinner followed by the business of the annual meeting was decided on, so as to finish at an early hour.

However, I thing it would be in the interests of the Association if during the holidays a formal dinner should be arranged for, followed by a smoker during which we might be favoured with musical and literary selections from artists of at least local reputation, who would give us at least an extra pleasant hour or so.

It would not be right to close this address without stating that all the meetings of the Council have been held in the office of Messrs. Darling & Pearson—who kindly placed it at our disposal—and that the Association is on this account gratefully indebted to that firm.

Allow me to say in closing, that although retiring from the Presidency of the Association, I shall not cease to take an active interest in its progress, and feel certain that we shall not have long to wait before the results will fully justify us for our early efforts in its formation.



<article title=" CONVENTION OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS AT OTTAWA " author="">CONVENTION OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION

OF ARCHITECTS AT OTTAWA.

If sufficient members go down from Toronto it will be possible to procure a private Pullman car. For this reason those who intend to go had better send their names to the Registrar, not later than the 12th of January.



<article title=" TORONTO'S WATER SUPPLY " author="">TORONTO'S WATER SUPPLY.

Two or three weeks ago the conduit pipe, through which the water is brought across the Bay from Lake Ontario, was damaged; since that time the water has not been fit to drink. For a time the city was dependent on the Reservoir. One day the Reservoir suddenly became exhausted, and the residents north of Bloor Street were entirely without water for nearly a whole day. Such a condition of things is altogether discreditable to a city of the importance of Toronto or indeed to any city, and, furthermore, is a menace to the property and health of the citizens. In view of the rapid increase of population in the northern part of the city, there is urgent need for a second reservoir of ample dimensions to supply this district.

<firm>Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto </firm>Artistic Fire Places