<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	43



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION " author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[ Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From "Inquirer" :—Will you kindly explain how to build a cheap driving shed about i6 X 30 feet and oblige.

Ans.—Our correspondent is not very clear as to the kind of driving shed he wants. A simple driving shed is an easy matter to construct as it only requires a back and the two ends; as shown in Fig. 1 which gives an end section. These three sides may be "sided" or





















they may be boarded "up and down" or they may be rough boards and sided, or rough-cast. The posts may be round poles, or may be squared timber 6" x 6" and about 10 feet from centre to centre. The plates may be 6-in. x 6-in, or 6-in. x 8-in, and rafters 2-in. x

8-in. The roof may be rough boarded and shingled or a tar roof may be put on. There should be sills or ends and back but the front posts should be on stone foundations sunk below the surface of the ground. If a better shed is wanted, having room over head for hay, it may be built as shown in Fig. 2 which in this case butts against a barn or stable.



From "Finisher" :—I am finishing a room that was "finished" in dark oak, a number of years ago, and I have a number of defects to remedy and some new work to put in and I would like to know how to make the new work look like the old, which has evidently



























been fumigated. How can I fumigate this work to look like the old?

Ans.—Articles of oak are given an appearance of age or enriched in colour by shutting them up for a time in an air-tight cupboard or box, on the bottom of which have been placed dishes of liquor ammonia; '2-pt. is generally sufficient for a box 9-ft. long, 6-ft. high and 3-ft. 6-in, wide. It is a good plan to have a few squares of glass inserted, through which the action of the fumes can be watched. A well made packing case will do, with strong brown paper pasted

over the joints. This process will give shades varying from light olive to deep brown. Its chief advantage is that it does not raise the grain. To test whether any kind of wood can be darkened by fumigation, take a piece of freshly planed up one side, take the stopper out of the ammonia bottle, and lay the wood over the mouth. The vapor of course, will be strong, and if the wood can be darkened, it will very soon show a patch of altered colour. A small bit of wood will do, anything large enough to cover the bottle's mouth. On a large scale you can try by pouring some of the ammonia into a cup, and covering the top in a similar way. For fumigation to be effective, it is, of course, necessary for the woodwork to be perfectly free from grease or marks of handling. Should a case large enough to hold the wood not be procurable, a small spare-room may be made to serve the purpose if the precaution be taken to paste paper over any openings, such as the fireplace. Fumigated oak is generally finished by wax polishing, but there is no reason beyond custom why it may not be French-polished or varnished. Some kinds of oak are not susceptible to ammonia vapor. It is not always convenient to adopt fumigation, but a like result can be gained by wiping over with a solution of hichromate of potash, common soda, or lime-water.



From "Young Workman" :—Some time ago you had a reply to a correspondent on "Kerfing" but the method described did not seem to apply to all cases. Would you kindly describe a method that would be applicable to all cases, if such is possible and oblige?

ANS.—A reliable method by which a board may be kerfed to follow any circle, or segment of a circle, is explained by sketch. Take a lath. A, Fig. 3, equal in























width to the thickness of board to be bent. Gauge the lath from one edge, leaving same veneer as on the board, mark the radius, a b, of the circle on the lath and run in saw kerf down to the veneer line. Fasten the lath down and pull the other end over until the saw kerf is closed, which gives the spacing for kerf. Care to be taken in using the same saw.

The next method is somewhat similar. Referring to Fig. 4 take a piece of stuff the same thickness, and cut a single kerf. Place the piece on edge with the kerf at the centre of the circle. Depress one end until the kerf is closed as indicated by the dotted lines. The distance that the piece is moved on the circumference of the circle will be the distance to be used between kerfs. This rule will work on any size circle and any thickness of board. In Fig. of the sketches the piece is kerfed from the back instead of the face. As these kerfs will not close, but open wider and are not seen, the only rule necessary in spacing is that they be sufficiently near together to allow the board to

