<doctype type="text">12	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The open cases between are for the different sized bottles and jars. The height of the shelves should not he less than the dimensions shown, and where possible should be somewhat in excess of those dimensions. In the lower part of the case may be closets for storing small casks of liquors, jugs, bottles, etc. The drawers are used for drugs. The above arrangement permits

boxes, and utensils, so as to bring together the things in greatest demand.

The front of the prescription case should be glazed with ground glass in the usual manner. The desk for copying prescriptions and writing labels should he placed in front of a window. On one side there should he a little closet for prescription books, and on the



































FIG. 6.

END AND SIDE ELEVATION OF PRESCRIPTION DESK.



the proprietor to hide such goods as are likely to injure the appearance of the cases.

Fig-. shows the side elevation and Fig. 6 the rear elevation of the prescription case. The counter is of more than usual width, and has a desk at one end; two scales, one for coarse and the other for fine weighing, with a space for a row of mortars between, and a shelf























































FIG. 7.—JOINTS IN BRICKWORK.





for different sized graduaters, all in easy reach. The drugs which are most used are kept in the prescription case, and as the bottles are usually small, the shelves and the spaces between them are quite narrow. The space under the prescription counter is carefully divided into closets and drawers for empty bottles, pots,

other a closet for pills or tablets, which should be alphabetically arranged in tin boxes open at the top, and which should slide in on the shelves. The front of these boxes should he higher than the sides, to give space for the names of the different makes. Label drawers should he in this case.

Arrangement	for pasting should be as follows Tinned copper paste holders should he set in hardwood boards which slide in the counters above the label drawers. The labels are laid directly on the hoards, and the paste applied becomes so absorbent after being washed and scraped several times a week, that a dry place may always be found on which to place a label

Much more could be said on this subject but equally as much must be dependent on the judgment of both builder and proprietor.



From ''Bricklayer" :—Please illustrate and describe e the various joints used in brickwork and masonry?

ANS.—The following which is taken- largely from ''Mitchells' Building Construction" covers the ground of Bricklayer's queries.

1 Weather Struck Joints. This is a very good

·joint, as the upper edge of the mortar is projected, and its inclination serves to throw off the water from the joint. Its appearance is also very good. See Fig. 7.

2. This type of struck joint should never be allowed as it lets the water lodge on the ledge formed and in cold climate, if the water freezes, t will chip the bricks and thus destroy the edge.

3. Keyed Joint. —It is not much used, though it improves the appearance of the joint by making it more distinct. It is made with a jointing tool with a curved edge.

4. Fat Joint Jointed.—The only defect this joint has is to make the mortar more dense.

~.	Recessed Joint. —This joint is very pleasing to the eve, forming a deep shadow, although it should not be used in severe climate for the same reason as that given for the struck joint No. 2.

6-7. Keyed joints are sometimes made in this from when a wall is to be rendered.

used

8 Mason's V Joint.—This is the joint mostly by masons.



9. Flat or flush joints are formed by the mason as the work progresses, the mortar being scraped off flush with the wall.

