<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

<building>BANK OF TORONTO; BRANCH ON YONGE STREET, TORONTO</building>.



MR. <person>E. j. LENNOX</person>, ARCHITECT, TORONTO.



The corner of Queen and Yonge streets, which was not long ago above the business belt of Toronto has now, since the establishment of the City Hall in that neighbourhood and the growth of the department stores which have clustered there, become a conspicuous business centre. This is the second branch bank, with a substantial character of design, that has been built near that corner during the last year.

The building shown in our illustration has now reached the pediment. It is constructed of cut stone throughout of the light colour, (Indiana limestone), which alone seems appropriate to a classic design.

As we shall doubtless publish a photographic view, later on, it will be interesting to our readers to have this elevation with which to compare the perspective effect, showing the dome in retreat and the facade terminating with the acroteria of the attic.

The proportion of parts, measurable upon the elevation, will he found to exceed somewhat the classical proportion in weight.



RECTORY OF THE <building>CHURCH OF THE HOLY TRINITY,

	WINNIPEG</building>. MESSRS.	<firm>DARLING, PEARSON AND



OVER</firm>, ARCHITECTS, WINNIPEG.



The obvious excellence of this house requires no comment. It is a good example of an exterior arising from the plan, and producing a true architectural effect by material and arrangement only. It should he observed that material is not stinted in the chimney, and much of the effect is due to its mass—rising full size to the top. The success of this chimney does not however constitute a recipe for chimney design. It suits the particular case of the square-edged, squaretopped fire-place bay. If we are to extract a moral from it, the moral might he that the success of simplicity lies in the perception of character in a design and a feeling for harmony with it, in all details



THE <building>FEDERAL LIFE BUILDING, HAMILTON, ONT</building>., MESSRS.



<firm>FINLEY AND SPENCE</firm>, ARCHITECTS, MONTREAL.



We have already published, in our number for May, the architects' perspective drawing of this building.



Our present illustrations, from the photographic records of the Canadian White Company who are doing the work, show the progress of about two months ; from the completion of the steel frame to the completion— or near completion- of the exterior casing, accompanied, of course, by interior work of different kinds.



HOUSES OF SMALL COST FOR A COUNTRY TOWN -NO. IV



DESIGN BY MR. <person>W. L. SOMERVILLE</person>, TORONTO.



The point of doubtful applicability in this design is the style. It has not a native look, and would not be well carried out by native workmen proceeding according to their usual methods. But the plan is in the main good —decidedly good. The point in which it would be the better for change the excess of openings

---—is precisely that which will disturb the exterior effect as now designed. So we may treat the plan and leave the elevation to come out altered accordingly. It would be well, however, to make this one definite effort at its composition—that the front and back gables be brought down to a position of subordination below the main ridge. The simplest way to do this is

to raise the ridge. The bedrooms would thus acquire another foot or so of head-room for which they would be the better, and the additional cost would be small. But the alcove window might also he reduced both in height and width, and this gable would come down in height accordingly.

In other respects the windows of the upper floor are satisfactorily planned both for outside effect and inside comfort. That each bedroom has two windows, with different aspects, is an excellent thing for air in winter as well as in summer.

On the ground floor, however, just half the number of sashes would be about right. We can drop them out and raise our roof out of the saving.

Two sashes on the east wall of the living-room and one on the south would be more comfortable to live with, and would give some much needed wall space to that room— for which end the door to the kitchen might he closed up too. One sash on the south wall and the glass door is all the dining room needs. The hail and staircase, (a very nice arrangement), have evidently an open-work screen between and do not need such copious light on each side of it. The effect would probably he most interesting with most light on the staircase side, and this might come from a good sized window on the landing over the kitchen entry. A small hall window also, chiefly to fulfil a decorative function, would he necessary.

All these alterations would work well in elevation and the result would be a very good house to fit our problem.





<article title=" ILLUMINATION OF A RESIDENCE " author="White, Ernest C.">ILLUMINATION OF A RESIDENCE.

By ERNEST C. WHITE, M. E.



The application of scientific or engineering principles to house lighting, when practiced at all, is commonly confined to the selection of more or less efficient light sources and accessories after their location has been permanently determined. The locating of outlets by the rules of symmetry along, is properly subject to ridicule as a means towards efficient illumination of the home. In many causes this locating is left to some more or less experienced, but irresponsible workman 

The design selected for description is that of illumination by electric light of a residence 54 X 63 ft., three stories and basement, and costing about $30,000. It may be said in passing that the same principles have been applied to the design of lighting for many houses costing only $5,000 with equal economy and effect limitations of space will not permit the publication of the complete lay-out and schedule, so it will be best to select the illumination for a small section of the first floor for more complete analysis and description, and to indicate in general the equipment for the balance of the house together with the reasons for its adoption.



Fig. 1. is a corner of the first floor plan showing the reception and dining room, each of which is entered from a large main hall in the center of the house. An extract from the schedule including the items pertaining to the lights shown in this plan, is given below. Some of the sketches referred to in the schedule are reproduced in Fig. 2. The purpose of these sketches is to indicate the essential dimensions and general character of fixtures, as well as the directions in which the sockets should point to give the best results. They

*Engineering of Illumination, <building>Aikins Building, Winnipeg</building>.

