<doctype type="text">168	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



temporarily before the delivery of present shades. This objection should he obviated when the chandeliers are installed, as the bracket lights will he less trying in view of the greater average illumination, although doubtless the present clear bulbs will eventually be replaced by frosted bulbs of a shape more in keeping with the design of the shades. Only one serious criticism can be made of this lighting, viz: that the reading tables which are located near the windows along

























the sides of the rotunda receive no illumination worth mentioning. When the ceiling lights are installed the total capacity of the lights will be about 1.2 watts per sq. ft. of floor space. This is not a sufficient allowance for very effective illumination with a 20 ft. ceiling.

The main dining room is 108 x 50 ft. This is lighted by three chandeliers of the design shown in Fig. 2,

























the central one having 24-6 c,p. frosted lamps, and each of the others 16 lamps of the same capacity. There are also twelve brackets as shown in Fig. 3 each having 4-6 c.p. frosted lamps. The general effect is a very pleasing ground work of mild illumination, which is entirely sufficient when table candelabras are used. Floor receptacles are provided at frequent intervals.

in the smaller lanterns which are open at the bottom. The use of prismatic shades over these lamps would also greatly increase the general illumination of the room without destroying the artistic effect, as the shades would be entirely concealed, but would prevent the present very high degree of absorption.

In the bar, wrought iron brackets, as illustrated in





















Figs. 6 and 7, are used to support antlers wired for S to 10 lamps each. There are also sixteen bracket lanterns supported on four columns as illustrated in Fig. 8. The general lighting is quite sufficient for all purposes, although the use of 16 c.p. clear lamps on four of the antlers is not quite in harmony with the very artistic surroundings.

On the first floor an excellent example of modern































illumination may he found in the drawing room, which is 64 x 50 ft., the prevailing decoration being old gold with walnut furniture. There are five 7-light ceiling fixtures of carved walnut, as shown in sketch, Fig. 9. The shades used are of yellow art glass with bare 16 c.p. lamps. It must again be suggested that the use of half frosted lamps with small reflectors fitting over

























and a great many such candelabras are used, so that much can be said in praise of the general effect.

In the cafe, which is 68 x 45 ft. arid opens into both the main dining room and the rotunda, a very different form of fixture is used. There are eight chandeliers and twelve brackets of the design shown in Figs. 4 and 5, these being of wrought iron with leaded glass lanters. The effect is good from a decorative standpoint, the only crudity being in the use of clear, instead of half frosted lamps

the lamp and concealed within the art glass shade would add refinement to the scheme, and at the same time increase the general illumination of the room. In addition to the ceiling fixtures there are eight 3light brackets, of general design as shown in Fig. 10. The 8 c.p. lamps used on these brackets are completely

