<doctype type="text">50	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



The International

Secretary.

protection. This means or should mean a difference of plane, making the steel frame protection a veritable framing for the fitting. Building is not thus made more difficult but rather easier. As to the strain on the designer, universal experience goes to show that designing is hardest when one is on the wrong tack, and unquestionably this is the right tack for steel frame design.



At the end of 1905 a notification was sent to the granite manufacturers of Toronto by the local

union ordering that all granite cutting in Toronto must be done by union men. The <firm>Mclntosh-Gullett Company </firm>declined to obey this order. its men were called out on strike and were replaced by non-union men. Mr. <person>J. McIntosh</person>, the president of the McIntosh-Gullett Company, is manager of the Stanstead Granite Company at Beebe Plain, Quebec. In this capacity he was notified that, if he did not settle the Toronto strike the Stanstead employees would be called out. He replied to the following effect :—(a) that he did not control the Toronto concern and was not in a position promise for it ; (b) that, as manager of the Stanstead Company, he could and would let work it had in hand for the Toronto Company stand until the Toronto strike was settled ; (c) that the Stanstead Company had a contract with the union that did not expire until 1908. He even sent the secretary of the Stanstead Company to the secretary of the International Union with the proof that the two companies, with the exception of one or two shareholders who were interested in both, were independent concerns. The international secretary was unmoved the threatened strike was "the best weapon they had and they intended using it." And they did ; the Stanstead men were ordered out.

The Montreal Gazette, from which we get our facts, asks pertinently in what respect this united action of the Stanstead and Toronto unions differs from the plumbers' combine in Toronto that was so severely treated by the law. The Toronto plumbers combined, according to their contention, merely for purpose of giving a good standing to the plumbing business and to plumbing work. Incidentally they got high profits. Incidentally also, (to take a very broad view), the combination of the Stanstead and Toronto unions extorts from a Toronto firm certain conditions of employment held to be beneficial to the Toronto union. To do so involves the violation of a contract and the disablement of the Stanstead Company for fulfilling contracts which it has undertaken and for which it may be held liable. The Montreal Gazette excuses the inaction of the legal authorities in this case on the ground that " the union is, legally, a mere wraith upon which no man may place his hand." How to prove the facts is a question, when " the real centre, the mainspring of the act is a foreigner, an alien, outside of the jurisdiction of the Canadian courts." This foreigner supplies the funds which maintain the strikers in their position, legal or illegal. Invested Canadian capital is at his mercy; a kind of mercy which tempers justice on the wrong side, introducing into this country the new doctrine that contracts are not binding if inconvenient.

The situation is not tolerable. It is time the unions

The Toronto Art

Museum

ceased to be " a wraith " and became incorporated. Then we might get our fellow citizens to respect our (and their) laws as much as the mandate of a foreign potentate, for their funds would be answerable in fines and damages for breaches of law and contract.



An Art Museum for Toronto is at last in sight. A committee of gentlemen has been at work for

some years, creating interest in the project and getting subscriptions; and it is announced now that a building will he available soon for the collections which they hope to acquire. Membership to the Museum is to be of four classes—Benefactors, Founders, Life and Annual members. Benefactors are donors of $5,000 and upwards; Founders are donors of $1,000 These will have their names inscribed on the walls of the Art Museum. The payment of $250 gives Life membership. The Annual membership fee will be $10 a year for laymen and $5 a year for Art students and members of any recognized Art body. A member of any class will be entitled to admission without charge, for himself and a family of five, to the museum buildings and all art exhibitions held therein.

The first public effort of the Museum is an exhibition of pictures by painters of the Glasgow School, which have been procured by the Provisional Council of the Museum in conjunction with the <assoc>Ontario Society of Artists</assoc>. This exhibition is now going on. The pictures came to Toronto from the <building>Albright Art Museum of Buffalo</building>, where they were exhibited for sometime, having been procured by Mr. <person>Charles M. Kurtz</person>, Director of the Albright Museum, for exhibition there and in other galleries in the United States.

The exhibition is one of great interest. The Glasgow School has been so called from a temperamental similarity in the work of the painters that is quite marked in spite of differences of aim and education. The one point the artists have had in common as an educational influence has been the opportunity of study in one of the finest galleries in Europe; into which cat-ne, during their period of youthful effort, a regular stream of works by <person>Delacroix</person>, <person>Corot</person>, <person>Monticelli</person>, <person>Daubigny</person>, <person>Rousseau</person>, <person>Diaz</person> and the Marises; loaned by wealthy Glasgow merchants who, having apparently that same sympathy with French art which is expressed in Scotch architecture, bought chiefly works of the Romantic School which had then reached recognition in France. Thc gathering of artists, upon the arrival at the gallery of a new picture by one of these artists, was described by Professor Mayor, of the University of Toronto, chairman of the joint committee of arrangements for this exhibition, in his address in opening the exhibition. Professor Mayor, who is well known as an experienced Art critic, passed his own youth in Glasgow and was at that time intimate with the Glasgow painters; so that he spoke from personal knowledge.

'[he inference in favor of the establishment of an Art Museum is obvious; and we recommend our Toronto readers to take this opportunity, of seeing a really good exhibition of pictures, that they may taste the enjoyment and advantage of it, and see for themselves whether membership in the Toronto Art Museum is not a thing to be desired.

