<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



does his duty with care and skill. A good background or first coat, is a necessity for work of this kind, and it is suggested that cement mortar be used for the first coat. Any, or all the tools required to do this work should be obtainable at any first-class hardware store in the country.



From "Superintendent."—My work calls me to figure the cubical contents of thousands of cars annually, and 1 would like to know if you have a book of some kind with tables whereby I could lessen my work. Length of cars would be 27-0 to 40-0, width S-o to 9-6 and height 2-0 to 3-6. If so, kindly state particulars and price?

Ans.—Any good work on mensuration should give good rules for obtaining the cubic contents of the cars mentioned. You will find first "The Canadian Contractor's Handbook and Estimator," a very useful book in matters of this kind, also "Hudson's Modern Estimator," in which rules are given for cubing work of any kind. From these books, a table could easily be computed that would serve the purposes of our correspondent. These book may be obtained from the office prepaid for $1.50 each.



From Novice.—Will you kindly show by diagrams how window frames and sashes are made with circular heads outside, and square ones inside, also how the sashes are made with regular circular tops or heads?

Ans.—It would take much more space than we can afford to describe fully all you ask for. However1 we will give a short description, also show a few diagrams, that will no doubt be of use to you. Referring to the diagrams we have:

Semicircular-headed Sashes and Frames. 1—The appearance given by means of sash, an ordinary frame being used with linings shown at Fig. 2 and 3. Fig. 2—Outside top lining for ditto. Fig. 4—Ordinary sash frame modified to give outside appearance of semicircular top; upper sash has semicircular top. Fig. 5—Connection of bent head and top rail—A, section; B, elevation; C, plan. Fig-. 6—Elevation of inner surface of pulley style. Fig. 7—Plan of sash frame. Fig. 8—Sash for semicircularing headed frame. Fig. 9—Outside of arch: Elevation showing back of pulley style. Fig. 10-- Elevation of arch with parts of construction exposed. Fig. 11

—Part of parting. Fig. 12—Part of lining.

Then: (1) An ordinary frame with suitable outer lining. A sash frame consists of a sill, often made of oak, two pull pulley styles, a top rail, a set of three each outer and inner linings, parting beads, generally 3/8 in. thick, and outer beads, commonly 3/8 in. by  6077n., with parting strips, wedges etc., which are concealed inside. Though these will not be described, it is hoped that their places and use will be sufficiently indicated in the drawings. Now, it is obvious that an ordinary sash is fitted with an upper sash like Fig. 1. it would become necessary to make the outer linings like Figs. 2 and 3, and then the outer appearance desired would be secured. The

sash would require the chief alteration. This consists of the two added rails placed diagonally in the upper corners) and having their edges cut to the required curve and the moulding worked in the same pattern as the styles. The moulding and rebate can he made with those iron spoke-shave's made for the purpose, if one can he found to agree with thc moulding-plane used for the straight work. Failing this, in painted work the moulding can be worked on a piece of straightgrained oak or mahogany, and cut off neatly, so that it can be bent, glued, and beaded to the curved rails, forming at one operation both moulding and rebate. If this is well done and the joints in the added moulding not coincident with the other joints, it will make a very fair job. The whole of the inside moulding might with advantage be in one piece, and the joints of the added rails in the corners should he made as in the drawing before the frame is glued up. Of course, another method would be adopted in shops where a spindle-moulding machine forms a part of the plant. In this plan no alteration is required in the position of the sash pulleys or in the method of fitting the beads.

(2) The next modification is that of fitting into the top of frame an arched rail. This may be cut in segments, bent in layers round a drum, and glued up, or cut out of two solid pieces, or bent by the aid of kerfing, with or without a veneer glued on; or, in fact, by any of the methods used to produce a curved rail. The rail need only be a trifle thicker than the sash, for the outer linings shown in Fig. 2 and 3, together with the parting beads (which are also shown at 2 and 3 in the part up to the lines, and shaded darker) are affixed outside the curved rail, and very much add to its strength.

The straight top rail should be cut away equal to the thickness of the added curve rail where the two are attached to each other, as in Figs. 4 and 5. Fig 4 shows the frame without the linings, and Fig. the connection of the straight and curved top rail. Fig. 6 shows the side view of frame, with the position of the sash pulleys, which in this frame is different to that just described. The pulley styles, which should not be less than 1¼ in. thick, ought also to be notched to fit the curved rail, as shown in Fig. 7 as well as in Fig. 4.

(3) In the semicircular-headed frame and sash, more than anything that has been. described, circumstances alter cases, and nothing we write -here is to be taken as specific, but only as suggestive. If you have in hand a specially dry piece of stuff of thickness equal to width of the pulley styles, and have appliances suitable for making the groove for parting. These explanations, along with the diagrams, seem to be all that is required for an understanding of the subject.



Options have been secured on several valuable gypsum properties in Hagersville. Ont., by Mr. <person>j. T. Mullaney</person> and Mr. <person>M. A.

Reeb</person> of Buffalo, N. Y. It is proposed to establish a large crushing mill and refinery in thc vicinity of the Grand Trunk Railway station at a cost of about $50,000.

