<doctype type="text">66	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



Draughtsmen enough

in San Francisco.

probably give an unexpected turn to the affairs of certain desert regions where great heat seems to be attainable at much less than the average distance below the surface. The Yellowstone Valley will break forth, not precisely into singing but into humming—with the hum of industrious machinery.





The Secretary of the <assoc>San Francisco Architectural Club </assoc>has written to the Secretary of the

<assoc>Toronto Architectural Eighteen Club </assoc>saying that a rumour that has gone abroad about the urgent need of architects and draughtsmen in San Francisco is without cause. The letter says that there are at present over 350 certified architects in and about the vicinity of San Francisco and over 1000 draughtsmen. Mayor Schmitz's proclamation sent to the mayors of other cities, asking for mechanics, architects and architectural draughtsmen before food or money, is perhaps the source of the rumour alluded to in this letter. There seems to have been a tendency to a rush of draughtsmen in response. Seventy were willing to go from Boston, but by the action of the <assoc>Boston Society of Architects </assoc>this number was reduced to eighteen, selected for general usefulness. If other towns responded proportionally in numbers and without the same judicious influence for selection there is good reason for the San Francisco Architectural Club to issue a warning.

One does not quite see of what avail, for rebuilding San Francisco, as it ought to be rebuilt and as it is likely to be rebuilt, an army of draughtsmen will be, unless accompanied by architects. It is a splendid chance of course for the draughtsmen to enter the train at Chicago as draughtsmen and come out architects at San Francisco. But it is only in competitions that we expect better work to come from unknown young men than from recognized leaders of the profession. Ordinarily in art, which is longer than life, age has an advantage; and in the architectural army at San Francisco there will have to be a fair proportion of colonels.

Architects do not float about so easily as draughtsmen, but, on the other hand, it is not necessary for them to do so. The work seeks the architect nowadays and a New York architect does not need to leave New York in order to carry on building in San Francisco. No doubt, when definite aim has taken the place of general intention at San Francisco, the architects of the east will be applied to for plans of the more important buildings and they will open branch offices in San Francisco in charge of representatives who will participate in and help to officer the general work of rebuilding.





<article title=" MR. CHARLES P. BAILLAIRGE " author="">MR. CHARLES P. BAILLAIRGE.

By the death of Mr. <person>Charles P. Baillairge</person>, at his residence in Quebec, the profession of architecture has lost a very distinguished member, whose recognition was not confined to his own country. Mr. Baillairge had the energetic and inventive mind that gives eminence in any walk of life, but his mathematical and scientific attainments made him a constructive architect par excellence. He had the proper combination of original thought and technical skill, and worked with freedom and facility.

At the time of his death Mr. Baillarge was in his eightieth year. He was born in Quebec on Sep. 27, 1826. He was educated at the Quebec Seminary. He was admitted as a P.L S., 1847, and at once entered upon a successful career. Among the best known of his works as an architect are the Laval University, the asylums and churches of the Sisters of Charity and Good Shepherd, the Music Hall, the new jail, Dufferin Terrace, the aqueduct bridge over the St. Charles, and the " Monument des Braves de 1760," all in the city of Quebec. In 1863-65 he was associated with Messrs. <person>Fuller</person> and <person>Page</person> as joint architect and engineer in the construction of the Parliament Buildings at Ottawa. He was for many years hydrographical surveyor and engineer to the Quebec harbour commission and was at one time a member of the Quebec City Council. In 1866 he was appointed City Engineer of Quebec and in that position planned many important works and buildings.

In the midst of a busy professional life, during which his services were also frequently required in arThe LATE MR. CHARLES P. Baillairge.





bitrations by both the local and federal governments by the courts, and by private concerns, Mr. Baillarge found time to write and deliver numerous lectures on such subjects as " Steam and the Steam Engine,"

Pneumatics," '' Mechanics," '' Optics," '' Astronomy, &c. While occupied in the construction of the Parliaiment Buildings at Ottawa, he completed a treatise in French on "Plane and Spherical Geometry and Trigonometry " with mathematical tables. In 1874 he published in French and English his "Key to the Stereometrical Tableau." This system was taught in the elementary schools in Russia and was subsequently applied to all the polytechnic schools of the Russian Empire. He was called to France in 1874 and received the gold medal of the " Societe de Vulgarisation de l'Enseignement en France," also the medal called

Phillippe de Girard," given for the most useful invention or discovery of the year. Subsequent to this distinction Mr. Baillairge received 13 medals of honour and 17 diplomas from France, Italy, Russia, England, Brazil, Japan, Belgium, Canada and the United States.

