<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	35



expected the problems will he in conjunction with the Beaux-Arts classes which are so successful in New York. Outdoor sketch work will also be taken up during the summer.

Much interest has been manifested by the members in their work as they are realizing the decided advantages to he gained by working together in a class of this nature, and they invited all Toronto draughtsmen desirous of a proper training in architectural design to take up the work of the next problem.

The club rooms are at No. 18 Richmond Chambers,  ½ Richmond street west, where criticisms are held every Tuesday and Friday from 5.30 to 6.30 p.m. and to which any person interested will be made welcome.



<article title=" THE ONTARIO SOCIETY OF ARTISTS AND

PICTURE MAKING. " author="">THE ONTARIO SOCIETY OF ARTISTS AND

PICTURE MAKING. THE ONTARIO SOCIETY OF ARTISTS AND

PICTURE MAKING.

The general verdict is that this is a good exhibition; that the standard of technique is high. That is true. The standard of technique is so high that we want something more ; and it is a good time to talk about

it.	That is the general impression left by the exhibition upon the writer of this notice. As the exhibition will be over before this is printed we can only deal with the question in a general manner. It is not likely that the opinion expressed here is unique, and, so far as it is true, those who studied the pictures will probably find it recall feelings of their own which they did not take the pains to formulate.

There is an opinion among some artists, young ones chiefly, that a slice of nature is a picture. The writer recalls a conversation with a young artist, (female) fresh from study then ; with the bloom of either London or Paris upon her, and all the dogmatism of discipleship in teaching not yet fully understood. The conclusion we arrived at was that a slice of nature is a picture and that the writer, in wishing to select from nature, is following the way of him who was a liar from the beginning. Let that be so. It is only a matter of words. We may extend the word picture to cover almost any graphic representation, and agree with Bacon that "A mixture of a Lie doth ever adde Pleasure." But, if a straightforward study is to be cur whole work, it must be carried out to such an extent that our pleasure is in the carrying out. Impressions or decorative effects, will not do here ; the essence of these is composition.

But we do not find in the gallery any extract from nature that can pretend to such greatness in technique, or such affectionate development of the beauty of details, that our delight is in these and we value the extract as an extract. We should he glad to see some work of the kind. It is a worthy field of effort, or at any rate an honourable road by which to ascend to the greatest achievement. All the great men have approached greatness by way of it, and it must he the only sure road to greatness in art, for the distinguishing mark of all great art is delicacy.

The other field of effort is composition ; still the representation of nature, but its representation with selection of facts, so as to express an idea.

That an artist should fail to either make much of the objects he admires or to make much of the idea they suggest seems to a layman like working without a motive.

Is a picture much to ask for, because it deals with

ideas? Ideas are not all transcendent, but are of all degrees, like the race of men. We need only ask from a painter the idea he has, and we may be quite sure that somewhere among "the bourgeois who carry the purse" will be found one to whose mind it appeals.

The scene before me as I write suggests that a study of nature will best enable us to see what goes to picture making ; for, the view up King street, (Toronto) out of my office window, strikes me, at the present moment, as a picture. It does not always strike so; then here is an opportunity to find out something of what goes to make a picture. This is March 19, the snow storm of the season. The air is full of a driving snow that obscures detail, so that the buildings appear as masses only, (and the situation is favoured in its building masses), rising from the snowy street to the gray sky, against which they are defined, sometimes by dark outlines, sometimes by ledges of snow on the cornices ; and the general mass, so subdued in tint that it is hard to distinguish brick from stone, is delicately slashed with white, from snow lying on the projecting features of the buildings and piled on the sills of the windows and recesses which enrich the building masses with patches of a slightly darker tint. Down on the street the black figures of foot passengers serve a like harmonious function, by carrying the dark of the buildings into the white wedge of street. They, (almost entirely men), hurry along with heads down ; giving a greater impression of the press of business than one receives in ordinary weather, when people stroll along at their ease and may be out for pleasure. The street cars pulling up at the corner every moment, each with its load of snow on top, add to the impression of how the daily lire and labour of the city goes on continually, no matter what the weather. The whole of this, seen through the framing of a large window, arid all pulled together into a gray harmony by the snow which fills the air with hurrying flakes, not in an even tint but in irregular clouds, strongly reinforced occasionally by drifts streaming from the roofs, where a stronger gust than usual strikes them—all this makes a picture The question is wherein lies the pictorial essence. It is not all in the suppression of ugly detail, (the overhead wires are overpowered for once !), for the same view on a brilliant day is also a picture. It is not merely in the obvious breadth of effect. All effects are broad. The less obvious require the greater master to represent and therefore ought, and in fact do, make the greater picture. To seek only the obviously broad, or to simplify down to an empty breadth, is the practice of our decorative landscapists with whom we have a quarrel on that account which it will be necessary to ventilate in another number, for want of room in this. The pictorial quality of this fine scene before me seems to lie in its definiteness. It has strong character, which possesses the mind and suggests ideas. The nature of the idea and the way. of expressing it will vary with the artist. The grandeur of the storm is the great thing no doubt and it may fairly be said that the man who best represents that as his whole theme does the best service to the possessors of his picture, as he gives them the occasion for ideas of their own to arise. But pictorial art has its limitations. It is not possible to express the whole truth. Something must be suggested, and that

