<doctype type="text">22	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



best done by connecting the waste from some convenient fixture, so that water will always he supplied to thc trap. A wash basin or sink, to be used for clean water only, is the best; as the use of a W.C. or Kitchen Sink will likely result in the choking of the trap and consequent filling of the sub—soil drains with grease or sewage, or a special pipe can be run, from which water s allowed to drip. Cellular gutter land tiles are very good for sub-soil drains provided they are riot laid in running sand. If unfortunately your building rests on such poor material, I know of no form of open drains that will not fill up. In such case the sinking' of a pit, with an outlet at the proper height, with the usual precautions against its filling with sand, is perhaps the best method of procedure; but great care must be taken to prevent the sand running into the drains, if you wish the building to stand erect. I know of one large building in this city the front of' which nearly came down, owing to the fact that a leaky water pipe, near the foundation, washed the sand away into an open drain in the vicinity.

Next, as to the sewers, or those pipes that are to carry off the liquid wastes of the building; as distinguished from the drains, which are for the conveyance of sub-soil, or surface water. They must be of extra heavy cast iron pipe inside the building, as called for by the civic by-law, and should, when at all possible, be so arranged as to be at all times above the floors; or, failing this, at every change of direction fit a cleaning eye that will permit of the insertion of a cleaning rod, from point to point and out into the main sewer. I know of no better material for outside drains than properly laid tile pipes, and no worse material for the inside pipes, especially if they have to he laid under ground, as to make them tight they must he thoroughly cemented at the joints. This makes them into a long and continuous length of very brittle material, sure to be broken by the slightest subsidence of the ground or building, and even by the use of the building. The handling of heavy goods in a warehouse, or even certain legitimate acts in a dwelling, are enough to cause sufficient jar to break these pipes.

Avoid too large pipes, try to plan your sewers so that the amount of water flowing through them will scour or flush them. Remember that the largest flush pipe from an ordinary closet is only 4 in.; and that, as a rule does not deliver the water in a solid stream but it is usually broken up by the fan or spreader in the closet basin. A pail of water, rapidly emptied into a W. C., is generally the maximum amount of water discharged into house fixtures at once. Of course when roof water is discharged into the sewers through the house pipes a large flush will he the result at times, when heavy rain falls occur; but it is very seldom that the ordinary roof of a dwelling will flood a 4" pipe, even if running full at the inlet. The friction and resistance as it travels through the pipe, reduces it in volume. Many architects plan to increase the size of the pipes according to the number of the fixtures to he discharged into them. While this plan has some merit, he careful not carry it too far. Remember that if there were a dozen closets on one pipe, and the greatest care was taken to have them all discharge at the same moment, that it would be impossible to so arrange them in ordinary practice, that the discharge from all of them would reach the main soil pipe or drain at the same moment; and that the water reaching the main stack first, can

never be overtaken by that which follows it. My experience is that more trouble has occurred by the filling up of drains and sewers that were too large to be

properly scoured, than by the blocking of small drains that are fully flushed. The same remarks apply to the waste pipes. It is quite common to find 2" pipes called for from wash basins, and baths, whereas the average bath and basin plug will not allow sufficient water to pass to fully flush an 1½" pipe.

Carry your pipes direct as possible. This can generally be done with very few bends and offsets, if provision is made at the proper lime in the stone, brick and woodwork; but when bends have to he provided, at every flat, on account of the variation of thickness of walls, or because beams have been put in the way, or the roof outlet is at an inconvenient point, you have a needless complication making for trouble. While nothing is planned for the reception and passage of pipes, the positions of the fixtures are indicated; but the work of other trades may render it an exceedingly difficult matter for the plumber to get his pipes to the positions without doing' a lot of damage that could be easily avoided were provisions made at the proper time. Shew on your plans, embody in your specifications, the necessary instructions to carpenter and mason. The pipes large and small are as necessary a part of the modern building, as the doors and windows—then why not provide for them.

Plan to have the fixtures where the sunlight will get to them. Remember light is the great life giving agent, and that all plumbing fixtures are of necessity more or less foul. Let the light shine on them; the sunlight, it you want them to be clean and kept clean. Treat the plumbing as an important part of the building; don't treat it as something to be put in any dark hole or corner, where yon can put nothing else. Have a dark parlour if you please; it is most used at night when artificial light will dispel the gloom and make it nice and inviting; but have the bathrooms light; the sinks, basins and tubs near the windows.

If you wish to avoid trouble concentrate the work— try to place the fixtures so that an accidental overflow or burst will not damage the hall or parlour ceiling. The less the pipes are scattered about the less will be the first cost, and certainly there will be the least amount of trouble, in the future care and maintenance of them- Where it is necessary to have fixtures in different parts of the building, plan to have them as nearly as possible one over the other; it may in some cases mar the artistic effects but it won't damage the ceilings and walls so much, in case of the inevitable flood.

Have every part of the plumbing fixtures easily accessible. When possible run pipes in back passages and through pantries and such rooms and leave them exposed. Where the)' must be concealed, have this done by some means that will allow the pipes to he quickly exposed. Hooks and buttons are best; screws are a nuisance, their taking out is sure to cause damage to decorations and paints. Never put pipes behind fixed columns, or plaster them in, as the day will surely come when they will require some attention; then trouble begins, and reputations are wrecked with the ceilings and walls.

Select simple fixtures. A closet with a complicated system of valves, levers, syphons and overflows, may work perfectly when new, hut is sure sooner or later to

