<doctype type="colophon;contents;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

	<firm>C.	H. MORTIMER PUBLISHING COMPANY</firm>	-	- PUBLISHERS.

	<person>W.	A. LANGTON</person>	-	- -	- -	-	EDITOR.



OFFICES: <person>CONFEDERATION LIFE BUILDING, TORONTO</person>, CANADA.





VoL XIX.—No 227.

ILLUSTRATIONS ON SHEETS.

Docklands, lngatestone, Essex.

 Houses of Small Cost in a Country Town. No VI. Design by "1500."

The Aged Women's Home. Toronto; Messrs. <firm>Langley and Langley</firm>, Architects, Toronto.





ADDITIONAL ILLUSTRATIONS IN ARCHITECTS' EDITION.

Casa cle las Conchas; Facade and Patio.

NOVEMBER, 1906.

CONTENTS

Editorial	-	- 	161-162

The Uglification of Ottawa and Quebec -		-	163

Personal - - -	-	- 	164

R. I. B. A. Local Examinations	  - -		164

Canadian Architect and Builder Competitions			164

Flat Fireproof Roof - -	  - -	-	164

Our Illustrations	-

Ontario Association of Architects	  -	-	165

Why Some Houses are Cold	- -	-  	166

Illumination of the Royal Alexandra Hotel,		Winnipeg 	167-168

Resurfacing Hardwood Floors Economically -		-	169

Montreal Notes - -			-		170

Sketching Club, P. Q. A. A. .		-			170

Some Recent Building Permits in	Montreal		-		171

Spontaneous ignition of' Wood work		-		-	I 7 I

The Disappearance of Lumber -	-		-		172

Manitoba Association of Architects -					173

rue Use of Spruce, Balsam and Popular -			-	173-174-	175

Colouring Brickwork -		-		-	IV

Wind Anchors for the Singer Building -			-	-'	IX

Building on a Percentage Basis - -		-			X

The Ownership of Architects' Drawings	-		-		xii



<article title=" Bricklayers and

Concrete Construction.

" author="">Bricklayers and

Concrete Construction.

An agreement has been made between the master masons of New York and the bricklayers'

union that all the work of placing concrete is to be done by bricklayers. This does away, as long as that agreement is in force, with the advantage of cheap labour which is in favour of concrete. But it does not do away with the fact that concrete can be done by cheap labour. An artificial condition is created which it will be difficult to maintain. At the very outset —if a bricklayer is to take the place of every labourer required for the fulfilment of current contracts for concrete work—more bricklayers will be required than the union can supply. Will the union admit unskilled workmen to membership for the purpose of supplying bricklayers enough for this work, or will they bold up the contracts and injure the carpenters anti other trades—to say nothing of the contractors, and possibly the law? It is evident that if this agreement is adhered to some of the forces that are making the history of trades unionism will be set in motion. A slight acquaintance with history suffices to remind us how the unrighteous exercise of power on the part of kings has always led to its curtailment, and there is nothing different to be expected in the case sectional tyranny of any other kind.





Under the title ' A Much Needed

Reform," the American Carpenter

and Builder, which probably represents popular opinion in the largest class of house builders, has inserted a contributed article which advocates the abolition of closets in the partitions of bedrooms.

Tile ground of objection is sanitary. Partition closets are apt to reach so far, that they get little light and imperfect ventilation. Professor <person>Kerr</person> has expressed all this long ago as the best English opinion.

The partition closet has two advantages:—the

<article title=" The Abolition

of Closets." author="">The Abolition

of Closets.

quantity of space that one sometimes gets in them; and the saving in furniture. One would feel inclined to stand up for them, (with the condition that they should be planned so as to have a window for light and air), but for one objection—they spoil construction and lead to degenerate planning.

The proper construction for wooden interiors is undoubtedly that every upper partition should stand on the head of a partition below. If the upper partitions stand on the joists, the whole fabric is at the mercy of shrinkage; anti, when bedroom partitions are double, (to provide closets between them), this condition is a necessity. Then follows the attitude of the average Canadian householder in a new house; patiently waiting for "the cracks" to develop in the plaster, before he papers.

As to resulting degeneracy in planning:—when upper partitions are placed without reference to those below, there is a great loss of "backbone" in the plan; and a tendency to pettiness in style is the result.



A paper read at a meeting of the Sanitary Inspectors' Association in Blackpool, England, by Dr.

<person>Theo. B. Hyslop</person>, states the evidence in proof of what we have all begun to suspect, that exposure to noise

—mere noise—is exhausting. Much more is this the case when the noise occurs with sudden shocks, or is disagreeable to the ear ; and, above all, when there is no cessation of it at night. The evidence of injury in the latter case is interesting and indicates how it is that constant noise results in derangement of the nerves, and, in too many cases, in derangement of the mind.

Observations made in the case of animals, and of men whose brains have been exposed by injury or operation, prove that the vessels of the brain contract during sleep and the brain grows pale, expanding again and taking on a rosy hue at the moment of awakening. The application of "graphic methods"

<article title=" The Abolition

of Closets.." author=""> The Abolition

of Closets..

