<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" NOTES " author="">NOTES.

During the past season the <firm>Mira Brick Company </firm>have made some extensive improvements to their plant, and next season they expect to he able to supply all the brick required in Cape Breton. A new semi-continuous kiln has been installed. Two brickmaking machines are on the ground which will give a joint output of 35,000 bricks a day. There are now twenty-six drying sheds, and it is proposed to add an artificial drying plant next year. A twenty-four horse power engine and a forty horse power boiler have also been installed. The site of the plant is on a peninsula jutting out into the Mira River, about two miles above Mira Gut. The peninsula has an unlimited deposit of an excellent blue clay which covers an area of several acres. The clay cannot be surpassed anywhere for brickmaking purposes. Bricks made from it by the French during their occupation of Louisburg are still in a good state of preservation.



It will be interesting to learn what unfavorable hygienic conditions are going to be developed by the operation of the great freight subway-system in Chicago that was opened to traffic July

i.	The trouble arising from generated heat will not be as great as in New York subways, since there are not present the many' lamps in the brilliantly lighted passenger-cars and the animal heat arising from the bodies of millions of passengers to contend with. But, on the other hand, the inevitable dirt and litter at each of the independent shipping—stations, whether public or private, are likely, in spite of careful policing, to get into main tunnels and there be driven back and forth by passing trains until reduced to dust and in that form sucked upward into stores and buildings, thus disseminating broadcast germs of filth diseases that may have been engendered in the tunnel by the careless personal habits of employes, working out of sight of supervision and indifferent to the obligations of common decency. If the matter of fire-doors and hydrants at each private opening into the tunnel has not received the anxious attention of underwriters, architects and building-owners, an accident in the tunnel with its inevitable fire caused by short-circuiting of electric current might easily lead to a serious and widely distributed conflagration in buildings on the surface. Doubtless, the obvious proper regulations for the exclusion of dangerous freight have been adopted by the operating company, but what is to prevent, with the desirable absolute certainty, a "dustexplosion" of appalling magnitude, in case a carload of innocent flour, in consequence of a collision, fills the tube with impalpable dust just in front, say, of the entrance to a large department-store, and ignited by the first flash of the short circuit ?—The American Architect.





<firm>McCormack and Carroll Toronto </firm>Carvers Modellers 

<firm>Conduits Company Limited Toronto </firm>Galvaduct and Loricated

<firm>Philipsburg Railway and Quarry Company Montreal </firm>Fine Canadian Marbles

<firm>Hoidge Marble Company Limited Toronto </firm>Marble dados wall panelling

