<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	7



The Registrar read the concluding letter of the correspondence with the <assoc>Eighteen Club</assoc>.

The report of the Registrar was then adopted.

In the absence of the Treasurer, Mr. <person>Henry Simpson</person>, the report of the Treasurer was read by <person>Mr. Gray</person>, who said "The report has been audited so far as we have been able to go. We have looked over the books and find the statement tally with the Treasurer's books. There is a little account in connection with the bank that we have not got cleared up yet. A very small matter which I have no doubt will be explained when Mr. Simpson comes home."

The report was then received and adopted.



<article title=" TREASURER'S REPORT.

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">TREASURER'S REPORT.

ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS, JANUARY 1906.

EXPENDITURES.

Printing		$418.02

Banquet		98.50

Convention		220.10

Engineers Club		36.32

Gas		6.00

Registrar		200.00

Rent		93.75

<person>W. R. Gregg's </person>petty cash		25.00

Educational expenses		172.03

Advertising agents		276.50

Council meeting. re <person>Mr. Belcher</person>		10.00

Examinations		114-47

Insurance B		7.20

Bank                                

Membership <assoc>American Civic 	Association</assoc>	2.00

Part pay, for cupboard		3.5O

		$1,684. 14

	Balance on hand	324.55

		     $2,008.69

                     RECEIPTS.

Admission and registration fees	$	46.00

Members fees                             258.00

Examination fees		152.00

Filing articles		6.00

Advertisements                         931.00

Sale of banquet tickets		46.00

Refund, <person>J. Queen</person>		5.00

<person>Chadwick's</person> account		8.00

Eighteen Club, half expenses		41.86

Difference in gas account                

Interest on bank balance, 1905		 9.90

		     $1,503.83

	Balance from 1904	504.86

		$2,008.69



Mr. Herbert E. Moore read the report of the Toronto Chapter, as follows:



REPORT OF THE TORONTO CHAPTER 0. A. A.

The officers of the Toronto Chapterbeg to report to the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>in Convention assembled:

GENTLEMEN:—At the annual meeting of the Chapter held last

April the following officers were re-elected:—Chairman, Mr.

<person>Edmund Burke</person>; secretary, Mr. <person>Herbert E. Moore</person>; treasurer, Mr.

<person>Alfred H. Gregg</person>.

During the past year 35 meetings were held, the average attendance being 10.42 and a total of 365 which is an increase over thc previous year.

The work of the Chapter during the year has been varied and instructive and it is satisfactory to note the increased interest of the members. It has become apparent what a factor the Chapter is in promoting and safe-guarding the interests of the profession in Toronto.

The principal matters discussed during the year are as follows:

1. Affiliation with the Municipal League.

2.	Revision of the Architects Tariff of Fees. The old Tariff was thought unsuitable under present conditions, and the whole of thc clauses were revised and submitted to the council of the Association for approval.

3.	Affiliation of the Association and Eighteen Club. The situation remains practically the same as last year. Negotiations have come to a standstill pending further instructions from the Convention.

4. Tariff Revision of duty on plans prepared in thc United States and brought into Canada.

This important subject was discussed on several occasions by thc Chapter. The present law was found to be very loosely interpreted and the application unfair to the profession in Canada. A committee, consisting of members of the Chapter and the profession, interviewed the Government Commission which sat here during November and placed before them the disadvantage and injustice of the tariff in its present form. The Commission went into the matter thoroughly, and promised an early and earnest consideration.

5.	Modifications and Revision of the City building and plumbing by-laws.

In connection with this matter a Committee appointed by the Chapter awaited on the Board of Control and pointed out the advisability of altering and striking out certain clauses in the recently revised building by-laws, that were found in practice to be either impracticable or unnecessary. As a result the Chapter was invited by the Board of Control to send in a list of proposed changes and modifications. This list was subsequently made and is now in the hands of the Board.

6.	Public Library Competition.

The terms of competition as prepared by the authorities were fully discussed in order that intending competitors might have a thorough understanding of same. The general concensus of opinion was that the appropriation is entirely insufficient and that competitors run much risk of wasting their time if thc terms of the competition are strictly adhered to.

7. Proposed new Hospital.

The Chapter forwarded a communication to the Hospital Board suggesting competition as the best method of securing proper plans for a building of its character, and later when it was reported that a certain firm of architects had been recommended, the previous communication was supplemented by a statement to the effect that the Chapter would beg to recede from its original position if any definite appointment had been made or recommended.

8. City Plan.

Members of the Chapter on the Committee appointed and others who were consulted from time to time have given their support in the preparation of the City Plan; in fact the present scheme is the result of much discussion during the past few years at Chapter meetings. As this matter will be fully discussed during the Convention it will scarcely be necessary to go into details.

In addition to the subjects above mentioned, various other matters have been discussed at the meetings which were of interest to thc profession generally. It is hoped that the year 1906 will prove as successful as the year just closed and that the result will be encouraging not alone to the members of the profession but to the general public. This can only be accomplished by united action on the part of the members.



The report was received and adopted.

Mr. J. Gemmell read the report of the Library and Rooms Committee, as follows:



<article title=" REPORT OF LIBRARY AND ROOMS COMMITTEE." author="Wilson, Gray, Gemmell, John">REPORT OF LIBRARY AND ROOMS COMMITTEE.

The Library Committee crave indulgence of this convention for not having found time to take stock of the books for the purpose of reporting any missing or overdue books but promise to report to council and post same on bulletin board.

As was intimated at last convention the rent of rooms has been increased to $450, $150 more than last year, $225 being our share of rent per annum. the engineers have decided to have telephone put in and ask us to share in this expense, and trust that we will do so, as in the matter of lighting our night classes make this service disproportionate.

The first volumes of Canadian Architect have been bound and added to library making thc records of the association complete except the year 1890.

We have to acknowledge the donation of four valuable books for the library from Mr. <person>James Smith </person>Hon. Past President.

Your obedient servants,

J.	WILSON GRAY, JOHN GEMMELL,

Rooms and Library Committee.

The Registrar: I would like to call attention to that clause about the volume for 1890. If we had that one volume it would fill the gap between the time that our Conventions were fully reported in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, and the time we began to publish them ourselves. We should be glad if any member can show us the way to procure that volume and bind it with the others.

It was moved by Mr. Gemmell, seconded by Mr. Gray that the report of the Library Committee be adopted. Carried.



<article title=" PAPER ON FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION " author="Brainard, Owen">PAPER ON FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION.

BY MR OWEN BRAINARD, CE., OF NEW YORK.

Mr. Brainard spoke as follows:— "Allow me, first of all, to express to you my appreciation of

the honor and privilege of addressing you to day and I deem it a peculiarly happy circumstance that in the discussion of  technical topics and in the furtherance of better standards of work we are not called upon to consider any boundary lines and a man from the States may be called upon to address a Canadian body just as an architect or engineer from Canada would be welcomed by an audience in the States.

The subject of the fireproofing of buildings might seem to be a trite one but its triteness is more apparent than real. There has been for the last ten years. and, indeed for many years before that, much discussion of fire-proofing methods, but this discussion has all made for progress and by reason of this agitation and the constantly accumulating weight of experience, obtained to be sure at great cost by expensive conflagrations, a gradual evolution in fire-proofing methods has been brought about, until, as we look back, we see that there has been constant progress and development, and that this subject is a trite one only to those who conclude that we have come to the end of

