<doctype type="text">140	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



souring to the soul but, whereas, it is viewed by a very limited number of people, its baneful influence is restricted and confined to a few. On the other hand, the work of an architect is thrust before all whether they desire it or not ; it is there to stay as long as the stone and mortar endure. Is it not therefore incumbent upon the slate to foster all influences that make toward beauty, and to restrict the practice of the art to those who prove themselves capable of teaching the lesson of "sweetness and light".

The standard should not be difficult to set. The basic principles underlying good design are well known. If the principles are sound, the application should be comparatively easy.

So far so good, as regards the question from the theoretical standpoint ; and I trust I shall not be considered too illusionary or utopian. And now a few words from the practical side of the question, based on actual experience.

The <assoc>Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>, to which I have the honor to belong, is the pioneer (on the Western side of the Atlantic at any rate) of statutory qualification for Architects. During the year 1890 several architects in the Province banded themselves together and formed the P.Q.A.A., and on the 30th. December of the same year, an act of Incorporation was granted them by the Lieutenant Governor in Council. According to the preamble of the Act, incorporation was granted as it was "deemed expedient for the better protection of the public interests in the erection of public and private buildings in the Province of Quebec, and in order to enable persons requiring professional aid in architecture, to distinguish between qualified and unqualified architects, and to ensure a standard of efficiency in the persons practising the profession of architecture in the Province, and for the furtherance and advancement of the art of architecture".

The passing of this Act merely gave the right to those who belonged to the Association to designate themselves as "Registered architects". There still remained a large number practising the profession outside the ranks of the Association.

In 1898 the Act was amended compelling all who were practising, or intended practising, to become members of the Association. The amendment reads "No person can take or make use of the name or title of architect, either singly or in connection with any other word, name, title or designation, giving it to be understood that he is an architect, under this Act, unless he is registered under this Act as a member of the said association".

In the preamble above quoted, the whole argument in favor of a statutory qualification is concisely set forth, and it says much for the Legislators of the Province of Quebec that they thereby recognize the importance of the question. The enactment was granted because, first, it is deemed expedient for the better protection of public interests, second, to ensure that any persons requiring the services of an architect shall be given duly qualified professional advice, adrdly, to ensure a standard of efficiency in the persons practising the profession, and lastly, for the advancement of the art of architecture in our community. The Association is given power to pass by-laws in accordance with the Act, for admmission to the study and practice of the profession.

A system of examinations has therefore been inaugurated, consisting of preliminary and final ; the former being for those who intend entering upon the study of architecture as students, and the letter for final registration, giving the right to practice. The examinations are held twice a year and the final covers all phases of practical and theoretical architecture.

It will be noticed that the protection and qualification provided for in this Act is merely in the right to designate oneself as an "architect;" and therein lies the strength, or weakness, of our case. Much has been said on both sides. It has been argued that the

practice " of the profession should be the basis of such enactments and not the name. The difficulty in connection with this is obvious. It would prohibit the designing and erecting of any construction by any individual even fur his sole use ; it would be difficult to discriminate between a building which might, with safety, be designed by even a lay man, and one calling for professional assistance; and, as even an individual may administer drugs to himself on his own initiative without laying himself open to prosecution at law, it is evident that the law will always recognize the right of an individual to design a structure for himself, under certain limitations. On the other hand, by giving to the public and profession the qualifications based on the name of the profession, a broader view is taken of the subject, and the ground, as far as the public is concerned is equally well covered.

From our limited experience, so far, it seems to be working out well. Eight years is a short time whereon to base any definite conclusions; but, even in that short space of time, evidence is not wanting to prove that the aims of the profession are being gradually realized and the public interest conserved and fostered.

In conducting our examinations, the point I endeavored to make in the beginning of this paper with respect to the formation of the board of examiners has, consciously or unconsciously been influencing its composition, for, as a rule, two out of the Board of five are men of professional standing outside the ranks of our Association.

Of course all laws require power of enforcement and this is no exception. Any infraction of the law is met by a heavy fine for each and every conviction ; and, although some difficulty was encountered at first, by a recent amendment to the charter on this point the necessary machinery is now at hand to compel obedience.

it has been exercised on very few occasions and only when all other means failed. We recognize that, as members of a liberal profession, prosecutions should only be resorted to as a last resource.

In spite of what has been said to the contrary, we do not endeavour to keep our Association wholly as a "close corporation." We welcome to our ranks confreres from other countries whose professional standing has been gained either as a result of their work or as members of recognized sister Associations. Our charter particularly stipulates that " The Council may also admit to membership all members of Associations of Architects in the sister provinces, also members of the Royal Institute of British Architects and of foreign Associations of Architects of equal standing, on their presenting their credentials." We are proud to count in our ranks Architects of eminence from countries other than our own and more especially our cousins across the line. Architecture must not be bound in by any artificial boundaries. Architecture belongs to no particular country ; it is universal and all Associateship must be based on such a conception. We raise no barrier against competence. We act from a sincere desire to perform our duty in the public interests ; to protect the good name of the profession against incompetency; to set up a standard which we fain would hope will eventually reflect itself in improved conditions of environment; and to advance our art in our province. If, by setting up a statutary qualification, such desires may he attained we seek for no further justification.





<article title=" NOTES.

" author="">NOTES.

A Bishop employed an architect in the designing and erection of a fine house. When the house was completed the Bishop was well pleased with it, but when the architect's bill was presented to him he was not so well pleased.

The brick manufacturing plant of <firm>Curtis Brothers at Peterborough. Ont</firm>., has doubled its output during the past three years. There are now three kilns in connection with the plant having a total capacity of 40,000 bricks daily. There is also a fine tile making plant which turns out about 300,000 tiles every year.

