<doctype type="text">106	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



since the grain of the shingle runs parallel to the hip, the tendency to curl is taken away from the line of the hip to a point in the other side of the shingle, where it can do no harm.

Second method- Take a shingle and place it parallel with the hip, as indicated in Fig. 2. 1 then draw a line on the butt of the shingle parallel with the base of the roof A B after which draw the line C plumb with the roof. This gives the pattern ready for cutting. Commence on the hip and shingle back, then trim the points of the next shingles from the one sawed out and carry up both sides of the hip at once. The result will give joints broken twice before the corner or hip shingle goes on. I consider this the best and cheapest plan, for it is necessary to cut but one hip shingle, while the point of the shingle b can be used for the valley, if there is one on the roof. Fig. 3 of the sketches represents the hip after it has been shingled.



































Third method This is a novel way but good. Take strips of tin about 3 x 10 inches. Make a form out of a piece of 2 X 4, 12 inches long, and bevel one side until it forms the hip it is desired to shingle. Then cut an end to the angle of the butts, cutting out the underside at this end, leaving the thickness of the butts. Then place the tin shingle on the form even at the end and bend over the hip. Bend down and under the corners and the tin is ready for the hip. Fasten the shingles by forcing the points marked a b of Fig 4 under the butts of the shingles, and with nails at the top end as indicated in Fig. 5. "'here is a considerable saving of material by this method, because the waste from cutting the valley shingles may be employed in shingling the hip. The appearance of the hip after the shingling is completed is indicated in Fig. 6 of the cuts.





































Fourth method—At Fig. 7, is shown a method of shingling a hip that was patented in 1863. ''The improvement consists in dropping the corner shingle down over its fellow course, thereby having the full strength of the shingle, and leaving the corner not hato warp or split off. The corner shingles should be of uniform width and about the same number of inches that shingles are laid to the weather. The corner of the first course should be covered with tin. For this purpose take a large sheet and quarter it for corners; commence the double shingling or dropping

back with the second course. Every corner shingle should be nailed with a sixpenny nail near the edge of the shingle and midway of the course, as well as with the necessary shingle nails. Overlap alternately the corner of the other side of the hip to keep the corner straight and tight ; all as will be clearly seen by the accompanying cut."

It is claimed for this process that ; The angular piece which finished the course on the edge of the hip is brought down one course below, so as to make an additional thickness at that point and afford means for a more secure attachment.



































''Claim—Subsituting for the ordinary small triangular pieces that complete the courses at the hip, the joints shingles B C D each projecting to the base line of the course already laid, arranged so as to be securely laid and held in place without splitting or warping, and without the necessity of weather-boards and furnishing an extra thickness of covering, substantially as herein set forth," The illustration shown at Fig. 8 exhibits the way a valley should he shingled. Always use a continuous gutter of galvanized iron, zinc or tin, running under the shingles 8 or 10 inches at each side with soldered joints. Cut the shingles so that the grain of the wood runs in the same direction as the valley and abutting against the straight shingles laid next to the valley as shown on the side marked A and B of the









































accompanying sketch. Fig 9 shows eight patterns of cut or ornamental shingles, and which are named in order of their reading, commencing with the top course, Dominion cut, concaved cut, diamond cut, spade cut, round end cut, concave hexagon cut, long Dominion cut, hexagon cut.



From "young workman" show a quick method of Setting out an octagon.

Ans.—There are various ways of laying out an octagon, but the method shows at Fig. 10 seems to be about as easy as any and is correct. Suppose for example, the diameter is 3 ft. First get the square, then the distance from A to B from each corner and mark across, The sketch Fig. to so clearly indicates the



 unnecessary. 

