<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	xv..



name may he drawn in this fashion out of the obscurity of this money-making Continent?

It is imperative that the paintings be good ; but, in an age like ours, this ought not to be difficult. We can afford to secure the advice of the best judgment. This will save us from the necessity of working out our own salvation, a task which so long clogged the feet of artistic development in the old pioneer lands of art. But a willingness to spend public money on the encouragement of the native school and a belief that a series of good pictures open to the people would be a profitable investment, would be lights shining on thc path of progress. —Montreal Star.





<article title=" CURING CONCRETE BLOCKS " author="">CURING CONCRETE BLOCKS.

<person>J.	R. White</person>, of Elnloruk, Neb., writes in Municipal Engineering, about a method of curing cement blocks, which is a cheap and practical way for the operation of small works. He says We have made a practical use of it this summer and find it very satisfactory. We have racks built and covered with lumber four deep. two racks with a 4-foot alley between them with enough projections of roof to shade both sides. Each rack is wide enough for two tiers, so we use both

sides. We set blocks out on these for twenty-four hours without any water (unless the beat or wind is rather severe, when we will sprinkle lightly a time or two as judgement dictates.) Then we remove to the yard for further curing, where we can stack them three or four blocks high. When the days work of yesterday is thus stacked, we give a thorough wetting, after which we cover them with some old hay, covering all ends and sides as thoroughly as possible. Then we keep the hay thoroughly wet from ten days to two weeks. The blocks cure nicely and practically evenly this way, and I believe that it will equal any system that is used today. I think that any manufacturer can use this method. If the old hay should be in the way, a good way would be to take burlap and make mattresses out of it. Excelsior is also good, the theory being to keep dampness on the outside of the block. We have cured something over 10,000 blocks this year in this way and are well pleased with the result.





The law of life is effort. Talk is valueless unless it leads to action. The truth of opinions is to be tested by their practical efficiency. Prudence, patience, labor, valor; these are the stars that rule the career of mortals. It is the storm not the calm that tests the seaworthiness of the vessel.

<firm>F. W. Bird and Son Hamilton Ontario </firm>Neponset Waterproof Paper

The <firm>Gurney Foundry Company Limited Toronto </firm>Winnipeg Vancouver Oxford Boiler

The <firm>Canadian Office and School Furniture Company Limited Preston Ontario</firm>