<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION." author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







From "Painter":—— In several instances where I have fastened porcelain letters on plate-glass windows, letters have fallen off, although I have used cement as recommended by several books and painters. Can you advise me why this separation takes place, and how to overcome the trouble?

Ans. ---The constant separation of porcelain and metallic letters from glass is one of the chief objections to this style of advertising. It is caused mainly by the varying rate of expansion between the letters and the glass. This can be overcome by the use of a cement which possesses a slight degree of elasticity, and yet has strong adhesive powers. Such a cement

gles for roof covering, and I would consider it a great favor- —and I am sure other " British Columbians would also —if you would give me a few pointers as to the most effective ways of shingling hips and valleys, and some patters for ornamental shingles and the names of same.

Ans: -- The questions of hip and valley shingling has been discussed in this department on several previous occasions, but the subject has not yet, by any means, been exhausted nor can it be. The following illustrations and descriptive matter will, we think, pretty













can be made as follows—Slake 15 parts of quicklime in 20 parts of water; melt 50 parts of caoutchouc and 50 parts of linseed oil varnish together, and bring the mixture to a boil. While still boiling pour the liquid on the slaked lime, little by little, with constant stirring. Filter the mixture through a piece of muslin to get rid of lumps and let cool. This cement takes a couple of days to dry, but makes a very tight and strong joint. By diluting this cement with oil of turpentine a brilliant elastic varnish is obtained that will stick to any surface.



From "Subscriber".—Will you kindly inform me how holes are drilled through plate glass and oblige ?

Ans.—Take a small three-cornered saw-file and break off an inch of the end. Then grind a blunt, triangular

















point on it, being careful not to hurt the temper. Leave file in the handle and bore just as you would with an awl. The point of the file should not be longer than the file is thick. Use turpentine as a lubricant and keep the cutting edges on points of the file sharp with an oil stone. In boring a plate, it is best to bore from both sides, using very light pressure toward the last, always laying the plate solid on a paper-bound book.



From " British Columbia ":—As you must be aware, we use in this glorious Province a vast amount of shin

nearly meet the wants of our '' British Columbian". First Method- By inspection of the sketch Fig. 1,

it will he seen that the triangular shingles fortning the joint are cut in such manner that their grain runs parallel with the hip. In laying the roof carry the hip-courses up a little in advance of the other courses. Keep them about two courses ahead of the main work. Place shingle No. with the edge to the hip, and to obtain its shape line across it at right angles to the eaves for the side, and parallel to the eaves for the bottom. After placing and nailing this shingle its edge must be dressed down to correspond to the face of the other side of the roof. Then No. 2 and after it



























No. 3 are laid and dressed down in like manner, then 4 and 5 are laid over them and dressed dawn, continuing in this way, tunning two courses on a side at a time.

By carrying the courses up this way in pairs, it gives the shingles of the hip the appearance of each course being lapped over another, while if laid singly in this general manner, the appearance would be as though the shingles had all been laid up on side, and then those of the other lapped over upon them.

The advantage of the arrangement, I think, will be quite apparent to all practical men who will inspect the sketches. It will be seen by this alternating the courses in pairs the join ton the hip is made very complete ,so far as shedding water is concerned, and that those portions of the shingles most likely to curl up when laid in the ordinary manner are thoroughly fastened. Further.

