<doctype type="text">6	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of 4025123n the amount of thc architect's fee which should bc put at 2½57216710n the cost of the building, for plans and specifications.

For detailed drawings the architect's fee should be put at on the cost of the building and the duty 404575200f that amount.



<article title=" THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB " author="">THE TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB. THE <assoc>TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL EIGHTEEN CLUB</assoc>

Your instructions, a year ago, empowering a committee to arrange terms for the admission and amalgamation of the Toronto Architectura1 Eighteen Club resulted in several conferences with a committee of that organization, which, however, have so far been barren of satisfactory results.

The draft terms involving certain changes in the Act, which were approved by the Convention, were submitted to our solicitor for the purpose of having such changes drawn up in legal and parliamentary form. He strongly advised against any radical alteration of the Act and suggested simply the transfer of the educational clauses from the Act to the by-laws passed by the Council, where they could be dealt with and modified from time to time.

The Committee of the Eighteen Club approved of this change but failed to secure its ratification by the Club, which demanded more radical changes than your committee were empowered to concede. It remains for the Convention to say whether further negotiations shall be entered into.

SKY-SCRAPERS.

The City of Toronto has finally been invaded by its first real "sky-scraper."

In view of the narrowness of the streets of Toronto, especially in the business section, the arrival of the tall building must be looked upon as an unfortunate circumstance and precedent for further erections of similar buildings.

The introduction of a by-law limiting the height of buildings cannot be advocated too soon.



THE TORONTO FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY COMPETITION.

The most important competition in several years, that of the Toronto Library, is now under way. The terms were submitted to the Toronto Chapter for criticism on the eve of their publication. Modifications of several points were asked for and some minor ones conceded.

The Board refused to accept the suggestion that three architects should be entrusted with the selection of the prize designs instead of the selection being confided to that body, which consists of the Mayor, a member of the City Council, a member of the Library Board, the Chief Librarian and the City Architect, with a sixth judge, an architect, who is to be elected by the Board.

The Board raised the limit of cost from $250,000 to $260,000 a paltry addition, in response to our protest that the first mentioned amount was entirely inadequate, and that a building of the required size and description would cost nearer $350,000 than the amount named.

A majority of the architects are holding aloof from the competition feeling sure that the result will be unsatisfactory, while several of the younger men are indulging in a little practice in design, with an undercurrent of hope that by some fortunate turn of the wheel one of them may be selected as the "martyr' who shell be called upon to have the prize dangled before his eyes while he toils at the working plans and specifications in a vain attempt to squeeze a $350,000 building into a $260,000 structure and at the same time exhibit some modicum of respect to his burning desire to erect a building which shall be no mean monument to his genius and powers of design.

A prediction may be ventured that the second and third prize men will be the only ones who will reap any remuneration in hard cash offered by the Board.

THE NEW HOSPITAL.



The new General Hospital, now in the preliminary stages, promises to prove one of the most important building operations in the city of Toronto.

Its construction on right lines will depend largely on the saneness and breadth of view of the managers of the institution.

The very best architectural advice should be secured and if it shall be decided to throw the work open to competition, no limit of country or place should be imposed.

In any event the architect who is finally entrusted with the work will require to spend months of study of the best models extant, both in the old world and the new.

The opportunity is one of a lifetime and a man or men strong in planning and construction and with large executive ability will be needed to bring the work to a satisfactory conclusion.



GETTING WORK AND ARCHITECTURAL ETHICS,



Judging by the expressed statements of some architects and the actions of others there seems to be a tendency to depart from the good old time-honored professional method of waiting for the work to come to the architect.

It appears to be the rule in most businesses in this bustling age that if one desires business he must go out and hustle for it; and in the professions there is a tendency toward more or less advertising in veiled forms, or exploiting oneself more or less openly.

The question arises, where shall the line be drawn. Shall a young and unknown man sit in his office waiting, sometimes vainly, for clients; shall his friends exploit him, or shall he go and offer his services whenever he may hear of a new building project, or shall he depend on occasional competitions, (with abominable terms), for an introduction to prospective clients? And if such things may be winked at in the case of a young and

struggling architect, at what stage of his career shall he drop these methods for the more honorable and self respecting conduct of his affairs?

If he begins in this fashion is he not likely to be so tied up to these habits that he will continue without change to the end of thc chapter?

A brother architect in this city who has a tender conscience in such matters argues thus:

"If <person>Mr. Smith </person>has decided to build a house and starts out for the office of a certain architect to give him the commission and I, hearing that the said Mr. Smith is about to build, meet him before he reaches his destination and offer my services and secure the work, I am taking the bread out of the mouth of my brother architect, even though I am all unsconscious that my client was on his way to engage another architect at the time."

But perhaps you will claim that this is too ethical, too ideal. Some one has said "Ethics is the science of ideal humanity". And should we not strenuously pursue that science? The true architect steadily aims at the ideal in his creations, and if he be true to himself he will as steadily aim at that "science of ideal humanity" which is summed up in the Golden Rule.

In regard to the architect's relations with his client it will doubtless be acknowledged by all that they are sure to be more satisfactory and that lie will yield one more appreciation and respect if he comes unsolicited instead of the architect going to him to beg his work.

A motion will be introduced to-day with regard to the oft mooted question of having the Annual Meeting in other cities in rotation.

It must be admitted that a change in our policy in this respect deserves very serious consideration. The first deviation from our custom would have to be looked upon largely as an experiment, an experiment moreover which might or might not prove to be in the interests of the Association as a whole, while gratifying our members in the city which should be selected. The success of the experiment would depend in a good degree upon our hosts as well as upon the Toronto membership who would have to be preparcd to spare both time and means.

It may be claimed with considerable certainty that the past year has been one of the most active in the history of the Association, perhaps exceeding those years when we engaged in an active canvas of the Legislature for further corporate powers, and the thanks of the Association are certainly due those of our members who have attended scores of meetings in connection with the City Plan.



EDUCATIONAL WORK.

Progress has been exhibited in our educational work. Some 18 students are now registered in the mathematical classes, and more students have presented themselves for the examinations than for several 1 years past.

Classes in design, managed by the students and supervised by architects acting as patrons, are also well attended.

Personally I have to thank you for the honor you laid upon me a year ago in electing me to a seat in the Council, and my thanks are also due to the Council who elected me to the Presidency during my first year of office.



The Registrar, Mr. <person>W. R. Gregg</person>, read his report as follows

REGISTRAR'S REPORT FOR 1905.

MEMBERSHIP.--The Association has a Membership of 70, of which 2 are Honorary Members, 38 regular members in Toronto, and 30 members in other places.

Mr. <person>Kivas Tully</person>, who was a member from the formation of the Association and was made an Honorary Member in 1898, died in April.

Two Charter Members have withdrawn, both having retired from active work in their profession—Messrs <person>James Adams</person>, and <person>S. G. Dolson</person>,

COUNCIL.—The Council has met ten times, with an average attendance of between and 6.

STUDENTS. Examinations were held in April, and Supplemental examinations in October. Three students passed the first examination, and two are allowed a Supplemental in one subject. Three students passed the second examination, and one is allowed a Supplemental in one subject. Four students passed the final examination, and are. now members of the Association:

These are Messrs. <person>W. F. Sparling</person>, <person>A. E. Nicholson</person>, <person>Edwin Menges</person> and <person>J. A. MacKenzie</person>.

GUILD PRIZE.—The Council has not awarded a prize from the Guild Fund, although the Board of Examiners reported a high standard of excellence in the students, who passed the final examination. The fund has yielded in interest about $22.

PROCEEDINGS. —The fifth volume of Proceedings was published in May; 1500 copies being printed. A larger distribution has been made than in any former year, and exchanges are received from many Societies.

TARIFF.—A new Tariff of charges for professional services has been prepared and sent to members. Copies will be sent by the Registrar, whenever requested, to those requiring new supplies.

R.I.B.A.—An alliance of this Association with the <assoc>Royal Institute of British Architects </assoc>has been suggested, and thc Council has referred the subject to the present meeting for discussion.

EIGHTEEN CLUB.—On account of a difference of opinion with regard to the manner in which the Ontario Architects Act should be amended, the Council is unable to report an amalgamation with the Eighteen Club.

