<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE CONCRETE DAM

TIPPED IN THE NIAGARA RIVER " author="">A FULL ACCOUNT OF THE CONCRETE DAM

TIPPED IN THE NIAGARA RIVER.



One of the most unique engineering feats of recent years is that which <person>Isham Randolph</person>, consulting engineer of Chicago, has just completed at Niagara Falls. The Canadian city of Niagara Falls which operates its own water works has had difficulty in getting enough water at its intake to supply the pumps. This intake is in Victoria Park where the power development plant is being constructed.

The <firm>Niagara Falls Park & River Railway Co</firm>., which develops its own power and obtains its water through the same intake, complained that it was losing the volume of water necessary for its power. The park commissioners admitted the loss of water and looking for a remedy consulted Mr. Randolph. The engineer suggested two plans, one was to lower the bed at the intake, but this on investigation proved impracticable, while the other which was carried out, was to erect a concrete column on the shore of the river and when completed tip it over into the river so as to form a dam.

The concrete column was built on a trestle twenty feet high, the column itself was 50 feet in height and 7 1-3 feet square. It was constructed in six foot sections held together by a chain running through the centre. Several links were left loose between each section and between the sections were placed wooden wedges twelve inches thick on the outside tapering to six inches toward the centre of the column. When the falling column struck the rocky bed of the river it broke into eight sections at these points. The heavy chain used held the six foot sections together and prevented them being separated and carried away by the rush of water. The column was tipped by raising the inside of the trestle with jacks ; in a little over half an hour the column fell exactly as had been planned.

At this point the course of the river sends the water

whirling against the shore. The fallen dam made a pocket, as it were and the river in flowing around this obstruction was backed up, causing a rise of about ten inches at the intake. This proved the practical solution of the problem.

The concrete dam in falling into place struck an unobserved boulder in the bed of the river causing about seven inches of one section to show above the surface of the water, this exposed section has caused some unfavorable comment from a scenic standpoint.

At the present time there are in operation and being constructed on both sides of the river, electrical power plants, whose combined horse power is more than 500,000. This means that soon the water pouring over the natural falls will he reduced 12 per cent. in volume. One-eighth of the total flow out of Lake Erie will never reach the natural falls, but will be diverted through a. hundred artificial channels blasted out of solid rock. It is imperative that action he taken to prevent a further reduction of the water of Niagara Falls.- -Concrete.





No one can he sure of the exact limits of his own ability. He can limit it himself by not putting it forth, but he cannot tell how far it would extend by steady and persevering exercise. Many of those who have distinguished themselves have been men of very moderate capacity, who have developed it by assiduous  effort.



It is not unusual to hear people lamenting that they cannot accomplish what they desire, that they cannot compete with others in this or that undertaking, that they can never become eminent or great in any direction, they regard this as a calamity, and sometimes use it as an excuse for not exerting the powers they do possess to the utmost.



The <firm>Pedlar Company, of Oshawa</firm>, Ont., have issued this month two very complete catalogues numbers 14r and 14c which contains illustrated descriptions and prices of their extensive lines of sheet metal building materials. This company now have  warehouses and carry stocks in every province of the Dominion and also in Capetown, South Africa, Sydney, Australia and Auckland, New Zealand.

The <firm>Standard Ideal Sanitary Company Limited Port Hope Ontario</firm> Porcelain Enamelled Cast Iron Baths