<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



parently by the wage earner. It looks as if the wage earner if he succeeds peacefully in getting his rises, will neatly dispose of everything he gets, without being any the better for it while if he agitates much, so as to scare prices up unduly, he will be in a worse case than he was before.



The second question is concerned with the limitation by the unions of the number of apprentices in a trade. This, for example, in the bricklayers' union, is one apprentice to every seven journeymen.

Now the average family consists of five—the parents and three children ; so that the seven journeymen have twenty-one children, of which only one boy may work at their trade. There are other trades of course, but they are equally blocked, and equally stocked with children. It is a clear case (speaking in averages) of twenty-one children to one apprenticeship. Of these one half are girls, perhaps a little more ; which seems to be a provision of nature for the comfort of the world. Suppose there are nine boys, what becomes of the other eight, born to be craftsmen and denied the right to learn a craft. My friend is nervous about the capacity of the jails. Honest beggary he says is of no use, because though the advance of the world has made no difference in the rich man—lie still fares sumptuously every day—the beggar can no longer lie at his gate but is moved on.

Doubtless the young men find work, but that is not the whole question. There is a suspicious parallelism between these two questions which suggests a doubt whether all this forcible direction of work and wages into artificial channels is for the real interest of wage earners, who have to pay every cent of the artificial price and make nothing out of it. Would not nature be more kind--the natural law which gives good wages to a good workman, and the best wages to the best? This provides the margin of profit in all trades, and keeps prices at their natural level ; inasmuch as one has not to pay for poor work the same price as for good?



<article title=" A TALK ON CEMENT.*

CONCLUDING PART—CONCRETE " author="">A TALK ON CEMENT.*

CONCLUDING PART—CONCRETE.



Our first article on this subject treated of the nature of cement and its use for mortar. The second treated of testing. In this number we



propose to speak of the second use of cement viz., for concrete.

A concrete Consists like ordinary walling of mortar and stone or its equivalent The function of the mortar is greatly increased so that it constitutes about 2' 3 of the wall wrapping the other material all round like a mould hence the mortar is called the " matrix " or mould (literally, 

womb), , and the other material



shingle cinders, slag, etc—is called the gate."



The great thing is to get the concrete solid, without any interior honeycombing This can be done by proportioning the three constituents of the concrete—cement sand and stone (or other aggregate, but we may take stone as the type)— so that each fills completely the interstices of the other. And, if the stone is crushed so as to be of various sizes, and the sand has grains of various



*Based on paper on The Cement Industry of Ontario by Mr<person>. P. Gillespie </person>in the report of the <assoc>Bureau of Mines of Ontario </assoc>Vol. XIV Part 1.

size, these will fit into one another and help to solidify the mass



 The voids in sand and the voids in aggregate will vary from twenty-five to fifty percent.

They are to be	cent.

measured accurately by filling a water-tight vessel with the sand or aggregate and adding water until it flushes even with the surface of the contents of the vessel. The increase in weight due to the added water com- pared with the volume of that weight of water, gives the volume of the voids in the sand (or of the cement required to fill them ) , and is express-as a percentage of the sand.

Suppose it is desired to produce a solid Concrete, knowing the voids to be-sand, 35 per cent.; aggregate, 40 per sent. The volume of sand will shrink about twenty per cent. when. wetted, and the volume of cement about ten per cent. The voids in a volume of wetted sand are therefore 35 100 of 80 100 or .28 The volume of cement, when wetted and reduced ten per cent., becomes It is obvious that three volumes of sand with voids equal to .28 X 3, or .84, will be properly filled by one volume of cement The mortar or matrix will therefore be I to 3. The volume of this mortar will probably he about equal to that of the wetted sand, or 80/ 100 of 3 2.4 volumes. This is just equal to the voids in six volumes of the aggregate described above, in which the voids were .40 of the whole. This means that a 1:3:6 mixture will give solidity.

Angularity is an advantage in the aggregate. as the bond with the cement is then strongest. For this reason crushed limestone is to be preferred to such aggregate as gravel or water worn shingle even when these are free from the loamy or earthy matters which are apt to be an objectionable accompaniment to them. Stone should be freed by screening from the dust that accompanies crushing. Cinders and slag have the advantage of lightness. Cinder concrete only weighs about 100 pounds per cubic foot, while a cubic foot of limestone concrete weighs about 150 pounds. Cinders, therefore, make a good aggregate for concrete flooring; and for other purposes, where strength is not necessary, cinders and slag have the advantage of economy Aggregate masses more compactly (as already stated if it is irregular in shape and varied in size. It should not be larger than two inches in any direction.

Sand should be clean sharp and coarse, but preferably of grains varying in size. It should be free from clay, loam, sticks or other impurities.

Water should be clean and free from sulphuric acid or strong alkalies. City water has a standard quality that is known; but in country work the character of the water is worth investigation. A factory two or three miles up stream has been known to spoil a hatch of concrete.

Mixing by hand requires tight platforms of sufficient size to accommodate men and materials for the progressive and rapid mixing of at least two batches of concrete at the same time. Batches should not exceed one cubic yard each, and smaller hatches are preferable, based upon a

