<doctype type="text;ad">xiv,	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



permanency of the work depends to some extent on this portion of it being honestly dome. The mortar used for the first coat should have a goodly supply of cow's hair mixed in with it, and should be made at least four days before using. The operator must see to it that the mortar be well pressed into the key or interstices of the lathing to make it hold good. The face of the work must be well scratched to form a key for the second coat, which must not be put on before the first or scratch coat is dry. The mortar for the second coat is made in the same way as that required for the first coat, and is applied in a similar manner, with the exception that the scratch coat must be well damped before the second coat is put on, in order to keep the second coat moist and soft until the dash or rough cast is thrown on. The rough casting is done exactly in the same manner as described for the cheaper sort of rough cast work.

A building finished in this manner, if the work is well done, possesses many advantages over the ordinary wood covered structure. It is much warmer, being almost air tight so far as the walls are concerned. It is safer, as fire will not eat its way through work of that kind for a long time, It is cleaner, as it will not prove such a harbor for insects.' It may be made as handsome as desired, for before the rough cast is dashed it may be laid off in panels of any shape by having strips of battens tacked over the soft mortar, which may be removed after the rough casting is done and the coloring is finished, It is much superior to the so-called brick veneered house, as it is warmer, more exempt from fire and cheaper.

For 100 yards of rough casting in the manner described the following quantities will be required 1800 laths, 12 bushels of lime, 1 ½ barrels best cow hair, 1 3/4 yards of sand, 3/4 yards of prepared gravel and 16 pounds of hot cut lath nails, 1 ¼ inches long. The gravel should be sifted through a ½-inch mesh screen. and should be washed before mixing with the lime putty. — Carpentry and Building.

<article title=" THE UNION OATH " author="">THE UNION OATH.

The following is quoted by The Western Architect and Builder from the Charlotte (N.C.) Observer.

People wonder why union printers turn their backs upon their families and friends and forsake their highest interests at the behest of ''the union." An explanation is found in what follows. ''The union' seems to exercise a hypnotic influence upon its members, who, whatever their personal characters otherwise may be, disregard all other obligations for it. This is the oath they take——it is found its the book of laws of the International Typographical Union, on page 11, constitution, article xii. , and it is stipulated that ''all subordinate unions shall have an article in their constitutions which shall read as follows

Every- person admitted as a member of the union shall subscribe to this obligation

"I (give name) hereby solemnly and sincerely swear (or affirm) that I will not reveal any business or proceedings of any meeting of this or any subordinate union to which I may hereafter be attached, unless by order of the union, except to those whom I know to be members in good standing thereof; that I will, without equivocation or evasion, and to the best of my ability, abide by the constitution, by-laws and the adopted scale of pt-ices of any union to which I may belong that I will at all times support the laws, regulations and decisions of the International Union, and will carefully avoid giving aid or succor to its enemies, and use all honorable means within my power to procure employment for members of the International Typographical Union in preference to others; THAT MY FIDELITY TO THE UNION AND MY DUTY TO THE MEMBERS THEREOF SHALL IN NO SENSE BE INTERFERED WITH BY ANY ALLEGIANCE THAT I MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER OWE TO ANY OTHER ORGANIZATION, SOCIAL, POLITICAL OR RELIGIOUS, SECRET OR OTHERWISE;

that I will belong to no society or combination composed wholly or partly of printers, with the intent or

<firm>Canada Foundry company, Limited Toronto </firm>Structural Steel Work

