<doctype type="text">42	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE SKETCH CLUB OF THE P. Q. A. A. " author="">THE SKETCH CLUB OF THE P. Q. A. A. <assoc>SKETCH CLUB OF THE P. Q. A. A.</assoc>



	STRUCTURAL	STEELWORK.



On Wednesday evening, February 14th, Mr. <person>J. L. Harrington</person>, of the <firm>Montreal Locomotive & Machine Company, </firm>addressed the Club on the subject of Structural Steelwork. The system of tall framed building, he said, originated in Chicago, a city which had plenty of room for expansion and which adopted the system of tall buildings simply owing to the value of central building sites. New York soon followed; and in this case the naturally confined city limits formed an additional incentive to this kind of building.

As the most valuable recent collection of reliable and original data on all matters relating to the design of Steelwork in buildings, Mr. Harrington called attention to Mr. <person>C. C. Schneiders </person>paper read before the American Society of Civil Engineers. One of the most remarkable facts which Mr. Schneider may he considered to have established is that the actual load on the floors of large office buildings never exceeds 40.2 lbs per foot on any floor and that, considering the building as a whole, 17 lbs per foot is the highest recorded average. The heaviest load that is likely to occur is that of a portable safe which may be anything from 2,000 to 16,000 lbs. Special provision ought of course to be made for weighty articles of this kind.

As it is extremely unlikely that all the floors of a building should at an)' one time be loaded to their maximum, the building by-laws of some cities now permit a reduction in the calculations for each storey of 5 per cent. on the storey above until a 50 per cent. reduction has been reached. This the lecturer considered a fair and safe rule.

When a building is exposed to severe wind strains, as is very often the case, the wind braces should be an integral part of the framework of the building. It is not safe nor sufficient to trust to partitions, especially where these are only inserted after the framework is erected.

As regards the details of structural steelwork, <person>Mr. Warrington </person>referred to the divergence commonly occurring between the forms arrived at by calculation and those which are found best in practice. A method suggested merely by the calculation of a particular case is often so difficult of execution as to be unreasonably costly and in the end insecure. Hence the necessity of adhering to standard sections of materials and types of connections which workmen being accustomed to can make a thorough job of. The lecturer exhibited sets of blue prints showing such types of work.

THE LOUIS XV STYLE.



Mr. <person>W. S. Maxwell </person>spoke to the club on the subject of the Louis XV style. The French renaissance styles he said deserved study if only for the reason that they have exercised appreciable influence over halt the would The style of the period of Louis XV differs from that of Louis XIV in the introduction of a certain severity of composition. The period of the intervening regency was was marked by a very appreciable improvement in the condition of the bourgeois class who began to build houses for themselves in great numbers. They generally preferred the country. Their homes were frequently characterized by an inferior taste, but as often display a great deal of good sense.

Under Louis XV it was felt that little was being done of any important nature in architecture, and

something like a revival of the magnificence of the time of Louis XIV was aimed at. To this end many fine blocks of buildings were erected in Paris, numbers of which, while externally resembling magnificent palaces, were internally divided into more or less modest dwellings. The King himself, tired of the burdensome magnificence of life in the great palace of Versailles, built the Petit Trianon in the grounds as a dwelling wherein a man might take a little real pleasure.

The architectural compositions of the time bear evidence of much studied elegance and gracefulness of line. Sculptural work is executed with astonishing technical skill and spirit, especially in the horses and other animals which the sculptors of the period delighted to introduce. Often enough these sculptures are open to the criticism that they are applied with little regard to their architectural setting.

The interior work of the period is the most characteristic and remarkable. Full and even loaded with detail it is yet arranged with art enough to carry it all off. The workmanship is of the highest order. The greatest artists of the day such as <person>Boucher </person>and <person>Watteau</person> did not disdain to apply their talents to the details of interior decorations. Boffrand was probably the most distinguished decorative artist of that or any other period. Restraint and dignity distinguish his work from that of his contemporaries. Whilst the details are endlessly varied the general scheme of treatment of interiors is very uniform. The floors are generally of marquetry in simple geometrical patterns. The walls have a low panelled dado with tall panels over, extending to the start of the cove which is the customary manner of forming the junction with the ceiling. Smaller pannels over the doors are favourite positions for decorative paintings. The panel molds break at the top into foliage, with pendants, garlands, etc., executed in relief in wood or plaster; delicate flowers being introduced with sparkling effect. In the painted decorations, the nude figures of the preceding epoch were supposed to shock the gay world of Louis XV., which delighted in daintily dressed shepherds and shepherdesses playing with swings, etc., an occasional little expose intimating that the prudishness was not to he taken too seriously.

Mr. Maxwell illustrated his remarks by a large number of lantern slides which he had had specially prepared for the occasion.



<article title=" GLASS SAND.

" author="">GLASS SAND.

The manufacture of glass requires a purer sand than that used for an)' other purpose, and glass sand is therefore higher priced than other sands, says <person>A. T. Coons </person>in Mineral Resources of the United States. The chief impurities are iron, alumina and clay, which color the glass and give it a cloudy appearance. These impurities are removed by washing and sometimes, in the case of iron, with a magnet. The purity of the sand used is regulated by the quality of glass desired. Glass sand is mined in more or less pure state from deposits of sand, and it is also obtained as a rock easily disintegrated when exposed to the air, or from hard sand stones, which have to be crushed before used.



To renovate varnish work make a polish of qt. good vinegar, 2 OZ. butter of antimony, 2 OZ. alcohol and qt. oil. Shake well before using.



The <firm>Alza Company, Limited</firm>, of Montreal, whose advertisement will he found in the present issue, publish a number of excellent testimonials in favor of their Patent Window Device, the purpose of which is to facilitate the cleaning of windows without the danger which usually attaches to this work.

