<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION." author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.



[Communications sent to this department must he addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]









From '' Subscriber. —I have a stone cellar built under a house, but find that water gets in through the walls, please advice me as to how I can prevent water getting through the walls.

ANSWER.—It you cannot drain the water away from the outside, it will be difficult to keep the water out. A good way, but rather expensive is to lay a concrete floor not less than six inches deep all over the cellar area, then carry a six inch concrete wall up against the stone walls, a few inches above high water mark. Water can not get through the concrete if it is well and properly made and well tamped in its place. The top of the concrete wall could be used for a shelf if required. Plastering with cement or daubing over with asphalt will he useless expense as neither one or the other will keep out the water if applied to the inside walls.



From "E. J."—I would like very much if there were more practical matter in ''THE CANADIAN ARCHI

which they are nailed. Fig. 2 shows how the rough strings may be placed. Those marked s are placed at the angle or pitch of the stair, and butt against the trimmers A. A rough well may he put in posit ion and the short strings X X X cut in against the well and the wall to suit the angles required. Cripples 0 0 0 should he cut in as shown, and the whole may be made strong enough to carry an elephant. Fig. 3 shows how a bent string for your finished well-hole

may be formed by bending thin veneers around a cylinder glueing them together one over the other until the required thickness is obtained. For getting the bevels and lengths for valley rafters and cripples where the roof has unequal pitches, we give you Hodgons' rule as laid down in his work on "The Steel Square."

Fig. 4 is a plan for framing a valley in a roof where one side is much steeper than the other, as for instance,





TECT." It would make it much better for working builders. It is all right for architects and draftsmen, and is, no doubt, a lot of good for them. Will you please answer the following questions and oblige ? How can 1 support a stairway with winders making a half sweep whole opening about 7 feet inches; the wellhole being 13 inches. Also how can I find the lengths and bevels for valley rafters and cripples or jacks, when two roofs having unequal pitches join?

ANSWER.. We note what "E. J." says regarding more "practical matter" and will consider the subject. With regard to making rough stringers or bearers for carrying a flight of stairs around a half space we may say there are several methods of doing this work. In this country the rough bearers are put up the same as a rough string without being cut to fit snug against the riser and the tread and then nailed to the rough string. These will carry the stairs even if there was no outside strings. The diagram shown at Fig. 1, gives a good idea of the manner of doing this work. It will be noticed that three different methods are shown, under treads and 2, the pieces or brackets are nailed to the rough strings parallel to the tread, while under risers 3 and 4 the pieces are nailed at right angle to the tread and at 5 and 6 the pieces are cut triangular and sit on the top of the rough string to

one side rises, say 10 feet in 8 feet. 1-1 is the wall line; 2-2 is the ridge line; 3-3 is the valley rafter; 4 is the bevel at the foot; is the bevel at the head; 6 is the bevel of the jacks on the lowest pitch, also the lengths of same; 7 is the bevel of and length of jacks on the steep side; 9 is common rafter on the lower pitch; 10 is the down bevel on jacks of each side; II is the height of roof; 2 is the base line of valley.

