<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

COMPETITIONS.

" author="">CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

COMPETITIONS.

It is proposed to have three competitions for students and draughtmen, as described below, with prizes for each competition, and the conditions that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER may reproduce for the benefit of its subscribers the designs of the prize-winners in each competition.

The intention is to offer suggestions of good design for the use of builders and others in the country, who erect buildings without consulting an architect.

Each drawing to be accompanied by a brief description of the material intended to be used.

Both drawings and description are to be signed with a nom de plume, and the same nom de plume is to he written on a sealed envelope which contains the competitor's name and address.

The drawings must be made in line for reproduction, and arranged within a rectangular border with sides in the proportion of to 10. If drawn large, the lettering should be large in

proportion, so as to be legible when the drawing is reduced to the size of the reproduction, which will be 7 inches by 10 inches. The scale must be drawn, not merely noted.

COMPETITION I. Drawings to be delivered at the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, <building>Confederation Life Building, Toronto</building>, on or before the 1st of December next.

This competition will repeat the theme of a small house in a country town. The cost to be between $2,000 and $3,000, exclusive of land. The lot will be supposed to be 50 feet wide by 150 feet deep, on a residential street in which the houses are set back 30 feet from the line of the lot upon the street. The house may be supposed to face any of the cardinal points of the compass; but must be planned to suit the particular aspect selected, arid will be judged according to the manner in which this prime requisite of house -planning is treated.

There will be two sheets of drawings required in this competition. One will contain the plans and elevations and the other will contain certain details.

The drawings required are: plans of the ground and first floor, elevations of three sides, and a perspective in which the fourth side will be shown.

The ground floor plan must show the laying out of the grounds as much as space will permit, and must have drawn upon it a diagram showing the points of the compass.

The sheet of details must show the porch, main eaves and gable, (if there is a gable), drawn to a scale large enough to show the construction, and giving sectional details to a still larger scale.

The prizes for this competition will be: First prize, $20; second $15; third, $5; fourth, a year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

COMPETITION II. Drawings to be delivered at the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER on or before the 1st. of January, 1907.

The subject is a farmhouse. There will be one sheet of drawings, similar to that required for competition that is to say a sheet containing, within a 7 X 10 border, ground and first floor plans, three elevations, and a perspective showing the fourth side but, in this case, as the cellar of a farmhouse is used for storage, there must be also a plan of the cellar drawn on a separate piece of paper, so that it may be reproduced separately for insertion in the text.

There is no definite cost fixed but there must be a limit. Houses quoted in the Farmers' Advocate,, (which, as well as other farming journals, is recommended for consultation), range in cost from $1600 to $4500. A house of the former price was 31 ft.

by ft. The $4500 house is a well built frame house, on a stone foundation, and measures 26 ft. by 54 ft. in the main part with an 18 ft. x 36 ft. wing, the greater part of which is shed. This is an unusually good house with brick cellar walls, open fireplaces in the living rooms, bathroom with water supply, and in all respects well appointed. This scale of excellence seems to be above the ordinary, while that of the $1600 house is hardly sufficient for what is now recommended. It will probably be safe to rate the cost of such a house as is now wanted at about $2.00 per square foot on the ground. Competitors may plan for any size between the limits of $2,000 and $4,000. We want houses of different sizes and the plans will be judged not according to size but according to merit within the size adopted. IL must be remembered, however, as regards size, that compactness in a great gain where there are no household servants; and an unnecessary scale of accommodation, for dignity rather than comfort, is no merit in a design for an ordinary Canadian farmhouse. The first intention should be to save steps; not by squeezing to such an extent that the inconvenience of huddle takes the place of the inconvenience of oversize; but by a compactness of arrangement that will make the service department—— dining room, kitchen, pantry, summer kitchen and woodshed

touch upon one another without intervening ' to traverse and keep clean, and, in general, throughout the house, will serve comfort by giving, as far as possible, exactly' the space required for comfort —not less, but certainly no more. Waste spaces that require defence indicate the need for further study of the plan.

So far there is not much difference between a farmhouse and another dwelling, except that the kitchen must be a room of good size. But there are some special points to be considered.

The modern farm house is equipped with the appliances for water drainage. A septic tank with sub soil discharge can be built for a $100 or so, and is to be assumed as the method of drainage so that the house will be equipped with the conveniences of an ordinary bathroom. But water supply varies, and it will be best to consider that the only dependence is upon rain water from the roof: For this reason there is usually a cistern room in the cellar with a tank from which water is drawn by a primp in the kitchen. To get water in the bathroom there may be either a bathroom cistern filled by a force primp, or the roof water may be led first to the bathroom cistern and overflow to the tank in the cellar. In either case one would think there is advantage in a ground floor bathroom. There is no particular reason why the bathroom should be on the bedroom floor. The morning bath is not in vogue in farm houses After the day's work is over, and in the leisure of the evening is a much more serviceable time for this ceremony. A bathroom adjacent to the kitchen will make the supply of both hot and cold water easier. It might open off a back vestibule, which will be needed so that the men can take off their dirty boots before coming into the house. To have washing arrangements here also will be a good thing. It is not, however, intended to dictate the plan in this respect.

Besides the tank room the cellar will require subdivisions for a furnace and fuel, for vegetables, for fruit, and for milk. There ought to be a special entry to the cellar for this prod rice, and it might conveniently be the woodshed, (which in combination with the summer kitchen usually makes a one-storey wing in the rear). It, as is usual, the wood shed is beyond the summer kitchen and the depth of the summer kitchen has to be passed to reach the cellar, the ,situation invites to the convenience of an inclined plane.

These suggestions are not intended to give a complete account of the requirements of a farm house, but rather to suggest that the subject requires some study. This is best done, for those who are not in touch with farming life, by looking through a volume or two of a good Agricultural journal.

As to design, simplicity is of course necessary. The house will be more economical to build, to keep and to use, if it is simple in form. But there is no occasion to despair of its appearance on this account. A small building, on such a

spacious site as a farm, might not to have its mass much cut rip. There is sure to be, in the summer kitchen a minor mass that will take care of composition in the rear. The entrance front will have its necessary appendage in the way of porch, verandah &c. and, an isolated building is always the better for having the entrance marked by something in the upper part of the building which expresses its position.

The prizes for this competition will be ;—First prize, $15.00;

