<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	167



if it cannot he entirely cured, may at least be mitigated by the stopping of roof crevices, and by stuffing the tops of the spaces between the lathing and the wall with mineral wool or some similar substance. It is not however always possible to get at the wall head to do this. Then the only alternative is to cut out a strip of plaster below the ceiling along the whole length of the outside walls and then to do the stopping in any way that may he found expedient in the particular case.

If architects would keep this subject in mind when preparing their plans and specifications, and make provision therein for the necessary precautions being taken, and if builders and their men would take pains to see that these precautions were efficiently carried out there would be fewer complaints of cold houses, and much discomfort and many disappointments would be averted.

<person>D.	B. DICK</person>.



<article title=" ILLUMINATION OF THE ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOTEL, WINNIPEG." author="White, Earnest C.">ILLUMINATION OF THE ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOTEL, WINNIPEG.

By EARNEST C. WHITE, M. L.*



In point of size and excellence of architectural design:

The Royal Alexandra Hotel at Winnipeg will doubtless

along nearly the whole of the south and west sides of the building, and is about 6o ft. wide, or a total of about 11,000 sq. ft. In this space columns are located; forming hays about 20 ft. square. At present the only lights are those supported on cast bronze brackets of the general design which is shown in Fig. ; there

being four of these brackets on every column. Each bracket is equipped with a i6 C. p. lamp in a 6" opalescent shade. There arc about 130 of these brackets, all located so that the lights are about 7 ft. above the

be preeminent in Western Canada for some time.

The scope of this article however, does not permit









floor. Provision has been made for seven chandeliers or ceiling lights, which are not yet installed. These will greatly tend to improve the present illumination, which is somewhat trying on the eyes on account of all the lights being in the same horizontal plane and





























remark upon even the most notable features, except the lighting of some of the principal rooms.

The "L" shaped rotunda on the ground floor extends

*Engineering of Illumination, 88 Princess Street, Winnipeg.

directly in the line of vision. It is interesting to note that a certain appreciable eye strain was experienced while the intrinsic brilliancy of the lights was greatly reduced by roughed inside globes which were used

