<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

paper is a healthy protest against thc axial T square planning which has made so many modern cities deserts of dreariness. By all means let us plan for symmetry, when an effect is wanted, and let us rejoice in long vistas, when there is anything at the end of the vista; but let us remember that the beauty of symmetry in a lay out cannot he at all enjoyed unless there is an asymmetric note by way of contrast.

And now we must say a general word on the official use of sculpture. It is deplorable how that noble art, once the handmaiden of architecture, is following the lead of painting and degenerating to the manufacture of chimney piece ornaments and mere household gods.

England is worse off than any of the old countries in ornamental city statuary. The figure exalted upon a pedestal is about all the British Civic adorner's mind runs to. The French delight in mighty groups of vivid dramatic power; often in doubtful taste, but nevertheless "La Glorie" and "La Belle France' find true and generic expression in French public places and parks.

The Italian sentiment is newly revived, nationality expresses itself in equestrian statues of the Kings in great new squares; and neither the statues nor the squares are artistically worth the beautiful old work which is too often ruthlessly destroyed to make way for these official city improvements.

I do not think that great systematic schemes of sculptural adornment, such as that at Berlin, can ever he successful. The men and the events and the ideals to he so honored should he more discriminately chosen.

In spite of all we can say against the spirit and execution of the official statues adorning modern European Capitals, there is no denying that the intention is right. The noble epic art of sculpture should he at Its best in dealing with great patriotic themes, and it is deplorable that, having such a history as we have, and such inordinate prosperity as we have, this empire of ours should find as little use for sculpture.

In conclusion gentlemen let me endeavour to answer two questions in the light of what we have been looking at.

First What does official architecture as we find it in Europe express, as a direct sentiment?

Secondly Judged from the ethnographic standpoint—by which I mean the consideration of architecture as the expression of the historic and social influences of the time and place in which it is generated-—let us enquire why is the official architecture of Europe so similar in form?

Official architecture must express the sentiments of order, dignity, power and pride; for it is called into being by the exigencies of social organization, the end of which is government and its aim must always he at once to express the dignity of authority and to foster the sense of loyalty to the community, which is ever the basis of power of the village, the city, the province or the state. The healthy competition of cities and the struggle for the survival of the fittest among the organized states of the modern world are alike the legitimate source of official architecture. The late Samuel Laing, in the conclusion of his treatise on modern science and modern thought, has pointed out that the good of humanity at large is too vast and incoherent a sentiment to adopt as a mainspring of human effort, and action and counsels the more limited idea of loyalty to the welfare of the community to which one belongs, as a surer inspiration of life. It is this sense of loyalty and pride that public architecture should above all things express—public self respect. Professor Baldwin Brown, of Edinburgh, wrote me a clay or two ago "The best of architecture is that it is so democratic; appealing, whether effectively or not, to the public at large." It is the very thing about our art which has caused the wise rulers of a hundred generations to use this art in a political spirit. And this brings me to the second question— why is the official architecture so similar in form?

The spirit of our time is above all things this, that government has become a complicated science and that, wherever one goes in civilized lands, the same system obtains. The welfare of the people may he regarded by officials as the means of ensuring the power of the state; or the broader view, that the power of the state is the best security for the welfare of the people, may be the ultimate test of policy and administration ; but, whichever way the official mind regards its duty, the practice through-'out Europe is the same. Whether the government he an autocracy, a limited monarchy or a republic, the official technique of modern states-is all but identical. Now let us enquire whence this science of government has been derived, In two words

this question can he answered—-Rome France. A century hence it will he possible to add England ; but the principles of parliamentary power are still in their infancy, as far as Europe is concerned, and the model of governance by a beaurocracy is still the European ideal.



The Roman ideal of a national mission. and incidently of the place of art in the political system, is amply explored in Viollet le Due's third lecture, entitled "a comparison between Greek and Roman Architecture," in the conclusion of which he says, of our own time, that it is "a compound of the traditions of classical antiquity, of the influence of the spirit of Christianity, and of the long struggles of the middle ages."

When we consider how all our systems of law are saturated with the principles of Roman law, the common law of Scotland and Holland especially; and also how the Renaissance in Italy revived for the modern world the Classic traditions of thought and literature; we see very good reason why modern states should carry on the traditions of Roman art, as an outward manifestation of the principles that underly their very being. But there is a certain similarity in all this work, which is even more distinctive than the use of Roman orders. I refer to the obvious influence of the Academic school of XVII and XVIII century France. in her introduction to that intensely practical and suggestive work. "Art in the Modern State," Lady Dilke says: "to the student of the modern social system, (and I would add to the student of' art), a minute knowledge of the life of France during the Grand Siecle is indispensable. Time France of Richelieu amid Colbert. gave birth to the modern State so that, if we would know anything accurately about the modern political and social organization, we have to look to the system which lies at the root of its growth."

Now a very important part of that system was the recognition by the State of the relations between art amid industry and the centralization of art education and of artistic effort by the Government of France under the enlightened Colbert, which resulted in the academic official school of architecture.

Not only did the European states institute government schools of architecture on the French system but these schools naturally carried on the French Academic traditions, and so it is that French influence on modern governmental methods is reflected in the French influence of modern official art. <person>Lady Dilke </person>further states that the Architecture of the Grand Siecle is not only all Royal but all monotonous and this characteristic has been accepted with the rest. It is indeed only during the last few years that we note any attempt on the part of Russian, German and Scandinavian architects to put something of local tradition into their work, as an expression of nationalist sentiment and a reflection of the Gothic Revival in England last century. Even the red tape chancelleries of Europe are beginning to tire of the dry formulae of the academic school. Still classic is the essential style for public works, and will probably always he so, and it is a source of immense satisfaction for us to note how the spirit of the freer classic of England is likely to express the development of time parliamentary system during the coming century.



What are the lessons then that this great body of official work can teach tins which may he of use to mis in time scheming out of our own great city problems?



First: I would say we have realized time importance of great buildings having great spaces about them, planned out with a sense of scheme. And this can only he contrived at a reasonable cost when the cities are young.

Secondly we see every reason for adhering to classic tradition for public work ; but I would add a rider to this—that classic (hoes not necessarily' mean French academic and there is room mini a scheme of formal dignity' for national tradition Let Our classic he the English classic evolved by that gm-eat series of artists <person>Jones</person>, <person>Wren</person>, <person>Hawksmoor</person>, <person>Gibbs</person>, <person>Adams</person>, <person>Chambers</person>, and resuscitated with added vigour by' <person>Brydon </person>and <person>Norman Shaw </person>who is still happily with us exercising a beneficent influence on the vast schemes of city improvement in Liverpool amid London.



Gentlemen if ever you again honour me with an invitation to your conferences I hope you will permit me to choose for my theme the classic revival of the XIX century in England. Many schools of architecture are good and detectable for the cosmopolitan ; but those that have a note of national temperament are best for those who have thc good fortune to own a nationality and it is in our public buildings above all that this note should find tuneful expression.

