<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	109



illustration represents a street in the quaint little town of Point-aux-Trembles, many of the houses in which





















































VIEW IN POINTE-AUX-TREMBLES VILLAGE.





are so tiny that the place would seem to be built half full size. Standing on the sidewalk one can lay ones hand on the overhanging eye brows of these miniature

dwellings. The narrow streets that run down towards the river give charming glimpses of the water in the distance.

On the seventh of July members of the sketch club visited the new chapel of the Montreal College in Sherbrooke street. This building, which is being carried out by Messrs. <firm>Marchand & Haskell</firm> and not yet completed, is of imposing dimensions, being over 40 feet wide and over 140 feet long. Internally the walls, from a height of about 10 feet from the floor, are lined with a very fine yellow limestone. At each end there is on the main wall a great stilted or elliptical arch. This is backed over the altar by a great semi-dome— at the other end by a gallery running across the little narthex at the entrance. The roof of open timber is of king post construction with heavy scantlings. The details of the stone work are of a simple Romanesque character.



<article title=" TRADE SCHOOLS " author="Lauer, J. H.">TRADE SCHOOLS.

MONTREAL, 16th July. 1906.



To the Editor, "CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER"



Dear Sir,—On a recent occasion you asked me for an opinion regarding the results obtained from employing workmen who had been trained in "Trade Schools", and as to whether the work of such men showed that they had a thorough training.

Your question indirectly opens up the whole question of "Technical Schools", the desirability of their establishment in all important centres, and the practical results of training received under their auspices.

In the first place it has become almost a truism to say that this is an "age of specialization" People to-day need to use their heads as well as hands; and conversely practical knowledge must go hand in hand with theory. To-day it is a struggle between nations for commercial supremacy, and that supremacy will neither be attained nor held by mere chance, but by that nation which trains its mechanics and producers in labor-saving details, prevention of waste, utilization of by-products, training

The <firm>Standard Ideal Sanitary Company Limited Port Hope Ontario </firm>Porcelain Enamelled Cast Iron Baths