<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	23



get Out of order. A single seat is better than one with a cover, which is a survival of the old style boxed in W.C. The cover is a complication that serves no useful purpose. A W. C. is a W. C. and if there is anything in it that requires to be covered, there is something wrong. I lave it so arranged that it is impossible to cover up any filth or foul matter. Basins with the plain old fashioned plug, are the best. Those with a complicated system of recesses, stand pipes,and valves, are to be avoided; they get out of order, and when in order the parts are not accessible, and so get foul and malodorous. The same remarks apply to baths and sinks. As to traps there is nothing to equal the S or half S, or P trap. The traps of a complicated form, such as are in common use, have not a proper scour, and are never clean. The merit claimed for them is that they are non-syphonable, which is open to question. If they are so, it is because they obstruct the rapid flow of water Syphonage can best be prevented by a proper system of back venting; and even this can he carried to an excess, and often is. I have in mind a house where all the traps are back vented with long lines of pipes, of the sizes of the traps, but with unavoidable twists and turns, that render them inopera tive, and their fitting was simply a waste of money. Venting traps in a basement, with long lines of pipes carried up in walls through the house to the roof, is not good plumbing - although at first thought it may seem so. This is where that uncommon commodity, common sense, comes in. The risk of danger from a syphoned trap is far less than the risk incurred by the getting out of order of long lines of concealed vent pipes. Fortunately the average water cock, is seldom perfectly tio'ht; they all drip a little and this drip is enough to reseal in a few minutes a trap (leprived of its seal by syphonage. Do not for a moment suppose I am advocating the running of any risk of danger from emptied traps; what Idesire to impress upon you, is that there is risk of overdoing the trap venting part of' a plant, as well as of incurring needless cost. ''Simplicity thou art a jewel'' would be a good motto for I he architect and plumber to have constantly in mind, when planning.

While on the matter ot sewers—it may not be out of place to say we have not got a really first-class joint for iron pipes. The lead joint is not to be depended upon, as, from its nature and the difference in properties between it and the iron, the lead is sure to work loose. The really permanent part of the ordinary caulked joint is the oakum. When proper oakurn is used and it is thoroughly caulked, it forms a safe material against any serious leakage of sewer air; the lead holding it in place. It has been my practice for years to put a substantial covering of putty on top of the lead while it is hot, as an additional safe guard. The best joint I know of is made of red lead and oakum This makes a permanently tight joint, with sufficient elasticity in it to allow for the slight difference in size of ordinary pipes, arising from the various changes of temperature; but it is so filthy to handle that it is unsuitable for o'eneral use in house work. Portland cement and oakum also makes an excellent and durable joint. The difficulty with it is the fact that workmen cannot he depended upon, in general practice, to take propel' care in mixing the cement; and you have to depend upon the workman, after all is said and done, as you cannot be on hand all the time to watch the various details of a complicated practice

'I'he introduction of wrought iron pipe, with the ordinary screw joints, has much to recommend it, but there is as yet unsolved the question of durability*. If the gases and fluids of the sewers attack and destroy a material possessing so great a resistance to such forces as lead and cast iron, it can hardly' be expected that so susceptible a material as wrought iron or steel would be permanent. The introclucers of this system, evidently appreciating this fact, claim to cover their pipes with some resisting material; but the coating is of necessity so thin as to not be worth the cost of its application. The pipes are thick and no doubt last many years, but there is nothing like cast iron. Speaking of coating pipes, permit me to say that the so called asphalting should be omitted; in fact in some towns the plumbing by-laws expressly forbid the use ot coated pipe. In Montreal it is so now. The coating at the best is so thin as to he of very little practical use, but it suflices to cover defects. Many a length of pipe has gone into use that, were it not for the coating covering its defects, would never have left the foundry. You cannot see blow holes, cold shuts and similar defects, when covered with a coat of black varnish or tar—politely called asphalt.

Have all pipes that serve as main stacks carried full size through the roof. Omit tlie intercepting trap there must be no interception of sewage. Once it leaves the fixture, the quicker it reaches the end of its journey (the main sewer) the better. The basic principal of the water carriage system which we use is the rapid removal of solid and liquid sewage matter from the premises by means of an adequate amount of water, and any checking of this is defeating the very object, desired to be obtained. Too much stress has been laid by ''faddists" upon the danger of sewer gas getting into the house from the main sewers. Gentlemen, there is no such thing as sewer gas ; at least so far the scientific world has riot been able to find it. Sewer air there certainly is ; that is the ordinary air, loaded with the odours of decaying animal and vegetable matter ; but tlie main sewers are all ventilated into our streets and from our streets we get the air of our houses, we cannot get it anywhere else in the city. Take no chances of the sewer air getting into the house from defects in workmanship or niaterials of the interior plumbing ; but trying to bottle it up, and in so doing obstructing the flow of sewage in the

pipes, is not the correct way of doing it.

Water-pipes are in general practice made of lead. An excellent material it is for water pipes when it is pure lead, and years ago there was no thought of seeking' a better ; but of late years so much argentiferous lead (a by product of the silver mines) has been put upon the market that the old ''stand by" has lost its character. Pure lead is soft and pliable; the argentiferous lead is hard arid brittle and liable to crack and leak. Especially is this the case when it is used for the conveyance or circulation of hot water. Many substitutes liave been introduced. Plain iron pipe is apt to rust out in a few years. Galvanized iron has been extensively used of late. Whether the very thin coating of zinc with which it is covered, is an ample protection, time alone will tell, and it is a question whether the inside of the pipe is thoroughly coated. judging from the experience with galvanized iron

*Since this was witten t learn they are trying to pull tim out in New York because ot corrosion.

