<doctype type="text">134	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" DESIGNS FOR STABLE " author="Horwood, Victor W.">DESIGNS FOR STABLE.

By VICTOR W. Horwood, Architect, Winnipeg.



Fresh air, sunlight, freedom from changes in temperature and good drainage are maxims which should be kept well in mind during the construction of every stable. The subject of this sketch is a barn, with facilities for storing farm produce, as well as housing the live stock, and the plan is capable of being enlarged or reduced without destroying its symmetry. If possible the site should be on high ground with a southern incline, and the box stalls in particular should be constructed so that one door opens to the south, while





























another opens to the stable proper. The horse stalls are to he not less than 9ft. 6in. wide to centres of partitions, and are arranged so that the horses face the outer wall. The boxes should never he less than 10ft. by 10ft

The main floor of barn can be used for sheltering

loads in stormy weather and for all general cleaning and working purposes. This floor also has the hay shutes leading from it. The floors and walls of the stables should be double-boarded with two thicknesses of paper to prevent the penetration of dust and cold The harness racks are constructed under the stairs



































which are strongly built of two-inch planks. The foundations of the stable should be carried down below the influence of frost, and if no concrete floor is to he used the earth should be levelled and a perfectly tight floor laid. The most satisfactory floor for a barn is found to be as follows: An excavation is made to depth of two feet which is filled in to depth of sixteen inches with broken stone. Over this is laid five inches o concrete and finished on the surface with cement. The face of the this floor must be crowned and sloped to the gutter, and the covers of these gutters should be made of cast iron six inches broad

with half-inch perforations, set flush with the floor. The gutters themselves should have a quarter-inch fall to their outlets. The concrete floor should be pretected by means of strong wooden slats or gratings made in three feet by six feet sections, set perfectly level on top and bevelled on the bottom to accom modate the slope of the concrete floor, The best floor for the box stalls is clay, which although not durable is healthy, easily removed and requires no drainage thorough ventilation is obtained by means of three feet by three feet windows over each stalls, placed seven feet six above the horses' heads, with ventilatort shaft





























fitted with louvre frames ; the gutter outlet should be carried in the most direct manner possible outside of stable to cess-pool ; the carriage wash drain may be connected with the surface drain as there is no organic matter carried down it , the closet should be the dry earth kind if no sewer connection is possible the posts in the stalls must be six to seven inches thick, finished with a ball on the top ; these posts will be set six feet six inches above the floor with the ends dipped in tar and imbedded to a depth of two feet six down the centre of each will be worked a channel for receving the partition boards. The posts for the box



































stalls will be finished plain and carried seven feet six above the floor; the partitions in these stalls require to be strongly built of two-inch planks, tongued and grooved, No. lumber being used in all cases ; it is essential to keep the partition planks one inch clear of the floor and the tops of the partitions must he protected by the usual stall guards. It is evident that no projections or mouldings can be tolerated where loose animals are stalled. The box stalls should be wainscoted on the inside, flush with the walls and the doors should never be less than four feet for the passage of a horse ; the stall windows will be

