<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



others that have preceded them, should have the effect of producing more stringent regulations.

The chief trouble seems to be that when the demolition of a building is decided upon, the owners are in a great hurry to have the work accomplished, the time enters, and that most seriously, into the very essence of the contract. As a rule a time limit is fixed and a bonus paid for every day by which it is anticipated by the wrecker, who is assessed a certain sum for every day that is employed beyond the day fixed. Perhaps this is the only way to properly protect the parties to the contract, but, none the less certainly, it leads to haste, which is the most fruitful cause of acccident and disaster. All things, even the destruction of old buildings, should be "done decently and in order. "— The American Contractor.





<article title=" THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE CAPITOL AT

ALBANY " author="">THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE CAPITOL AT

ALBANY.

It has now been several years since the Capitol at Albany attracted attention save as the centre of legislative wisdom of the Empire State, but it has at last emerged from its placid condition of apparent security to resume its previous role of a structural nightmare. After sinking about $25,000,000 in this building the taxpayers of New York might be warranted in hoping that it was at last completed and fit for occupation for all time, but this expectation has been rudely crushed by recent events. It has been necessary to close the monumental stairway leading up from State Street to the portion of the building reserved mainly for the Assembly. Just what has happened to the building is kept a secret by the authorities, but experienced engineers have made an examination which is said to indicate that some movement of the foundations has thrown such heavy loads on a part of the masonry as to subject it to danger of crushing. It is unfortunate that this has happened at the Assembly end of the building, for, coming after the notorious trouble with the ceiling of the Assembly chamber, the masonry of which has been replaced by papier mache in order to reduce the loads on the walls and piers, it may be thought that this branch of the Legislature is forever condemned to transact business under a sword of Damocles.

The staircase has been the source of considerable trouble in the past, and extensive repairs to it were executed about eighteen years ago. Evidently these were not adequate, however, and if the present authorities are able to do so they should secure an appropriation from the Legislature which will enable a competent engineering commission to make a thorough examination of the building. Mr. <person>Edward P. North</person>,

M.	Am. Soc. C.E., makes the following comment on the conditions, which indicates how necessary such an examination is " The difficulty with the Capitol is that it is founded on blue clay, which is without support toward the east. The result is that the clay is fluid under the weight of the building." He adds the further comment that piers carried down to bed rock will prevent the settlement or movement. Anybody who has had any experience in trying to keep heavy buildings in place on a sloping mass of clay will not need to be told that trouble will follow weighting such material if it is free to move sideways. A large structure for manufacturing purposes on the Hudson not far south of Albany has shown a tendency toward extensive travels from this cause, while the trouble in Cincinnati and Cleveland in keeping buildings in place on a mass of unconfined clay is well known. Some important structures in the former city have been giving much trouble lately on account of sliding material under their footings, while the difficulty experienced by the railways along the water front in Cleveland was shown in a number of illustrations printed in this journal a couple of years ago.

As a preliminary step, absolutely essential to the satisfactory solution of the Capitol difficulties, a

thorough examination must be made of the materials underlying- the building. This must show the slope of the bedrock and the thickness and character of every stratum above it. A chin streak of water-bearing sand below a mass of clay may cause all manner of trouble, yet its location may he difficult to detect. Such an examination will cost considerable money, yet if it is not appropriated the legislators may bring down on their heads many tons of hard and heavy masonry, in addition to the severe criticisms of their constituents.

Until very recently the problem of building foundations on clay was frequently solved with a considerable reliance on Providence as a part of the factor of stability which entered into the design. Buildings were erected on clay which was known to rest on water-bearing sand or gravel, because the expense of carrying down deep concrete foundations to the bed rock was very great. Timber piling- could not be used in most of these cases because it would be above the water level and was sure to decay in a short time. The only other method of going down to bed rock was by concrete piers put in by means of wells or caissons. More recently, however, the relatively simple concrete pile has come into use and seems to solve such foundation problems in a rational and inexpensive manner.

In constructing foundations in this manner it is important to observe that the concrete piling can be given much bigger unit loads than timber piling. Owing to the imperfections of timber piling when driven to refusal, except under careful supervision, engineers have been forced to adopt unit loads which are necessarily low. On the other hand, a well-made concete pile sunk to bed rock or good substantial gravel is, for all practical purposes, a well-braced column capable of carrying considerably higher loads than a timber pile. The material through which it is driven braces it against lateral distortion, provided this material is itself not likely to move. It is manifest that if a large part of the weight of a building is carried down to bed rock by such piles the remaining weight may be carried by the concrete footings of the walls, for there are very few soils so poor that it is not safe to load them somewhat. Just what proportion of the load should be assigned to the footings in a case of this sort is a matter of judgment, and it thus becomes evident that even though concrete piling offers a new and important constructional resource to the engineer, the sound judgment of foundation conditions which comes only from extensive experience is as necessary as ever for the most economical solution of troublesome problems. The Engineering Record.





On page ix. is an account of a rapid piece of building. Work almost as startling is the erection of the new hotel for the <firm>Annex Company at Atlantic City, N.J., </firm>by the <firm>National Fire Proofing Company</firm>. This is a six storey hotel, containing 250 rooms, extending back from the Boardwalk 423 feet, of a width varying from 50 to 125 feet which, between June 17th and November 1st, was completely constructed and handed over to the owners ready for decoration and furnishing. The modus operandi of all quick work of this kind is that of the builder who built the workshop. All work must be carried forward at the same time. Although it sounds a greater feat to build a fireproof building in a short time, this manner of building, which completes the skeleton as a first stage, lends itself particularly to carrying forward different kinds of work at the same time, as may be seen at <building>the Traders Bank Building in Toronto </building>where the plumbers and steamfitters are reaching the top storey along with the steel frame.



The idealist is thc bravest man in the world. Ideals are the stars to which we have been advised to attach our cumbersome waggons. We talk commonplacely of tides. The tides arc merely the efforts of the sea to reach its ideal, the moon. It never reaches it, to he sure, but it gets further away from its bed for the trying.

