<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	25



Gallery beams projecting through the walls are another source of trouble. The mortar dries around them and the cold pours in just where it will do most harm. Caulk them in tight with oakum if you want the house warm. You will be told they are well bedded. They may be ; but timbers when wet with mortar swell, and when dried by heat shrink ; and the air enters. You must remember that when the air is cold outside and warm in, there is a very considerable difference in pressure ; and the cold air is seeking entrance by every crack, cranny and pore. It is possible to blow out a candle through 1' o" thick of sandstone, and ordinary brick and mortar is much more porous. Keep out the cold by taking the proper common sense precautions at the time the building is being constructed ; it cannot be effectually done afterwards ; and you will have a warm house, small coal bills, contented clients, possibilities of ventilation, and a good reputation. As to percentages of' piping ; years ago we never thought of using over 615535n the ground floor,

on the first floor, 457216710n the third floor ; hut your modern building is cold with 10, 8, 7 Why? Simply because the same precautions are not taken keeping out the cold as were taken in the older buildings.

I have one request to make, as a matter of' simple justice to your heating contractors ; that is, do not put in a blanket clause in your specifications, that puts thc plumber at the mercy of an unjust and unreasonable client for the balance of his life. Plan your house, specify what you want in the way of heating apparatus, and see you get it; then, instead of running off with a clause that the building is to be heated to a given degree in coldest weather, say " If' the proprietor, after a season's trial, desires additional power or heating surface, the contractor shall be bound to supply the same at contract rates. This is perfectly fair to all but the heating contractor, as he cannot go to a finished apparatus and add to it except at a greater cost than the original work. But he will not object to this I am sure ; while the present practice is unfair and unjust to a degree. Imagine my having to put additional radiators, for nothing, in a room that had been occupied for 5 years as a bedroom and was then converted into a sitting room and imagine further any architect, calling himself an honest man and a gentleman, backing up such a claim. That it was not necessary was proved by the fact that, when a year after the additional heating was done, the house changed hands, the next. tenant had the pipes taken out, because the room was too hot. Of course there was a cranky woman in the first case.

I must now touch upon a somewhat delicate subject, but it is the most important of all the subjects we have had under consideration. Something has been said about selection of materials and methods to he pursued in their use ; but the most important selection you have to make, for your own sake—and the sake of your clients, is the man. The best is none too good. Don't let the continued cry for cheapness influence you. Your reputation you cannot afford to cheapen and every time you let a contract, you put your reputation into the hands of the man you let it to. You cannot watch him all the lime ; and if he wants watching- you have no use for him. None of us can he in two places at. the same lime, and while you are in your office---or even in your bed—the skin contractor may be wreck

ing your character. Beware of the man who is always telling you how good a job he is making for you ; who is always at the building to point out his good work, and the mistakes the other fellow is making. "

wine needs no bush." Try to select men who have some character as well as skill and means to put into their work. Beware of the cheap man.

Tenders will of course vary within a reasonable limit; but when some one is away down look carefully into the matter. No one gives a dollar for ninety cents. '[here is no necessity for so doing, the dollar is always worth a hundred cents. If a man says he is doing it, he is either a knave or a fool ; and you cannot for a moment leave your reputation in the hands of such a man. If he is really giving you a dollar for ninety cents he is a fool ; and not carrying out legitimate business principles. If he is only pretending to do it, he is a knave, arid as honest men you have no use for him. Experience will teach you, that as a rule things in this world are worth what they cost. A cheap man or a cheap house, or a cheap architect is cheap because there is something lacking. Of course, the special cases and exceptions come in ; and in the hurry of tendering, especially under some of the conditions that I am sorry to say exist, it is very easy for a contractor to make a mistake and "leave the roof off" as the saying is. In such a case it is far better to consult over the matter, and allow a man, to withdraw. Do not allow him to amend his tender; that would not he just to his competitors, but you can allow him to drop out. Otherwise when, he finds out, as he surely will, that he has made, a mistake, the temptation to try and make up his loss, will be very great; and we are all human. When you have proved your men, trust them, they will take care of your reputation for you, if they find you are careful of them. It is their interest to do so and, after all is said and done, self interest is the most powerful factor in all business matters. As a rule men do not become philanthropic until they have made their pile.

Another point is that in some so far as I know unaccountable way a man's personality and character gets into his work. Take two artists trained in the same school. One takes a canvas, stretches it, applies his colours result, a painting worth fifty thousand dollars. His confrere, using the same materials and having the same training and desire, produces a picture that would be dear at fifty dollars. The training is the same the materials alike; the difference is in the mental equipment, the personality, the character. If you want Smith's architecture you cannot by any possibility get it from Jones, although Jones may agree to give it to you. It is the same with grosser materials. A friend of mine whom I congratulated upon having built himself a fine residence, said "yes, I am satisfied with everything but the woodwork; the carpentering does not come up to my expectations." I replied, ''you have good woodwork, your carpenter is a good man and certainly did his best." ''Yes,'' he replied, 2 ''that is so, but Johnston's carpenter work was what I

was to have had." '' But Johnston did not do the work,' was my reply, ''Oh,'' he said, ''but Johnston's work was to have been the standard." When I told him that only Johnston in the whole world could give him Johnston's work, he paused a moment, then said, I ''you are right It never occurred to me before. I

engaged the wrong man."

