<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	85



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

<building>GOVERNMENT HOUSE, VICTORIA</building>, B. C. MR. <person>F. W. RATTEN



 BURY</person>, ARCHITECT, VICTORIA.



We have been furnished with neither plan of this residence nor information concerning it. The point of special interest, (besides an evidently fine site), is the entrance. The suggestion of the castle at this one point is odd, but has been accomplished with taste.

The centralization of the doorway and bay window



over, and the off-centre combination with this of thc tower and gable, make an interesting and agreeable composition.



<building>PUBLIC REFERENCE LIBRARY FOR TORONTO</building>, MESSRS.



<firm>WICKSON AND GREGG AND A. H. CHAPMAN</firm>, ASSOCIATED



ARCHITECTS, TORONTO.



The problem in a library with reading rooms is, briefly—large and undisturbed areas which can be perpetually overlooked without requiring a special staff of attendants for the purpose. The key to the problem, in this case where there are two such areas, is an entrance near the corner. The entrance is at the outer angle between the two reading rooms, and the attendants' desk is in the inner angle. Thus the attendants arc able to supervise the entrance and both rooms while discharging their ordinary duties.

The public come in contact with the attendants, or the librarian or the board room, at the point of entering the building, and need not enter the reading rooms at all until they have done all business requiring conversation and are prepared to take a seat and read.

The Secretary's office, where business is done not ending in the use of the reading rooms, has a separate entrance from S. George St. on another floor, with sufficient office room to be contained entirely in that part of the building.

The Secretary's entrance is the entrance also for employees, whose cloak room, sitting room, dining room etc. are on this floor, in the rear. Their work is (lone (apart from the stackroom) in the two pairs of rooms that stand over and under one another in the angle with a private stair of communication.

The books are brought in by the rear entrance at the unpacking room. Here they are checked by the invoices, entered in the accession books and labelled. The bindery next receives them to stamp the library mark in gold upon the back. Then they go upstairs to be checked again and receive the blind stamp on pages and plates. Finally, in the cataloguing room, the books are classified, catalogued and marked with the shelf number.

All this takes place in little groups of rooms between the stack room and the public rooms. It is not even necessary for the cataloguers to go outside the barrier to make their additions to the card catalogue. This will be contained in double ended drawers which can be pulled in to the cataloguing room or out to the reading room as is required.

It wilt thus he seen that this plan has the distinguishing mark of a good working plan—that the lines of traffic do not cross one another. It would appear from the plan before us that there is one exception in this respect. The rooms in the basement set apart for special study have no approach shown but by the private stair from the delivery room. This which might in itself be a matter for little objection, would have in the basement the greater disadvantage that

there is a quiet way out close at hand. In execution all this is being changed. The first part of the stair to the men's lavatory is being enlarged so as to be an approach to the study rooms. These will then be cut off from the lower hall so as to have no other means of access but by this stair. Thus all persons using the study rooms must, (like other readers), pass the delivery desk in coming and going.



















































Plan OF Upper FLOOR.





A reference library is essentially a place for work and the floating population of a circulating library, and the magazine and newspaper readers, are well kept outside of any access to it. The circulating library is a mere branch, and, with the periodical and children's tables, is kept apart in the basement, with an entrance of its own from the street, and with no communication with the rest of the building except that there is a private door for the attendants, connecting the circulating library with the attendants' quarters.

Thc newspaper room which occupies part of the St. George street wing is not a room for exposing current newspapers, but the place where files of old newspapers are preserved for reference. These, which take their place as historical documents along with maps, drawings, engravings, etc., are among the most valuable records of a country. For the safety of these documents from fire the main dependence is upon the site chosen, away from the crowded part of the city, now-a-days known as the ''fire zone". The building itself will have little combustible material in its construction. In a conflagration it might suffer, but apart from that—being apart, that is to say, from the region where such a thing might happen—it is expected to be safe in this respect,

The stack room is made as fireproof as possible; with a protected roof, wire-glass windows, metal fittings and a single entrance with a fireproof door. Its sheltered position is also a great advantage.

On the outside we have a facade which has a full measure of the dignity which is the merit of the Renaissance. It has also, of course, the classical character

