<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



covered by leaded art glass shades. In keeping with the rest of the fixtures, are six walnut portables, illustrated in Fig. 11, with art glass shades, and equipped with three S c.p. lamps each.

Fig. 12 shows a wrought iron billiard table fixture, of which two are used in the billiard room. From the































standpoint of illuminating engineering it is a disappointment to find two 16 c.p. lamps inside of each of the metal shades, which are painted white on the inside, and the lamps placed at a very ineffective angle. The resulting illumination is sufficient, but could have been much better accomplished by using only one





























c.p. lamp in each shade, and fitting the same with the most efficient form of prismatic reflector, which would be completely concealed by the opaque metal shade.

Figs. 13 and 14 illustrate a ceiling light, and bracket used in first floor hall and billiard room. As a general thing it is difficult to produce either a pleas-































ing effect or good illumination by the use of ceiling fixtures having arms pointing up, so as to obscure the downward lighting. This also tends to produce very inartistic ceiling shadows.

It  must be observed that the faults in illumination in this hotel are due in most cases to the pointing of

lights upward instead of downward. This has an unfortunate effect in the lighting of bedrooms where all brackets have been located with a view to furnishing illumination near dressing tables, etc., but as the lights are pointed upward, and fitted with frosted shades, the illumination is far from sufficient. It would also have been better in a hotel of this class, to provide some general lighting from a ceiling fixture in the bedrooms.





<article title=" RESURFACING HARDWOOD FLOORS ECONOMICALLY " author="">RESURFACING HARDWOOD FLOORS ECONOMICALLY. 



Every house owner knows the cost of keeping hardwood floors in repair. Notwithstanding the best care the floors in time will become marked, the surface darkened by wear, and instead of

being bright, clean and attractive the floor becomes an offense to the eye. Usually it is considered necessary to have the floors cicaned and put. in shape every year or so, and occasionally to go to the expense and bother of having them scraped by hand, a tedious and costly process.

Few people would have been willing to admit that a machine could be devised that would "scrape' a floor, get into every corner and close up to the baseboards, and do the job as neatly and with one tenth of the expense that such work is done by hand. The "Little Giant floor scraper, it is claimed, will do

	THE	"Little	GIANT" FLOOR SCRAPER.





this apparently impossible work. Sufficient tests have been given to enable the patentee and manufacturing company, the <firm>Hurlev Machine Company, Limited, of Toronto</firm>, to go before the t trade with this assertion, which it stands ready to substantiate on any occasion.



The retail lumberman should l)e interested in this invention. Frequently people of moderate means hesitate about putting in hardwood floors because of the expense of keeping them in repair. Probably the average builder does not relish paying out each year or every other year in cleaning a floor as much as it cost to put it in. Genius has come to his assistance and made it possible for him to indulge this taste for hardwood floors, with the assurance that when necessary they can be cleaned and put in shape at a very moderate cost.

Retail dealers are concerned with this invention because they can, by keeping the scrapers on hand, increase their sales of' hardwood flooring and rent or loan the machine to carpenters or decorators to scrape the floor when that process becomes necessary. The price of the scraper is $65.00 f.o.b. Toronto Canada, and this investment by a retail dealer in an ordinary community should he made good several times each year by the additional profits from selling hardwood flooring or whatever moderate rental lie may charge those who use the machine which is sold by the Hurley Machine Company, Limited. 117 <building>Home Life Building, Toronto</building>. The accompanying illustration shows that it is possible to scrape lip to the baseboards and that lie machine does what is claimed - gives a new surface to the entire floor.

