<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	191



—against placing any limit at all on the cost of the buildings to be competed for, bad after all a great deal to be said in its favour, and the Council have lately been unanimously of the opinion it would be in the interests of the Association to greatly simplify the rules governing competitions by striking out most of the clauses originally adopted, particularly that one as to the cost of building. It has been felt that if the kind of drawings to be submitted at a competition were regulated by the Association and also the Board of Examiners, that any member of the Association might enter any such competition with the best chances for fair play and expectations that the best design would win. It is therefore advised that the incoming Council will act on these suggestions.



The same object is desirable also with regard to the election of officers and Council of the Association, provision for which in the preparation of the printed matter was omitted by the typesetter and the omission was not discovered till afterwards.



Resolutions have been passed in Council bearing on these points and will also have to be attended to by the incoming Council.



The foregoing is a short resume of the general meetings of the Association to date, and the following will give an idea of the work done by the Council:



In addition to the necessary preparations for the general monthly meetings, the great bulk of which has been most acceptably attended to by our Hon. Secretary, Mr. Over, the Council have had ten meetings, and considering the youth of the organization have dealt with some important cases.



In the first place they were asked by a Citizens' Committee to assist in taking action with regard to the question of municipal ownership of power and light, but the Council decided such matters were entirely outside our domain as an Association,



Secondly: Differences having arisen between some members of the Association as to the etiquette or lack thereof, in connection with some pseudo competitions, the Committee were appealed to and exerted their best efforts, and which, while possibly not satisfactory to all concerned, showed desire at least to be guided by regulations, and evidences of praiseworthy professional action were most gratifying.

Thirdly: Application was received from the Civic Committee for the Association to appoint representative to act on the Committee in the preparation of a new building by-law for the city of Winnipeg, and the President was appointed to attend to this matter. I may say in regard to this that although about four months have elapsed since this applicaton was made, the Committee have only a few days ago been called together.



Fourth: The matter of preparing a model form of agreemem for building contracts has occupied considerable time, but the Council have not yet been able to fully decide on one—not really having had enough time at their disposal. It would certainly be well for the Association to have form they could recommend their clients to use, and the new Council should take this matter up to completion at an early date



Fifth: The Council interviewed Col. <person>Scott</person>, collector of customs, regarding the collection of duty on plans from foreign countries, and in an endeavor to try and have the duty properly collected. It seems that there is a good deal of difficulty in this matter, first, as regards the question of the amount to be collected, and secondly, the plans that are brought in privately are difficult to place. However the Council discovered that if at any time when, if after building has been erected, it can be proved that the foreign plans have been used, the duty even then can be collected. The enquiry will at least have the effect of stirring the customs up, and it might be well to ask individual members of the Association to be on the look out and inform the Council of any cases they may hear of. The Secretary has also corresponded with the <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects </assoc>on this matter. They seem to be having the same trouble down there, and it behooves all Canadians to look Out for their rights and interests.



I think I am justified in saying that we ought to be gratified from the fact that outside Associations are taking an interest in our work, having made enquiries by correspondence, particularly with regard to our evening on reinforced concrete.



The Council have also arranged that a list of the names of draughtsmen seeking positions is to be kept on fyle so that

<firm>Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Company Pittsburgh </firm>Fixtures