<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



<article title=" CONCERNING DRY ROT " author="">CONCERNING DRY ROT.

Mr. <person>Harry Hems</person>, of Exeter, who writes on this subject in The Builders' Journal, in answer to a request for information as to a preventive, mentions that infection with the dry-rot fungus sometimes takes place in the forest, when felled timber remains stored there for some time. The first evidence of such infection is indicated by the presence of red stripes in the sawn wood. If such wood is thoroughly seasoned the mycelium present in the red stripes is killed. If the seasoning is neglected or imperfectly done, the mycelium, which possesses the power of remaining in a latent condition for some time, commences active growth when the wood is used in any part of a building where it is exposed to dampness, and this in some cases is unavoidable, as when the ends of joists are built into a wall. Under such circumstances, dry-rot eventually appears. On the other hand, the fungus is by no means rare on old beams and hoards stored in wood yards, etc., and it is mainly from such sources that spores or portions of the spreading mycelium are introduced into buildings b new wood which has become infected.

Again, when a house that has suffered from dry-rot is being repaired, sufficient care is not exercised in the immediate destruction, by burning of all diseased wood, and portions that are not too much decayed are often stored for repairing purposes. In consequence the air in towns always contains spores of the dry-rot fungus. During the building of a house, the danger arising from the presence of dry-rot may he reduced to a minimum by taking proper precautions. A thorough system of ventilation and the avoidance of clamp, stuffy places is of primary importance. The endeavour to exclude dry-rot by hermetically closing all communications with the outer air in the spaces between flooring-hoards and joists and similar places, has been practically demonstrated to he an utter failure. In the case of a recently-constructed mansion the expenditure of many thousands of pounds was entailed in rectifying the consequences of such a proceeding. Perhaps the greatest source of danger arises where the ends of joists are built into a wall near the basement of a house, and this is more especially true where there is evidence of red stripe in the wood. As a precaution, the ends of joists should always he treated with creosote.

Coal tar is not recommended, as its power of penetrating into the wood is very limited, and by forming a waterproof coating it prevents the wood from drying.

A frequent cause of trouble is the use of damp, deadening material, or pugging and covering it over with hoards before all the moisture has evaporated. Such material should he used as dry as possible, coarse sand being the best for the purpose. The surface of boards coming in contact with deadening material

<firm>Detroit Column and Manufacturing Company Detroit Michigan

</firm><firm>William Fry Scott Toronto </firm>Structural Engineer

The <firm>Seaman Kent Company Limited Meaford Ontario </firm>Hardwood Flooring

<firm>Doolittle and Wilcox Limited Hamilton Ontario </firm>Dundas Stone

