<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MANITOBA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS " author="">MANITOBA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS. <assoc>MANITOBA ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS</assoc>

The regular monthly meeting of the Manitoba Association of Architects was held on Friday, Oct. 19th, at which Mr. <person>C. A. P. Turner</person> read to the members an excellent paper on "Reinforced Concrete Construction" Mr. Turner gave illustrations by lantern slides of various methods now used, showing the development of the work from the earliest to the latest system the last of which dispenses with beams of all descriptions his name for this construction being the "Mushroom System."

It is the intention of the Association to hold similar lectures at each of the monthly meetings, and if each one is an interesting as the last the success of the meetings for thc future is assured.



<article title=" THE USE OF SPRUCE, BALSAM AND POPLAR " author="">THE USE OF SPRUCE, BALSAM AND POPLAR.

THE CANADA LUMBERMAN was asked to obtain the opinions of the lumber trade on the following questions:

(1)	Does balsam make a good shingle?

(2)	Does spruce, poplar or balsam make good lath?

(3)	Does balsam make good weather boarding?

In submitting the questions the subscriber says "On account of the growing scarcity of pine and the tendency to bring other woods into use, no doubt others besides ourselves will be pleased to have the opinions. There seems to be, in some parts of the country, a prejudice against these woods for the above purposes, whereas in other parts they are accepted as first class material."

The answers received are given below, the numbers

corresponding to the numbers prefixed to the questions.

(1)	1 think that balsam would make a very poor shingle.

(2)	Balsam and spruce make very good lath, but of course not as good as pine. Poplar I do not know anything about.

(3)	Balsam would make fairly good weather—boarding but not nearly as good as white pine, as it is very apt to rot in any place where there is dampness and would not stay to its place as well as pine. I think the sun would curl it where there would be any chance. Balsam and spruce rot a great deal quicker than white pine.



(2)	The only question we speak on with authority is No. 2.

We believe that balsam is equally as good a lath as pine. It won't stain plaster, won't twist and nails well. We have had a few balsam lath in our office for nearly a year and they arc still white and as straight as an arrow. While spruce makes a good lath we do not like them as well as balsam.





(1)	1 do not think balsam shingles would be much use for the reason that the black knots in balsam will drop out when the timber gets dry.

(2)	Both spruce and balsam make good lath, especially balsam owing to the texture of the wood being softer than spruce as



to poplar, would say I have not seen any of these lath but think this class of wood would be very suitable, as it is taking the place of pine in some cases for door and sash work, and is considered to be almost as good.

(3)	Would think that balsam would not he very good lumber for weather boards for thc same reason as applies to shingles



(2)	We think that spruce would make good lath, and we under stand that in the Eastern States they would just as soon have hem as white pine.



(1)	We have never seen shingles made out of balsam and don't think this wood Would make good shingles, for being very much of the same nature as spruce and a good deal harder than pine or cedar, it would warp.

<firm>Canada Foundry Company Limited Toronto </firm>Artistic Fire Places