<doctype type="text">24	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



range boilers in this city, it is a most unsuitable material that will soon give trouble ; and from a sanitary point the contact of water with zinc is very undesirable. Glass lined iron pipe has also been introduced in this city, and one would suppose it was an ideal material for the purpose ; but I have had to remove it from one row of houses, as for some reason, probably the difference in the expansive qualities of the two materials, the glass after a few years began to break up, and it was no uncommon thing to draw broken glass from the taps. On the removal, and up ending of the pipes in question, small particles of glass would come out in quantity. Tin lined iron and lead pipes have also been tried, the difficulty with the tin lined lead pipe being that, in making the joints, the low melting point of the tin caused it to run and made trouble ; besides it was expensive. I have here a sample of lead lined iron pipe. It looks all right and combines the durability of the lead, with the strength of the iron. At the moment I know nothing against it but it doubtless has its weak point, probably the joint. The difficulty with all combined materials is the unequal expansion and contraction and in some cases galvanic action is set up, that rapidly destroys the material. Taking it all in all, there is nothing better than honest lead pipe for the conveyance of cold water ; and copper pipes—iron pipe size, not thin copper pipe, such as I have shown you—-for the hot water system. T he samples of copper pipe show plainly the effects of both galvanic action and the unequal expansion and contraction between the copper and the solder of which the joints were made. These samples were taken from a house on which no expense was spared in the fitting of the plumbing ; and, while the pipes did good service for a long time, in the end damaged ceilings much worry and expense were caused by their use and they had to come out.

The question of ventilation is too large and important a one for me to take up at this time ; but a few words on the heating apparatus will not be out of place. While the modern low pressure steam plant is doubtless the best for some buildings, our Canadian experience so far is that nothing can conic up to the modern low pressure hot water apparatus, for ordinary domestic purposes. And here let me say that this form of apparatus had its origin in our city ; and in no other city that I am aware of, are the dwellings of the people so generally and comfortably warmed. in fact the demands of our people in this respect approach the unreasonable—that 70° should he demanded in sleeping apartments, with a 20 below zero temperature outside, is going beyond reason, besides being exceedingly unhealthy. Imagine sleeping in an apartment at 700, and stepping out in the morning, at say 25 below zero. The wonder is that our people do not suffer more from throat and lung troubles than they do. Permit me to remark that there never has been a temperature of 30 below zero in Montreal, as far as I have been able to find out. Once, a year or two ago, it went to 26° below. That is I believe as cold as any authentic record we have for our city proper. Yet some specifications call for 700 when the thermometer is below.

I will now tell you the whole secret of having a warm house. There is no other way of getting it in our climate and I want you to keep it constantly in mind. It is to build it warm. No furnace, boiler, stove or other means of supplying artificial heat is

sufficient to counteract all the cold of out of doors; and that is what is being attempted when the house is constructed in such a manner as to let in the cold. Honestly built walls of proper thickness, with the joints filled with mortar, not merely jointed outside to look well, are indispensible. Then, no matter how thick these walls are, or how solidly they are built, there must be an air space between them and the inside plaster. This air space must contain confined air, for if the air can circulate behind the plaster, you have a perfect cooling apparatus; in fact it is on this very principal of moving; air that refrigerators are built; but confined air is a good non conductor and protection against cold. A solid wall that is plastered on the inside, or even lined with porous bricks, will not keep out the cold. It cost me several hundred dollars to find the latter out, but you can have the benefit of my experience for nothing. The walls should be back plastered between the furring, carrying the coating of plaster well up, and down, between beams; and the furring must be stopped of at the top to prevent the circulation of air. Then door and window frames must be cemented into position tightly with oakum. Stuffing material around them that looks like chopped straw or dried grass, lightly pushed in with a screw driver, as I have seen it done dozens of times, is not caulking in the frames with oakum. The object to be attained is to keep out the cold; and, if you let it in around door and window frames in ever so small quantities it gets behind your inch of plaster, and, instead of having solid walls between your house and the outer cold, you have only the thickness of plaster. If the air behind the plaster can circulate as fast as it becomes heated, it moves off to he replaced by a fresh supply of air from out of doors. The door entrances to buildings are another weak spot. In the course of construction the stone and brick beam, filling gets knocked away. The mason has gone, "Mr. Carpenter" lays his floors, sets up his steps, builds the gallery; and there openings are left; invisible but getting in their work of letting in the cold; and the house dwellers wonder why the floors and walls are so cold, and why there are draughts ; and '' paterfamilias curses the architect, the furnace man, and coal dealer, because of the size of his coal bill; wonders why ''Jones" heats his house with to tons of coal, while lie with a smaller house is never warm and burns 15 tons. The reason is ''Jones " is heating his house and his neighbour is trying to heat all out of doors—--a big contract in our climate. Another weak spot, a very weak spot; of comparatively recent origin, is the ventilated roof. It is right to ventilate the roof, but, when you let the outer air in below the roof, remember you must keep it from entering the house. A one inch rough board and a thickness of building paper is not proper construction for our winter; and hundreds of our houses are so constucted. I could give you many instances of this if necessary, I know of two first class houses where a few bags of sawdust, put on top of the boards in the attic space, made all the difference between a warm and comfortable house and a cold and uncomfortable one; and the unkindness of it was that I had to supply the sawdust and labour because I was so unfortunate as to have fitted a furnace in these houses. Sawdust is not a proper material for the purpose, but you must have something to keep out the cold. Mineral wool is a better material.

