<doctype type="text">8	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



our knowledge and that there will be no further developing or perfecting of fireproofing methods.

Even the most brief attention to the recent great fires will convince anyone that we have yet much to learn, and that the problem of protecting life and property in buildings from fire is far from its perfect solution. It is extremely probable that we shall for many years be engaged in the study of it and that we shall not attain to any degree of security without very great effort long sustained.

I have been engaged for the last twelve years in the design and construction of so-called fire-proof buildings, and I have endeavored to use the best methods available, constantly seeking for improvements and yet. I deem myself but a learner and student in this field.

The architect and the engineer, engaged as they arc in thc expenditure of their clients' money, have many responsibilities which should rest heavily upon their conscience; and I consider the question of fireproofing one which should be met with the greatest degree of conscientiousness. I recall the comment of an exasperated owner who contemplated the ruins of a fine building and who was told that his architect had not perhaps paid very much attention to fireproofing. He made this pithy comment, which I repeat without, I hope, provoking a theological discussion: "He paid so little attention to fireproofing in this world that he will undoubtedly have much time and occasion to think about it in the next."

You are operating in Toronto under a very admirable code, instituted, as I suppose, soon after the great fire of 1904, and it has many excellent provisions, better in many respects than some codes which were formulated expressly to provide for high grade fireproofing,—as the Chicago code or the New York code—and in anything that I may suggest to you to-clay I shall not have it in mind to criticise this code, but only to impress upon you the necessity of constant revision, The development of building material and the new uses of old material progress and change so rapidly that a code which would fairly meet the conditions of three years ago would to-day stand in need of considerable revision and, as I believe that the architects in any community should feel that they are responsible for the excellence of building methods and for the quality of work produced, so you should consider that the responsibility of keeping your codes modernized and up to the standard of the best practice rests upon you.

A consideration of the subject of fireproofing naturally brings one to the question of high building practice, for the reason that the fireproofing problems in a high building, that is a building with a steel frame, are naturally more complicated and difficult than in the case of a building of moderate height with masonry walls and steel floor framing.

Our ideal or standard fireproofing work as I conceive it would be a building planned first of all to meet the requirements of its use; secondly, with a view to proper fire-proof construction; that the building when completed should be a stove without a flue, and a stove with many compartments, in any one of which a fire might develop and burn itself out. without being communicated to another compartment; or that it should be considered, in respect to possible conflagrations, as a fireproof vault protecting its contents from an attack from without.

In the present state of the art of building and with the present fixed habits or customs on the part of the users of buildings it is not possible to save the general interior finish of a building—the furniture, or, indeed, any of the contents—-and we are therefore at the present time striving not to preserve the building and all its contents from fire but to increase the amount of salvage. Furniture is still made of wood and will be for a long time, carpets and rugs will be demanded until our standard of comfort is changed; curtains, papers and books and all of the thousand and one articles that go to make up the contents of a building, are so much fuel and we can only succeed, if we succeed at all, in protecting this fuel from attack from the exterior or in preventing from burning to destruction the compartment-in which it is placed.

Because our problem is largely one of salvage, economical considerations control us to a considerable extent in fire-proofing work.

It would undoubtedly be possible to construct a building which would withstand the attack of any conceivable outside conflagration and which would be so planned that a fire in any compartment could not possibly communicate to any other compartment; but such a building would at the present time be commercially impossible; therefore we are obliged to steer a middle course between what we conceive to he the best possible construction and the construction which is economically possible.

I have not given exhaustive attention to insurance rates, but so far as I have studied these I have felt that the insurance companies were not making fireproof building- construction sufficiently attractive to owners by a reduction of rates.

I am not going to appeal to the conscience of the Insurance Companies. for an obvious reason; but I shall attempt to appeal to the intelligence, as they are the people who bear the burden. for the community, of the fire risk, and to suggest to them that so far as they stimulate the added investment of the owner's money in the fire-proofing- of buildings. they are to that extent, perhaps to a greater extent, protecting themselves from the spread of great conflagrations and encouraging the raising of the standard of building construction. until such time—which

of course the millenial period—when fire insurance companies shall no more exist.

The fire risk as I have already indicated has two aspects; one the external risk from the burning of surrounding buildings, the other the internal risk from fire in any compartment.

The history of all the great conflagrations, such as the Tor

onto fire, the Baltimore fire or the Paterson, N.J. fire, shows conclusively that in any city, even the most modern, the risk from external conflagrations is much the greatest. In Baltimore there was a vast area of small, low poorly constructed buildings surrounding few comparatively modern and reasonably well built structures the fire, starting some distance from the high buildings, became, under the influence of the high wind, a long flaming torch which, lashing against the high buildings, at once pierced the windows and swept through these buildings from side to side.

The progress of the Paterson fire was much the same as in Baltimore; here the high buildings or fireproof buildings were seriously injured by the fire blazing in the surrounding, low, combustible buildings. A high building in an isolated situation is therefore subject to very great risks, much greater than would be the case with a low building in the same situation.

In the city of New York we had a situation which is, perhaps, different from any other in the world. There, by reason of geographical conditions and by reason of commercial habit, we have a comparatively small area where the most valuable business of the country is condensed, as it were, and where ground values are so very great that it is commercially possible to build to a great height and get large returns. We have consequently in New York a comparatively restricted area of very high buildings. That area is roughly from Battery Place to Fulton street and from West Broadway over to William street—a comparatively small area. There you have a large number of buildings in which there is a comparatively small percentage of inflammable or combustible material; but there are very few situations like that, and we have to contemplate the building of structures, conspicuous by reason of their height, in the midst. of low buildings with possibly masonary walls but with timber floors, and therefore exposed to very great risk from without. My relation to fires in Toronto is indicated by that situation. I have had to do with this problem of an isolated high building in a busy commercial city, but a city which is, I believe, at the very beginning of its high development. I had the pleasure last evening of attending the banquet of this Association and I gained from that meeting, by listening to the addresses, a new idea of the possibilities of Toronto. But I believe you will see, as I, an outsider, will see, that Toronto is at the beginning of things; that you are probably destined to begin very shortly an area of very large building improvements, necessarily occurring in the central part of your city, and that you will have to face this question of fire risk in its commercial aspect, and for that reason I am going to offer you suggestions which have had their germination in my experience in Toronto. They are the suggestions of a man "red from the field" so to speak. I have had, by reason of other multitudinous professional engagements, very little time to prepare, and so I shall talk to you about the things which occurred to me and which are brought to me in my daily practice in Toronto and in cities of like character. I am assuming that you have to build structures with a steel frame. These frames are solely for structural requirements and to meet structural conditions. That is, you do not put into one or two thousand tons of steel any very large margin to take care of fire or anything unexpected. You make your steel just up to the limit and there you stop. Now if you are going to make that building reasonably safe from the standpoint of fire risk, you have got to protect that skeleton, you have got to put a skin on it; and if you are going to make it a really first class fire-proof building, you have got to put fat on it. I shall talk to you about the skin and urge you to put the fat on besides.

How to protect this steel skeleton. Now at the outset, departing from timber constructions, architects supposed a steel member was fire-proof. There never was in the world a greater fallacy. The other day I had an opportunity to observe the wreck on the Lackawana & New Jersey Central Ferry House. There were two large buildings constructed entirely of metal. The only parts of the buildings which were not of metal were the floors. The plaster was on metal lath; the trimmings and doors were of metal. That wreckage looked, from the river front, very much like a bird cage that had been put into a bonfire. It had sunk together, the wires twisted and matted together like hair. There was seemingly very little in the building to burn, and yet that steel cage was a wreck. That is the result which we find in every example of unprotected steel. There is nothing in the world more dangerous than unprotected steel, In the case of the <building>Home Life Insurance Building in New York</building>, which was destroyed or at least seriously impaired by a fire five or six years ago, we had the steel cage reasonably well protected with masonary, with tire-proof floors, and on the whole a first class example of the fire-proofing of that period. The stone front of the building was seriously damaged. Some of it had to be entirely replaced. But the most serious damage to that building was due to steel tie beams which ran across from one wing to another and which were not protected. The fire from the adjoining building-, lashing against these steel tie beams, expanded them and threw the wings out of plumb. I have never seen a more striking example of the damage caused by an unprotected steel structure than that. The building was seriously damaged, but at the same time the salvage in it was a very high percentage of the total cost, except for the fact that a man had put a steel beam across the court and had not protected it. If it had been protected the two wings would not have been disturbed and there would have been no task except the replacing of the stone work and interior trimming.

The task of repairing the building was exceedingly increased and rendered more difficult by that single unprotected steel member. We must therefore at the outset address ourselves to the task of protecting the steel skeleton. In an ordinary

