<doctype type="text">148	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



that the lower part of a wall should have extra thickness and that the upper wall should bear on the centre of the lower; but we do not build it so. The inconvenience of doing so is greater than the need of it. We make a small offset or a difference in material, merely for the purpose of expression—for aesthetic reasons. We should therefore continue to do so.

The cornice is not a constructive feature. It could shed water clear of the wall if it were allowed to do so; but cornices have usually been provided with gutters; and, unless we are mistaken, temple walls had cornices before temple roofs were pitched. The cornice is there to emphasize the top of the wall. Its purpose also is aesthetic, and as necessarily applicable to the wall of a monolith as to that of any other description of building.

In the same manner the sills ---what constructive function they have is still required, and the aesthetic emphasis of it also. There is an interesting account in Garbett of the rationale of the blocks one finds under the ends of Venetian Gothic sills, just under the architraves of the opening. These have no constructive function, though the sills project a good deal. Their purpose is aesthetic; to finish the line of the architraves with a handsome blob where they are crossed by the line of the sill. Any one can see the value of that. It is a good example of aesthetic truth. Garbett credits the designers of guttae under the Doric triglyph with an understanding of it, if not with its discovery. It and other truths of a like nature are as old as architecture, and why should we—how can we in fact dispense with them now?

It does not follow however because we must have a cornice it must consist of cyma reversa, dentil, astragal, ovolo, etc., etc. Particularly if the cornice is not of stone, may we claim a rest from this monotony. It is not true, as scholars tell us, that further invention is impossible. It cannot be true. The evidence is the other way. What a difference there is between a cornice of the Orders and the cornice of the Doges' Palace, or of the Ca'Doro at Venice ! Yet these latter are quite satisfactory. They are made up, it is true, of old elements—a row of tombstones and a string course. In that sense, of course, there is no invention ; but nobody wants to invent new elements, any more than we want to invent a new scale. It is new times we want. And there is no reason why we should not get them.





<article title=" THE DUTY ON FOREIGN PLANS " author="Bain, John">THE DUTY ON FOREIGN PLANS.

We have received the following copy of a letter to the Registrar of the Ontario Association of Architects, enclosing the new Memorandum of the Department of Customs for the guidance of Appraisers in fixing the duty payable on important architectural drawings

OTTAWA, June 13th, 1906.



The Secretary, the Ontario Association of Architects, Toronto, Ont.

DEAR SIR,—Referring to the representations made by your Association to thc Tariff Commission at their session in Toronto in November last, relative to the Customs treatment of imported blue prints and building plans, [ beg respectfully to enclose you herewith for your information a copy of memorandum of in. structions which has been issued by this Department for the guidance of its officers throughout the Dominion.

Yours very truly,

(Signed) JOHN BAIN.



Secretary, Tariff Comn.

<article title=" APPRAISERS' BULLETIN NO. 152.

" author="">APPRAISERS' BULLETIN NO. 152.

File No. 47, 693.	For the Guidance of Customs Officers

	INDEX SUBJECT.	Commissioner of Customs.

	Blue Prints arid	Department of Customs,

	Architects Plans.	Ottawa, 7th June, 1609.



CURRENT VALUES FOR DUTY-(Class B). B).





ENTRY OF ARCHITECTS PLANS AND BLUE PRINTS.



Memo. No. 7278 respecting Architects Plans is cancelled and the following rules are submitted for guidance. in the entry and appraisement of such plans

i.	The rate of duty on Drawings, Blue Prints and Building Plans is 20 per cent ad valorem tinder Tariff item 130. Specifications, however, are free as "manuscript," when written or typewritten.

2.	Special Plans of Buildings, or blue prints as substitutes therefor, are to be valued for duty at the charge usually made by the Architects for the drawings, without the specifications. This charge may be fixed for duty purposes at one per cent. of the estimated cost of the building to be erected.

Detailed drawings, or blue prints as substitutes therefor, if imported separately, to he appraised at a valuation of one per cent. of the estimated cost of such detail.

3.	When the building is estimated to cost less than $10,000, the plans or blue prints thereof may be appraised at the usual charges for furnishing same, according to the special circumstances in each case irrespective of the preceding rule (No. 2).

4.	Blue prints or copies of Building Plans may be admitted at the cost of production when duty has been ouce paid on the original or a copy thereof in Canada under the foregoing rules, upon proof of such payment to the satisfaction of the Collector at the Port of entry.

5.	Blue prints of cars and machinery, being copies of standard designs, may he valued for duty at 75 cents per pound.

<article title=" COMPETITIVE PLANS FOR EXHIBITION " author="McDougal, John">COMPETITIVE PLANS FOR EXHIBITION



6.	Competitive Plans brought in for inspection may be entered as for warehouse and inspected under Customs supervision, subject to payment of duty within 6o days unless then rejected and ex-warehoused for exportation.



JOHN McDouglad,



Commissioner of Customs.



Although building plans by foreign architects are dutiable, the collection of the duty has been based upon an estimation of the value of plans that reminds one of the appraisement of an oil painting as so much for the paint and so much for "the man's time a layin' of it on". The customs officers have shared the general misconception of the nature of an architect's drawings, and rated the value of incoming blue prints by the time they supposed to have been necessary to make the original tracing—say five to ten 50 cent hours. The Associations of Architects, both of Quebec and Ontario, have more than once objected to this estimate of the value of architectural drawings, and have stated the doctrine, which it seems so impossible for the man in the street or the man on the bench to understand—that architectural drawings are not an end, but an instrument towards an end, which is service. In this case it is clear that the building-owner's importation is the service of the foreign architect. The drawings are the means by which he executes the service for which he was employed, viz. the erection of a building; and their passage through the Custom House marks the occasion of the importation. Whatever the architect charges the client is the value of the importation, and the customs rate should be assessed on that. These charges, which range from one per cent. for preliminary to five, seven and ten for complete services, are not likely to trouble the Custom House in the preliminary stage, when the tracings are small enough to travel in a letter. It is working drawings that come into the country in such bulk that their nature has to be acknowledged. The rating of one per cent. as the "charge usually made by the architects for the drawings" is therefore still below the mark as regards the value of the services represented by the drawings. It is quite unnecessary to present this valuation in the form of an assertion that it is "the charge usually made by the architects for the drawings", and there is no reason to believe that the Department of Customs does not perfectly well know that the statement is untrue. The valuation of an architect's services has been explained to the Department more than once, fully accompanied by printed documents.

