<doctype type="text">68	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

















































<article title=" PARSONAGE FOR THE METROPOLITAN CHURCH, TORONTO " author="">PARSONAGE FOR THE METROPOLITAN CHURCH, TORONTO.

MESSERS. SPROATT AND ROLPH, ARCHITECTS, AND

S. G. CURRY CONSULTING ARCHITECT,

TORONTO.



The Metropolitan Methodist Church occupies the centre of an entire block of land ; and, though a very large building, there is room in any one of the corners of the lot for a large house like this parsonage. As the Queen street cars run along the south side of the grounds and the Church street cars run on the east, the only quiet corner is the northwest. It is fortunate that this was the available corner for it allows every room of the parsonage to take its proper position with reference to the points of the compass and to have at the same time the most suitable disposition upon the grounds. The entrance, library and waiting room are in touch with Bond St. on the west the kitchen entrance and yard with Shuter St. on the north ; the living room and dining room are south and east and on the interior of the lot. The library, living room, and dining room get a clear look out to the south for the whole depth of the block for the east line of the house is exactly on the west line—the porch line of the church.

With this general account of the disposition of the building on the ground we may leave our readers to study the plan for themselves.

As the donor has enabled the work to he carried out thoroughly in stone, including the yard wall, the work will have the substantial appearance that a house so far down town should have.

Our cuts on the illustration sheets are reduced as nearly as possible to a scale of 8 feet to an inch, and the south elevation shown above is half that scale— 16 feet to an inch.



DOMINION BANK, BRANCH ON CORNER OF BATHURST AND



Bloor STREETS, TORONTO. MR. <person>EDEN SMITH,

</person>

ARCHITECT, TORONTO.



We have procured photographs of this bank building. (which does not seem to have received as much notice as it deserves), in order to illustrate a point of view, which seems to us a good one, for the treatment of branch banks. The bank occupies the corner of the ground floor. There is a residential flat above, with a small shop a branch bakery store—under the oriel of the flat. These parts are suitably differentiated in the design, as may be seen, and the bank seems to have precisely the amount and style of distinction that it should have to suit its locality. The design, based on the present development of the Renascence, (as they call it now), in England is distinctly of our

own generation and nationality. Its flexibility in the hands of an original designer is well shown in this bank in which dignity and domesticity are harmonized without apparent effort.



THE <building>FEDERAL LIFE ASSURANCE BUILDING; HAMILTON</building>, ONT. MESSRS. <firm>FINLEY & SPENCE</firm>, ARCHITECTS; MONTREAL.

This is a steel frame building with terra cotta protection. The two base stories will be faced solidly with granite; the cornice storey will be terra cotta.

The entrance on Main street admits to a large vestibule from which open the Company's office on the right hand, and a banking office on the left. The general office of the Company, for the public and for clerks is on the eighth or top storey. This office will be lighted both by windows and by a domed ceiling 25 feet high. On this floor are also the offices of the superintendent of agents, the chief accountant and the actuary. The seventh storey is occupied by the manager, the secretary, the solicitor and the medical director and examiners; and here will be a large board room handsomely furnished and panelled in mahogany.

The stairs and elevators serving these offices are reached either from the vestibule, which opens upon a hallway 13 feet wide, or, more directly, by the James street entrance, which is opposite to the elevators.

The five intermediate floors will be divided into offices for rent.

On the ground floor the ceiling will be 18 feet high; in the Company's offices at the top the ceilings will be 14 feet high; and they will be 11 feet high in the intermediate storeys.

Externally the building is distinctly expressive of the class of commercial building to which it belongs. A certain freedom is desirable in the handling of buildings which are not set up for monuments so much as for advertisements. Here the severely classic, if one may say so, is not in perfect taste. It has the crudeness of imperfect culture. It is a case for free enrichment. And if the enrichment is done with taste, as it seems to be in the example before us, it is the proper way to escape the monotony of book-renaissance and give our buildings both the touch of the individual designer and the touch of our own generation. The building before us has the merit of distinctly belonging to our own generation.





Paris spends $100,000 a year to keep her trees in other and to plant new ones. Every street of a certain width is entitled to a row of trees on either side while every street of a certain width



has a double row.

