<doctype type="text;ad">xii,	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" CANADIAN ROUGH CASTING " author="">CANADIAN ROUGH CASTING.

Rough casting, or, as it is sometimes called, slap dashing, both of which are synonymous with the French hourdage, rough work, and ravalement, having a similar meaning, is a method of plastering the outside of buildings much used in the northern part of Canada because of its being durable, cheap and well adapted to keep out cold winds during the long winters in that section of the world. The methods of applying rough cast and the mixing thereof do not materially differ from the methods adopted in Northern Europe or even in the Northwestern States, but it is these minor differences, says a writer in an exchange, that make the Canadian rough casting superior, so far as durability is concerned, to much that is done in other parts of the world.

There are frame cottages near the city of Toronto and along the northern shores of Lake Ontario that were plastered and rough casted exteriorly over 40 years a go, and the mortar to-day- is as good and sound as when first put on, and it looks as though it was good for many years yet if the timbers of the building it preserves remain good. Rough cast buildings are plentiful in every province in the Dominion from Halifax to Vancouver and from Lake Erie to Hudson Bay, and when built, and the rough cast properly mixed and properly applied, the result is always satisfactory, It is quite a common occurrence In Manitoba and the Northwest Territories in the winter to find the mercury frozen, yet this intensity of frost does not seem to affect the rough casting in- the least, though it will chip bricks, contract and expand timber, and render stone as brittle as glass in many cases, and the effect on iron and steel is such as may prove dangerous if exposed to sudden and unexpected strain.

In preparing a frame or log building for rough casting care must be taken in putting down the foundation. A good stone or brick foundation is, of course, the best, but where rough casting is intended stone or brick foundations are seldom used because of their

cost, and the builder is compelled to use posts of wood. The posts are generally made of white cedar, which having a lasting quality of 35 or 40 years if sound when used. The posts are put in the ground from 3 to 5 feet, the deeper the better, as they should 'be deep enough in any case to prevent frost from forcing them upward. When a sufficient number of posts have been properly placed a line is struck on them the proper height from the ground and the tops leveled off. The sills are then placed—all joints being broken on top of posts—and the whole made level. These sills and all the other timber, scantlings and lumber should be well seasoned, if possible, for the greatest enemy to the plasterer is unseasoned timber; shrinkage of joists, posts and scantling not only breaks the bond of the mortar, but causes great cracks in corners and angles that no amount of pointing or patching can ever make good.

When the frame is up and the rafters on and well secured the whole of the outside should be covered with good, sound, common inch stock pine, hemlock, spruce or other suitable lumber, dressed to a thickness, if put on diagonally so much the better, but this is not absolutely necessary if the rough casting is to be of the best quality, as will appear hereafter.

When it can be done it is best to get all partitions set in place and lathed, the roof on and all necessary outside finish or grounds put in place and made ready to receive the lath. The carpenter must prepare his finish or grounds for finish to accommodate the extra lath, as the walls will be thickened accordingly.

For the cheaper sort of rough casting in one or two coats the following method of lathing is employed:

Nail laths on the boarding-over paper or felt, if paper or felt is used—perpendicularly 16 inches from center to center if 4-foot laths are used, or 18 inches or 1 foot from center to center if 3-foot laths are used. The whole surface to be rough casted will require lathing this way. When done lath as is ordinarily done, with No. I pine lath, breaking joints every 15 inches. Put

<firm>Luxfer Prism Company Limited Toronto </firm>Marble Mosaic Floors