<doctype type="text">124	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

Light and Shade.—The advantage that may be taken of effects of light and shade might also be pointed out.

Solids and Voids.—The importance of a right adjustment of solids and voids, both in respect of size and position, would come next.



How easily a false scale may be set up, and a building made to look insignificant, by broad sheets of plate glass in the windows.

Balance and Symrnetry.—These give a very distinct character to a building, and aid in setting forth its special purpose. There is or can be rhythm in architecture, as in verse.

Material.—The right use of the various kinds of material furnishes an interesting and useful subject for public instruction.

The general principle having been laid down that every kind of material has its special characteristics, and should be treated accordingly—in other words, that its very best should be got out of it—a brief account of the natural qualities of the chief building materials (stone, wood, metal, bricks, plaster, etc.) would follow.

The following leading thoughts are appended by way of illustration

When stone and brick are used in conjunction, the former should be accorded the more honourable parts, e. g., quoins, architraves to doors and windows, sills, cornices, etc.

Granite, even if it could be carved for mouldings, should be used rather for strength and solidity than for ornamental features.

When the beauty of marble or wood is in its figure or colour, it is best exhibited in the form of slabs or panels; if moulded, the forms should be large.

Stone is granular, wood fibrous; each has its appropriate forms and mouldings, suggested by the natural qualities of the material.

Wrought-metal admits of the finer and more delicate forms, metal cast in moulds naturally assuming a more bulbous shape, Both kinds have their appropriate place and effective use.

Well-known examples of wrought-iron and cast-iron gates and railings afford interesting illustrations.

The foregoing summary indicates the main lines along which the education of the public in matters architectural should be  developed.

Whether in public lectures, or in articles published in bookform, illustrations should be abundant.

There are signs of a wave of public interest in architecture which, "taken at the flood,' may become permanent and lead to great results.





<article title=" REINFORCED CONCRETE " author="">REINFORCED CONCRETE.



By PROFESSOR Louis CLOQUET, of the <assoc>Central Society of Architecture of

Belgium.</assoc>



Professor <person>Louis Cloquet</person>, on behalf of the Central Society of Architecture of Belgium, read a paper, the following being an abstract

The old style edifice was characterized by the separation between two distinct parts, the walls and the gable. There is a lack of solidarity between the two. At the point where the trusses of the frame rest upon the walls there is something like an articulation. The introduction of the metallic frames has not at once remedied this characteristic defect of buildings formed of stone walls and gables of wood. For a long time it was customary to combine trusses of iron similar to the wooden trusses. The solution of the problem of the large halls only made a decisive step in advance when the centred trusses were introduced, which have their starting point on the ground, like the trusses of the Dion pattern. From that moment the solidarity between the vertical and the inclined parts was secured. However, it is only the trusses which cannot be deformed. The solidarity between the vertical and the inclined parts is not realized in the inclosing surfaces. There is lack of homogeneousness between the two parts of the building—that is to say, its skeleton or frame and its wall. Logic claims a more radical solution, which would consist in establishing solidarity not only between the uprights and the trusses, but rather between the wall and the roof. This is what the use of reinforced concrete enables us to realize. The side wall may even disappear or be made one with the vault. The whole will show almost uninterrupted surfaces on the outside as well as on the inside, with the absence of the encumbering internal protrudings of the frames. The new arrangement has, therefore, as a result to save the trusses, and only to maintain a surrounding wall which supports

itself without any assistance. Now experience has shown that buildings conceived on this plan do not cost more than those carried out in thick stone walls with metallic gables, and that they are solid.

If it is question of a building with stories, the floor of reinforced concrete takes with advantage the place of the old systems. The most characteristic consequence of the use of reinforced concrete is the suppression of the roof, as the uppermost ceiling can be used as a cover and constitute an inhabitable terrace. This kind of construction lends itself, moreover, to the boldest rakes or overhanging structures.

This system, if applied in a rational manner, is able to bring a change into the architectural forms. It simplifies the forms, it causes the cumbersome complexities of the frames and floorings to disappear, it simply carries out all the surrounding or separating surfaces. It makes disappear every distinction between the wall and the roof. It introduces an architecture consisting of so elastic surrounding walls that these can be given any dimensions required, according to the space it is useful to inclose. The habitations will take the shapes of parallelopipedics terminated by terraces, and the large buildings with curved vaults with visible estrades. We must he prepared to see sculptures and moulded relief work disappear and coloured ornaments to prevail. A radical change in the internal and external forms of the buildings will be the consequence of the substitution of a concrete, solidary, homogeneous structure for our former architectonic organism. All the forms proper for a combination of marked-out stones and covered over with plaster, which will henceforth no longer be used, would here be devoid of expression and aesthetic value. They must be given up and other methods must be found.

We have in mind three kinds of form: those of convenience, those of structure, and those of expression.

The forms of convenience, by which the building receives its complete usefulness and a character in harmony with its destination, satisfy the mind without causing pleasure to the eye. Those forms of convenience which are, if not the most pleasing, at least the most excellent, can be carried out to perfection by making use of the processes, so eminently practical, of reinforced concrete.

The forms of expression are those by which the architect and his assistants put their imagination and their soul into the building, in order to impart to it the eloquence of a pleasant aspect The ideal is that they shall form an integral and inseparable part of the structures. In the buildings constructed of reinforced concrete there is little scope for the artist's talent, especially the sculptors. There remains hardly anything except the superficial decoration by painting and some polychromic, ceramic or other adornments, but for the artists in colour a vast field is opened for their creations.

The forms of structure, either real or fictitious, are the principal ornament of the buildings produced by the old methods. They are those organic forms which give life to the aspect of buildings with walls of marked-out stones.

In the old-fashioned conception a building is to be compared with a living organism where we can distinguish a skeleton, various members and a sort of muscular system. Reinforced concrete does not afford these elements of interests and charm it leaves the impression that the work has been carried out in too docile a material, on which the sacred labour of the workman and his traditional processes have not left the traces of the noble struggle between the artisan and matter. We do not find the same beauty in this work all cast in one block in a dead and dull-coloured material, without apparatus, without organism, with which the best thing that can he done is to hide them beneath a superficial decoration.

In conclusion, the new processes, economical and powerful as they are, are precious from the point of view of certain bold and complex accomplishments. They are devoid of the charm of an artistic expression. Besides, economy is only a relative law

and of a secondary character		and the boldness of the structure



is not always required. A process which is prevalent from these

two points	of view does not impose itself to the exclusion of the



others. Recourse may be had to it for the economic satisfaction of utilitarian projects, for the realization of comfort and for the solution of bold problems. But it will never eliminate from architectural practice the noble and artistic combinations of masonry work in marked-out stones, moulded and sculptured, of frameworks in wood and in metal, of superstructures with vaults, etc.

