<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MUNICIPAL HEATING AT ST. THOMAS.

" author="">MUNICIPAL HEATING AT ST. THOMAS.

St. Thomas, Ontario, operates its own street railway and electric lighting plant, using steam engines for the purpose. These engines until recently threw away their exhaust steam ; to-day a capital plan utilizes most of this steam in heating the City Hall, the Public Library, the Gas building, and a storage battery building. All told these premises formerly demanded a yearly outlay of about $1,200 for fuel ; in addition to saving that amount there is now no expense for stoking- and its allied drudgery. The cost of installing the system was but $1,967.80.

In detail the plan is simplicity itself. The exhaust steam takes its way through a heater filled with small, corrugated copper piping filled with water. This water, duly brought to almost the same temperature as the steam, is forced by a pump through a main pipe, four inches in diameter, to the buildings to be

warmed, where it is connected with branches, pipes and radiators. A return pipe carries back comparatively cool water to the boilers at the central station. To guard against wasteful radiation the main pipes are laid underground within a stout covering of asbestos wool wrapped with hemp packing, surrounded by twelve-inch vitrified tiles joined in cement. The heater is 650 feet from the City Hall ; the other three buildings are in line.

Notwithstanding the large duty assigned to the exhaust steam at headquarters, still more might be performed, so that a project is being discussed for extending the system to two schools and a hospital about a quarter of a mile distant. A point not yet clear is whether on very cold days it might not be necessary to supplement the exhaust steam by live steam which, coming from so great a distance would he subject to decided loss in transmission.

<firm>Doolittle and Wilcox Limited Hamilton Ontario </firm>Crushed Stone Slag and Building Stone

The <firm>Hamilton Bridge Works Company Limited Hamilton </firm>We Build Structural Steel