<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	37



above the square form we think. The sitting room, with front door opening into it and staircase proceeding from it seems to be transformed into that uncomfortable object of some women's ambition know as a

ception hail". That it is intended for more domestic use is shown by the piano. Factum Est is to be commended for laying down his furniture in the plan; though this practice need not enter into the drawing of any but the sketch plan. As to the execution of drawings would say that a wash drawing should have less line and a line drawing less wash. The coloured perspective is juvenile; not so bad in tone of color, but lacking quality of light. If the position of the larder were changed, the chimneys could be grouped into one stack which would be better. Drawing speckled and uncertain.

Drawing reserved for publication.

Dominion.-With the exception of the verandah, which is unduly costly, this is a feasible house and the most interesting of the original plans, but it has too many faults for a good place; faults which seem to indicate want of attention to practical matters. The verandah, for example, besides having only five feet of width, as a result of the expense of building it in the manner drawn, occupies at its base the whole width of the lot, and the eaves project on the neighboring lots. The columned archway to the living room does not suggest a mechanic's cottage ; and comfort, with the front door so close, would be better served by a door. Thc dark pantry is quite unnecessary; for the larder might take the place of the coat closet; the kitchen entry be (more conveniently) in part of the present pantry space and the pantry moved up to the window. A coat closet if needed would come out of the hall, leaving only a portion of the stair open.

Owl.—A good plan with originality in position of stair; but think one lean too from front of gable might be worked with advantage. It is not good practice to make the middle of the three gable windows higher than the other two. Drawing clean but lacking blackness and vigour.

Ictinus.-Is good in plan with space well utilized; we think, however, that east window of dining room should be dispensed with. The four gables necessary to make 1st floor available are too much and a little extra height of wall would dispense with those on front and rear, and there would be gain in repose. Drawing clean and with certain vigor but hardly correct in scale; the window bars and other features being coarse. Drawing reserved for publication,

(1,500). At first sight a good plan with just sense of space values, but on second thoughts would judge angle nook spoiled by necessities of traffic to kitchen and to upstairs. Drawing clean but crude. Drawing reserved for publication.

PALLAS.—The wide single pane windows of the exterior are on a different scale from the general composition of the house. The interior is greatly wanting in simplicity. Drawing wanting in decision.

511, 1 5.—A story and half house with bedroom and bathroom downstairs to overcome lack of space in half story. This is neither comfortable nor really economical. If there is to be parlor in this class of house, think fireplace should be in dining room which is used as sitting room.

X. -----Plan simple and provides the accommodation

fairly well. Suggest steeper roof and more accentuated gablets as improvement to front. Drawing.  rudimentary. 

HOPE. —Drawing weak and undecided style of house; two stiff and German like for good Gothic ; plan not bad but too spreading ; and hall and stair case pretentious for house of this class.

N.O.T. PEN. N.O.T. Pen is to be congratulated on putting three elevations, a perspective and two plans of an American Gambrel roof house, as good as the majority of such, on a piece of paper 7 1/2" x 12". The drawings denote considerable knowledge but he has put absurd limitations on his work by using such a poor little bit of absorbent paper.

WHEEL OF FORTUNE.—IS strongly reminiscent of a style of city house which never had any reason for its prevalence, being without distinctive character as a home. Drawing neat and if done by young person gives promise of better things when confidence of touch is gained.



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITION. A



HOUSE OF SMALL COST IN A COUNTRY TOWN. DESIGN AWARDED FIRST PRIZE, BY MR. E.H. YEIGH;



DESIGN AWARDED SECOND PRIZE, BY MR.



<person>W.	B. VAN EGMOND</person>.



Comment upon these designs is included in the report of the judging committee on page 36.



VIEWS IN BERLIN AND ST. PETERSBURG, ILLUSTRATING THE PAPER BY PROFESSOR <person>P. E. NOBBS </person>ON THE OFFICIAL



ARCHITECTURE OF EUROPEAN CAPITALS.





DINING ROOM FIREPLACE AT THE NOOK, BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND. MESSRS. CROUCH AND BUTLER, ARCHITECTS.



Messrs. <person>Crouch</person> and <person>Butler</person> are the authors of a hook called the Apartments of the house which errs on the side of over culture of antiquity. Our illustration is an example in their own work of their deduction from old examples that half timbering should he shown on the interior of a house in the construction of which it has place.



<assoc>ARCHITECTURAL STUDIO CLUB</assoc>, TORONTO. DESIGN FOR VILLAGE CROSS, AWARDED FIRST MENTION.



Under this general term was included any central object, for a cross-roads or common, having some public utility—as a clock or fountain.



We have obtained this drawing partly with the design of calling the attention of Toronto students to the advantages of joining the club.



The account of the club on page 36 has been furnished us at our request. It should be added to that account that the club has a constitution and fees but membership is unlimited.



SKETCHES IN OLD QUEBEC BY MR. <person>J. ROXBURGH SMITH</person>, MONTREAL.



Our reduction of these very nice pencil sketches has not done full justice to them. While we regret to be obliged to say this we take the opportunity of warning students that the pencil drawing and washed drawing are very difficult to reproduce with an effect equal to thc original. If they want to have sketches that will reproduce well, they should draw for reproduction— that is in line and with a material that is truly black, as India ink or crayon.

