<doctype type="text">152	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



and finding a path through a wilderness of merchandise of every nature under the land. The simple expedient of a bridge would make a vast improvement to all this ; but surely even more can be readily done. An entirely better passenger accommodation on the wharves themselves could be provided in connection with such a bridge, and the stream of passenger traffic could thus be kept more distinct from the freighting, though naturally they cannot be entirely detached. The high level of the streets immediately in rear of Victoria Pier affords a natural opportunity for effecting this separation by means of a bridge. The landing stage at Liverpool, England, gives an example of how a great city can manage to handle its passengers entirely independent of its goods. We are not situated as Liverpool is, but there is much that we can do in this line. Then again not only is the way across the wharfage perilous and disagreeable to pedestrians or to cabs but, once arrived in Commissioner Street, the access to the town is still difficult. " Cabby" seems to prefer St. Francois Xavier Street, apparently because that is the quickest way out of the warehouse district into the professional one. This street is exceedingly narrow and steep and by no means a convenient or impressive entrance to the city. For pedestrians using the ferries, the car line running along the river front is for some reason not one of those on which the service is frequent enough to be convenient. No doubt the passengers arrive largely in great numbers at times which it is impossible, in some cases at least, to foresee precisely. Streams of passengers are always to be seen making their way between Bonsecours Market and the church, and preferring to go as far as Craig Street before taking car. The main reason for this is that the Commissioner Street car route is not one that serves the city conveniently.

All this brings us to the point that the new bridge should he an important one, and should moreover be combined with a scheme of bringing better car service and easier cab access to the succour not only of the much '' bechildered" pic-nickers to St. Helen's Island but also of the whole bewildered race of tourists and immigrants. The scheme that is at present in contemplation is apparently nothing more than the erection of a light iron foot bridge over the railway lines, and so far good ; let us have that and quickly ; but we submit that there is a larger scheme which ought to supersede that within a few years, and it is to be hoped that the P.Q.A.A. Committee on City Improvements will take cognisance of the need, so that we may see the matter taken up in a way that will do the city credit from an architectural point of view. Suggestions have been made on the part of the shipping in interests of the port, that engineering specialists should be called on to draw up a report on the best means of improving the shipping accommodation and conveniences. This is, no doubt, for the benefit of trade, but passengers also are making more and more demands on the river. Both above and below the city the banks are becoming more and more occupied with village and country houses. The ferries, therefore, call for increased conveniences too. So far passengers have received a somewhat rough handling, and, unless the city looks after their interests, they stand the same chance of being made to take a place quite secondary to mere "goods."

An evening paper has been making a stir with regard to the amount of builder's material which is at present obstructing sidewalks and streets in various parts of the city. Strictures on this matter are very much in order there is no doubt the man in the street fares badly. In commenting on the matter, however, it is customery to assume that this disposal of material is a gratuitous piece of insolence on the part of the builder, who is pictured as a ruffian who spends his time devising inconveniences to annoy the public. The system of paying for so much of the street to dump material on is, if not expressly provided for in the city by-laws, at least in practice acted up to systematically by builders and city authorities alike. Let the authorities improve their by-law and see that they are enforced and no doubt the building will submit to the improved arrangement, even if he has to adjust his prices accordingly.

We are threatened with another big hotel. We are treated to so many schemes for big hotels that we begin to become indifferent to the glowing word pictures of them which appear in our newspapers. They are flaunted before us with every particular of luxury and of cost. They are designed regardless of expense, and with every aid to living that can he suggested by a mind unable to conceive of any life beyond such as may be lived in New York. They fix upon a local habitation and a name, as often as not they vanish into thin air, being of such stuff as dreams are made of. This latest vision is described as occupying the side of Dominion Square, extending from the Y. M. C. A. building, we know not how far in the direction of St. Catherine Street. The cost is to he $1,000,000 "or so." We could really be doing with one or two more nice hotels of stone and lime as, during the past summer, accommodation was short and people had to sleep in railway cars in the stations, anything tangible, being better than a vision in these cases.

The expropriation of the Amherst Farm has added a new park to the city. The actual expropriation includes the whole district bounded by the C. P. R. tracks, Papineau avenue, Mount Royal avenue and St. Davis street. Within this district is be formed a public park to be known as the Cremazie Park. The total cost is $16,837. 20, of which half is paid by the city and half by the proprietors in the immediate neighborhood.

The <building>McGill University Students Union building </building>is now completed, and was opened for the use of students on the first of October.

It is announced that the Morgan Cement Works at Longue Pointe have become the property of a strong syndicate which has the intention of putting plant down to turn out 6oo,ooo barrels per year, with a view also of eventually increasing the output to double that figure.

We are promised a new jail, at the cost of about $1,000,000, to he built on the Back river and to be commenced next spring. This it is said, is to be arranged on the most modern principles and adequate to meet the wants of a quarter of a century hence. One million dollars plus the cost of our police system is quite a fairish sum to hand over to keep ourselves from being robbed.

The assessed valuation of the city for the current year is placed at $202,314,805, or an increase of twenty millions over last year. More than fifty million dollars Worth is included in exemptions from taxation.

