<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



multiple of the number of sacks to the barrel. The sand should be spread evenly upon the platform, then the cement upon the sand, and all  mixed thoroughly until of a uniform colour. The water necessary to make a thin mortar is then added and time whole spread again. Upon this the aggregate is thrown, after having first been wetted down if dry. The mass is then turned with shovels or hoes until thoroughly mixed the aggregate covered with mortar. This will probably require four turnings. Sometimes the sand cement and stone are spread upon one another. in that order, without water. Then time water is added and the whole mixed thoroughly as above.

In machine mixing, which is desirable when the volume of work is large, the same process should be obtainable, viz., a thorough dry mixing of the sand and cement before the aggregate and water are added; and the machine should be so constructed that the mixing may be continued until a satisfactory and complete incorporation is accomplished. Concrete of the right consistency will not, when dumped in place, require much tamping. When spaded down and tamped sufficiently to level off, it should quake freely like a. jelly. The tamping must be done at once before the initial set begins.

The top of each course should be levelled to a plane as nearly as possible at right angles to the line of pressure, but its surface should not be smoothed in the process but left rough that the



next course may bond the better with it.

An uncompleted course should he left with a vertical joint where the work stopped. Vertical joints, to allow for expansion and contraction are made in long exposed walls at intervals of thirty to fifty feet, or longer when tile concrete is reinforced. A temporary end is made for these sections of wall by setting up a form or plank and finishing a section against it. The plank is then removed and, when the next section is built, the new concrete is placed against the old without mortar flushing "Locks" are used to mitigate the disadvantage of the straight joint.

It is essential that the form shall be unyielding. For this end it must be braced or tied together by means of wire or rods. The material should he dressed lumber, secured to time stud— ding or uprights in horizontal lines. Planking once used in forms must be cleaned before being used again. In dry but not freezing weather, tile forms should be drenched with water before the concrete is placed against them.

Forms must not be removed for forty-eight hours after all the concrete in that section has been placed. In freezing weather they must remain until it is certain that tile concrete has had sufficient time to become thoroughly set.

A facing for the wall—of mortar of the same proportions as used in the concrete. or mixed with a special form of agregate—can be placed next to tile forms immediately in advance of the concrete. The usual finish is a wasim of grout, of about tile consistency of whitewash, mixed in time proportion of one hart of cement to two of sand, and applied with a brush. The same finish

should be applied to seal tile pores in wall tops which are not finished with a coping of stone.

Cracks in concrete lead to deterioration from the action of water and frost. To prevent this reinforcement is necessary. Reinforced concrete when properly built will not crack like plain concrete. As it is also not susceptible to atmosspheric influences like stone masonry, Mr. Gillespie concludes that re-inforced concrete is tile only form of construction that is really permanent

The other advantages of this form of construction are thus summarized in an editorial article of The Engineering Magazine: Among the many advantages of concrete-steel

may he mentioned cheapness as compared with other types of massive construction, lightness, economy of space on account of thickness of walls, capacity for carrying heavier loads, ready adaptability to any desired form, speed of construction, fireproof qualities and safety on a very poor foundation material, since the structure hangs together as a whole, and when overloaded does not collapse suddenly, hut tends to deform gradually.''



On time other side it should be said that, how. ever scientific the system, it is difficult to use it scientifically for want of proper data. Mr. George



<person>B.	Post</person>, in tile discussion on time subject at tile International Congress, said that "those in large practice as architects in time United States use ferro-concrete with considerable trepidation, from



time fact that there are no established constants that can be used in computing the strains. The position of time neutral axis in different conditions amid under different loadings seemed also to give Mr. Post and others in large practice as architects anxieties from which some more courageous builders are free. The quality of time ingredients also amid time manner of mixing contribute' to their trepidation. "In fact,'' Mr. Post added, 'their opinion of time material was very much like that of time distinguished <person>Mr. Weller </person>with re gard to veal pies—they were 'very good things when you knowed time lady as made them,"

In the matter of reinforced concrete at present, the maker of the pie is usually the system man who supplies tile reinforcement. A proper review of the different systems of reinforcement is beyond the scope of this article. They are die— scribed in full with illustrations in tile various works on concrete construction: and one of these is likely to be in the hands of any architect or builder who is working on a scale sufficient to require their aid.



Lead wool is a material recently used to a considerable extent in Europe for the joints of gas and water mains. It consists of fine threads cut from virgin lead, and is sold in strands about 3 feet long and weighing about a pound. Yarn is first put in the joint in the usual way but to a greater depth, and then the lead wool is calked in without heating. Each turn of the wool around the pipe must he well calked before the next one is inserted.

There are many quarry operators who imagine there is such a

thing as a cheaper cap for setting oft dynamite charges. This is like the man who curtails his food allowance, or the one who

"bites off his nose to spite his face." There is no cheaper than the very best. What you are looking for is the cap which will explode the entire charge at once. The amount of powder wasted in partial explosions by the use of inefficient caps in the lime and cement quarries of this country would represent a fortune every year. This is one case where you are looking for the best to find the cheapest. -Rock Products.

