<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Oyster Bay, on the North shore of Long Island, in which the speaker was retained as engineer.

Like almost every movement since, that was started at a dinner conference and some $3000 or $4000 was subscribed by individuals with which to carry on the movement. Surveys were made, work was begun and, on account of the progress of breeding, oil was used in some instances during the succeeding summer. This initial work was on an island in Oyster Bay known as Centre Island. Many costly houses had been erected here, and vast sums of money spent in improvements, including an elegant club house for the <assoc>Seawanhata-Corinthian Yacht Club</assoc>; and this in the face of the fact that it was acknowledged that few, if any, places excelled the island in its output of mosquitoes. By rapid work we anticipated the breeding while the work of drainage was going on, and at the end of that season the Treasurer of' the Committee, a prominent New York banker, wrote me that. never before had the islanders been able to enjoy their their lawns and piazzas in the evenings. And places adjacent the marshes, which were said to have been almost impassable on account of mosquitoes, were entirely freed from them. I was there this summer, and it was told to me, by those who had been there during the intervening years, that the good results were continued up to this time. During the work my opinion was asked as to the value of the marshes which we were operating on, and I stated that $10 an acre would be a fair price for them; but, when we had completed our work and the results had been shown, an owner was asked by one desiring to purchase some of the marshes to put a price on them; it was $3000 an acre. The values on the island I am informed have steadily increased, and this we hold will be the case in all communities successfully carrying out this class of work. A territory of about 75 square miles was gone over by me and reported upon, and the work on this island was only a part of that recommended for the larger territory. This report involved another private expenditure of some thousands of dollars, illustrating the progressiveness of that community.

You are doubtless familiar with the work done at Havana in exterminating yellow fever. For two centuries that dread disease had been endemic at Havana and, after the discovery of the germ of this disease by a commission of surgeons, work was begun to rid the city of mosquitoes, and the first time it was there for many months after the U. S. army left was when the Cubans themselves relaxed their efforts. Something like $100,000 was spent in mosquito work alone by the United States army. Work by the same physician, who is one of the members of the Advisory Board of our society, is now going on in the Isthmus of Panama, and already a million dollars has been expended on it, with the result that the Health Officer's report now shows that the large forces of workers and the army are as healthy as they would be working in almost any part of the United States.

Now all this is the prelude to what I want to say as to your situation here on the island, as far as I have been able to examine it. You are of course absolutely free from the great peril of the salt water marsh mosquito, but you are not free from the malaria breeders or others which cause great annoyance and discomfort, as well as depreciation of values. These are inherent in the island here, so convenient to your beautiful city. The isolated character of your situation as an island would make the work done here to be entirely unaffected by surrounding exposures. I have not examined a wide enough territory in the city to know whether, if you should free the island from mosquitoes, you would get any output from the main land but my impression is that you would not.

I consider that a thorough scheme of work carried on here would be quite beyond what might be called an experiment. Indeed I feel assured that the island can be absolutely freed from mosquitoes and what that means to you in all respects you are able to judge as well as the speaker.





<article title=" LOW SUMMER TOURIST RATES WEST " author="">LOW SUMMER TOURIST RATES WEST.

During the entire summer the Chicago and North Western Railway will have in effect very low round trip tourist rates to Colorado, Utah, California, Oregon, Washington and British Columbia points. Choice of routes going and returning with favorable stop-overs and time limits. Very low excursion rates to the Pacific Coast from June 25th to July 7th. For further particulars, illustrated folders etc., write or call on <person>B.H. Bennett</person>, General Agent, 2 East King Street, Toronto, Ont.

<article title=" CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITONS " author="">CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITONS.

It is proposed to have three competitions for students and draughtmen, as described below, with prizes for each competition, and the conditions that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER may reproduce for the benefit of its subscribers the designs of the prize-winners in each competition.

The intention is to offer suggestions of good design for the use of builders and others in the country, who erect buildings without consulting an architect

Each drawing to be accompanied by a brief description of the material intended to be used.

Both drawings and description are to be signed with a nom de plume, and the same nom de plume is to be written on a sealed envelope which contains the competitor's name and address.

The drawings must be made in line for reproduction, and arranged within a rectangular border with sides in the proportion of 7 to 10. If drawn large, the lettering should be large in proportion, so as to be legible when the drawing is reduced to the size of the reproduction, which will be 7 inches by 10 inches. The scale must be drawn, not merely noted.

COMPETITION 1. Drawings to be delivered at the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Confederation Life Building Toronto, on or before the 1st of December next.

This competition will repeat the theme of a small house in a country town. The cost to be between $2,000, and $3,000, exclusive of land. The lot will be supposed to be 50 feet wide by 150 feet deep, on a residential street in which the houses are set back 30 feet from the line of the lot upon the street. The house may be supposed to face any of the cardinal points of the compass; but must be planned to suit the particular aspect selected, and will be judged according to the manner in which this prime requisite of house-planning is treated.

There will be two sheets of drawings required in this competition. One will contain the plans and elevations and the other will contain certain details.

The drawings required are: plans of the ground and first floor, elevations of three sides, and a perspective in which the fourth side will he shown.

The ground floor plan must show the laying out of the grounds as much as space will permit, and must have drawn upon it a diagram showing the points of the compass.

The sheet of details must show the porch, main eaves and gable, (if there is a gable), drawn to a scale large enough to show the construction, and giving sectional details to a still larger scale.

The prizes for this competition will be: First prize. $20; second $15; third, $5; fourth, a year's subscription to the CANADIAN

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



COMPETITION II. Drawings to be delivered at the office of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER on or before the 1st of January, 1907.

The subject is a farmhouse. There will be one sheet of drawings, similar to that required for competition 1; that is to say a sheet containing, within a 7 x 10 border, ground and first floor plans, three elevations, and a perspective showing the fourth side; but, in this case, as the cellar of a farmhouse is used for storage, there must be also a plan of the cellar; drawn on a separate piece of paper, so that it may be reproduced separately for insertion in the text.

There is no definite cost fixed; but there must be a limit. Houses quoted in the Farmers' Advocate (which, as well as other farming journals, is recommended for consultation), range in cost from $1600 to $4500. A house of the former price was 31 ft. by 37 ft. The $4500 house is a well built frame house, on a stone foundation, and measures 26 ft. by 54 ft. in the main part with an 18 ft. x 36 ft. wing, the greater part of which is shed. This is an unusually good house with brick cellar walls, open fireplaces in the living rooms, bathroom with water supply, and in all respects well appointed. This scale of excellence seems to be above the ordinary, while that of the $1600 house is hardly sufficient for what is now recommended. It will probably be safe to rate the cost of such a house as is now wanted at about $2.00 per square foot on the ground. Competitors may plan for any size between the limits of $2,000 and $4,000. We want houses of different sizes: and the plans will be judged not according to size but according to merit within the size adopted. It must be remembered, however, as regards size, that compactness is a great ' where there are no household servants; and

