<doctype type="text">26	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTERCOMMUNICATION." author="">INTERCOMMUNICATION.	



[ Communications	sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication.



The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, but will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to queries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]







A '' Subscriber " writes Could you inform me through the columns of the ARCHITECT & BUILDER as to whether it is possible to get a uniform color to a Portland cement, trowel—finished piece of work, such, for instance, as a dado for bathroom, kitchen, etc. I have to confess to the present time my inability to do it, and I have never yet seen any that has been uniform all through.

Ans.—Some of the most experienced and skilful plasterers state that, while they can get a perfect finish, they have failed to secure uniformity of color, and they do not think that a uniform color can be oh— t a in ed.



From '' Winnipeg " Will you please inform me which is the more economical, heating by steam or by hot-water. Also please state what about radiating surface would be necessary to heat up a large room to 60 degrees when the mercury is freezing point outside? Any information will oblige.

Ans. The condition and t he efficacy of the boiler cause one method of heating to he more economical than the other; hut speaking generally, the two methods are about equal in the heat afforded for the fuel consumed. If the fuel has, say 10,000 heat units to the pound, then the customary proportion of these units should he delivered from the radiating surface as well with steam as with hot water; but, as stated, the local conditions have always to be considered. The area of steam-healed surface to afford given results is usually six-tenths of that allowed with hot water; thus, 15 square feet of surface is a common average allowance per 1,000 cubit feet of space to afford 60 degrees where it is freezing outside, with hot water, while 9 square feet is allowed with low—pressure steam (1 lb).



From '' Country Painter '': isn't there some method of fixing paints or stains with water or milk that will stand the weather fairly well? I am in want of such a water paint or wash that is cheap durable.

ANs. Some years ago the United States Government had a formula for a cheap water paint that was used or the outside of light-houses and which seemed to stand fairly well. To prepare it, one-half bushel of line is slacked with boiling water, and kept covered during the slacking to retain the steam. When cold it is strained-through an ordinary sieve or paint strainer and then one peck of salt, dissolved in warm water, three pounds of rice flour stirred in water and boiled to a thin paste, one pound Spanish whiting and one pound pale glue dissolved in water, added to the strained lime mixture, thoroughly stirred arid allowed to stand, well covered, for several days before using. This wash must be warmed in a kettle before using and applied with wall brushes as hot as it can be done without injuring the bristles. Such a paint wears well on wood, brick or stone. If a buff tint is desired, French ochre, ground dry, may he used as a coloring, and if reddish tone is desired, Venetian red should be used. A reddish buff is obtained by a combination of

ochre and Venetian Red. Chrome yellow should not be used, since this pigment is affected by lime.

A red wash can be made by mixing dry Venetian red, to which whiting or quicklime is added, with skimmed milk. The addition of half a gallon of linseed oil to each gallon of this wash will render it waterproof, but even without the oil it will stand for years.

In 1879 the <firm>New York Evening Post </firm>published three formulae for paints or washes, made up chiefly from lime or cement and skimmed milk. A very large class of water paints for outside use are wade and sold to-day, and answer the purpose of cheap weather resisting paints very well indeed, that are dependent for their binding properties upon a product of this same skimmed milk-casein. Such paints dry with practically no gloss, and when dry, a second coat of paint can he applied the same as with any other paint. These casein paints are generally known to the trade as water paints, or alabastine. They are useful for all sorts of outbuildings, for painting brick walls and especially for the interior of factories, warehouses and sheds. While they cannot be said to he weatherproof, they will stand considerable exposure to the weather, and on old weather-beaten woodwork may be used as a priming under an oil paint, provided the very best results are not looked for.

Still another class of water paints have been long extensively sold in England, and are to some extent sold in this country. These are put up in paste form, the same as ordinary oil paints, and require thinning with water to reduce them to working consistency. They depend upon silicate of soda or water glass as the binding agent. These paints have given good satisfaction wherever used, especially on brickwork, but are more expensive than the casein paints and hence have not come into such general use.



From '' Workman " __ How can I ''Lay out" a circular top head for a window having parallel jambs, set in a circular wall ?

Ans. -This is a problem that generally puzzles the young workman, but a little study of the subject soon convinces the operator that the solution is not so difficult as at first supposed. Let A in Fig. represent



















the plan, which is drawn from the centre 0. With a radius equal to half the opening draw the semi-circle b d c, and lay off the quadrant c d into any number of equal parts. From these divisions erect vertical lines to the outside of the wall plan, and upon the extended horizontal line, from c to e, place these verticals at the same intervals as the divisions of the quadrant, and make the points n r s v the same height in the development, and a curve traced through them will show the concave edge of the soffit, while the curve traced through the ends of the verticals will give the convex edge. That part from c to f is found in the same manner, being merely a repetition of the first half.

