<doctype type="text">156	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" THE EXTERMINATION OF THE MOSQUITO*

" author="Weeks, Henry Clay">THE EXTERMINATION OF THE MOSQUITO*



Through the courtesy of the Island Association I am with you to-night for the purpose of laying before you some facts connected with an important reform which is gathering considerable headway in the States and other parts of the world, and is giving sonic excellent proofs of its entire practicability. I am constructively addressing his Worship the Mayor and Members of tile City Council and other Officials invited, who may or may not he present ; assuming that what may be said or done in this meeting will come to their attention, t through resolution or other— wise. I may say that your Mayor has shown an interest in the movement by his attendance at a preliminary luncheon conference at the Club yesterday, and has expressed himself as willing to do anything in his power to forward the desired object for which we are assembled. And as desirable as any City action that may be taken it is of equal or greater importance that the authorities of the Province should he enlisted in the good cause; for the subject is coming to he considered to he an equal obligation upon the City as are those of roadmaking and like public  improvements. 



We of the states consider our brethern on tile North as so closely related to us that we are very willing to give them ally suggestions in lines of work which we may have taken up. assuming that you would gladly reciprocate. We think the reform so important that a number have formed an association having for its object the distribution of literature on the subject, the obtaining of necessary laws to carry out the reform and the aid in spreading the reform in every possible way. So firmly has the desirability of the movement appealed to us that many are giving of their private funds and very largely of their time to support our campaign of education. The society for which I am Secretary has been in existence about 3 years and expended its first year about $1000. to carry on the propaganda. Finding that others besides those within the limits of the States desired information and to join the Society, it was decided to adopt the name "American" rather than ''National" ; in order that all in every part of the Americas would be free to join. Our correspondence runs extensively throughout the Americas, from Assiniboia in the North to the West Indies and Districts in South America so that the people of Toronto may feel that they are interested in the society as properly as are any others.

In our first epoch we meet what every reform must meet and pass through, the period of ridicule, hut we are glad to say that as the press and people have become enlightened on the subject, ridicule has turned to cordial endorsement and co-operation except in very rare instances in a certain class of papers.

I am going to assume hat you are informed fully enough 011 the wonderful proofs as to the dangerous character of certain mosquitoes to health, arid the injury which all mosquitoes give to property and other interests in any community in which they prevail. I can in a word say that the demonstrations of the scientists of the connection between mosquitoes arid malaria have never been excelled in clearness of proof; arid what has been shown of malaria has been shown to he true of yellow fever, though that interests this Northern section only indirectly. An eminent writer has recently said of malaria that in his section it is responsible for more losses than any four diseases with which they are afflicted. And when we consider that it is not along the deaths that occur from malaria, but the lessening of the vital forces of the section, we can readily believe this claim will apply to any section of the Western hemisphere. The other interests which are affected by this evil, while on a different plan from that of health, are of themselves yen-) important. Whole sections of beautiful country are practically unpopulated through the agency of the mosquito; property values are lessened, and a general decrease in all interests results. I recall the fact of a very large hotel in an attractive country being this year closed, the large plant remaining unproductive, entirely on account of the prevalence of mosquitoes; and this is only one  instances of many that exist.



I am going to assume also  that you are so well satisfied that the mosquito is a nuisance that you are ready to co-operate in any movement which can be shown to be a practical remedy, and I shall therefore refer to a number of points that show what may be expected of the reform and what other people think of investing in it. And in this recital I shall have to be somewhat personal. Having always lived where mosquito producing

*A paper read by Professor Henry Clary Weeks, of New York, before the <assoc>Toronto Island Association</assoc>.

niarshes were common, my mind ran to the thought of the utilization of these waste areas. About a quarter of a century ago the United States Government took up the matter of having a report made of the coast marshes of t lie country, and examinations were made from Maine to Texas and along the Pacific borders of the States. On a few points where reclamations had been made for agricultural purposes the report riot only showed the great value of this improvement but casually mentioned in some instances that mosquitoes were eliminated. It was this report that gave use the first thought of the desirability arid practicability of drainage for mosquito extermination. During the intervening years the thought has gained strength, for ill this was the true solution of the question. Arid when manly years ago the theory was announced arid afterwards so clearly proven by <person>Major Ross</person>, a doctor in the English army, t hat malaria was the result of a bite of an itioculated mosquito, our c clause gained a great impetus. The use of oil for this purpose is conceded to be only a temporary remedy and it is now acknowledged that to drainage we must look for the solution of all the evils which attend the prevalence of mosquitoes

It has taken some years of work to lead up to public action, but this we are now obtaining in many places in the States and abroad. When action was first started to secure Legislation in the Stare of New jersey it was met with persistent ridicule, lint, after the expenditure of sonic $10,000 in preliminary investigation and experiments on a small scale, the results were so encouraging that now that State has appropriated $350,000 to lie expended in a series of years in the drainage of wet lands, and the State is riot even considering the benefits to agriculture. In New York State we have been working for an initial $5,000 with which to make a start, but so far have failed owing, as I am informed, to tire fact that the Committee having charge of such matters have thought that public opinion was not sufficiently enlightened on the subject to justify- the expenditure of any money. In the same State when a Bill was introduced in the Legislature by a Member, making the drainage of breeding  areas possible, lie was laughed to ridicule ; but so thoroughly did we inform the next Legislature that when the Bill again came up it was passed without dissent, and now the State of New York has a law which we commend to your consideration, by which any water found to he breeding mosquitoes may he declared a nuisance by the local board of health, and provision is made for getting rid of it. While these two States are farthest advanced in this legislation, others have already taken rip the subject or are preparing to do so. In a little town on the New England Coast, almost entirely supported by Fisheries are of our members, a summer resident, became interested in the subject of extermination, procured our literature and started a campaign. The work was mainly the' spreading of oil over the breeding places and this was so successful that the little town voted about $800 a year for some 3 years for this work. Finding that it was riot reaching the root of the matter, they asked the Secretary to visit them and inspect the situation which he did last year, arid tire result of the public meeting arid action which has since been taken is that the Legislature of that State has authorized this humble community to appropriate the sum of $20,000 in work recommended to them.



As I have said before this matter of Legislature has only been brought about by the expenditure of private funds in large amounts. About 3 years ago one progressive gentleman tinder-wrote a certain movement to tine extent of $10,000, and, though his death prevented the carrying forward of the work, at the close of the first season persons who had been residents of the section for 25 years testified that there had never been a season in all their residence there when there had been less mosquitoes. Arid that movement has resulted in the spread of the importance and desirability of action.



Another section has been spending $1,000 a year for about 5 years in draining its marshes, meanwhile using oil; arid, though exposed on every side, it has shown that this work is most important and successful; so much so that there is now no difficulty in securing the votes for the annual appropriation. There are communities in New jersey which spent large sums of money in local successful work before the State took up the matter at all, arid are still doing this work with most gratifying results.



Many sections are having their territory examined to ascertain the possibility of relief, and this is occurring inn various States.

The first large movement was that in the territory around

