<doctype type="text">164	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



passengers it is true may be a little nearer their docks, if they detrain at Champlain market, but they will not he in contact. It is not proposed to entirely oust the cabman; and, so long as there must be vehicular connection, a little more or less would not matter. There are no great distances in Quebec; nothing to compare with the distances in New York, which have not at all injured the reputation of New York with ocean travellers. For whose advantage then is this entry of the Grand Trunk Pacific into the lower town along the water front? So far as one can see the advantage is only for the railway. The descent from the bridge is easier, it is said, along the river than across the promontory and down on the other side. Cheaper it may be to construct, but it is hard to see how it can be easier, as a grade, when the ultimate level is the same and the distance to St. Roch's is greater. The obvious reasons is that the great objective of the railway is the coves where the shipping of freight will be done. The road along the old coves, underneath the cliffs descending from the plains of Abraham, has always been and, even now, in the ruined state of the coves, is a delightful piece of picturesqueness, kept so by the fact that the old traffic in square timber required no railroad. The freight, floated down the river, met the ships at the piers; and the road along the shore was merely a narrow street lined by the dwellings of the workers in the coves; with the usual church among them, built on the very edge of the river, so that one could fish over the railing of the churchyard. All this of course has got to go. Freight will now come down by rail. The new coves will be no doubt the small end of one of the funnels into which the northwest wheat is poured; and when Quebec is busy again there will be rails, trains and smoke in plenty along the coves. There could not be a better place to carry on large traffic in connection with a city without injuring the city's beauty. The riverside here is round the corner from the city, at its point of outlook from Dufferin Terrace; and the Plains of Abraham above are so well above as to receive no injury, or none that would weigh in the question. But this admirable plan, so well arranged by the accident of the Cape's projection, is to be upset by the proposal to extend the railway round the corner in order to bring in passengers where there is no real need to bring them in.

A proposal to prohibit this injury to Quebec is not reactionary, but the reverse. This will be the judgment of the future and a near future too. Such a proposal would not be tolerated for a moment in the United States in the case of a city like Quebec, with great natural beauty preserved so wonderfully up to the present time. They are a generation in advance of us in these matters ; and we limp behind, copying their discarded vices ; like regular second-raters, incapable of seeing the merits of those they aspire to imitate, and copying only their defects.



<article title=" PERSONAL " author="">PERSONAL.



Mr. <person>F. S. Baker</person> F.R.I.B.A., has removed his offices to the new <building>Traders Bank Building, Toronto</building>.

Mr. <person>B.A. Hodgson </person>of Ottawa has patented and is placing on the market a safety revolving window.



The steel square, as a calculating machine is a recent publication from the pen of Albert Fair. It contains simple directions for using the common steel square for difficult calculations that are met by carpenters, builders. lumber dealers, plumbers, etc. Some of the practical questions dealt with in this little hook are the choice of a square lines, surfaces and solids right angles and right angled triangles; polygones.

R. I. B. A. LOCAL EXAMINATIONS.

The Canadian examinations were held in Toronto on November 16th under the direction of Mr<person>. F. S. Baker</person>, F.R.I.B.A., Honorary Secretary for Canada of the Institute. Three candidates entered for the examination but only two, Mr. <person>A. E. Anderson </person>and Mr. <person>K. G. Rea</person>, were able to attend. Both came from Montreal. The papers are returned to England for examination; but the local examiners hold an oral examination, and report the result, as contributory evidence of the candidates qualification. The local examiners this year were Messrs <person>C. H. C. Wright</person>, Professor of Architecture in the School of Practical Science, Toronto; Percy E. Nobbs, Professor of Architecture in McGill University, Montreal; and <person>W. A. Langton</person>, Architect, Toronto.





<article title=" THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER

COMPETITIONS.

" author="">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT & BUILDER

COMPETITIONS.

A correspondent writes:

I am a student. I intend to try the third competition but I think that it is given on a field too large, and that there are not sufficient explanations given, as to the size of grounds, as to the height of the shop, and as to thc approximate cost of the whole house.

The reply to this letter was as follows

The intention of these competitions is a variety of designs and, for that purpose, the conditions are not laid down too closely.





You have chosen the problem which is most fixed in its conditions. If I add that a shop of this description would usually have two storeys above the shop I should fix the whole front. (The depth from front to rear is supposed to be, as such lots always are, sufficient for a shop with a dwelling over it). I can however conceive that a shop front with one storey and a. roof  storey over, or two storeys and a root storey, would be desirable designs and I do not wish to limit the possibilities to two storeys only.

There will, I think, be no difficulty in comparing the excellence of two designs of different size.





<article title=" FLAT FIREPROOF ROOF " author="">FLAT FIREPROOF ROOF.

A correspondent of the Building News sent to that journal the following suggestive letter

Why we in England arc so fond of the ugly timber and slate roofs which everywhere abound I cannot explain:; but to those who have live in South Europe, where the roofs are nearly always flat, it is apparent that there are many advantages over our usual form.

I send you a sketch of a plait for a fireproof roof of the better sort. B B are steel girders connected by semi-cylinders, D D, of enamelled iron, so that with proper attention to colour the ceiling below is already made washable and almost indestructible. A A are tubes of thin iron which are put in to save weight. C is the concrete filling, which may advantageously be made of a mixture of broken limestone or marble, pumicestone in small fragments, and Roman cement, with, of course, the proper quantity of water. E, the surface of the roof, should be of the tessellated and cemented mosaic work which one now so often sees bid down in front of shops. Some of these I have had under notice for years, and although they are fully exposed to sunshine and to frosts, they do not show any weather cracks, so I presume they would behave similarly on a roof. The tubes AA are, of course, propped in place by temporary supports when the concrete is poured in.

The girders. t think, might be as much as 2 ft. 6 in. apart., and the marble and pumice ought to be had cheaply. The principle

























is somewhat that of a human bone where one has a light cellular middle encased in a harder covering or shell.

