<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" INTEIRCOMMUNICATION.

" author="">INTEIRCOMMUNICATION.



[ Communications sent to this department must be addressed to the editor with the name and address of the sender attached not necessarily for publication. The editor does not hold himself responsible for the expressions or opinions of correspondents, hut will, nevertheless, endeavor to secure correct replies to querries sent in. We do not guarantee answers to all queries neither do we undertake to answer questions in issue following their appearance.]









A "Correspondent" asks:	Will you, through the columns of The Architect and Builder, kindly advise as to the best method to he employed to make a Keens cement smooth finished dado (such as done in bath rooms), appear as tile, as to joints, and the best manner of making them, and arc there any special tools for such work, if so where can they he obtained, or can the work while in its green state be marked with a

upon it easily, it is quite firm enough to scour. Use as little as possible water and work the hand float with a circular motion. Do not work too long in one spot, but keep moving, all over the surface within reach, and working back again until the whole surface has an even texture and grain. The work should be gone over twice to, bring it up to a fine solid surface. When the surface has to be polished, the work by the trowel must be followed by a nine-inch joint rule and a damp brush, but this work must not he attempted until the surface is hard. The work may be lined oft before it "sets" completely hard by using a straight edge and a small V tool. This tool is something like a carver's tool, but

































































CIRCULAR HEADED SASHES.



pencil and be durable? Any information in regard to the foregoing will l)e greatly appreciated.

Ans.—Keens or any of the white cements, owing to the suction of the walls, have a tendency to shrink more or less, according to the stillness of the gauge and the suction, and therefore must be floated and run in twice. When the coat already laid on is firm, then some more cement, gauged softer than the first, should be laid thinly all over and floated in carefully as before. having done all this, the whole surface is nearly ready for scouring. Miller, who is an authority on matters of this kind, says Keens Cement should he allowed to stand an hour or two after being floated before being scoured or rubbed down. If the finger cannot make an impression

is bent so as to do the cutting als it is drawn towards the operator. it should have an adjustable guard on it that can he fastened to it in such a manner as will prevent the tool from cutting. in too deeply. Bricklayers jointers only finer are sometimes employed in forming these joints. After the tiling is all marked oft and lined, the whole surface may he moistened slightly, and a thin mixture of Portland cement—neat----colored to suit may be rubbed into the joints, and the face of the work cleaned oft with a damp cloth. When fairly dry the whole may he cleaned oft and polished in the usual manner either with rotten stone and water or oil, or by any of the numerous methods of polishing marbles or cement surfaces. An exceedingly good piece of work can be turned out, if the workman

