<doctype type="text">62	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



of Mrs. <person>Edith Wharton </person>on "Italian Villas and Their Gardens," calling attention to the excellent appreciation of architectural effects in which the work abounds, and also, incidentally, to the excellent illustrations by Maxfield Parrish.





<article title=" CORRESPONDENCE." author="">CORRESPONDENCE.

To the Editor "The Canadian Architect and Builder"

For the benefit of brother architects, and twenty-six in particular, the writer wishes to call attention of the profession to the urgent need of more thorough understanding and united action in regard to competitions

While it must be acknowledged that the award in a majority of cases is open to criticism, yet we are solely to blame for the conditions of unjust competitions, which are due to faulty proposals accepted by the architects competing.

A certain city called for competitive plans for a City Hall to cost $60,000, naming the accommodation desired, but did not bind themselves to accept any plan, neither did they agree to employ an expert to advise with them in the selection of plans.

Upon plans being submitted (twenty-six in number) it. was found that the amount mentioned was not sufficient, and plans were returned to the competitors with a note, saying it had been found that none of the plans submitted could be built for the amount stipulated, and that the Council had determined to increase the amount to $100,000, and inviting the architects to amend their plans accordingly.

Sixteen sets of plans were submitted on the second appeal, and it is now where the mistake occurs; the plans were placed on public exhibition, before the award was made, thereby inviting public comment criticism and a natural inclination to guess who were the authors of the various plans.

The Council called in an expert to advise with them as to the probable cost of a design they had selected. lie reported the cost to be $169,000. (This was before final specifications were written.) This report should have disqualified the plan in question. The Council entered into correspondence with the architect, and asked him to submit working drawings and procure tenders, notifying him, at the same time, if his building exceeded $100,000 in cost, that they were to be at no expense.

Result —Tenders called for; lowest tender, $108,000; average tender is $130,000.

Now for the unfairness of the deal The general conditions as drawn up by the Council explicitly state that the finish shall be of hardwood throughout, brick shall cost $40 per M. The basement walls were to be laid up in hard burned brick in Portland cement mortar; but the architect whose plans were accepted, having proposed a building containing 675,840 cubic feet, found it inconvenient to carry out these conditions and still retain his original plans, so he violated the self-imposed conditions at. will, skims his building of its just rights, and produces a specification that gives a building to cost 6 cents per cubic foot.

The Council in accepting these plans have violated their own conditions and rules knowingly. I say this advisedly, for their attention has been called to this matter by the local architects, as well as by architects from outside.

initiators of competitions rarely impose conditions willfully, but ignorantly, and most frequently because they find members of the profession—well educated men of reputation—eager to make and present drawings with or without conditions. The character of the programme, no matter how faulty, is no bar to the zeal with which members of our profession work day and night, expending energy and brain power, on elaborate drawings, without any reason to expect, or even hope, that the best scheme or the most artistic design, will be the one adopted.

He who promises the impossible usually secures the work, while a design that could be honestly carried out for the amount named is seldom considered.

How many doctors, dentists, lawyers, or artists would enter a "free" competition and submit a prescription, set of teeth, brief, or portrait, to be judged by a committee of non-professionals, and returned with or without a "thank-you" if their work did not please? What class of men in these professions would enter such a race? Would their services be desirable ?

Apparently the committee thought they were complimenting the architects by allowing them an opportunity to display their wares.

For the benefit of those architects who competed, the writer will say that in his opinion there were at least. five sets of plans submitted that were infinitely more imposing in both design and plan than those selected by tile Council, and which could be built for the price mentioned and in compliance with the general conditions as laid down by the Council in question.

The <firm>Standard Ideal Sanitary Company Limited Port Hope Ontario </firm>Porcelain Enamelled Cast Iron Baths