<doctype type="text">36	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



is where the artist comes in. We are all familiar with the whitening bones of horses and the ruined remains of waggons in the foreground of a prairie scene, conveying the suggestion that, though we can see but little of the prairie in the picture, it stretches many days' journey behind and probably many days' journey ahead. The ocean is a paltry thing to see; about eight miles is the utmost extent of it presented to the eye from the deck of a ship. It is a poor spectacle, except in a storm; and even then one is not happy with it. ''Is this the mighty ocean," says the poet, ''is this ALL." If a poet can get no further than that, what is the use of a painter representing it baldly and without suggestion. Some men on a raft, straining their eyes towards the empty horizon, would bring home to one the fact that there is a beyond full of unknown possibilities; but this is a dramatic and painful circumstance to disturb ourselves with and, worse than that, it is unusual and will not serve our purpose half as well as the simple everyday phenomenon of ocean life—the appearance of top masts above the horizon, before the vessel comes in sight; or the lingering of a steamer's smoke above the line after the ship itself, funnel and all, has dipped below. Some suggestion, some selection of incident, animate or inanimate, is necessary to convey the whole truth of a scene, the idea it aroused in the painter. Turner has a view of Salisbury Plain with a retreating thunderstorm and lightning streaming from it the ground. In the foreground is a dead sheep, with its lamb bleating beside it, which marks the recent passage of the storm and brings to our mind what he cannot depict—the noise and danger of the storm beyond us and the quiet and desolation it has left behind.

So, in our storm; we want more than a mere attempt to represent the appearance of the weather. There are accessory incidents which turn the mind, in one way or another, to conceive more fully what it was like. The choice depends upon the artist. One man may enjoy the accident of the electric railway's sweeper passing and the clouds of snow it whirled out; I have preferred to emphasize the city in the storm, and suppressed the sweeper which, (besides being too overpowering as an incident), in sweeping the tracks, swept the street clear of people, who dived into doorways as it passed and for the moment depopulated my city of irrepressible toilers.

The sparrows too are an interesting incident. They flit about apparently unconcerned, looking very black, in the branches of a tree below which stretches its black arms across the road, (speaking in terms of perspective), and makes a valuable connecting link between the black building masses on each side. An old master or a great master would certainly work in the sparrows as a note of relief in the strenuousness of the storm. I confess insufficiency and place them here as a separate idea, like a little etching on the margin of a big one.

Surely—to return to our subject, the want of apparent purpose in so many of the pictures at the Ontario Society's Exhibition—it requires no great genius to perceive the makings of a picture in a scene, and the faculty must be cultivable by practice, so that the professional man will far exceed the layman in this perception. And he gives pleasure to the layman just in proportion as what he sees is worth seeing and as he can express it so that the layman can see it too.

<article title=" CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITION " author="">CANADIAN	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER COMPETITION.

A HOUSE OF SMALL COST IN A COUNTRY TOWN.



MACBETH.—Undoubtedly first. It is a convenient arrangement which will build well, and has at the same time the necessary elements of picturesque interest both inside and outside. The questionable points are remediable. These we should consider to be (1) The sacrifice made in the width of the dining and living rooms for the sake of having a portion of the verandah sheltered in that way. The great value of this form of recessed shelter is the shadow it casts, (as will be seen in the rear elevation), but this effect though highly delightful to the eye of the mechanic (as he consults his sundial), requires the dining room to depend too much upon light from the side, which it was intended that the narrowness of the lot prescribed for this competition should discourage. To light a living room by a window three feet from the boundary line of the lot is bad work. (2). The seat in the hall would in practice be turned into a coat closet, and the question is whether it should not be made so at once by the hand of the artist. lie would probably do better service to the hall's beauty by providing for its perpetual tidiness than by giving it that suggestion of refined and studious repose which constitutes part of the beauty of an alcoved seat. The mechanic and his voting family, (a mechanic's family is always a young family), will do little sitting about with books in their hands. (s). There is not much wall space in the kitchen, and it is a question whether the pantry would not be better entered from the kitchen porch, (which does not require two doors). (4). There may be some question about the step from the hall to the rooms but there is no question about the beauty it adds to the house, and fortunately it serves a useful purpose at the foot of the stair in making an entrance into the kitchen at that point compatible with headroom in the cellar stair.

MOGUL.—Plan very good. Drawing decided and indicating material well except perhaps roof which does not accord with rest of drawing. Faults, too many windows and expensively attained verandah with foundations as costly as house. Canopies over windows and dormer treatment of doubtful value considering the cost.

Economy. --The plan is a plain plan which, though good in the main, seems to lack originality. It might be much improved by a little more thought. Exterior shows proper use of rough cast—-on an upper storey protected by eaves and out of reach of wanton injury. Drawing sober and good without dash. Drawing reserved for publication.

CANADIENNE (girls head in tuque).—The effort to give an effect of space by opening up the rooms is commendable, but there is much to be questioned about the comfort of the arrangement. Chimney not bulky enough for suggested stone, and upper part of stack small and tame. Drawing shows hesitancy.

FACTUM EST.—This designer has fairly met the terms of the problem and therefore gets place above what either the artistic conception of his plan or its artistic rendering would warrant.

His plan is similar in outline to that of Economy but much more compact. A good enough plan of the angle shape which too many of the competitors have favoured

