<doctype type="text">188	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=""GROGS" IN BRICK MAK[NG.*

" author="Baker"> "GROGS" IN BRICK MAK[NG.*

By PROFESSOR BAKER, School of Mining, Kingston.



I have chosen as the subject of this paper one which I. think is of great interest, and also of great importance to clay workers. By ''grogs" is meant those substances which are added to strong clays to render them milder and more easily worked. As a rule only one such substance is used by brick makers in this country, and that is sand; but a few others can be used in case sand is scarce, c.g., loam, powdered brick-bats, sawdust, coal screenings, etc. Of course these several grogs have different effects upon the brick or other product to which they have been added, and I wish to discuss briefly a few of the effects of these grogs on our clays in Ontario.

There is a common error among builders and contractors in general concerning the addition of grogs. They believe that the addition of sand or powdered brick to a clay is an adulteration and a detriment to its use as a building material, much as we view the addition of cotton or shoddy to a woollen fabric. This error on thc part of brick users, and many brick makers also, is a serious one, for thc addition of these grogs is just the reverse of the above. They improve the brick in several ways, as I hope to show you.

Looking at this subject first from the standpoint of the brick maker, you all know well the difficulties that have to be met in working a clay that is too strong or fat, as it is often called. In the first place, such clay is difficult to mine or dig; it sticks to the plows, spades, scrapers or whatever else may be used to dig it. It sticks together so that it can scarcely be picked apart. You all know just how tough a clay bank can be. If, however, there be a certain amount of sand in the clay, it digs so much more easily.

The tempering of a strong, stiff clay is a most difficult thing; it is almost impossible to do it by hand, and if it is done by a pug-mill or other machines, thc tough clay will prove a great user of power. About thc only way to temper and disintegrate such clay is to dig it in thc fall and allow it to lie in a heap over winter, when with frost and wet and dry it will slowly slake and break up to a workable condition. But some of you have not time for this, and should add sand to such clay in your pug-mill, or tempering pit, or to the brick machine itself, if you do not temper in a separate machine.

In the next part of brick making, viz., moulding, sand plays a very important part. It is almost impossible shift a strong clay from the moulds, such clay will fit the moul I so tightly, and it will bc so close in gmin that it will rub the moulding sand off the moulds and make it almost impossible to shift the brick when made. It is astonishing what an improvement a littic sand will make to such a clay in this respect.

In drying either stiff mud or stock brick an addition of sand will make an enormous difference in the. rate. Very strong clay will crack and slake, or a dry shell will form, keeping the interior of the brick wet, or the brick will warp and shrink out of shape by unequal drying, and the accompanying air shrinkage. When sand is added it renders the clay leaner or milder; it will not require so much water for moulding, and thc grains of sand keep the brick more open. so that the moisture can escape in drying. Again. thc sand will not shrink, so that the bricks will keep their shape much better, as only part of thc material of which they are made shrinks.

We have seen from the above remarks, certain parts of which must describe conditions which all of you have experience in one respect or other of your industry, that the addition of sand makes clay working much easier in every respect, from the digging of the clay to the burning of the finished product.

But all that we have said is from thc standpoint of the brick maker; but what of the brick user Does the addition of this sand mean a poorer article for builder and contractor? Th