<doctype type="text">170	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" MONTREAL NOTES." author="">MONTREAL NOTES.

In more ways than one the season now closing has been one of the best. The weather has been exceptionally favorable to building operations and the building operations have been extensive. But everything comes inevitably to its end, and the best of businesses have their setbacks. Of the large number of buildings which have been pushed forward, in the view of being roofed in before the cold weather should arrive, a considerable proportion has failed to reach this hoped for point. The difficulty in most cases has been the structural steel work. The three firms in the city who handle this class of work have all been excessively busy and the result has been a general delay in building works. A special push is now being made with the new theatre which is being erected in St. Catherine street a little east of Phillips Square, where formerly stood a Baptist Church. Though not yet far advanced, the completion of this work is required by February 1st. Bennett's theatre, as it is called, is to accommodate an audience of about 1650 people; the division of these being fairly equal between orchestra stalls, balcony and gallery. Fifteen exits are provided. Space is reserved for a promenade foyer. The performances are to be of vaudeville class, and the opening of this theatre may be expected to cause the appearance of sundry restaurants in this part of St. Catherine street. The site, as already stated, was formerly occupied by' the first Baptist Church. The next building eastward is the principal Methodist Church of Montreal; just opposite is a Presbyterian Church; and close by are two stores for the sale of religious literature so the morals of the new arrival should he well looked after. The architect is Mr. <person>Charles E. Horn</person>, the builder Mr.

<person>E.	E. Horn </person>and Messrs. <person>Lacroix</person> and <person>Piche</person> the local architects.

A ten story building is proposed for Messrs <firm>Willis & Company</firm>, at the corner of St. Catherine and Drummond streets. The new <building>Mount Royal Club house </building>in Sherbrooke street is now completed, and has been in occupation since the 28th of October. The foundation stone of the Church of Messiah, at the corner of Sherbrooke street and Simpson street, was laid on the 22nd of October, and the work is going ahead quickly. Just opposite this the Linton Aparments, which will probably be the largest apartment house in Montreal, is now making a large appearance. The lower portion of the front is of what looks like large blocks of terra cotta with a gray speckled surface. In the present state of the works it is difficult to say what is the particular virtue of this material. The new <building>Emmanuel Church in Drummond </building>street is hastening to get under cover for the winter. The brick employed here is of a pleasant pale drab colour and is from a New York maker.

Discussions have been taking place recently as to the advisability of abolishing the St. Lawrence Market, and establishing a new Technical School upon the site; erecting a ten storey building, with school accommodation above and civic health department below. A high building can hardly he a convenient one for a school, and it would be much healthier for a health department not to shut out the sunlight from its neighbours. The large classes at all evening technical schools, however, show the demand for technical education, and to have a number of such schools in different parts of the city would soon bear fruit in the larger number of intelli

gent and well trained men. All interested in the satisfactory execution of work, especially in all building trades, would appreciate this.

The value of the new building for which permits are issued falls off at this time of the year, but there is still considerable activity especially in the erection of residential property in the suburban districts. Some of these suburbs, such as Outremont, for instance, can furnish examples to the parent city of how streets and sidewalks can be made and maintained. The city keeps on extending around the Mount Royal in both directions, and this season has seen the rise of a new suburb North Mount, in what might be called the very rear of the hill. The completion and opening of the new race course led to some improvements in the car service on the belt line, and this again is certain to react on the popularity of that side of the hill as a residential part. In fact its pleasant aspect, which is really towards the west, is much in its favour.

The University Lecture of' McGill College was this year delivered by Prof. <person>P. E. Nobbs </person>of the Architectural Department. The title given to the address was "Art in its Lowest Terms", and it was largely devoted to a critical comparison of' the philosophic theories of aesthetics of Marshall, Tolstoi, Santayana, and Him. After indicating the widely different attitudes towards art of these writers, the professor devoted himself to elucidating -by illustrations from architecture, sculpture, poetry and painting what was the real nature and purpose of art. Art in all its various forms was he said our means of expressing our emotions to one another. They needed some means or vehicle of transmission. For this the appeal though the senses was more potent than through the reason. The real subject of any work of art is the emotion it endeavors to express. What is usually called the subject of a work of art is really rather the occasion which has been chosen for expressing emotion.





<article title=" SKETCHING CLUB P. Q. A. A.

" author="">SKETCHING CLUB P. Q. A. A. <assoc>SKETCHING CLUB P. Q. A. A.</assoc>



On Wednesday, 24th October, the Club held the first of its series of weekly meetings for the winter session, at the Association rooms, No. Beaver hall Square. The business was the arrangement of the winter programe. me. The president, Mr. C. S. Burgess, called attention to the fact that during the last season prizes in books to the value of $100 had been awarded to successful competitors.

Mr. <person>W. S. Maxwell</person>, speaking for the committee in charge of the students' competitions, outlined the programme for the coming winter. It is the intention this season to hold, in addition to the advanced series of competitions, a second series for the benefit of beginners in architecture. The ''esquisse" principle is to be adopted in the advanced competitions, making it necessary for competitors to be present on those evenings when the subjects are announced.

After the discussion, proceedings were closed pleasantly with refreshments in the library.

On the 31st October, the first announcements of competitions were made. A special offer having been made to the club of a competitive prize of the value of $25.oo, from the <assoc>Canadian Handicrafts Guild</assoc>, this competition was announced in lieu of that which had been previously intended for the advanced class. The competition is for the arrangement of a series of bays

