<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	91



strengthened with glued blacks, Fig. 2. A closed string has its upper and lower edge parallel, and is usually finished with a moulded capping grooved and tongued on ; the capping to the outer string carries



the balusters which support the handrail. A cut string is shown in Fig. 5. The treads then line on the horizontal part of the cutting, and the risers are mitred to the vertical part. The nosing to the tread is returned along the end of the tread, and often has beneath it a bracket planted on the bracket serves no purpose beyond that of ornament. When stairs are over 3 feet in width, a ''rough string" or ''carriage" is used to





















support the middle of the tread and risers; and rough brackets, as in Fig. 6, are nailed to the carriage for this purpose; apron linings may then be needed to conceal the carriage ; the creaking of stairs often is owing to the absence of a rough string. Where winders are used ''rough bearers" take the place of carriages in supporting the risers, and in Fig. 3; they rest in the wall, and are framed to thc newel. To economize space in small houses, it is not uncommon for stairs to rise in one flight between walls, with winders at the head or foot: both strings are then plugged to walls. This description and diagram covers all ordinary stairs.



From "Mason" Please explain what is meant by ''Coursed Header Work" in stone masonry, and the manner in which it is constructed and oblige ?

Ans.—' 'Coursed Header Work" consists in having the stones all properly squared and the headers run the entire depth of the course as shown in Fig. 7. Perhaps the following remarks by <person>Professor Rankine</person>, along with the diagram, will explain the matter much

































better than we can. The professor says: ''One-fourth part at least of the face in each course should consist of bond stones or headers; each header to be of the entire depth of the course, of a breadth ranging from one and a half times to double that depth, and of a length extending into the building to from three to five times that depth, as in ashlar. These headers should be roughly squared with the hammer, and their beds

hammer dressed to approximate planes ; and care should be taken not to place the headers of successive courses above each other, for that arrangement would cause a deficiency of bond in the intermediate parts of the course. Between the headers each course is to be built of smaller stones of which there may be one, two or more in the depth of the course. These are sometimes roughly squared, so as to have vertical side joints ; sometimes the stones are taken as they come, so that the side joints arc irregular ; but no side joints should form an angle sharper than 6o degress. Care should be taken not only that each stone shall rest upon its natural bed, but that the sides parallel to that natural bed shall be the largest, so that the stone may be flat, and not be set on edge or on end Howsoever small and irregular the stones may be, care should be taken to make the courses break joint. Hollows between larger stones should be carefully filled with smaller stones completely imbedded in mortar."



From '' Builder. "—I desire to finish a large room

with a dado in cement.	Dado to be of a warm red























































color when finished, but the walls are not to be painted. Please describe a good method for executing this kind of work?

An5. If a granular surface is required, first coat the walls with portland cement and sand, and when set float with colored Portland cement and sand, 2 ½ to 1, working to a uniform face with a felt covered or crossgrained float. For a smooth or polished Portland finish, float the work, keying the surface well by using a coarse broom, and finally finishing with lime putty 2 parts, Portland cement part, mixed with colored water made by dissolving 1 stone of red oxide in a large pail of water. For a Keene, Parian or chromolith finish float the surface like the last, finishing by using three cements gauged with the colored water. The two latter processes when laid are gently scoured with a cross-grained float, filling in any slack places, until brought to. a true surface ; then polish with the laying trowel, and finally polish with felt or flannel. Fresh air-slaked cements must be used, so that the setting property of the cement may not he destroyed by the coloring matter ; also the different gauges of material and color must be noted and maintained throughout to he completion of the work. A uniform colored surface may he ensured by keeping a test piece.

