<doctype type="text;ad">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



an unnecessary scale of accommodation, for dignity rather than comfort, is no merit in a design for an ordinary Canadian farmhouse. The first intention should he to save steps; not by squeezing to such an extent that the inconvenience of buddle takes the place of the inconvenience of oversize; but by a compactness of arrangement that will make the service department— dining room, kitchen, pantry, summer kitchen and woodshed— touch upon one another without intervening passages to traverse and keep clean, and, in general, throughout the house, will serve comfort by giving, as far as possible, exactly the space required for comfort—not less, but certainly no more. Waste spaces that require defence indicate the need for further study of the plan.

So far there is not much difference between a farmhouse and another dwelling, except that the kitchen must be a room of good size. But there are some special points to be considered.

The modern farm house is equipped with the appliances for water drainage. A septic tank with subsoil discharge can be built for a $100 or so, and is to be assumed as the method of drainage; so that the house will be equipped with the conveniences of an ordinary bathroom. But water supply varies, and. it will he best to consider that the only dependence is' upon rain water from the roof. For this reason there is usually a cistern

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER on or before the 1st of February, 1907.

The subject is a shop front for a shop such as is usually occupied by a grocer, druggist, hardware merchant, &c.

The building will have light on front and back only. It will have a frontage of 25 feet, in which must be included a separate entrance for a dwelling above the shop. The floor plans of the dwelling must be given on a separate sheet of paper, so as to be reproduced separately on a small scale, for insertion in the text. What is required on the drawing sheet is only—-an elevation of the whole front, to a scale of 8 ft. to an inch; a plan through the shop window to a scale of ft. to an inch; and details of the shop window to a scale of fr. to 3/4 in. The whole to be arranged within a border with sides baying the proportions of 7 to 10.

The prizes for this competition are :—First prize $15.00; second, $5.00; third, a year's subscription to the CANADIAN

ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.





<article title=" THE RIGIDITY OF CONSTRUCTIVE MATERIALS " author="">THE RIGIDITY OF CONSTRUCTIVE MATERIALS.

The relative rigidity of the materials of construction, as shown by their moduli of elasticity, is exhibited on the accompanying



THE RELATIVE RIGIDITY OF Constructive MATERIALS

































































THE MODULI OF ELASTICITY OF DIFFERENT CONSTRUCTIVE MATERIALS.



room in the cellar with a tank from which water is drawn by a pump in the kitchen. To get water in the bathroom there may be either a bathroom cistern filled by a force pump, or the roof water may be led first to the bathroom cistern and overflow to the tank in the cellar. In either case one would think there is advantage in a ground floor bathroom. There is no particular reason why the bathroom should be on the bedroom floor. The morning bath is not in vogue in farm houses. After the day's work is over, and in the leisure of the evening is a much more serviceable time for this ceremony. A bathroom adjacent to the kitchen will make the supply of both hot and cold water casier. It might open off a back vestibule which will be needed so that the men can take off their dirty boots before coming into the house. To have washing arrangements here also will be a good thing. It is not, however, intended to dictate the plan in this respect.

Besides the tank room the cellar will require subdivisions for a furnace and fuel, for vegetables, for fruit, and for milk. There ought to be a special entry to the cellar for this produce, and it might conveniently be the woodshed, (which in combination with the summer kitchen usually makes a one-storey wing in the rear). If, as is usual, the wood shed is beyond the summer kitchen and the depth of the summer kitchen has to be passed to reach the cellar, the situation invites to the convenience of an inclined plane,

These suggestions are not intended to give a complete account of the requirements of a farm house, but rather to suggest that the subject requires some study. This is best done, for those who are not in touch with farming life, by looking through a volume or two of a good Agricultural journal.

As to design, simplicity is of course necessary. The house will be more economical to build, to keep and to use, if it is simple in form. But there is no occasion to despair of its appearance on this account. A small building, on such a spacious site as a farm, ought not to have its mass much cut up. There is sure to be, in the summer kitchen, a minor mass that will take care of composition in the rear. The entrance front will have its necessary appendage in the way of porch, verandah &c.; and, an isolated building is always the better for baying the entrance marked by something in the upper part of the building which expresses its position.

The prizes for this competition will be :—First prize, $15.00 second, $5.00; third a year's subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

COMPETITION III. To be delivered at the office or the

diagram and the table of numerical values furnished by <person>James E. Howard</person>, of Watertown, Mass. The data used in their preparation are from the results of tests made at the Watertown Arsenal, although some of the data might, of course, be bad from many other sources.





Does it pay to eat, drink and sleep? You have to. Does it pay to advertise? 'Tis the "eat and drink" of business. You can't live on sleep alone.









<article title=" Ontario Association of Architects

STUDENTS' CLASSES.

" author="">Ontario Association of Architects <assoc>Ontario Association of Architects</assoc>

STUDENTS' CLASSES.



<article title=" STUDENTS' CLASSES " author="">STUDENTS' CLASSES.



The Mathematical Classes will be resumed in the rooms of the 0 A. A., 96 King St. West, on Monday, October 22and. at 8 p. m.

Mr. <person>Thomas Taylor</person>, graduate of the School of Practical Science and now on the Engineering Staff of the Canada Foundry Co., will have charge of these classes.

 Arrangements are now being made for lectures and classes in other departments of the Curriculum announcement of which will be given later.

The fees for the full course up till March, 1907, will be Five Dollars, payable in advance to the Secretary-Treasurer.

	9 Yonge St., Toronto.	<person>A. H. GREGG</person>,

	Oct. 16th. 1906.	Sec-Treasurer.

H. E. St. George London Ontario Art Glass