<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



<article title=" SEVENTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS

OF ARCHITECTS.

" author="">SEVENTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS

OF ARCHITECTS.

REPORT OF MR<person>. ALCIDE CHAUSSE</person>, OFFICIAL DELEGATE OF THE CORPORATION OF THE CITY OF MONTREAL, OF THE <assoc>PROVINCE OF QUEBEC, ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTS</assoc>, AND OF



THE <assoc>MONTREAL BUILDERS EXCHANGE</assoc>. STEWARD



INTERPRETER, MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF THE



PERMANENT COMMITTEE, ETC.



I beg leave to report that I have attended the <assoc>International Congress of Architects</assoc>, held in London, from July 16th to 21st, to which you had delegated me as official representative of the Corporation of the City of Montreal.

At the opening session which was held in Guild Hall under the immediate patronage of H. R. H. King Edward VII, and the honorary chairmanship of H. R. H. the Princess Louise and H. H. the Duke of Argyll, the Honorable Lord Mayor of London, Sir Walter Vaughn, Bart., the Sheriffs of London being present. Addresses of welcome were read by the President of the Royal Institute of British Architects to the members of the Congress which had been delegated by different nations.

These official delegates in their replies to the president's address offered their thanks for the cordial reception which was given them.

The same evening a brilliant reception was given in the room of the <assoc>Royal Academy of Fine Arts</assoc>, where we had the pleasure of viewing the finest collection of paintings by the greatest artists of the Empire.

On Tuesday (tile 17th) after having taken part in the proceedings of the first meeting of the Congress, we attended a magnificent reception given in our honor by the Honorable Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress of London, in the Mansion House, where renowned lyric artists and a fine orchestra contributed to the magnificence of the reception.

The meetings of the Congress were held simultaneously at the rooms of the Royal Institute of British Architects and at the Grafton Galleries. At this last place I had the honor of being appointed Honorary Secretary of one of the most important meetings.

The different questions discussed by the members of the Congress were of the utmost importance. The architectural copyright and ownership of drawings in all. countries was the principal question. Tile resolution adopted, after much reading of paper and discussion by the members of the Congress, proved to he the main subject of the Congress; and the matter will be laid before the different governments so that proper legislation be enacted to protect the architects in every country.

The resolutions adopted by the Congress were the following

SUBJECT I.—'' The Execution of Important Government and Municipal Architectural Work by Salaried Officials." Resolution adopted That in the future and in the interest of administrative bodies and the public, and in the higher interests of the art of architecture, public bodies, (whether Governmental, Provincial or Municipal), should entrust important architectural works only to qualified professional architects, either by competition or otherwise.

SUBJECT II.—''Architectural copyright and the ownership of Drawings." It was resolved That this Congress is of opinion that the architect, is employed to produce a building, .and that all drawings and papers

prepared by him to that end are undoubtedly his property.

It was further resolved That this seventh International Congress of Architects assembled at London in 1906, recalling on the one hand the resolutions passed during the past twenty-eight years by the International Congress of Architects and the International Congress of Artistic copyright, as well as by the international Congress of the Association Litteraire et Artistique Internationale, notably at Madrid in 1904; recalling on the other hand, the ''Protocle de Cloture" of the Diplomatic Conference held at Paris in 1896, which upholds the principle of complete protection of works of Architecture; recalling, finally, the Spanish law of 1876 and the French law of 1902, both which expressly protect works of Architecture. The Congress is of opinion 1. That architectural designs comprise design of facades, exterior and interior, together with the plans, sections and elevations and they constitute the first manifestation of the architect's idea and the work of architecture. 2. That the building is but a reproduction, on the site, of the architectural drawings; and this Congress renews the resolution that works of Architecture be protected in all legislative erectments and in all international conventions equally with every kind of artistic work.

SUBJECT II I.—-''Steel and Reinforced	concrete Con— struction." Resolved That this Congress considers it desirable that an inquiry he made as to what failures have taken place in reinforced concrete buildings, and as to the cause of tile failures, and that this Congress is of opinion that. where reinforced concrete is intended to be fire resisting, the greatest possible care should he taken as to the nature of the aggregate and its size, as also to the protection of the steel.

SUBJECT IV. — ''A statutory qualification for Architect". Canada was found to he the only country, where, in the Province of Quebec, a Diploma of Architecture is necessary in order to practice as an Architect. It was resolved ; that it is desirable, in the interests of the public of all nations, and in the interests of architecture, that practitioners should have a statutory qualification.

SUBJECT V.—The Education of the Public in Architecture". This subject was much discussed but no resolution was proposed.

SUBJECT VII.—' ' How far should the Architect receive 11w Theoretical and Practical Training of the Craftsman?" Resolved: That this Congress considering that the Architect, the master of the works, having under his immediate direction workmen and artisans of the most varied bodies of the State, and utilising the services of the most varied industries, has no means of acquiring in each of these trades and in each of these industries the complete knowledge of a specialist, expresses the desire that the opportunity should he given to the architectural student to acquire in a general but exact manner the technical part of the various trades and industries of the building trade without claiming to practice these trades and industries. It also expresses the wish that between these schools international and continuous relations may he established.

 SUBJECT VII. — This Subject ''The planning and laying out of street a and open spaces in cities'' was in such discussed hut no resolution was proposed.



SUBJECT. VIII.——''To what extent and in what sense

