<doctype type="text">20	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



could have been a city anywhere that has so much land at both ends and at the back as well, suited for no other purpose than for waste places. It is a pleasant idea, "waste places", a beautiful idea, because it after all means tracts of land that men cannot cultivate and which have to be left comparatively in a state of nature for the benefit of man. Let anyone go out to the beautiful Lambton golf links and see what has been done there with great ease. We can have with as little expense as any city of the same size, a wonderful investment of parks. We know to a certainty that every year we postpone the purchase of any such land we shall have added to its value just exactly what the steady outgrowth of the city of Toronto towards the land means; and if there is land one mile from a settled part of Toronto, which can he bought at a certain price, if we wait five years we shall have to pay the extra price which is represented by five years of the growth of the city towards that land. The common sense of any man who thinks for a moment shows him that some day the city will want these parks, and if we can get money in any way to secure them, we should buy them now and not wait until the real estate vendor or the process of expropriation causes us to pay enormously as compared with what we should have to pay at the present time. (Hear bear.) To me, gentlemen, it is not a question of he city beautiful it is just a question of practical common sense. Do we really believe in the city of Toronto ; do we believe it is going to be one of the great cities of North America? Do we believe that beautiful surroundings, fine roads for driving, fine highways, to let your people get in and out, will pay ? One of the serious troubles of modern cities is the incoming of the people from where they live and the exit at night—we have to go out now in zigzag fashion and we know full well we cannot continue to do that, we must have radials to take the people out, and shall we begin to buy these radials now or at a time when they will cost 5 or 10 times as much as now? And let. us consider that if this were done in such a manner as Sir <person>Henry Pellatt </person>suggested, by means of a commission, the purchase of these radials might be managed in such a way as to cost very little. A part of that scheme involves the widening- of York street. Could not any five gentlemen in this room, if they had the power to buy the land on both sides of York street up to Osgoode Hall or obtain it by expropriation, effect the widening of it so many feet on each side and sell the new frontages so as to make money out of doing it? It is clearly possible to take the land on York street, buy it, dismantle the houses, widen the street, sell new business sites and make money. When you build the radials you could not do that throughout, but if a commission bought every block that would be intersected by the radials, and controlled the rebuilding on their blocks, do you think we have not men in this city who, if empowered by a proper commission and put in such a position that their ideas could not be changed every time a new Council came in, would not for the love of it, manage business like that and do it without the cost being at all a serious matter. My idea is that what seems the most expensive part of that plan would be the least expensive if managed in a business way. (Applause). Without trying to say what it is going to cost, do you mean to tell me that the 300,000 people in Toronto at the present time,

among the most liberal spenders of money in America a, cannot afford to buy such surroundings in parks and boulevards as other cities in North America have? And can they not afford it much more than cities in Europe? In Europe it is true that labor is cheaper than here, but all the improvements are so much more solid and lasting than ours that the money they have to spend is out of all proportion to the money we spend.

My last word to the gentlemen here—or rather to the people of Toronto, who I hope will hear of this meeting

——is that this is not a difficult question practically, this is not a difficult question financially; it is really a question of whether the people of Toronto at the present time are going to join the movement which is taking place all over Canada—there is a larger movement in railway building, in banking, in the distribution of goods a larger feeling from one end of the country to the other whether the people of Toronto have got into this movement and into this larger wave of action enough to do the thing for their own city, which is not only eminently reasonable but is to the last degree  necessary.





<article title=" PLUMBING AND SANITATION " author="">PLUMBING AND SANITATION.*

Forty odd years daily experience in the theory, and practice of modern plumbing—I use the word in the broad sense of its meaning as generally understood by the public (covering the allicd trades of heating, roofing, etc.)- -and a consequent intimate contact and association, with the architect, his client, and the general public warrant. me in making the statement, that there is nothing that so quickly makes and assures the architect's reputation as good plumbing —and nothing so rapidly, surely and often injustly, mars his reputation as faults in connection with this important and complicated branch of the building trade. Let the foundations be laid never so well —the facade, be architecturally correct, the interior plan he faultless, decorations unique and artistic—all is quickly forgotten, should drains choke, roof or water pipes leak or the heating apparatus fail in giving the desired temperature. The proprietor forgets the mason, carpenter, artist, plumber and only remembers his architect, when such troubles arise. True the plumber comes in for a certain amount of the blame, and hard talk—but as a rule, he has at least a certain amount of justification, and a ready excuse is afforded him when he can say "I followed out your architect's plans and specifications," and if he has done so, does not his responsibilility outside of the workmanship end there? At least I known that in many cases he thinks it does. And he the plumber ever so much in fault the proprietor still blames the architect for his want of knowledge in employing an unskillful or characterless man.

Such being the case, the question arises how you are to minimize the risks you run in such matters, for the best of pipes will leak, drains will choke, fixtures overflow, and through no fault of either plan or practice.

Consider for a moment what the plumbing apparatus in a modern dwelling is. In even a small and unpretentious house, it is a most complicated and intricate collection of material that have to be assembled in a skillful manner and according to highly scientific



*A paper by Mr. <person>J. W. Hughes</person>, Montreal, read before <assoc>the Sketch Club of the Province of Quebec Association of Architects</assoc>.

