<doctype type="text">132	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



they were only "illustrations." The same remark was made about <person>W. L. Wyllie</person>'s picture '' The Passing of a Great Queen," representing the royal yacht passing through the fleet with the body of Queen Victoria. What is an illustration ? Michelangelo's '' Last Judgement " is not an illustration, partly because it has not happened yet and partly because when it does happen it will not be like that. Not a very positive recommendation for the work so far. What remains is the interest of the artist's conception—a matter of literary and historical interest chiefly, and usually' a bore and the beauty, (or kindred qualities), of the theme. This latter point is where the illustrator is apt to be hampered ; but in Woodville's battle scenes the theme is heroic and is to be found in many a gallery, treated by the masters of art. The War-office did not try to makeour soldiers the same colour as the ground in the interest of art; but kakhi in the mass is not amiss, and there is always blood to brighten it up.

The grounds are still the unsolved question of the Fair. They are not exactly chaotic. Indeed at night, when subdued light marks off the part where the pigs are asleep from the brilliant main avenues where people are amusing themselves and looking at things, the general disposition of the grounds is seen to be right enough but there is a great want of arrangement at the amusement and manufactures end. Every visit to the art gallery is an exploratory expedition. The management is understood to be alive to the necessity of a plan ; but there is all the difference in the world between a respectable plan, such as might be made by the management itself assisted by the civic officials, and such a plan as an accomplished architect would conceive. A coherent plan will be a tough job now, with so many conditioning circumstances already established ; but these very conditions would be the making of the plan, saving it from a too obvious formality and giving it the individuality which is so precious in any thing connected with the beauty of cities. The key to the plan is given by the avenues of grown trees, which are a feature now to valuable to be neglected and the appearance of the main avenue, as it is, suggests an appropriate character for the whole design. The portals of the Process Building seen under the trees are exactly what we ought to expect for permanent buildings in a fair of this kind. The roofs of fair buildings are rather in excessive proportion to the walls ; we do not want to see too much of them. Let them be masked by trees, and the wall and entrances only appear conspicuously. One would not advocate too much similarity in the building plans but the E shaped front of the Process Building is conspicuously right, giving not only a satisfactory arrangement of alleys within but an exterior distinctly picturesque in a substantial way. The reentering walls make quiet grassy courts where the plain brick walls in different planes have architectural value; and the three portals advanced to the avenue, with shady courts on each side, form an admirable composition, seen under the trees of the avenue. The columned porch of the central entrance with simple rusticated brick arched openings for the wings, balancing one another on each side of it, gives just the right quantity of architectural effect for the purpose. Particularly as seen at night, the effect of these entrances is excel

lent. Fair composition is essentially scenic and there cannot be a greater mistake than to suppose that the buildings must be extravagantly ornate either in general form or in detail. Two thirds of the design is the natural dignity of trees grass and water and outre or gimcrack buildings are quite out of keeping. Simple lines and plain material are far the best; and the management and the architect deserve approval for the character of the white brick buildings that have been erected recently.

Any notice of the Fair ought not to conclude without a lamentation of the permission given to vendors of eatables and drinkables, or anything else, to shout notices of their wares. They do not make a dollar more by it. People can see their stands perfectly, and if hungry or thirsty will buy. And for other people, or even the hungry and thirsty, to he annoyed at every turn by these raucous voices, magnified sometimes by a megaphone, inviting to hot sandwiches, ice cold drinks &c., is a serious drawback to the agreeableness of the Fair. There is plenty of noise of other kinds to make the place cheerful ; these vulgar outcries only degrade it.



<article title=" MATERIAL MARKS FOR BLUE PRINTS " author="">MATERIAL MARKS FOR BLUE PRINTS.

The practice of hatching the sections of a tracing, so as to represent the material and save coloring the blue prints, makes a great saving of labour. It is surprising that it did not come in at once with the adoption of the blue print. But, there were not so many blue prints made at first as now, since their reduplication is found to so greatly facilitate progress and accuracy. It remains now to establish a standard of





BRICK



WOOD



Stone



CONCRETE

marks, so that the blue prints of all offices will represent material in the same way.

Here is an illustration of the marks used in a prominent office in Toronto for the more evident materials. It would be a convenience if the table were extended so as to include other materials used in building and also such adjuncts as radiators, gas and electric light outlets &c. if any architectural body will devise a full table, we shall be glad to publish it.





In the Canada Gazette of August 18th the incorporation of the <firm>Dominion Portland Cement Company, Limited, </firm>is announced. The promotors are Messrs. <person>Henry Domville</person>, <person>John H. Redpath</person>, <person>Harry E. Borradaille</person>, <person>Henry N. Chauvin</person>, all of Montreal, and <person>Charles Duclos</person>, Westmount, Que The capital of the company is $1,000,000 and Montreal the chief place of business..



A movement is on foot at Strathcona, Alta., to float a company for the purpose of developing a large stone quarry which has been found on the farm of Mr. <person>James Mundy </person>in the Calmar settlement. <person>Mr. Carstairs</person>, of Strathcona, is organizing the company. Competent experts affirm the deposits found to be or a very superior quality of building stone. The stratum is from five to ten feet thick and a very fine, hard blue stone.

