<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



but in this connection we must take our view point from that of the public, from those outside who are apt to misconstrue an undesirable necessity into an intentional stumbling block.

I use the word "undesirable" advisedly.

If "Statutory qualification" is to become a fact we must not forget that it can only be obtained by proving to the general public that we are not acting from selfish motives, that we do not desire to bar the profession to all, irrespective of ability, that we are not endeavoring to form another "close corporation" but that we are actuated simply by our interest in the public good and by the desire to elevate not merely the profession but the moral temperament of the community. Therefore, to enlist public opinion on our behalf, the power to admit to the practice of the profession must be put in the hands of men, who, even to the eye of the professionally illiterate, shall be above the cry of selfinterest. Such a board must be composed of men eminent in their respective spheres and who are not engaged in the actual practice of the profession, and their appointment must come from authority outside the ranks of the profession. They should be appointed by the government that grants the necessary legislation. Only by such means may we expect to get any measure of legislative enactment looking toward statutory qualification.

Such examinations would of course cover the whole ground of architectural practice. The advisability of a thorough examination on the constructional or utilitarian side of the profession can hardly be denied. An architect erects not things of beauty only, to be admired in the abstract. His genesis is utility. Utility leads to construction. His works must not endanger the lives of the public and he must exhibit a certain knowledge of scientific and physical laws. Vitrivius elaborates on this point and what he wrote then is just as applicable and indeed is more so, to-day. He points out the complexity of the professional requirements of those days; how much greater is it today. All cities require the obtaining of "permits" previous to building, these are required in order that certain hygenic, constructional, and scientific regulations be complied with. The inference is that a certain standard of plan and construction is desired and made compulsory by the powers that be. The logical sequence of such action would be to set a standard of qualification for all who design buildings. A standard is made compulsory for the building, why should a standard not be made compulsory for the designer.

All countries deem it necessary and advisable to hedge architects around with a large amount of legal responsibility, such responsibility usually being more exacting in countries where the standard of the profession is high. In fact investigation will prove that the higher the standard of the profession in a country, the greater the responsibility attached by law to the profession. This is as it should be, for it recognizes the importance of the subject and, by inference, points to the necessity of some qualifications being set. This is recognized from earliest times. In the earliest known code, that of the Babylonian, compiled by Hammurabi 2250 B.C., provision is made for due compensation to be paid by the architect to the owner in the event of any disaster happening to the building during construction or after it is completed (see edicts Nos. 228-233 inclusive). All our present laws on the subject are built more or less on the edicts of Hammurabi and the only inference we can draw is that, the erection of a building has been considered at all times as an occupation of importance which should only be exercised by properly qualified individuals.

With respect to the aesthetic side of the professional practice, we meet with a more difficult proposition. We are told it is almost impossible to make a standard for design. We are told it is a question of appro

priateness, that there is great room for difference of opinion, that it is purely a matter of taste", and that "good taste" is simply a question 01 fashion. Such arguments are mere nonsense.

There is a basis of design which no one should be permitted to evade.

A building badly designed architecturally may not be a physical danger to the public, but who can say what its effect may he on the moral temperament. We are all influenced, to a greater or less extent, by our environment. True, some surmount all circumstances and influences of environment, but the majority are swayed by its all prevading presence. If, in such an environment, beauty is absent and ugliness pre-. dominant, depravity and a low moral condition will usually be found amongst the people. On the other hand beauty is always accompanied by refinement, a higher state of civilization and, as a rule, a higher moral condition amongst the people. It is therefore incumbent upon our legislators to recognize such influences. It is a truism that the social condition of a country is reflected in its architecture. This is borne out by history, past and present ; and whilst the architecture is merely a reflection of the social life of the people, it is fair to suppose that good architecture, typical of the beautiful, would have an elevating influence on the people and reflect back those beneficent rays of goodness and truth.

Such influences have been recognized from time immemorial. Plato calls the "beautiful" the "child of the good", and argues that it should not be weighed by any other standard than the good. In his "Republic" he goes into the argument more fully, and holds therein that state superintendence should be extended over sculpture and building so that they may be prohibited from exhibiting all forms of vice, intemperance, meanness and ugliness. He argues further that those who cannot design accordingly should be prevented from practicing this art "lest the taste of our citizens be corrupted." He would not have them grow up among images of moral deformity "as in some noxious pasture and then feed upon harmful herbs, until they silently gather a festering mess of corruption in their own souls. Let our artists, rather be those who are gifted to discern the true nature of the beautiful and the graceful, then will our youth dwell in a land of health and fair sights and sounds and receive 'he good in everything; and beauty, the effulgence of fair works shall flow into the eye arid ear like a health-giving breeze from a purer region and irresistibly draw the soul from earliest years into likeness and sympathy with the beauty of reason

A sense or perception of the beautiful is to be found within the soul of every human being. In a few it is overpowering, enthusiastic, striving at all times for opportunities of action, in some it is handicapped and fettered with influences, overcome occasionally but sometimes made subservient to them. In a great many it is lying dormant, almost dead, but yet with that spark of life which only requires the gentle breeze and encouragement to break into flames of activity. It should be our pleasure to encourage it, at all times, to influence our community with its leaven of goodness and it should be the duty of the state to recognize such influences and to grant a statutory qualification to prevent influences other than that of the good to be over her people.

A beneficent providence has set us down in a world where beauty reigns supreme. We see it in the grass, in the tender bud, in the full blown flower; we see it in earth and sky it is above us ; it is at our feet "the Universe is its temple". Man only is the disturbing element. He is permitted to create and thrust before the gaze of his fellow men creations of ugliness and untruth and we stand aside, not lifting a finger to prevent it. Is it neglect or indifference, or both? The work of a painter may not inspire us with healthy moral sentiments ; it may be typical of ugliness and

