<doctype type="text">

SUGGESTIONS FOR DECORATORS.<article title=" SUGGESTIONS FOR DECORATORS " author="">

CONCERNING that    essential property in ornamental art, beauty, writes Mr. James Ward, Head Master of the Shcool of Art, Macclesfield, Eng., in the Painters' Magazine, it may be said that to lay down any laws or rules for its application in design, would be

-a very difficult task. It has really so many rules as to be almost past definition, for in nature its prime qualities or very essence appeals to the intellect, and is in a sort ot way felt and is quite inexpressible in art. It is. however, generally admitted that the highest form of

beauty in ornament consists in the perfection of fitness. For example, you cannot decorate to any extent, if at all, a column of a severe, or indeed any order of architecture (except the head of capital), without weakening the appearance of it. It is already beautiful in its outlines and perfect in design for its position in the building, and wants little or no decoration to make it any more beautiful.

A safe rule to observe in the decoration of almost anything, from a temple Or a house to a vase or a coal scuttle, is to take the lesson that nature teaches in the distribution of color and form; she carefully avoids on the plumes of bird's feathers, and on plants, animals, and many other things, any wealth of color or decoration on what may be called the working parts it is the tips of the feathers, the crests and ends of the plumes, the upper surfaces of wings in butterflies, and wing cases in beetles, the spots on the backs of the tigers and leopards and of most fish and shellfish. The tips and upper ends of plants' bear their cups, their spikes, and waving plumes of gay flower heads; in short, wherever strength and work, reside in nature, you will not find any lavish expenditure of decoration. What beauty it may possess will be the beauty of fitness; the trunk, the stems and the roots of plants. The quill—ends of the feathers of birds possess alone the beauty of strength and constructive utility. In unison with these laws the savage carves his weapons of war. he will only carve and decorate the part that does not interfere with his handling of them—he leaves all the working parts plain. It is- wrong, therefore; to overload the— mouldings and framework of doors and cabinets, or any other constructive parts, with carving or decoration. The part

that folds over the edge of the table in an embroidered cloth should be left plain. So in beams, arches, groups of mouldings, or borders around panels, give as much constructive beauty as you like; but otherwise let them be simple in color, or leave them severely alone. It is on the panel or field, such as the ceiling, the wall, the carpet, or hangings that you can be lavish in your decorations, at the same time avoiding anything that would disturb the repose of such surfaces, either in form or color.



The master painter of to-day is- said to have control-of 15,000 different shades of color.

A strong application, of ordinary spirits of camphor will remove almost any kind of polish or varnish; so also will the solution of potash.

A convenient preparation for rebronzing gas fixtures is made by mixing bronze powder with any transparent varnish, say amber, gum Daimaru or copal. Do not mix more than you are going to use at once, because most

_	bronze powders act as powerful dryers, and what you have left of the mixture soon becomes hard and useless. It is best to put a little of the. varnish in a small fiat

-	- 

saucer and .some of the. loose powder next to it, and mix

with the brush while you are using it, as a painter mixes

	colors on his palette.	- .



A report of the Toronto Plumbers' banquet; at-which- speeches were made by Messrs. W. J. Burroughes, J. J.

Withrow and others, in favor of the establishment of trade schools, is unavoidably crowded out of this paper.

The sanitary condition of the city of Winnipeg is said. to be far from satisfactory. The daily papers charge that the sewers were not flushed- once- during the past summer, and that lanes, back yards and alleys, cause foul odors to assail the pedestrian .at every turn. The Health Department of the city of Winnipeg would seem to he far more ornamental than useful.



____Send $2 and receive the "Canadian Architect and Builder" for one year and a copy of the "Canadian

Contractor's Hand-Book."	

THE SEWERAGE OF SMALL CITIES AND

___	     TOWNS. <article title=" THE SEWERAGE OF SMALL CITIES AND TOWNS.

" author="Chipman, Willis">

	By WILLIS CHIPMAN, BA, C.E.

S

EWAGE removal by water carriage has been in use for centuries. When the sewers are designed to carry not only the sewage proper, but the rainfall, as well, the system is known as the combined system ; when the storm water is excluded, the separate system ; when part of the rainfall is allowed to enter the sewer, the restricted system. ____ ______

From a sanitary standpoint there is no doubt in the mind of the writer that the separate system is one to be preferred. This opinion is based upon—the following reasons 

1st. Except in the large cities the conduits can all be made of vitrified glazed pipe; which is' impervious to liquids and gases under ordinary pressures and offers a smoother surface than any brick or cement surface.

Brick work is not impervious, and any brick or cement surface presents many small projections which collect matters in suspension, thus impeding the current.. Fresh running dilute sewage is not dangerous, not even offensive. Not until it-becomes -stagnant and--putrefaction. commences, is it dangerous. The pipe sewer therefore has a great advantage over any brick' or cement sewer.

2nd. In the combined system the sewers are made large enough to carry the maximum rainfall, at which time they run full, while the flow of the sewage only is but a small fraction of the rainfall, so small indeed as to be wholly disregarded in designing the sizes of the sewers.

It therefore follows that these large sewers of the combined system cannot be fully flushed, except during a maximum rainfall, perhaps once or twice a year, consequently the sewer air must become foul, especially in the small branch sewers, during the dry seasons, the flow of

- sewerage proper being but a small, putrid, thickening stream. Only when a sewer becomes offensive is it thought necessary to flush it from a hydrant U[ tank. In the separate system the flow in the pipes is comparatively a constant one, the maximum flow being but a few times greater than the minimum flow. To flush the system a flush tank should be placed at the end of every sewer. These tanks work automatically, flushing the sewers copiously with water. They can be controlled to flush as often as. necessary, and work in winter or summer, rain or shine. Where the flow of sewage is least the flush is greatest.

As you follow upward the current in the sewers of the combined system the sewer air must become more foul, white in a separate system it becomes less foul.

3rd. In the separate system less ventilation is required the sewers being less foul, and this ventilation is easier accomplished.

The city engineers of the present day are still at work devising methods of ventilation for their sewers. Every thing has been tried, and nothing is quite satisfactory. Ventilation through catch-basins caused nuisances at those points close to the buildings. Ventilation through flues, chimneys, etc.,. were imperfect, only ventilating the sewer which was, connected with the flue. Charcoal filters have been used; sulphurous acid and chlorine gas have been tried, to deodorize the effluvia arising from sewer openings.

Perforated manhole covers are now extensively used and generally recommended as a great aid to ventilation of a combined system of sewers. In Ontario during our four months of snow and ice, perforated manhole covers are next to useless as ventilators, but no doubt this is the least objectionable method of ventilating during the remainder of the. year.. They should also be used as an

—aid-to-ventilation-in-the separate system. 

In the combined system the dangers arising from effluvia from sewer openings are great1) and the ingenuity of the health officer and engineer has been. taxed to invent traps and ventilating pipes to keep "sewer gas," so called, from finding an entrance into our houses.

The more pipes and traps any system of house drainage has, the less efficient must the ventilation be. The Public Health Act of 1884, gives a fair sample of one of these most ingenious, cumbrous, expensive and inefficient methods of ventilation. -	-

In the separate system there is little or nothing    to guard against, especially in the upper portions of ti



of clean water displacing any foul air that may be formed



and forcing it out at places of least resistance. The sewers in this system can therefore be ventilated safely and effectually by the main soil pipes being carried through the buildings and above the roof, without placing anywhere in their courses any trap or obstruction to the free passage of air from or to- the sewers. This simple method of ventilation also reduces the cost of house plumbing materially.

4th. In 'the separate system the cellars and basements have no direct communication with the sewers. If a

-stoppage should take place in any sewer the sewage "backing up" in sewer would probably gain sufficient head to overcome the obstruction, or would flow out on-surface from some manhole before finding an entrance into any building through any fixture. 'This is an important matter and one seldom- considered. - In the combined system generally a drain leads from the cellar or basement to. the street sewer, often of sufficient size to convey the sewage of a town of 5,000 people. This pipe or drain has a filth reservoir placed in its course called a trap, supposed to keep out gases from the sewer. During the summer months the water in this trap is '-probably evaporated and the sewer air has free,, uninterrupted passage into the building. During storms the sudden-flushing of sewer-may- force the trap. A trap on a cellar drain can never be depended on. —In the separate system cellar drainage is provided for

by laying porous agricultural drain tile from the building to the street sewer, and alongside the-street sewer is laid a line of agricultural tile drain which carries subsoil and cellar water only. The water in these drain tiles being clean can be give an outlet at the surface either into existing deep drains or into a natural water course

- These drain tiles will lower the subsoil water, an important matter in our climate, where in the' winter season the heat in the interior of our houses tends to draw in the damp ground air.

5th. Where the disposal of sewage by pumping, irrigation', precipitation or filtration is necessary. the separate system has every advantage over the combined -system owing to the small volume to be considered.

COST.

In the family the child naturally tends to imitate the

-parent or elder children, whether for good or for evil.' In the same way a small city or town contemplating

- sewerage looks to the larger cities for a model.—When they find these., large cities expending on their costly subterranean water courses, which they call sewers, sums that would deter a smaller corporation, it is not surprising that these smaller places postpone the construction of a system of sewerage.

It is a great mistake to look to the larger cities for

model	Within the last twenty, within the 

last ten years, even within the	 last five years,— sanitary

engineering has taken gigantic strides, and the best,__ safest, and cheapest systems of sewerage are those that have been commenced and completed in the smaller -cities within the, last five years.

In the United States the following towns and cities have constructed sewerage systems since 1880-adopting in each case the. separate system : Memphis, Tenn.  Keene, N. H.; Norfolk, V-a.; Pullman, Ill.; Stamford, Conn.: Chelsea, Mass., (in part); Kalamazoo, Mich.; Omaha, Neb., (in part); Little Rock, Ark.; Birmingham, Ala.; Pittsfield, Mass.: Leavenworth, Kan.; Schenectady, N. Y. ; Amsterdam, N. Y. ; Green Island, N. Y.; West Troy, N. Y.

In Canada the town of Brockville is now constructing a complete system of sewers, and the town of Cornwall has made a commencement. Both of the towns have also adopted the separate system.

·	In-the small cities, towns and villages the element of cost is often a controlling factor. The writer has given his reasons why he considers the separate system better than the combined system from a sanitary standpoint, and as a system of sewers designed to carry the rainfall will cost from twice to five times as much as a system to carry sewage only, there are few valid reasons for adopting a combined system. _________

is often objected against the separate system that It

additional sewers are necessary to carry the rainfall. This may be true in large cities with large roof area, paved courts -and streets, where storm water would- do



of towns and cities in Ontario the surface gutters and present drains are quite sufficient-to carry- the rainfall In special cases it may be advisable to allow a limited amount of roof water or even street water in the sewers;

	all depends upon local conditions.	- 

In moderate earth excavation the average cost of a completed system of sewers built on the separate system

constructed. This is sum that any		already

	town not





