<doctype type="colophon;text"> PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF



Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers In Building Materials and Appliances.

VOL. 1. - No. X.	TORONTO, CANADA' OCTOBER 1888	PRICE 20 CENTS.

 - $2.00 PER YEAR.

Canadian Architect and Builder

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS; CIVIL AND SANITARY ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS. CONTRACTORS, AND.



MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILD.

ING MATERIALS. AND APPLIANCES.

	C. H.	MORTIMER, Publisher,

31 King Street West, —TORONTO,- CANADA.—

\ SUBSCRIPTIONS.

The Canadian ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if as stipulated by the subscriber but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are 'd.



In ordering e of address give the old as well as the new address. failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



ADVERTISEMENTS.

 Prices for advertising sent	on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes o( advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contribution of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective

Corporation of any town or city can be to make the necessary experiments,' and collect all possible data bearing on the subject. Furthermore, the required information might in this way be obtained at a fraction of the amount which it would cost the municipalities to conduct their investigations individually. We trust the time is not far distant when a Department of Hygiene, with all the appliances necessary to solve questions of this kind, wilt be established by the Government of this Province. The Cost of establishing and maintaining such-a- Department would be a' mere bagatelle as compared with the amount spent by this and other Cities for expert opinion. At present we have no recognized governmental authority whose opinions should serve to decide the thousand and one matters affecting the health and lives of our people.



The tearing up' of an old corduroy roadway on St.



 street, in this city, to be replaced by block pavement, served' to remind citizens the

other day of Toronto's youth, and of the wonderful progress made in the last quarter of a century. Speaking of pavements, calls to recollection the fact that within a very brief period the city, will: be called upon to subset

to invest large sums of money- in new land and buildings for Exhibition purposes. The inconsistency of such arguments robs them of any value. Our present Court House and City Hall have been a standing disgrace to Toronto during the last five years, and will have to be replaced by something more in keeping with the city's importance and progress. This being the case, no good purpose can be served by delaying. the commencement of the enterprise for a year or two longer. While the cost of the proposed buildings is considerably greater than was at first anticipated, we know of no cities in the United States of equal size and importance, where from one to three million dollars has not been spent for since tar purposes. A future generation will be called upon to pay a large proportion of the cost of the structure, and it is 'safe to assume that they will .prefer to pay tar a building. that will in their day be standing intact and an ornament to the. city, rather than for one already crumb- ling to decay, and suggestive only of the short-sighted ness of their forefathers.



We had the pleasure of examining the plans of

the .proposed new Court - House · and Municipal Buildings a few days ago and was very much pleased

with them indeed There has been an immense

arrearages are pain.	dress give the old as well as the new address.

of ad

failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.

 ADVERTISEMENTS

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication Dot later than the 12th day of the month and changes of advertisements Dot later than the 5th day of the month.



 EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this, journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient

 merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities 





REF

ERRING to the remarkable attitude assumed the Toronto Trades and Labor Council in opposition to the proposal to introduce manual training into

 public schools, the Philadelphia Record says :—" Canadian workmen must be far below their American brethren in intelligence to form such a narrow-minded and

erroneous idea of a system which seeks to extend the 

producing power of a country, to widen the opportunities

for skill and handicraft." 



O

U R Hamilton correspondent has repeatedly called attention in these columns to the very unbusiness-like and unsatisfactory manner in which the building

 record of that city is kept. So far as its usefulness is concerned, the city would probably be as well off without a record of any kind. We notice that in New Orleans, where a somewhat similar state of things has existed, the builders themselves will hereafter insist upon having the records properly kept, We hope the architects and  builders of Hamilton will also adopt this course in order that an intelligent estimate may. be formed of the amount, character and cost of the buildings erected.



BRANTFORD, Berlin, and other cities and towns in  Ontario, have lately adopted improved systems of water supply, and as a consequence, are now brought

 face to face with the problem of the best method by  which to dispose of their sewage. The citizens of these

 places are aware that the proper course to pursue is not  to dump the sewage into the nearest creek or rivers In

this respect Toronto has probably served as a "horrible  example," which her neighbors are wisely determined to

profit by.—We regret that the city of first importance in Ontario has not yet solved the sewage problem for itself, and is accordingly not in a position to help those who are grappling with the question for the first time. One

 paper suggests that municipal corporations should not be required to bear the expense of experimenting

finding out which is the best method of sewage disposal, ___but that the Provincial Government should undertake to deal with the subject in the interests of the whole pro We are in accord with this

Provincial Government is in a	position

than

 THE tearing up of an old corduroy roadway on St.



Patrick street, in this city, to be replaced by cedar block pavement, served to remind citizens the other day of Toronto's youth, and of the wonderful progress made in the last quarter of a century. Speaking of pavements, calls to recollection the fact that within a very brief period the city will be called upon to substitute something more durable for the cedar block roadways on the three principal thoroughfares of the city King, Queen and Yonge streets. A costly mistake was committed when streets carrying such a large amount of traffic and traversed by the street railway, were cedar block paved. Let us hope that when the work comes to be done over again, the best kind of materials, arid the proper method of putting them down, will receive full consideration. 





It is surprising how little space is given by the daily  press to- the important subject of the preservation of the public health. - It is probably because there' is so much apathy on the part of the public itself. Because a considerable number of people are intensely interested in baseball and prize-fighting, our leading daily papers devote a page every day to imparting news of that character. It seems to be a question of supply and demand. Just at present, the people of Toronto and other Canadian cities and towns are aroused from their wonted indifference to health measures by the fear of a smallpox epidemic. As a result of this awakening,

press has suddenly taken to discussing	daily

sanitary methods. What we would like to see, would be the manifestation of greater interest in health preservation in times of supposed safety as well as at a time like the present. -



W

E present our readers this month with a perspective sketch 'of the proposed new Court House and City Hall for the city. of Toronto. The estimated cost of erecting the building in accordance with this design, is about $1,400,000. After the citizens have been given full information concerning the character of the buildings which it is proposed to erect, and have had an opportunity to examine the plans and judge for them selves as to their adaptability for the purpose intended, they will be asked to vote- $600,000 in addition to the amount already voted for the construction of the buildings. We trust the money will be forthcoming. The opinion expressed by Toronto

City Hall and Courts House will be good enough for fifteen years to come is not deserving of a moment's consideration. The same journal which opposes the erection of the proposed new public building on the ground of economy urges the wealthy city of Toronto"..

Ornament to the city, rather than for one already crumb- -ling to decay, and suggestive only of the short-sightedness of their forefathers. 



-	We had the pleasure of examining the plans of the - proposed new Court House and Municipal Buildings a few days ago and -was- very much pleased with them indeed. There has been an immense amount of labor expended on these drawings, none' can know how much except - those who have gone through a similar experience. The plan is so simple in - its arrangement that - no person need be puzzled to find any-room in the build- ing. This is a very great advantage, and must have required much thought to evolve a plan so perfect and yet

-	so simple. The entire plan of the building is good throughout, especially the arrangement of the court rooms and their attendant rooms. The elevations call for high praise, and we have no doubt but that the citizens will be proud of the building when it is erected, and also of the fact that the designer is a Canadian. We could not help comparing the design of this building with the one according to which the Parliament Buildings are being erected. - It certainly does not suffer by the comparison, but rather it shows how very poor a design the imported one really is. The two buildings are about___ equal in size, and yet one seems to-be a mass of disorganized parts, and the other a compact whole. -Certainly the foreign design. for the-Parliament Buildings will not compare with the home production for the Court 1-louse. If the Canadian design for the Parliament Buildings were being carried out, and the Court  House being built according to the present design, Toronto would have had two very large buildings' of-which it need not have been ashamed.



SINCE our last issue the plumbers' strike in Toronto  came to an end. It lasted nearly three months, to the great loss of the strikers and likewise the employers. We are of the opinion that the strike could have been avoided if the question in dispute had been approached in a moderate and reasonable spirit. They were eventually settled after many weeks of idleness s on the parts of

-	the men, loss-of business on the part of the masters, and with loss and trouble to many persons who were only in -

-	directly concerned. The loss which falls on outside parties, calls for some means of settling these strikes outside of the parties directly interested If they- were —the only sufferers, we could stand and look on with greater indifference. But such is not the case, and as many who suffer have no voice in the matter, some means should be worked out whereby quiet settlements between work men and their employers could be brought about There 

