<doctype type="text;colophon">

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF



Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers in Building Materials and Appliances.

VOL I-No. XII.	Toronto, Canada, December 1888.



Canadian Architect and Builder

A Journal OF MODERN Construction METHODS,

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND SANITARY. ENGINEERS, PLUM.

BERS, DECORATORS, BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND

MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILD-.

ING MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C.H. MORTIMER, Publisher,

31 King Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA.



"A WORD TO THE WISE," ETC.



Barnum Wire & Iron Works,

Windsor, Dec.. 12th, 1888.

C.	H. Mortimer, Esq., "Canadian Architect and Builder," -Toronto.

 Dear Sir, —-You will please renew our contract with you for advertising for the ensuing year. We will send change 01 copy in time for January— number. We wish - to add that we have received more valuable enquiries from our advertisement with you than in any other January number. We wish to add that we have received more valuable enquiries from our advertisement with you than in any other medium 'where we are represented.

Yours truly,

F.	S. EVANS,

 Pres. and Gen. Manager. -





V

Volume I. of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT  AND BUILDER closes with the present- number. It seems fitting that on the anniversary of the, establishment of this new enterprise, a word or two should be

· said-regarding the measure of success which has already been achieved, and the means to be adopted for ensuring greater and permanent success in the future. A backward glance over the past year gives no cause for discouragement. Tbe publishers' anticipations have in many respects been more than met, and he feels encouraged to put forth renewed efforts to improve the character and value of the publication in the new year upon which it is about to enter. Sincere thanks are tendered to those who have manifested their appreciation of the aims and objects of this journal, by extending to it liberal advertising patronage, and by giving their names as subscribers.



It is a pleasure to be-told-by our subscribers that the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER has steadily improved from the first number. Our determination is, that the march of improvement shall continue as long as those whose interests we strive to serve, shall accord to us the necessary measure of support. In accordance with the expressed desire of a large number of our

readers, the form of the paper, commencing with -the next number, will be changed, so as to make it more

·	convenient for binding. Improvements in the character of the illustrations and in other particulars will be. introduced, and will serve to greatly increase the attractiveness and value of the publication:' t)The staff of contributors to all departments is steadily increasing, as a glance over the present number will show, yet there is room in our pages for the opinions of any reader who may have anything of interest to communicate.     -



The announcement last month of our intention to publish shortly the "Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book

-	as- a premium to new subscribers to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, has already added largely to our subscription -lists, and we feel certain that during the coming year these lists will include the names of a large majority of the contractors throughout the

Dominion:- It is the intention to print in the "Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book" a classified list of all business firms having advertising contracts with the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for 1889. ·The value of such a permanent advertisement will he readily understood. Those of our advertisers whose contracts expire with the present year, or during the first three months of 1889, and who may desire to appear in the classified list in the "Hand Book," should send, us. notice, of renewal of their contracts at once.



To one and all our readers we wish a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.



J

 T would be interesting to know how the park area of the principal Canadian cities compares, in proportion to their population, with that of old world cities as given below : Paris, 172,000 acres: London, 22,000. Vienna, 8,000; Berlin, 5,000.



Builders' Associations of Canadian cities, are at present engaged in revising their forms of building contracts for the new year. It is fully time that a that a standard form of contract should be agreed upon for use throughout the Dominion. This is a matter that might profitably engage the attention of the proposed association of Architects 





We regret that several glaring errors should have

-VV crept into the article by Mr. David B. Dick, published in our OCtober number. The most flagrant of- these occurs in the second paragraph, where, by the omission of a word in one place, and a whole line in another, the writer is apparently made to say that corrosion is caused in soil pipes by caulking- the joints. Every precaution will be taken to guard against a repetition of such annoying mistakes in the future.



An interesting letter from a Boston correspondent reached us too late for publication in this number. It will appear next month. In the January and February numbers will also appear a description of the New York Trade Schools,- accompanied by illustrations showing the interior of the workshops and specimens of the pupils' work. In view of the interest which technical education is at present exciting in Canada, it is hoped that these articles will prove - interesting and valuable. 



We E are pleased to notice the manifested desire

VV	on the part of the architects of several Ontario cities for an Architectural Association for this Province.

—The formation— of- local Associations such as that-organized at Ottawa the other day, is a step in the direction of the larger object. The organization of a Provincial Association, and the establishment of a course of instruction in architecture in connect on with the School' of Practical Science in this city, as proposed by the Minister of Education would secure for the profession man advantages which, under the present unsatisfactory condition of affairs, it does not possess. -



A CHATHAM, Ont., reader, in sending us his subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, incidentally remarks that although the paper is not in-all respects what he—would wish it to be, he--feels bound to encourage it. We have written our can-, did friend for suggestions regarding the manner in which the paper might be improved. We will be grateful for any suggestions in this direction from the reader; and

for assistance given us in carrying out such of them as are considered of most value. We should not be expected-to- know the opinions and wants of—all-our--readers, so if you do not get what you want, please ask for it.



- A READER of this journal writing from Quebec—  regarding our comment upon the unbusinesslike method of keeping the record of new buildings in the city of Hamilton, says: "Please blow us up a little. this head. It will do us good to be reminded of our shortcomings." We take this to mean that in Quebec the same unsatisfactory state of affairs exists. We regret that it should be so, and would suggest, that the new aldermanic brooms about to be elected make a clean sweep of building inspectors who fail to enforce compliance with the law requiring the obtaining of a permit for every new building before construction begins. Such permit should include the name of the owner of the proposed building, the location of building, the materials of which it is to be constructed, and the

	estimated- cost.	_____





IN this age of professional, trade and business organizations, it is somewhat singular -that the master -builders and contractors of this country have not in like manner associated themselves The men in other callings have discovered that wrongs which individual effort could not remove, quickly yielded to the strength of combined effort. Is the-condition of the master builder in Canada so prosperous and satisfactory as to make organization unnecessary? Numerous failures in their ranks during the past year, would seem to indicate that such is not the case, In the United States the National Association of Builders is, we believe, doing much to conserve the rights and improve the position of the master builder. It is hut reasonable to suppose that like results would follow the formation of a Canadian Builders' and Contractors' Association. Let us have some opinions on the subject. - - 



W

E congratulate the City Engineer of Toronto upon the good judgment he has displayed in the nomination of assistants to perform the various duties of his Department. Mr. Chas. Rust has had a wide experience in sewer construction, has proved his- ability and responsibility, and we doubt not, -as assistant engineer in charge of sewers, he will discharge his duties in a-manner satisfactory to the Chief of the Department and the citizens. Mr. Meadows, who is to have charge of the 'construction of roadways, has earned a creditable reputation in that' particular field. Mr. Roden, during several years service as Secretary to the Board of Works, has shown himself a capable, painstaking and obliging official, and, relieved of the multitude of petty details belonging to his former position, will do the city good service as chief clerk of the Department.' The appointment of Mr. A. -H. Clarke to he Secretary of the Board of Works, is equally satisfactory. The Works Department, as thus re-organized, should hereafter perform its work in a highly efficient manner.



 The Solicitor for the city of Toronto, after looking  carefully into the Statutes, is of opinion that the Ontario Legislature. may grant authority to enable the



City Council to compel the telephone and electric light companies to place their wires underground. In the case of telegraph companies whose lines extend beyond the bounds of the Province of Ontario, his opinion is that such authority must come from the Dominion Parliament. The Solicitor suggests that the opinion of emi-





