<doctype type="text">	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	AND BUILDER	- 

	OCTOBER, 1888 ____	5

works than ever; and the greatest piece of constructional work at -present going_ on, the greatest in some ways that has been attempted, is the gigantic structure at the Firth of Forth, from which everything that we generally call architectural design has been entirely eliminated, nothing being left) so- to speak, but the bare poles of construction. Such a work as this is an appropriate culmination to a half-century in, which the most numerous and remarkable constructional works have certainly been those of the engineers. Engineering has known what it Wanted, it and the public have known what they wanted from it ; that is the secret. In architecture there has been doubt and experimenting on one side, and a good deal of public indifference on the other side. As to the latter drawback, we see little immediate prospect of improvement ; architecture is still a kind of sealed book, and a subject of indifference to the public, but the

Architects Engineers Builders, Contractors and others are invited to

contribute to this department of their experience regarding methods of construction, Also particulars- such as location, c character, cost and name of owner, etc.— of any works of construction in progress



<article title=" PRACTICAL HINTS TO CARPENTERS " author="Maginnis, Owen B.">

PRACTICAL HINTS TO CARPENTERS.

By OWEN B. MAGINNIS.



When setting door jambs on under-flooring. or where the finishing floor is not yet laid, always take the following precautions First Place a straight edge across the floor to each stud at each opening to ascertain if the weight of partition has not sunk it out of level. Second—Ask the foreman if there are base

has only to fit a few drops to find this out. Also keep there square to the edges and be sure they are not nailed in wind.

The object of nailing on the strip is.' that by tacking it on equally distant from The head and leveling it. the he-ad is likewise leveled without the trouble of climbing upon a horse. The inch being added to the length brings the head up inch higher, so that the base will come level with the top of the base block on the

trim.	.	-

 The 9-6 jambs are set in the same way, except that a 1 inch is allowed 9-8 instead of 1/2 inch. The extra inch on the length as 8-8 9-7 is to allow for the finishing floor 1 inch thick. This method should always be followed for first class trim when were is a supervising architect who uses his eyes. In trimming doors, the trim now cam to he building put together or with the stiles and head casing glued and dowled perfectly square, fitted and varnished or polished, all ready to nail up. so it is absolutely necessary that the jambs be properly set and their edges leveled to en

sure the joints being close.	-

Jambs should never be set too wide for the thickness of the

Design FOR A —

art itself appears to be in a healthier and more promising condition that it was at the beginning of the present reign) it has more of life and originality1 less fettered by precedent; and has a sounder - basis of- sanitary and constructional knowledge; and these are conditions

which may make us hopeful-for the future achievements of English architecture during the remainder of a reign which we all trust may still be prolonged for many years. Abstract from an article in the Builder.



 Plans are invited from the architects of all nations for

-	a municipal theater in Krakow, Austria. Prizes of 2,500 1,500 and - 1,000 florins will be awarded for the best plans by a jury of experts, whose names are soon to be



reserved for the purchased such other plans as may be   recommended by. the jury. Plans must be submitted

not later than March 1889, to Dr. Szlachtowski, President

data can be obtained.

blocks an the trim. Now, if there are, base blocks and the base must be kept level. Supposing one opening has the floor sunk a  inch below the levels and another 1 inch below the difficulty will be to set the jambs so- that each base block will be level with the other and the door heads their proper height and level In such a case proceed as follows:

The height of the doors being determined by one 8-6 clear of

-	head and floor and one 9.6. nail the beads and jambs together and tack, a piece across the edges. of the jambs about 12 inches from the bottom, equally distant from the head. about 7-6 down, and keep the Jambs parallel by marking the piece with the pencil equal to the inside distance at the head. This being done, obtain a 10 foot rod and lay off 8-7 1/2 for the 8-6 jambs. and mark this length on one edge of each jamb. This mark will be the scribe line for the jambs. or their exact length. Set them in the opening between the studs and place a true level on the ship and wedge up the lowest side until the bulb is exactly in the center. Now set your compasses to the line on the stile resting on the floor, and keeping the jambs about plumb. scribe them to the floor, saw these lines,

always leaving the line on, and replace the jambs far out from the studs, and nail them perfectly plumb and straight on the face. Be sure they ate perfectly straight and wedge out all short crooks and



 

wall, as in a great many cases no wall molding is employed, and the back joint must fit to the plaster. They must also be out of wind.

In nailing on trim, care should be taken to have the margin n on the edge, showing equally all round, for it often occurs that the

-	trim may be put together and 1-16 of an inch more or less than the dimensions shown on the details; therefore, if only an 1.8 is shown on the stiles the same must be left on the head. One thing in particular must be well done, namely, to fur well under the back edges of all casings and corner blocks, and to fit the wall mold close. as the recesses left by carelessness in this respect are too often the abodes of bugs, roaches, etc" __ 



What arc you doing?" demanded a citizen of a countryman

·	who was critically examining the former's electric bell-knob "Saw, mister," i replied the countryman, straightening up." there's

suthin' the matter with your door-bell. The knob's got pulled



 A Swiss inventor has perfected .a method of making artificial boards, and is advocating their use in building. They are made of a mixture of plaster of Paris and reeds, pressed into shape by hydraulic process. The material- has the advantage of incombis



