<doctype type="text">and the SyStem, it should be with the return pipe, and not the flow; but a small connection with the flow pipe may also be taken if the tank is in an exposed to prevent freezing The following sketch will illustrate the principle upon which I work

T is connected to return pipe d by a ¾ pipe, and the same

-	size connection to flow pipe F at H, when the tank is in an

exposed or cold position. flow pipe F decreases as the branches, are taken from it as follows: Say, z inch as far as G, and from G, to H 1¼ inches. This must of course be determined by the size of the radiator and boil 

·	I would not have entered so fully into these elementary details did I not think it neceassry to do so in replying

to the article in question, as the writer of it seems altogether ignorant of them. In reference to his assertions about the large mains and returning the water to the bottom of the boiler 

 HOT WATER HEATING.

	Editor CANADIAN Architect AND	Builder 

<article title=" HOT WATER HEATING " author="">

DEAR SIR,—In a recent issue of your paper I notice an article under this head, taken from the Northwestern

· Architect

The writer of the article in question starts out with

the statement that "	_________	_______

he motive power which 

calculation in a hot water heating plant is brought into action not by the expansion of the water, but by its contraction To make this clear," he says, "consider that the normal condition of the plant when in operation is with the hottest water in the place, and that what takes place in the natural starting, of the apparatus is a changing condition. Let us tben imagine the apparatus to be filled with hot water, and just enough fire to keep the temperature at the top of the boiler constant to be

· maintained."

In order to explain his new and somewhat crude theory as to the circulation of hot, water, he . shows a system of pipes and connections, which would never be fixed by any good mechanic who understands hot water<article title=" AMERICAN GAS LIGHT ASSOCIATION MEETING IN TORONTO " author="Geggie, D. H.">

	heating	.	-

AMERICAN GAS LIGHT ASSOCIATION MEETING IN TORONTO.

A

 CONVENTIUN of members of the American Gas Light, Association will be held in this city commencing Wednesday, the 17th inst. at to o'clock and closing-on the evening of the 20th The meeting will be held in Temperance Hall. Tne programme will include the reading of the following __

"Experience in Distributing Gas. Under extremely

low temperatures, " by D. H. Geggie.	-	- -

"Observations During Many Year Experience in the Gas Business, " by Jas. R. Smcdberg.

-	"Construction of Gas Holders with Wrought Iron or Steel Tanks Above Ground" by Frederick Mayer.

"The Steam Stoker and Improved Charger," by A.

Q.	Ross. "Daily Experiences and Observations of a Gas Manager," by Jas. Somerville.

"Coals for Gas Making," by Jas. D.. Perkins.

"Enriching Gas with Napthaline," by Arthur Kitson. 

—For-the--Question Box- there-are- the following questions: , /

"-What is the exact cost on wear and tear of. meters

where iron purification is used ." 

is the best way to treat men who, while working in a trench, are overcome by gas ?"

We bespeak for the members of the Association a hearty welcome to Toronto, and trust that their stay amongst us may prove both pleasant and profitable. The quickest Way we know of to win the affections of the people of Toronto would be to tell them how to regulate the paceof their gas meters - —SANITATION IN England.

Under	the new English Registration Bill, the  sanitary arrangements to be certified are to be in accordance with the following requirements

(1.) Each water-closet shall have a flushing service 'which shall be distinct and separate from every water service other than a water-closet service, and no cistern shall be connected with any pipe which is in direct connection with a soil drain

(2.) Each soil pipe shall be ventilated, and the open end of the ventilating pipe shall beat least two feet above the highest window or other opening on the side of the building where the pipe is situated.

(3.) The drains shall be ventilated by means of a soil-

Claim A building having a continuous skeleton of metal a'

covering or veneer and a non-conducting packing between the

· skeleton and veneer, for the purpose set forth 2nd In a building

frame a continuous diminishing laminated post formed of layers oL metal plates, secured together and arranged to break joints and decreasnag in number towards the top. 3rd In iron building

· construction the combination. with a framing composed of con. tinuous laminated posts suitably connected by braces and girts of tie-beams secured there to and to one another. substantially as set forth. 4th In iron building construction the combination, with a framing composed o(continuous laminated farming posts suitably eonnected by braces, of an exterior covering of non-conducting material for the pttrpose set forth 5th In iron building con. struction the combination, with a framing composed of laminated posts suitably connected by braces and girts of an exterior covering of non-conducting material, and a stone  other veneering exierior thereto. and supported 'on shelves secured to the framing substantially as set forth. 6th. In a frame for a building of two or more stories a series of tapering posts extending from base to top of the frame. and formed of metal plates in layers, secured with their flat slides together. and arranged to break joints and braces and girts, for connecting and securing the posts, substantially as

In order to explain his new and somewhat crude theory as to the circulation of hot, water, he shows a system of pipes and connections, which would never be fixed by any good mechanic who understands hot water

	heating.	.

__ He assumes that the apparatus is filled with hot water, and then notes the changes that take place.

Circulation of hot water is not caused by its contraction, as stated but it is caused by its expansion.

--Take a hot water heating apparatus with its pipes and radiators filled with cold water. Water consists of an innumerable quantity of extremely minute particles, called molecules Thes particles have the property of

- being able to glide over, under and to or from each other almost entirely without resistance or friction. The action that takes place in a boiler this: When the heat is applied, the particles nearest the heated surface become expanded, or swollen, and are so rendered lighter (bulk for bulk) than their colder fellows, they are therefore compelled to rise to the highest point in the boiler ; finding an opening there (the flow pipe,) they

· travel up this also, until the highest point in the circulation is. reached. It will be understood that immediatley the expanded particles left the heating surface, other cold partides immediately took their places ; these- become heated in their turn and rise, following their predecessors, and so it continues.

The circulation can be described as a stream of heated particles flowing up one pipe from the boiler, and a stream of-cooler particles flowing down the other into the boiler j' or it might be defined as a means of automatically transporting heated water from the lower to

- the upper parts of a building and providing a down flow of cold water to boiler to -be' heated in its turn -This circulated goes on indefinitely as long as any fire remains, and even for several hours afterwards, until an equilibrium has been established between the two

· columns of water... .	I entirely agree with . the remaining portion of the

writer's artide- wherein he speaks of the slipshod manncr in which too much of the—work is done nowadays.

(2.) Each soil pipe shall be ventilated, and the open end of the ventilating pipe shall beat least two feet above the highest window or other opening on the side of the building where the pipe is situated.

(3.) The drains shall be ventilated by means of a soil-pipe, or by a separate pipe above the highest window on the side of the building where the pipe is situated

(4.) Water closets shall be trapped, and they shall be the only arrangements inside the building having pipes directly connected with a_soil drain.

(5.) There shall be an air chamber, with disconnecting siphon trap,. which shall be easy -of access, on the soil drain and the public-sewer or-cesspool..

In addition to these conditions, every certificate for a building specify the cubic contents of each ward, and set forth in detail the provision made for lighting warming and ventilating each ward as well as the entire building, and the posi

- tion of the water closets, sinks and discharge pipes with reference to the wards.

Buildings must not be used without being certified to, under a penalty of £10, and £1 for every day of such occupation, to be recovered of the owner, lessee or occupier. The certificates lapse in five years and must be renewed, as in case of any alterations made during that time. 



Continued pumping at a well lowers the'ground water level in the earth for a distance of from, ico to 1,000 feet, varying with geological formation and the water-supply. Hence, the greater amount of water taken from a well, the greater distance is the water drawn through the- earth and- the greater the chance for pollution

- — Owosso Water Report -, . —-- - -7' - In a recent lecture to the Sanitary institution of Great -Britain Dr B. W. Richardson considered the power the human body has been proven to possess of storing up

to' a prolonged period. He- stated the conditions favoring such a storage in the following order: Here-

struction the combination. with a framing composed of laminated posts suitably connected by braces and girts, of an exterior cover. ing of non-conducting material. and a stone or other veneering exterior thereto. and supported on shelves 'secured to the framing,' substantially as set forth. 6th. In a frame for a building of two or more stories, a series of tapering posts extending from base to top of the frame, and formed of metal plates in layers, secured with their flat slides together, and arranged to break joints and braces and girts. for connecting and securing the posts, substantially as set forth. 7th In a building frame, a series of continuous frame ing post, composed of metal plates secured with their flat sides together and breaking joints in - combination with girts and tie-'beams secured thereto at each floor, substantially as set forth. 

·	8th. The combination, with the laminated plates, of the continuous girts secured thereto and the the beams also secured thereto and to one another, substantially' as set forth 9th The combination with the framing posts and braces of the wire-lath, or other suitable coverings, the non-conducting packing packing and the veneering

the purpose set forth. 10th The combination, with the building supported by the shelves, and anchor rods, substantially as and for

-	frame composed of the laminated posts, girts tie-beams and pillars arranged to form a central well, of the elevator shafts, and stairs arranged therein, substantially as set forth 11th The combination with the building frame constructed with a central well, of elevator shafts arranged in the corners of such well, and flights. of stairs riling from opposite sides of such well to a central landing. and other flights rising from said landing to the other sides of such well.  substantially set forth. 12th The combination, with the posts and girts forming outer frame, of the beams having their outer ends resting on this girls and secured to tfie posts, and their innet ends secured to beams that are transverse to them, the pillars therefor, and and the diagonal tie-rods substantially as set forth. 13th The combination, with the posts and girls. ot the angle-plates connecting them and forming supports for the veneer shelves. 14th The combination with the posts and their braces of the. plates forming the shelf supports. the shelves. the veneer and. the' anchor rods, substantially as set forth.

		 Flush Valves for Water Closets

	No.	Thomas Campbell, St. Iohn. N. B., dated 3rd April.

