<doctype type="text">10		The Canadian Architect And Builder			January, 1888



	<article title="A Handsom Business Office" author="">A Handsome Business Office.



The illlustration on this page shows the handsomely decorated interior of the private business office of Mr. J. Ross Robertson, proprietor of the Evening Telegram, of this city. In elegance of appointments and elaborate decoration, it is perhaps not equalled in Canada. The room opens off the main business office, and owing to the size of the latter, is necessarily small. It is L-shaped, and in order to relieve its smallness, one side of it is entirely framed with mirrors, which apparently enlarges the appartment. The transoms of the two windows looking out upon Bay Street, are vagriated stained glass, one representing steam and the other electricity, the former being a picture of three cherubs harnessing the vapor that floats out from the old tea kettle of Watts' vision, and on the other cherubs are snatching the lightning as it darts from the clouds. The windows are shadedwith heavy, plush curtains. The floor is covered with velvet carpets, while a chandelier of rich ormolu work depends from the center of the ceiling. The ceiling and walls are hung with Lincrusta Walton. The general tone of the ceiling is buff, while the raised designs are delicate lilac and pale copper bronze. The cornice, enriched with artistically wrought friezes, is olive shaded while the dull bronze of the lions' heads that adorn the upper friezes is relieved by electric blue which gives the room a bright and pleasant appearance. The decorative work was done throughout by Messrs J. McCausland & Son, of this city. The furniture, a walnut suit, consists of a massive and handsome Wooten desk with comfortable writing chair and heavy library chairs in Morrocco leather. Vases for flowers, photographs and various articles of vitru are placed about the room. Upon a mottled marble pedestal is a fine specimen of statury called ''The Coquette of Forence'' while upon an easel opposite rest the etchings of ''A Lancashire River,'' and ''Breaking up the Agamemnon.'' ''The Old Politician,'' by Guzzardi, and other fine paintings decorate the walls. Within easy reach is a set of speaking tubes affording communication with every room in the building.

<article title="Contracts" author="">CONTRACTS

	Omemee, Ont.- The Presbyterians contemplate building a new church.

	Kingston, Ont.- The sum of $100,000 is to be spent in reconstructing the city water works.

	London, Ont.- There is an impression abroad that London needs a new city hall.

	Paris, Ont.- The erection of  a new city hall to cost nearly $20,000 will probably be undertaken shortly.

	Huntsville, Ont.- Tenders for the erection of a public school building to cost $5,500 will be called for shortly.

	Stratford, Ont.- Stratford is badly in need of an Opera House and steps will probably be taken in the spring to erect one.

	Smith's Falls, Ont.- Mr. John McLaren will build this winter a four storey brick hotel, 60 x 80 feet, to cost upwards of $10,000.

	Trenton, Ont.- The contract for the erection of a new post office in this town, has been awarded to Mr. Walter Alfred, of Beleville.

	Calagry, N.W.T.- It is expected that the government will spend something like $100,000 in the erection of new police building next season.

	Hamilton, Ont.- As soon as the necessary sum of $7,500 can be raised to complete the building fund a new Y.M.C.A. building will be erected.

	Port Hop, Ont.- Mr. Hamilton McCarthy, of Toronto, has been given the contract for the work on the memorial statue the late Col. Williams.

	Belleville, Ont.- $23,000 has been subscribed towards the capital stock fo a company which is being organized to build a bridge over the Bay of Quinte.

	Wiarton, Ont.- This town has contracted with Mr. J. Ronald, of Brussels, Ont., to build  water works at a costof $7,500, exclusive of engine house and docks.

	Bowmanville, Ont.- Public School Board are about to rebuild a school lately destroyed by fire, to include all latest improvements in heating, ventilation, &c…

	Aurora, Ont.- Messrs. McQuillian & Co., of Parkdale, have the contract for putting in a system of water works here, the price, exclusive of the well and tank-house, being $8,600.

	Mount Forst, Ont.- The new high school building designed by architect Ritchie and built by contractor Gray of this town, cost $12,000, and is believed to be one of the most complete in the province.

	Ne Hamburg, Ont.- The Church of England congregation are raising funds, and will shortly begin the construction of a new church from plans supplied gratuitously by Architect F. Darling, of Toronto.

	Peterborough, Ont.- Architect J. E. Belcher is preparing plans for a handsome summer hotel building, to be erected in the spring at Chemong Lake Park, about five miles from Peterborough, by a joint stock company.

	Lindsay, Ont.- The erection of a new post office to cost $40,000 and a collegiate institute to cost about $30,000 will be commenced here shortly. Contracts are now being let for many new buildings to go up in the spring. In fact this town looks forward to quite a building boom next season.

	Quebec,- It is understodd the intention of the dominion Government to continue the carrying out of Lord Dufferin's scheme of embellishment for Quebec by giving out shortly the construction of Prescott and Hope gates to contract.

Ottawa, Ont.- A new suspension or cantilever bridge cross the Ottawa river from old ferry at Rockcliff to Gatineau Point, is being takled off. The bridge would be interprovincial, and its cost, which is estimated at $150,000, would probably be borne in part by the government of the Dominion, Ontario, and Quebec.- Contracts for about fifty miles of the Oxford and New Glasgow railway have been let by the Department of Railways and Canals in four sections as follows: Section one and three to J. O'brien, of Renfrew, Ont., and Thomas Cooke, of Oxford, N.S.; section four, to Archie Stewart and Ralph Jones, of Ottawa. The total cost of four sections will be about $400,000.

	Montreal, Que.- A five-storey stone and iron building is to be erected on the site of Nordheimer's Hall, St. James Street, to include three stores on ground floor and wateroom above.- The Canadian Pacific Railway Company will erect Mammoth Stables capable of holding 400 horses, for the accomodation of ranch horses in transit to England.- In view of a probable deficiency in the city water supply, during the present winter, the Water Committee will endeavor to secure a loan of $1,500,000 to complete the adequeduct, which would afford such a head of water as would make it possible to pump between 40 to 50 million gallons per day by hydraulic pressure alone, and more than double the present supply.- The C.P.R. Company will build large work-shops in the east end of the city.- Contractors Davis & Sons, of Ottawa, will build the new C.P.R. depot on Windsor Street.- Several new hotels for Montreal and its subsurbs will probably be commenced in the spring, a site having been selected in the center of the city for a large commercial hotel. New summer hotels will also be built at Lachine, Beloeil, and Laprairie.



	Toronto, Ont.- The Consumer Gas Company will erect a two story brick resort-house to cost $60,000 and a purifying house to cost $40,000.- The City Council are considering the matter of establishing a Collegiate Institute in the Northwest part of the city.- A new agricultural hall will probably be built here in the spring.- It is proposed tp spend some $40,000 in improvements to the exterior and interior of St. James Cathedral.- Wm. R. Gregg, architect, 9 Victoria St., reports: Dwelling house on east side of Bellevue Avenue, near Oxford St., of red brickwith Ohio stone dressings, for Jas, Gibson, Esq; residence for Geo. McKibbon, Esq., on the north side of Wilcox, near St. George St., white brick and brown stone; pair of dwelling houses on the west side of McCausland St., near College St., also for Mr. McKibbon; pair of semi-detached houses of red brick, N.E., corner of College and Howland Place for Dr. McPhedran.