<doctype type="text">November, 1888

-9-

<article title="Manufacturing and Materials" author="">MANUFACTURING AND MATERIALS 



<article title="Canadian vs. Imported Sewer Pipe" author="">CANADIAN VS. IMPORTED SEWER PIPE.



 The editor of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER is in receipt of the following letter from a gentleman in the



 United States , whose name we withhold for the present, having authority to make it public:

'I am thinking of establishing a manufactory for sewer tile, etc. in Canada. if I can find a clay suitable for the purpose. ·and think I know where I can get it.

I write to you for information regarding the market for sewer tile, and to find out if the demand is at all good ; also if there is any manufactured in Canada at present; and to what extent. I, of course, refer to a vitrified, salt glazed tile, and I understand the largest size at present manufactured in the country is six inch.

Any information you can send me on the 'subject will be thankfully received. 

Upon receipt of the above letter, we instituted enquiries, with a view to obtaining the information sought for. We were informed by the principal dealers in sewer pipe in this city that a wide field lies open to the manufacturer of a first-class article in that line in Canada. There are at present two manufactories in Canada —one in Ontario the other in Quebec. These , we

 in this country. The largest proportion is imported either from Scotland or the United States. We enquired whether it was owing to the limited-capacity of the Canadian manufacturers to produce these goods that such a large proportion had to be imported. The  answer was that it was due rather to the inferiority of the pipe at

in Canada as compared with the imported article. The city of Toronto, it was said, would not allow the use of the native article, and that one dealer alone imported into Toronto last year 200 car loads of drain and sewer pipe. We give these statements to the public as they were given to us, with no desire to injure in any way any industry at present operating in Canada, but rather to point out to the proprietors of such the ap. parent necessity of improving the quality of their to put, if they

desire to supplant the manufactures of other countries at pre

sent used sp largely in our public works. .We also consider it a duty to encourage the establishment in Canada of	 manufactures

whenever there appears to be a profitable opening for the sam

The article quoted above was published in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for October. The statements contained  in it are disputed by the managers of both Canadian sewer pipe manufactories. The following letter has been received in regard to the matter from the Hamilton and Toronto Sewer Pipe Company



 Hamilton, Oct. 27th, 1888.

Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Toronto.

DEAR SIR.—We notice in your October issue, page 10, an article on the manufacture of sewer pipe which is incorrect, misleading, and calculated to injure the industry in Canada. We think you should have made enquiries from the manufacturers as well as dealers before making such a statement. Although not solicited, we hope you will excuse us for offering you some statements respecting the make of pipe in Canada. The factory in Hamilton, established in 1860, and which was very weak in the beginning. has

sisting of eight lengths of straight pipe and three junction pieces, was submitted to the crucial smoke test, which thc pipe withstood in a most satisfactory manner while a second drain of inferior pipe from another factory when submitted to the same test showed numerous defects through which the smoke escaped in large quantities.' The drain of inferior pipe referred to was laid with Scotch. pipe." 

With a desire to do full justice to the manufacturers of Canadian sewer pipe, we have printed their statements and denials in full.

and we cheerfully invite them to use our extent if necessary to sustain their position.  Having thus we trust_ manifested our desire for fair play, we shall proceed to explain our own position in relation to this matter, and to publish sucb evidence as we have been able to obtain bearing on the case.            



First of all, then, as to our own position. The reader will observe that the article in question states: "Upon receipt of the above letter, we instituted enquiries, with a view to obtaining the information sought for." The statements contained in the article are substantially in accord with the information supplied to the editor of this journal by the individual to whom he was recommended to apply for the facts requested by our correspondent. That individual was Mr. Robert Carroll, a well known dealer in sewer pipe in this city. Mr. Carroll's statements were condemnatory of the

	

quality of Canadian manufactured pipe, and tended to show that a profitable opening existed in Canada for the establishment of a



factory for the manufacture of pipe more nearly equal in quantity to

the imported article. Speaking on the	Mr. Carrol said, that

 it		more profitable

to handle imported pipe, and that consequently the establishment of another manufactory in Canada, would not benefit him directly. He added, however, that as citizens of Canada, we should seek to develop the country, and by so doing we would as a matter of course, be conferring indirect benefit upon ourselves. With the view no doubt, of still further encouraging our correspondent in his purpose of engaging in the manufacture of sewer pipe in Canada, named Mutton, on Adelaide street east, who was the owner of a bed of-clay which had been declared to be well adapted for the manufacture of sewer pipe. Mr. Carroll. introduced us to Mr.  Mutton; who explained to us nature of the clay. and the location  and extent of the deposit. He stated that a sample of the clay was among the exhibits from Ontario at the Cincinnati Exhibition  where it attracted considerable attention and where, possibly,

our correspondent might have seen it. At Mr. Mutton's suggestion we took a sample of the clay, and forwarded it with a letter, setting forth all the information we had received, to our correspondent.

 We did not solicit the information with a view to its publication, but simply for the purpose of putting our correspondence in possession of it. In looking over our letter file last month, we came upon our



correspondents letter, and we then formed the intention of publishing it, together with the information received from Mr. Carroll and embodied in our letter replying to our correspondents enquiries.  Upon reading the, denials of the Canadian sewer pipe manufac

turers to the statements contained in our article, we at once set to



work to make a full investigation into whole subject. We ad

which he is justly entitled to bear, he left	without even saying 

adieu.	-

In Mr. Trotter we found gentleman whose better acquaintance we shall esteem it an honor to possess.

Having placed the responsibility for the statements contained in

- our previous article where they justly belong, we present for the consideration or those interested the evidence touching the relative quantity and quality of Canadian and imported sewer pipe used in this country

Ottawa, November 7th, 1888

Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



Dear Sir. -- Replying to yours of the 5th inst., I would state that ihe corporation of the city of Ottawa does not permit the lay.



had no experience with American pipes; and while their quality may be good, we are situated so in the east, that, railway freights and high cost at works, precludes their competition here with Scotch brands,

Yours very truly,

E.	E. Perreault

 .		City Engineer.



 City Engineer;s Office 

	St. John,	N.B., 8th Nov. 1888.

Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

DEAR SIR.-- In answer to your inquiry I beg to say that all the sewer pipe used here is imported (terra cotta) and is imported from Scotland — at least I never heard of any other. At one time. we used to get some from Nova Scotia, (Enfield.) but it was not

- satisfactory, and, I have been told, its manufacture has been discontinued.

Cement sewer pipe is made at St. Stephens, in this Province by Mr. Vroom, but I have no experience of its character. Twelve inch terra cotta, costs here cents per root, and other sizes in proportion. Any further information I can give you on this subject or any other matter I will cheerfully furnish. -

	Yours very truly,

		City Engineer.

	-	KINGSTON, ONT., Nov. 8th, 1888.

Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



 use Scotch sewer tile altogether here. The 'city did put in some Canadian pipe before my time, but I am not aware that any American

was ever used here. -	—

I am not at all acquainted with American sewer pipe, consequently can give no opinion on it, but I must say I prefer Scotch pipe to any Canadian I have ever seen.

Yours very truly,

J.	O. BOLGER,

	City Engineer.



CITY ENGINEER'S OFFICE,

HALIFAX, N. S. 9th Nov., 1888

Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

DEAR SIR—In reply to yours of 5th inst., the bulk of drain pipe hitherto used in this city is of home manufacture Smith Kaye of Enfield, N.S., were formerly the makers. Lately the work has been carried on by H. C. Preedy. Within the past year some pipe from St. John, P.Q., has been used. and Dutton's pipe, (London) are sometimes imported by local builders. No American pipe has been used to my knowledge. The English pipe are the best I know of here The demand is principally from builders and private parties. The city uses very few pipe for drains or sewers. except for sizes under 12 inches. When drains are required of



++++++++++++++++





respecting he make of pipe in Canada. the factory in Hamilton established in 1860 and which was very weak in the beginning. has become a large business, making all sizes of pipes from 4 in. to 18 in., including junctions elbows and traps. Our trade has increased to double what it was three years ago. We supply nearly aii the pipe used in Ontario except in Toronto. where a prejudice has arisen against the use of Canadian pipe through the use of a slip glazed pipe which was made in Yorkville for several years and used largely in Toronto, where of course it did not give satisfaction, and it

- is well known that slip glazed pipe is a thing of the past and will not answer the purpose. Years ago pipe was made at this factory in the same way, not having a clay that would stand the taking of a salt glaze. We have supplied and do at the present time supply all the pipe used in the following cities: Hamilton, St. Catherines, St. Thomas, Brantford and Chatham. London up to the present -year got part of their pipe from the States. And until this year we supplied Kingston, the St. Johns Co. supplying part. Then all the small towns, Sarnia, Strathrov, Dunnville, Guelph, Gait. Owen Sound, Barrie, Niagara Falls, have got all their pipe from us. Enclosed we have sent you a tabulated statement of the sewers in the city of Hamilton up to 1st January, 1888, and several miles have been laid this year. 

At the back of this statement you notice certificate from City Engineer, showing that the pipes were all from our factory, except the 24 inch pipes imported from the States, and which gave very poor satisfaction. a large proportion of them having to be taken up. As this matter is of so much importance to us we will take the trouble to call on you the next time we are in your city. I have written Mr. Trotter, of the Standard Drain Pipe Co. of St. Johns P. Q., with whom I was connected, calling attention to it also. The output of the two factories will not be far short of $200,000 per year. Trusting you have ascertained that pipe larger than 6.in. are made in Canada, we are,

Respectfully yours.

THE HAMILTON AND TORONTO SEWER PIPE Co.. (L't'd.)

 A. R. CARPENTER,



The editor of the Canadian' Manufacturer having solicited  opinion of Mr. Trotter, President of the Standard Sewer Pipe Co. of St. John, Que. regarding the statements contained he-article printed in this journal, that gentleman writes in ply as follows

When our factory was started here in 1884; the question was at once raised by importers of Scotch pipe as to the strength and durability of our product, and the argument was advanced, Scotch pipe has been used here for fifty years, and is known to be of good and durable- quality. If you buy Canadian pipe you do not know what you are getting.' Notwithstanding which opposition, some of the large dealers took up the sale of our pipe. the article affording the utmost satisfaction. Pipe of our manufacture has been subjected to the most severe -tests,- and has proven to be first quality in every respect, not only fulfilling the requirements of engineers as regards resistance of crushing pressure, but far exceeding any possible requirement. For instance, our contract with the city of Montreal calls for twelve inch pipes which will sustain a crushing weight of 2,000 pounds to the square inch—but the official test made by P. W. St. George, Esq., C. E. City Surveyor, shows that our twelve inch pipe withstood an average pressure of 5,696 pounds to the square inch. which was 3.696 pounds in excess of the requirement. In a competitive test as to the absorption of moisture made by Mr. St. George as between Scotch pipe and that rnanufactured by this company, the results showed that our pipe  the Scotch pipe absorbed one unit in eighteen of its weight. This shows



times greater in' our pipe than in Scotch pipe. Again, our pipe has been subjected to the  smoke test' in competition with those

o	Scotch pipe most largely imported into Canada. The test was made in e ontre cor



turers to the statements contained in our article, we at once set to work to make a full investigation into whole subject. We addressed the following enquiry to the City Engineers of the leading



DEAR SIR,--Will you be kind enough to inform me. what proportion of imported sewer pipe, and what of Canadian manufacture is used in your city? What proportion of the - imported pipe comes front Scotland, and what from the United States? Will you also kindly give thee your opinion regarding the comparative quality of Canadian American and Scotch pipe? An early reply will greatly oblige, 

Yours truly, 

C.	H. MORTIMER.



The replies which have been received to these letters appear below.

With the object of getting further information to sustain the statements made in our previous article, a representative of this journal called on Mr. Carroll a few days ago, but was surprised to  learn from that individual that he had almost entirely forgotten the interview with the edit or of this paper. Our representative was still more surprised when Mr. Carroll denied that the information contained in the article was furnished by him, and assuming a position exactly the opposite of that which he had taken in the previous interview, proceeded to argue that the pipe manufactured at St. John, Que., was fully equal in quality to American pipe. Our representative, not being personally in a position to dispute Mr. Carroll's denials, left, with the latter's promise that when Mr. Trotter, President of the Standard Drain Pipe Co., should visit Toronto a day or two later, he would accompany him to the publica

—tion office of-this- journal, and there- discuss- the matter. A- few:

days after, learning that Mr. Trotter had arrived in the city, we sent a message to Mr. Carroll asking him to bring the gentleman over, which he did.___ 

We were at a loss to understand Mr. Carroll's conduct, but met him with an honest desire to discuss matters in a friendly way. He opened the discussion by admitting that his recollection of-the previous interview was exceedingly vague, but upon being remind. ed of the statements he had made, - his recollection suddenly be. came clear as noonday. and he characterized as untrue every statement attributed to him. Up to this time we had supposed that Mr. Carroll was laboring under some misapprehension, but when be denied in detail, in language more forcible than gentlemanly, every one of his previous statements, the truth dawned upon us that, for reasons best known to himself, he had determined to repudiate everything he had said, and if possible, shift the  responsibility for his statements from his shoulders to ours. Because - we firmly declined to be placed in such - a - false position, Mr. Carroll allowed his anger to get the better of his honest judgment as well as of his sense of politeness, and charged us with uttering willful falsehoods. In vain we reminded him that twice previously be had admitted the indistinctness of his recollection of what took place at the first interview and that in the light of this and of the fact that we made notes of the interview at the time it took place, his claim to greater accuracy of knowledge than ourselves was ridiculously inconsistent—he was not in a reasoning  and evidently chagrined to find that he could not bulldoze us into relieving him of the onus of statements, the authorship of

except for sizes under 12 inches. When drains are required of larger dimensions, either brick or concrete is used.

 Yours truly

 - E. H. KEATING.



LONDON, ONT., Nov. 13th, 1888



Publisher CANDIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, Toronto.



DEAR SIR,—In reply to yours of the 5th I beg to say, that owing to our being so far west, we never use any Scotch sewer pipe, the freight making it too expensive. We therefore use Canadian and American pipe, and find these very good, the Canadian pipe being quite equal to the American. The only fault that can be sometimes found with the Canadian is, that they are not sufficiently burnt, but that is a fault only occurring rarely.

Yours truly,

 THOMAS H. TRACY,  City Engineer.



 CITY ENGINEER'S OFFICE,

MONTREAL. Nov. 12th, 1888.

Publisher CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR—In reply to your letter of the 5th instant, I beg to say, that the city have had a contract with the Standard Drain Pipe Co., of St. John this year. and I have found their pipes to be of good quality. It is impossible for me to tell the exact proportion of Canadian, American or Scotch sewer pipe used in this city, as we receive pipe from all countries I have made a great many tests, and it gives me pleasure to say that the Canadian pipe compares most favorably with any imported from Europe. The city contracts for sewer pipes are open to competition to everybody. and as the Standard Drain Pipe Co., of St. John, happened to be the lowest, it was given to them. As long as the pipe is of good quality and gives us satisfaction, it is the one we usually adopt.

 Yours truly, 

PERCIVAL W. ST. GEORGE, 

 City Surveyor.



Mr. Edward Terry, one of the largest dealers in sewer pipe in the city, was asked to read - the article in question and give his opinion concerning the correctness of the statements therein contained. Having read the article, he said: "I consider your article fair and true." He added that the Canadian manufactured pipe was not up to the standard of the Scotch and American. In his opinion, the St. John pipe was better than the Hamilton pipe. owing to the fact that the former contained a proportion of fire-clay, which the latter did not, The St. John pipe was roughly finished as compared with imported pipe. He had seen St. John pipe -that was equal to American, but the output of the St. John factory was not even in quality. Regarding the test which Hamilton pipe was said to have withstood, he was in a position to make an explanation. He had urged the Hamilton people to improve  the quality of their pipe' by using about one-third fire-clay in its composition, and had consented, this were done, to hand



 their pipe. A short time ago, he received from the Hamilton factory some samples of pipe manufactured in the way he had suggested. with the-request that he would put his name -on them and have them submitted to a test, without mentioning the name of the rnanufacturers, unless the test should prove. satisfactory, in which case  he was to make it known that the pipe was made  by the  Hamilton & Toronto Sewer Pipe Co. He put his name on the pipe and had them tested the result being entirely satisfactory. Those pipes, however, were made in a different manner from the pipe ordinarily manufactured at this factory -- they were made specifically for testing.

 If the would place on the market a grade of

