<doctype type="text">	- - -	ST. JOHN, N. B.



(correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND builder



	from the ashes ;of the	the and shares with Chicago the

earned emblematical soubriquet of Phoenix City,' instead of the Liverpool of America that so aptly personified the facilities

and business of the should-be eastern 'terminus of the Canadian Pacific railroad.

The recent, fire of a month has partly laid bare a site for the. long Opera House for which preliminary plans have been prepared and a subscription list for stock opened All indications point to a practical realization of the most sanguine hopes of the company. - Theatres have had a somewhat transient. and hard line existence here the old Lyceum to the contrary notwithstanding. The play house of St. John's father of dramatics, Lonergan's Lyceum of the south side Kings Square the Academy of Music, of German street, and Small's Hall, (more familiarly known as Bishop's & Lee's Opera House and Professor Neilsons

Figaro ) were all destroyed in the holocaust of the 20th of I une, 1877. leaving only the Mechanics Institute, now in its fiftieth year, an(l Dockerill Hall of Union street, as available for entertain- ments. As flame has been historical the world over for the destruction of the play house, it is well that the company in this case intend to look well to having their building fire proof, with three separate exists and two iron fire escapes.. -The only buildings of a public character now in- course of- erec- -

tion in St. John are the electric light works building. and Secord's hospital, both in brick with principally stone trimmings.



Quebec                Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder

being erected for Mr. 0. E. Murphy on Dalhousie Street,- are nearing completion. The front on the street named is 140 feet. with two extensions in rear 6o feet, the whole being 40 feet in width - and three stories' in height. The design Is perfectly plain, walls faced with pressed red brick Mr.

O'Leary contracted for the mason work, and Mr. st. peters for the woodwork; Mr. Hume, C.E.. prepared the plans. -

.A handsome stone residence from the design of Mr. E. Charest, architect, is being erected by Messrs. Larrose, mason, and. Mr. I DeVareness n

es, - carpenter, for Mr. Dussault, of the firm of B. Houde

& to., tobacco manufacturers The walls are of rock faced Deschambault stone in regular- courses with trimmings of same stone chiselled Stone steps leading to a portico, and terminating in a tower placed in the centre of the front, give a bold and handsome appearance to the building It stands immediately opposite St. John's church on the street bearing the same name, with stables etc.. in rear of house The cost will be in the neigh. borhood of $20,000

A cottage residence is being put up for Mr. J. J. Boyce on A Aiquillon street, at a cost of about $4,000 Rock faced stone foundation, walls of white brick, - and trimmings of cut stone Mr.

H.	Stavely architect ;J. Kelly, carpenter, and J. Juneau mason

ENGINEERING SOCIETY. <article title=" ENGINEERING SOCIETY " author="">

with China and Japan by steamship, and the Canadian Pacific keeps that. northernmost city on the Pacific coast in daily communication with the eastern world, All this is substantially

—	year's work Other places of this size, or even greater, have sprung up tn a night like Jonah's gourd, but it is believed that there is no record on the American continent of the building of a similar town, with all tbe improvements of modern civilization, within so short a space of time--Boston Herald. '! - -



4 -______________

 Mortatr and paint be removed from Window glass with hot, sharp vinegar.

Wide lath do not make a good job of plastering on a ceiling Use inch lath-and give them good distance apart. -

Mr. Sewery has commenced the erection of his new stove works at Barrie, Ont. -

Tenders are being asked for the construction of an iron truss bridge over the Ottawa river to connect Ottawa city with the city of Hull. -

Good stable floors may be made by fisrt paving with broken stones and then covering with concrete, and finally laying the whole with plank. -

It is reported that Messrs. Davis of Ottawa and E. E. Gilbert, of Montreal, have been given the contract for improvements on the Cornwall, - - -~ -—-- - - - '

Tb prevent screws from becoming fixed and rusted, make a mixture of graphite and oil, which will 'facilitate the tightening of them up, reducing the friction in the sockets, and protecting them

for years from rust	-



Asbestos powder, made into a thick paste, with liquid silicate of soda, is used with great advantage in making joints, fitting tops. connecting pipes, filling cracks, etc. It hardens very quickly, stands any heat, and is steam - -—The Builder and I I Woodworker points out that thoughtless acts on the part of workmen sometimes lead to disastrous results .A well-known instance of a falling mill has been ascribed to fastening a block and tackle to a column and pulling it out of position while moving some heavy machinery. A few years ago, one ol the rooftrusses fell toto the haU in Marblehead, Mass., because a piper had cut one of the members nearly in twain, rather thea make an offset in his pipe.

We learn from the Engineering and Building Record that the engineers ol the Minneapolis Sewer Department are meeting with trouble from water in the sewer tunnel that they.are now building, and of which about 1,000 feet remain unfinished. Engineer Van Duzee has suggested two plans for overcoming the difficulty, one by freezing and the other by the use of compressed air, at an esitimated cost of $40,000 and $15,000 respectively. Mr. Van Duzee favours the internal shield plan, but its use has been opposed on account of the expense

A new brick machine of simple' construction is reported upon favorably from Nashville, Tenn. It is,- the invention of Mr. John E. Lesueur, an extensive manufacturer of brick of that city. The machine is set in a pit, and it is described as having a class <article title=" A criticism OF THE 'PROVINCIAL ART SCHOOLS " author="">

A criticism OF THE 'PROVINCIAL ART SCHOOLS.-:-~ -—

CA'tADIAN architect and builder		-	- -- —-- - -

"p Through reading the daily papers I became aware that the - prizes and certificates won by - the students of the Toronto

Art Schools were presented by His Worship the Mayor to the successful candidatesin the theatre of the Normal school on Friday day afternoon, Sept. 27th -' . ' - - -There was not a large attendance of spectators or students, especially of the former. - Neither were many of the prize or certificate winners present—I understand not more than one in ten This is deplorable and' shows that there is something radically wrong with the schooL That there should not be many present outside of those directly interested the school, is not surprising, and does not, call for comment The public is usually apathetic and indifler towards- any movement promises some possibility of materially enriching them. Dollars and cents is the great lorce of the present day, and it is thereforenot surprising that but few'of out citizens thought it worth while to be present at this

-"meeting- to give some encouragement to Art.- But that- there should have been so few of those who . had

won honors calls for some explanation. I - can - 'think of only three reasons for so poor an attendance

-	of those direct y interested: first, that the meeting was held at an inconvenient season, and that it was impossible for them to be present. Second, that they were so overcome bashfullness that they would rather stay away than be - formally presented before strangers with the prizes they had won— they might have come, for strangers were few. Third, that the students take so little interest in their work, have so little enthusiasm, that they did not consider it worth the trouble to be present on such an occasion.

That this school is not the success that it should be, and might easily be, is evident in more ways than one. Those at its head lamented that there were so few students in attendance; that instead of two hundred there should be at least one thousand; that there is much better attendance in the smaller cities. To my mind -instead of lamenting, the directors should be thankful that there are so many in attendance, considering the condition of the school, The poor attendance is undoubtedly caused by the indifferent work the school is doing, which is the result of the incapa' city of the directors, and of the ignorance of Art on the part of the

	teachers	.

- This Art School was first established by the Ontario Society of

Artists, in their old quarters at 14 King St. West By ceaseless efforts the society, with the assistance of the teachers, made the

school a great benefit to the city. It hada large number of

ENGINEERING SOCIETY.

We are pleased to	notice that the engineering society in  connection with the School of practical science in this city enters upon its work for the coming winter under most favorable auspices. the membership of the Society numbers upwards 140, the objects of the organizaiton are stated to be: -

i.	The encouraging of original research in the science of engineering

— The preservation of the results of such research. —~

3.	The dissemination of these results among its members. _

4.	The cultivation of a spirit of mutual assistance among the members in the practice ofihe profession of engineering.

At the semi weekly meetings of the Society, papers on engineering and scientific subjects read and discussed by students and professors. The president for the present year is Mr. H. E. T. Haultain





JOINTS IM SEWER PIPE.

The joint in stone-ware sewer pipe are a generally acknowl edged point of weakness, says a writer in the Building Budget and in sewers within the house walls architects have to a certain extent tried to overcome this by embedding the sewer in concrete. Under the test of filling the sewer with water this is not found to make an impervious drain, and we would suggest asa surer-method of making a tight drain, the following clause for the' specifications: '.Each joint shall be made by filling the joint per-. fectly with portland cement mortar made of one part cement and one part sand caulking thoroughly all around the pipe. with a proper hardwood caulking tool, making the joint flush with the end of the socket and striking it off smooth all around the pipe with a trowel." Throwing on more mortar and striking off to make an outside collar may_be as_ each architect considers nesesary, but the joints made as above will be tighter and stronger than if the sewer imbedded in concrete as ordinarily made It is not safe however, to specify this and leave if to be done or omitted as the drain-layer sees fit House drains should be laid in open trenches, and during pipe-laying the superintendent should see every pipe laid.

A new brick machine of simple construction is reported upon favorably from Nashville,—--Tenn..-—- It is the invention' of—Mr.'-—John E. L.esueur, an extensive manufacturer of brick of that city. The machine is set in a pit, and it is described as having a class of moulds linked together to form an endless chain, pressed beneath the pug mill whence they pass to the presser. The machine can be made of varying capacity, the one working at Nashville, being equal to 6o,ooo bricks per day. Mr. Lesueur' has associated himself with Mr. John D._Anderson, and they are organizing_

- to introduce the invention throughout the United States World says: Few steam fitters or engineers understand the

	____	_____	- valuable properties of graphite in making up joints; this valuable

mineral cannot: be over-estimated, in this connection. In

	_ ____	__	_______ ___	destructible under all changes of temperature, a perfect lubricant 

and an anti-incrustator, any joint can he' made up perfectly tight with it and can be taken apart years after as easy as put together. Rubber or metal gaskets, when previously smeared with it, will last almost any length of time, and leave the surface perfectly clean and bright. Few engineers put to sea without a good supply of this valuable mineral while it seems to be almost

	_____________________	 overlooked on shore.

		  A construction detail that is gaining much popularity in some

		 Western cities is the bricking in of frame houses, The building is

		 sided up with matched stuff, as if complete, then a brick face wall;

		 four inches thick is laid in contact with tbq exterior, tied on by

		 spikes about every sixth course. A boy distributes them all around

		 on top of the wall. They are laid in the mortar-bed ready and

		 driven through into the siding till the heads are flush with the face

		- of the wall, when the next courses are 'laid; and so on.' The walls

		- present the appearance of solid masonry, are durable, and, as they

		- add to the warmth of the buildings, seem to present substantial

		 recommendations, especially for severe dllmates.



·	At the instance of the Belgian Minister of Public Works, Messrs. Boudin and Donny have investigated the subject of: rendering

wood fire-proof. They report that the resistance of wood to heat

may be considerably increased, though absolute non-combustion _

		cannot be secured. The resisting material must take the form of an.

		injection into the fibres of' the wood-or of a coating; andit must"

		be not too expensive. non-corrosive speedy in becoming fixed,

		easily applied neat and unalterable. An injection. of a concen-

		trated solution of phosphate of ammonia is recommended as the

		best treatment for small pieces of wood but a more generally

		available plan is coating 'with cyanide of potassium or asbestos

		paint

	- How Vancouver Was BUILT.	  Sir Frederick Bramwell concludes an address before the British



A gentleman who arrived in Boston yesterday fresh from  Association on" The Glories of Modern science," by saying:transcontinental "To what and to whom these meritorious prime movers due



railway gives the genesis of that city in terms which are as starling as answer: to the application or science, and to the labors of the they are significant Two years ago there was but one house in the civil engineer using that term in its full and proper sense as emlocality, a year ago the were a dozen straggling T all engineering other- than military I am, as you know day ther is a populations persons; the Victoria Hotel is one a civil engineer, and I desire to land my profession and to magnify of the finest houses in the country charging $4 a day and worth it; - mine office; and I know of no better means of doing this than by the main street, built through the virgin forest it stood a year quoting you the definition of "cavil engineering given in the

ago is flanked be granite blocks that rest where stumps fifteen feet or more in diameter have been blown out by dynamite;     charter of the Institution ot Civil engineers namely that it is

	art of directing	sources of

own is lighted by · electricity	there is semi- weekly communication use and convenience of man." - - - - -.

This Art School was first established by the Ontario Society of artists, in their old quarters at 14 King st. West. By ceaseless efforts the society, with the assistance of the teachers, made the school a great. benefit to the city. It had a large number students, - and what was of more importance, it had instilled in

them an enthusiastic, love of Art. The school grew so rapidly that -the King street quarters became too small, and it was obliged to remove to the Normal School- building, where it has by degrees come under the influence of the Education Department That it has not thriven under the Department's-administration; does-not"" require proof. The drawings which have been exhibited with so much lauclation of the work of the school,' so much noise about the influence of Art, and so much unnecessary information about the tack ol Art in Canada, and the necessity of Art institutions and training, prove most conclusively that the school' is not accomplishing the work for which lt was established, and which it should do. Notwithstanding that the school does not teach Art, and that its directorate and teaching staff are entirely ignorant of Art, a person would be lead to believe by the upholders of the school, that outside of the Art Schools there is no Art in Canada. We are persistently informed that we are without artists, and that to the United States we must apply if we want artistic work. The truth is that we have more love of Art and better artists in our own land than have the States, when due- allowance is made for the differ

- ence in population and wealth. - Wealthy men buy wotks of art more often because pride and jealousy urge them, than because they have any love or appreciation o( the beautiful. We may therefore say that it is wealth that encourages Art, and that alone.

· Because the States have accumulated - a large amount of wealth, rather than because the people are artistic, they have become possessed of artists of which they may well be proud, and whom _ we should admire. But when it comes to belittling ourselves and worshipping tourth and fifth rate men, because they are residents of— the States, it is too much for us to quietly submit to. It certainly tends to show little knowledge of Art on our part as a people. -But after all, is it the people? Is 'it not those us who,

—having little or no knowledge of Art, and having become possessed

- of some-wealth, are among attempting to impress us with their assumed and love of Art? Then again, there are those amongst us who, recognizing that it is the fashionable thing to be artistic, and being possessed of little knowledge qf Art, and aware of the fact, are trying to hide their ignorance by loud state.—ments of our lack of Art and the necessity of Art training I imagine that some of these people have obtained control of the Art

S oF of this ____ __________________ How does it come, that in aschool established and supported

- by the ontario Society of Artists until it had become firmly estab- -

published andc was doing good work, there is not now a single member of that Society connected with the school in any way whatever The Society has received the cold shoulder, and no mistake, simply because it could not look at Art through the spectacles of the Minister of Education and his satellites. The teachers who were members of the society disheartened and disgusted with the treatment to which they were subjected by the "book artists" of an hour whose ideas of Art



placed in control These teachers had been teaching not for the 

