<doctype type="text">



nent counsel should he obtained as to the correctness of his interpretation of the Statutes. The decision of this question is of great' importance to every City in Canada. in most of which the planting of unsightly poles and stringing of a net work of wires has not only proved to  nuisance, but dangerous to life and property. \\e hope that no time will be lost in obtaining from the pro. per quarter the necessary legislation.   In Toronto, an effort should be made to have the change effected before new pavements are put down on the leading business thorough fares thereby avoiding the necessity of tearing them up again.



A GREAT deal of false economy has been practised



 in Toronto in the matter of putting down cheap pavements. It is satisfactory to note that the citizens appear to be tiring of experiments in this direction, and show a disposition t') adopt something more costly and substantial for the future. A gentleman who spent the. greater part of last summer in Europe, informed the writer that asphalt pavement, such as has been put down on Bay street in this city, and on St. James street, Montreal, is largely in. use on the streets of old-world cities, and has given the best satisfaction. Of course, considering the difference in climate, it does not follow that a pavement which proves successful in London, for instance, will give like satisfaction here, but there is reason to believe that where asphalt is properly laid, it makes an excellent and durable pavement. We trust that before many years shall have elapsed, the character of the pavements on the principal business thoroughfares of this city will be so improved as to avoid the necessity of constant patching and enormous expenditure for repairs, and make it possible to keep the streets in a cleanly condition.



T

HERE is no person who should regard with, greater satisfaction, the reorganization on a

business-like footing of the City Engineer's Department of this city, than Mr. Sproatt' himself. Up to the present, that gentleman has not been -given full control of his department, but has been expected to defer to the opinions and wishes of aldermen composing the Board of Works The result has been, that when mistakes have occurred, the aldermen who persisted in having a hand in the management of affairs, shifted the whole responsibility upon the Chief Engineer for errors which probably would not have happened had the latter relied entirely upon his own judgment. The Mayor takes the right view of the matter by insisting that under the new order of things which just about to be established, the City Engineer shall have entire control of his department, with the power to nominate and discharge his subordinates, and that when this him he shall be held responsible for the proper conduct of his department. This is the method which obtains, and has proved to be satisfactory, in large private business concerns, and we have not- the least          it will work equally well in the public service.





A Discussion, commenced in Australia and  New Zealand, is being continued in the United States, relative to the advisability of changing the system under which all the public buildings of a nation are de signed by one architect employed for that purpose by the Government. The opinion seems to prevail that if the designs for public buildings were put up to' competition among the architects of the nation, a greater variety of designs, and designs which would be fairly representative of the architectural talent of the country, would he secured. such a system would d certainly give encouragement and stimulus to the study of architecture.- We are inclined to doubt, however, whether a system of architectural competitions for public buildings would result to the profit or elevation of the architectural profession. It would open the door for the methods of the politician to creep in, and it is to be feared that those who would condescend to practice those methods, would get most of the prizes.. If some equitable plan could be hit upon of allowing the architects of the country to share in the honor and profit of designing our public buildings, the results would no doubt be much more satisfactory than at present from every point, of view.. We should like to hear the opinions of architects on the subject.





HE step taken by the Toronto Board of Works in d deciding that henceforth sewers upwards of 12

inches in diameter shall be constructed of brick, must

be regarded as a

-	retrograde one. The fact that the City Engineer protested against the, proposed change,



seems to have had but little or no effect upon the minds of the aldermen. There are several particulars

a good pipe sewer is superior to a	in which

brick sewer. One of



the most important is, that being salt glazed, it is much smoother inside than a brick sewer with its many joints can possibly be, and consequently will not so easily fill up with sewage deposit. This is especially true where the street grade is but slight. It is a well-known fact that in certain kinds of soil it is next to impossible to put down a well-constructed single ring brick sewer.



constructed years ago This city, has revealed the presence in them of large deposits of sewage matter. There is every probability that much of this deleterious matter finds its way through the pores and broken joints of the brick into the ground, and proves a source of danger to the public health. In addition to the disadvantages mentioned, there is the further important consideration, that a brick sewer, as shown by contractors' tenders, costs from ten to fifteen per cent. more than a pipe sewer. The action of the Board of Works in this matter strongly emphasizes the need for a change in the system under which the opinion of the City Engineer may be overridden by that of aldermen possessing little or no knowledge of construction.

<article title=" PRACTICAL HINTS TO CARPENTERS " author="Maginnis, Owen B.">

PRACTICAL HINTS TO CARPENTERS.

_________ BY OWEN B. MAGINNIS ___ ____________





One of the most important and too often neglected things. in setting jambs, is to block behind the jambs for the screws

of the hinges. In rebated jambs this blocking is indispensable; so measure down about 6 inches from the head and 9 inches from the floor, and nail in a 4 inch pine block on the stud, behind the jambs, to secure the screws. Builders should watch sub-contractors in this small matter, as the screws pull out, when they have no thick.:

ness to hold to.

If the casing have a beaded or molded edge without corner blocks. the top corners should be mitred with a mitre jack made in the following simple manner :-Take a piece of 1!/4 inch stuff an 1 inch or so wider than the width of the casing, about 2 feet 6 inches long, nail a fence or piece of 7/8 inch strip on both, edges, rising above the surface the thickness of the casing. Now take a bevel, set it exactly, not nearly, but exactly, to an angle of 450, or, from 3,to inches on the steel square, (reverse the bevel to see if the angle be true) and mark two reverse mitres across the edges of the 7/8 strips and the surface of the bottom or wide piece and over one edge.—the edge which has the short corners of the bevels. Saw deep enough into the wide piece on this marked edge, to cut through the bead or moulding on the casing when it is placed between the fences against the one which is sawn into. After putting the casing in its place and marking the top corner with a knife, the casing is put against the fence with the mark exactly at the saw cut, and having the saw outside the mark, so as to slightly leave it on the stuff—the mitre can be readily and instantly sawn 'without using a bevel or a templace, which are inaccurate and unmechanical. The bottom end must fit tightly down on the upper end of the case block; if not, then the end must be scribed to the block with the compasses before mitreing.

All casings ought to be level across the face, so that when a straight-edge is placed across the opening, it will touch all their surfaces. The head should also he straight with the stiles, and

all the mitres	All mouldings and

back bands can be inured and nailed on when the above is done, and the mitres will come tight.

In setting back window jambs, or on those window frames which have outside blinds with a panel back below the sill, the following is the best way to proceed: First, cut with a chisel on a straight line, the groove (where it stops against the sides) out of the frame casting, both top and bottom, on both right and left casing. and clean all the mortar and dirt out of the plowing. Now take the short rebated jamb for the head, and getting upon a high horse, place it with its rebated tongue on the head groove, and mark exactly, with a sharp knife, the inside corner on the left and right hand groove. Square these marks over the face and lay Out a dado 3/8 wide towards each end. Dado this laying out 3/8 deep. Next take the right and left jamb and square one end of each in

Lay out a tongue 3/8 wide fro

,pairs.	m these square ends and 3/8

thick, guaged from the faces.	Cut these tongues out and run' a



rebate—plane shaving of the back side of the tongues of the head-jamb and sides, and take an arris of the face side. This will jet the tongue go easily into the grooves in the frame. - Next, nail the head on the sides, keeping the front edges flush, and break



of the jambs in the frame grooves, and drive the jambs in till they sound solid. Use a block, so as not to bruise the edge in driving. When they are in solid, mark the groove at the sill, and see if the jambs are not too wide for the plaster; if they- are, the over— wood must be sawn or planed off until they conic—flush with the

-plaster. Take the jambs down when this is done, and-lay out a 3/8 dado from the groove mark. This dado is to receive the foot:

head. Then take the foot-head, cut it to the length of the dados of the head, and allow for a tongue on each end. Work these tongues on 3/8 deep, and nip the foot-head to the width of the jambs. - Ease the tongue as well as the jambs, and nail the bead side and foot-head together afterwards, set them up in their place and when they-are-driven home, toe-nail them into the casing, --



It is reported that the massive blocks of stone required for the Canadian canal at Sault Ste. Marie, will be taken from the Owen Sound quarries. - -

The extensive stove and furnace manufacturing establishment of the McClary Mfg. Co., at London, Ont. was almost totally de

destroyed by-fire a fortnight ago, involving a loss of $100,000. We

-understand that arrangements have been-made to re-build at once,

- In the meantime, order is being speedily evolved out of chaos, -and owing to the large stocks on hand at its branch establishments the Company is enabled orders as usual.

<article title=" WHAT IS TRUE ARCHITECTURE?

" author="Gambier-Bousfield, R.W.">

WHAT IS TRUE ARCHITECTURE?

BY R. W. GAMBIER-BOUSFIELD,



ASSOCIATE OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF BRITISH ARCHITECTS.



p

ROFESSOR Roger Smith, in a recent lecture to students at the University College, London, remarked: "Remember, then, that it is a great mistake to attempt to use in designing what you do not under-stand," and he further says that it is not necessary to go far to see endless examples of. this mistake, made by professing architects of to-day. If "architects," so called, would but take this to heart, there would be better examples of our art rising every day in our streets. Particularly is the advice of this genial professor to be taken to heart by students and draughtsmen, to encourage them to look. carefully into the use and meaning, as exemplified in ancient buildings, of every feature and detail they would imitate or use as a base for their de sign. The Romans fell into this mistake nearly 2,000 years ago. They were fond of the pillar, but forgot its use, and introduced them as "useless additions without even a pretence' of utility." The Roman order consisted, not of column 'and entablature, but of an arrangement of pillars placed at a distance apart, bearing a very heavy cornice which, in consequence of the distance of the pillars from one another, had to be supported in the centre by an arch springing from piers. The columns were raised on pedestals, and placed in front of the piers. So the pillars formed no part of the construction; the cornice was supported quite sufficiently by the wall The Roman was a debased style, and not true art. But:

the

 question constantly arising in the mind of the student is, "What is- real 'or true architecture ?". The simplest definition is that of the, elder Pryn, who says, that it is "ornamental or ornamented construction, not constructed ornament." The Roman order is an example of this "constructed ornament,,, in which this style differs materially from earlier and also later styles



of architecture. Directly ornament is constructed— that is to say, when simply for the purpose of ornamenting a building, ornament is applied without aim or use, and you go out of the way to construct it, you go wrong, and your work is not true architecture. Our buildings may be constructed with ornament, but the ornament must be part and parcel of the whole design, and must -not be piled on without regard to the use and object of the part ornamented. A pillar should not be used unless it has something to support, and that something not a mere ornamental cornice or band, but a useful lintel or impost of an arch, or-a parapet wall, or something of similar character. -__________________________





There is no example to be found among the Greeks, nor indeed is there in the ruder architecture of the Persians, chaldeans and Egyptians, anything approaching "constructed ornament,'? although some of their work is very highly ornamented ; neither is there in the later Italian, or the round or pointed Gothic. From the time that the debased Roman died out, until the time when the "imitative styles" began to be employed, we find no example of it. The Egyptian, who seldom used the arch, never did so for ornament, The Assyrians never used a buttress without giving it real duty to perform, and the Persians and Greeks always used their - pillars constructively, however- highly they- ornamented them. So in Gothic times—the arch, the flying buttress, the pinnacle, all features adding greatly to effect, have in every instance a use and a work to- do that cannot be done so well by any other means. They are ornamental construction, not constructed ornament.

What tremendously costly works are the buttresses to be seen outside every Gothic cathedral, piled up tier on tier, with flying buttresses resting on them, it may be two or even three at. different levels. Nor does the buttress, end when it has given 

an abutment to the highest

flyer, but towers above and terminates in a lofty pinnacle far above the eaves of the roof or parapet wall. - One might as a casual observer say, this was constructed ornament witha vengeance, and therefore, false art-; where is the use of it all? But there- is a- deep principle, implying. marvellous skill and great mechanical knowledge at work here, for the weight of pinnacle, counterbalancing the thrust of the roof along the flying buttress, obviates the necessity of a far more cumbrous buttress, which would be necessary if it were not for the pinnacle, to ensure the -stability of the structure. True art admits of  making the buttress ornamental, though it utterly





