<doctype type="text">

SOME POINTS ON, SEWERAGE, WATER SUPPLY, And the CONSTRUCTION OF a healthy

HOUSE IN A COUNTRY TOWN.

<article title=" SOME POINTS ON, SEWERAGE, WATER SUPPLY, And the CONSTRUCTION OF a healthy HOUSE IN A COUNTRY TOWN " author="">

 [concluded]



HE danger ofgasesfrom the sewer entering the house in was recognized after a fashio, and was sought to be avoided by building a large cesspool- between—the— house drair and the Street sewer. Experience, however, showed that the filthy reservoir, which is what it really was, did not serve its purpose, but gave off its own dangerous emanations info the house drain, it was then sought to bottle these up in the soil pipes by putting a trap under each' fixture then supposed that human ingenuity coud do render plumbing safe had been done, and that if people still died of zymotic diseases, it was a dispensation of Providence which had to be submitted to, but for whith therewas no remedy The clergyman was called in; whei the man who was really wanted was the sanitanian, whether doctor, or engineer, or plumber—no, not plumber, he had already done all he knew; for the sanitary plumber has been an evolution of recent times. — There were two reasons why these traps failed to do what was expected of them First, the pipes were made of-poor a light materials, and if air-tight when first put up, soon became corroded and full of holes, especially if of iron, but lead was little better. I a piece of lea

	have seen	d soil pipe with a large

piece eaten out of it by rats. When pipes were put in, no test was applied to discover whether they were air tight. That was taken for granted. The second reason was that the traps became unsealed. Every one knows that a trap is useless unless the bend is kept full of water. Now, although traps had been in use for gener— ations before discovered the fact, it is not only very easy to unseal an ordinary invented trap, but it is very difficult to prevent its becoming unsealed. When a quantity of water is poured quickly down a soil pipe, it drives- the airin-- the pipe before it, and causes vacuum behind it in the same way as the plunger of a pump does. According to the popular saying, "nature

end above the roof, or they are connected into a similar pipe, which is led up through the roof independently. These pipes prevents the syphonage of the raps because, when a vacuum is caused in the soil pipe by the sudden passage of a bolt of water, the air to fill the vacuum is drawn down through these pipes instead of being sucked through the traps under the fixtures This apparent complication of pipes looks rather intricate to the uninitiated but themain principle is really very sim pIe and easily understood.

To make assurance doubly sure the whole system should be twice tested ; first, by plugging the ends of the pipes before the fixtures are connected and filling them with water right up to the top, when any leaks will at once be detected by the water dribbing out. Secondly, after the fixtures are placed and connected and the traps filled with water, oil of peppermint is poured into the. top of the soil pipe and volatilized by sending a pailful of hot water after it. If there are any defective spots through which sewer gas could escape into the house, the pungent odor. of the peppermint will find-its way out at these places and any ordinary nose will very readily detect and locate then. /

SQme of the old fixtures, notably the pan closets, were very objectionable, because their construction was such

- that it-was impossible to keep them clean. There is now such a variety of good fixtures for every conceivable purpose, and competition has make them so moderate in price, that there is no excuse for using an old fashioned or bad one of any kind. Many are still made made sold which cannot be recommended as coming up to the standard of modern requirements. But those who are familiar with the subject have no difficulty selecting good ones. Indeed, there is quite an embarrassment of riches. As a glance at the catalogue of a good manufacturer will show, there are so many good fixtures of

· all kinds, differing only in slight particulars which only an expert can appreciate, that.one is sometimes tempted to wish there was not quite so many. -

-	A soil pipe or drain should never, if it can be avoided, be buried under- the floor of a house or closed in behind plaster. .They should, if possible, be run along the cellar walls or suspended from the ceiling and run up in a corner of a pantry or bathroom where their appear

- ance need not be objected to.., Every one knows they are there even when concealed, and a tastefully arranged and neatly executed piece of plumbing work is.

means an unsightly object. If itis absolutely necessary

the laststraw that breaks the camel's back and

	-	renders

a 'house entirely uninhabitable until it is - altered.

	It

effectually destroys any chance of escaping from the effects of the defective drains, because the air which has been befouled by them is thus carefully collected and warmed and sent up through the registers to be breathed by the occupants of the house No surer way could be devised of intensifying the danger arising from defective



drains in the house at	the house should -

I



never be h  taken   to be warmed and breathed and over again. Every hot air furnace should be pro- -vided with a duct bringing in fresh air directly from out

· of doors and it ought to be brought from some point where it will be as free as possible from dust or anything objectionable. - 

·A few of the most important points to be attended, to in order to have a' healthy house "with mondern conveniences as the agents say,- have been very briefly touched upon. There are many others besides which -any one- whose interest in- the subject is once fairly

—	aroused will soon discover for himself and no one need remain in ignorance of anything that affects his

well-being in this connection. The literature of sanitary science is now ample and easily accessible, and there

-	are few who would not feel themselves well repaid for devoting a portion of their spare time to its perusal. -



HOT -WATER HEATINg

Editor Canadian Architect and BUILDER.



SIR,—l have had considerable experience both in the

- theory and practice of hot watcr heating,'and have heard and read many opinions both good and indifferent reference 'to this subject, but never anything that seemed to my mind so utterly ridiculous as the statements in the opening part of the article which you extracted from the Northwestern Architect and which appeared in your August number. The writer claimed that it was tbe contraction of hot water, and not the expansion of cold water by heating that caused circulation. If the writer has found this to be the case, he might have informed us from what hot spring, he obtained his water supply, so that we who are toiling up th-e rugged road to perfection might follow in bis footsteps--and so gain such a grand result tbat our fuel bill Cfor heatingwould be nil. But

-	we ordinary mortals find that' when we fill our system,--'the water is as cold as the season of the year will allow,

and before, we can obtain, circulation, it is necessary to



drives the air in the pipe before it, and causes a acuurn behind it in the same way as the plunger of a pump does. According to the popular saying, "nature .bhors a vacuum," therefore the air rushes in to fill  and take the place of that which been driven down the pipe. But the only way by wbich it could get on was through the fixtures and the trap below them. Now that out eyes are open to the fact, we know what appened. The air in its passage carried the water with out of the trap, leaving the trap if not empty at least insealed which amounted to the same thing, This is... called syphoning the trap. There are several other ways n which a trap may become unsealed, but it is not necessary to enter into a discussion. of these now. Enough has been said to show how untrustworthy the old traps were. - —All this has been changed in modern practice. Pipes

are now made of the materials and heavy enough not only to resist corrosion, which in calking joints in iron pipes is very considerable and quite sufficient to split a thin pipe. But the most radical change has been in the entire abandonment. of the old plan of trying to bottle up the sewer gas in the pipes. The objects aimed at now are: first, to make drains and soul pipes both self-cleans. ing, so that when properly flushed with water, no foul matter will lodge in them ; second, to prevent the passage into the house drain of any sewer gas that may form in the street sewer, by interposing an efficient intercept. ing trap; and third, to have.a current of fresh air pass. ing at all times through the whole of thepipes in the house. This is attained by putting on the house drain, just above the main trap, a pipe which admits fresh air to the house drain and soil pipes, and by carrying the main soil up through the roof, having the end of it open.

The air in the soil pipe inside the house being generally warmer than tbat outside naturally ascends passes out at the top, as cold air enters by the fresh air

at the bottom. If, when water is passing down the pipe, the air is driven before it, no harm is don; as the current of air is simply reversed for the moment and a puff of air will come out at the inlet after which the normal upward circulation- of the air is immediately'- re-es

tablished	-.

To guard against the danger of the traps being

	syphoned a duplicate set of pipes is provided	for 

are t even concealed, and a tastefully arranged and neatly executed piece of plumbing work is by no means an unsightly object. If it is absolutely necessary to bury a pipe under the floor, it should first be carefully tested and then covered with a good concrete floor) building small brick pits where necessary to. give access to brass cleaning plugs, in suitable places to admit of any foreign bodies being removed from the pipes without tearing up the concrete. These foreign bodies will sometimes get into the pipes in spite of the utmost care on the part of the housekeeper. Children and domestic-servants seem to have an unconquerable-penchant for trying whether the plumbing system is able to assimilate sponges, wash rags and similar objects. I remember in one case of stoppage being assured by the master of the house that his children and servants would never think of getting rid of any such thing in this way, but when the stoppage was reached, there were taken out, besides other thing, his neckties and a piece of one of his wife's corsets. When shown the collection, he could. only exclaim, "well, well ; I never could have believed it." But there they were. Sometimes the much abused plumber is blamed when anything goes wrong, when some such gross ignorance and carelessness as this is the sole cause of the mischief.

The advice which any sanitarian would give to anyone intending to put plumbing in his house, may be summed up very briefly First, have the work arranged and camed out by some one who knows his business. Never entrust it to a tinsmith who takes up plumbing, which he does- not understand, in addition tq the tinkering which he does understand; second, have no more plumbing put in than you are prepared to pay for having done in thoroughly, good-- fashion; third, see that your plumbing appliances are properly used alter they are in.

A concrete floor has just been incidentally mentioned. This is a most desirable thing to- have under every house in order to keep down the damp ground air. For that reason it is desirable to have a cellar or basement under

we ordinary mortals find that when we fill our system, the water is as cold as the season of the year will allow, and before we can obtain circulation it is necessary to heat the water, which then immediately rises to the highest point in the system and is 'replaced by the colder, (and therefore heavier) water. The theory may be all very well from_the writer's standpoint but if he tries to see his assertion as

others see it,: he will understand how ridiculous it appears, must start by ex panding the cold water, which will, of course when it has accomplished its, work, con tract, and therefore decend to take the place of the warmer water. There is another item in the letter which seems-to me to bear witness to tbe fact that the writer is deficient in the very first principles of hot water heating,- and that is the drawing he has given to illustrate his theory. He says. B. represents the

boiler R, the radiator; can conduct a tank; if a flow or supply pipe, and d d return pipes. Now every person that knows the first thing about hot water heat. ing knows that this represents a wrong construction. The tendency of water when heated is to rise, and the nearer the pipes through which it has to rise are to the -perpendicular, the quicker will be its motion ; and ac cording to this construction. the tank will rob to a considerable extent both the radiator and the coil, because there is nothing to alter the natural tendency of the water to rise, either at G or H, and the consequence is, that the water will flow direct into the tank. Another wrong assertion is, that the loss of bulk in the pipes did, will be made good by the-tank;-- Now this is altogether impossible, because the hot water in F. is rising as

