<doctype type="text">	December, 1888	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT	___	__	9

	___	- 



bankrupt, can afford, being at the rate of $7,500 per mile approximately. 

In the system of sewerage designed for the town of Cornwall by the writer, any sewage entering the- system at the greatest distances from the outlet will be discharged in less than ninety minutes. In the Brockville system, now under construction, the time required to discharge at tbe main outlet from buildings farthest removed from the outlet along the line-of sewer-is-also less than ninety minutes. The main outlet at Brockville is a submerged iron pipe 923 feet long extending from short line out into the River St. Lawrence, the outer end being in 45 feet of water.

PLUMBING.



It is a fact well understood among sanitary engineers that the greater amount of the dangerous sewer. air that invades our dwellings is "home-made"-manufactured on the premises—that is, it comes from putrescent matter lodged in the traps, pipes and fixtures in the building itself. It is human nature to remove the cause of a wrong as far as possible, and there is but little doubt that the public street sewer, built- by a conscienceless corporation, is blamed for many foul emanations that come from defective plumbing.

_ The science of plumbing, depending as it does upon a knowledge of some the laws of physics, hydrostatics, hydraulics and- pneumatics, is but little understood by the average citizen, and the ordinary plumber has not kept pace with the requirements of his calling during the last decade of advancement and improvement. For these reasons a11 plumbing should therefore be under the control and supervision of the city or town engineer. .

In conclusion, the writer is of	that the time has arrived when those twain relics 01 ignorance and barbarism, the "privy vault" and "cesspool," should be abolished in all cities and towns and -some system of direct removal substituted temporarily until a. complete system of removal by water carnage is constructed. These nuisances are only tolerated from familiarity, and-should be stamped out by sanitary officers totally out of reach of local prejudice or- political influence.

<article title=" A CANADIAN PLUMBER ABROAD " author="">



A CANADIAN PLUMBER ABROAD. . - -

 The following extract from a letter writer by a young Canadian plumber, now working in England, to a friend in the same line of business, in Toronto, has been handed to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for publication, with the idea that it may prove instructive to some of our readers: -

"You will see from my changed address that I have moved since I last wrote you. I came down here last April and have been busy ever since, for

No. —, Fulham Road, London. When Archie was here, he saw a piece of lead work in their window, which he thought could not possibly be "bossed"; but it was, and they have a still more-wonderful piece which took two weeks to work out, and during that time many plumbers, builders, reporters, etc., availed themselves of the opportunity of watching the process. It looks something like the accompanying design and is worked entirely out of one piece of sheet lead, the remainder or which is rolled up as per sketch. I think it was 30 feet

















long by 3 ft. 6 in. wide. Since coining down here I have run two 20 ft. stacks of lead soil-pipe, and one 30 ft. stack; and in two cases had rather difficult bending to do, but got over it creditably, and think I may now call myself a. decent workman. I have had two plumbers working subject to my instructions part of the summer, but have only one now. I am in hopes of getting the job to line two cisterns of 2,000 gallons capacity each, with lead, at the baths. j can now with mate, make a 4 inch lead bend as cheaply as I can buy a stock Dubois ditto, and guarantee the back of bend to be thicker than any normal part of the pipe used; and by taking more time could make the back twice as thick as the throat, and not use a bit of solder in either case, but simply bend them with aid of bobbins, dummies, dresser, etc. I do not mean that I am more clever than other London plumbers, as -many could do what I have spoken of, but many could not. - In a discussion

a 4 inch Strap, at -&-, I once heard someone say it would be impossible to make one out of pipe as described, but now I believe it could be done. The same man that made the before mentioned piece



of sheet-lead work, also made a 4 inch bend as follows

·	And if that can be done, I do not see why he could not make a 4 inch trap. If you look in the Plumber & Decorator for September, page 428, you will see my name-in- connection with exams. I got a first class certificate in elementary grade in 1887,. and I expect that will give me a second class honors certificate. Could not attend practical Exam, for 1888, and I failed in 1887 because after the "bossing" was finished, I had only half an hour left for wiping, so gave up. Although I made a decent job of the "bossing" I really think, it

·was too difficult, as if worked out to the letter, it would be extremely difficult even for an old "bosser." We were only allowed 2 ft. 6 in. squares of lead ready cut, and you will notice-from the enclosed slip, there, is only just enough lead in area to make the break and a little must—be-cut from the corner to start working from

"1. Boss up a break in a piece of7 lbs. lead, 2 ft. 6 in. by 2 ft. 6 in., suitable -for fixing against the angle of a square chimney, as shown in following sketches 2.	Join two 12-inch lengths of 4 in. 7 lbs. lead pipe by an underhand wiped soldered joint, the pipes being fixed at an inclination of about three inches in 1 foot, and the lowest end 3 inches above the floor.

3.	Join two 12-inch lengths of 1/2-inch - lead pipe by an underhand wiped soldered joint."

Four hours were allowed for the above test.



New experiments in lighting cars by electricity are being tried by the Erie railroad, and trial trips of cars equipped with a new system are now being run from Jersey City to Buffalo, The system used is known as the Camille Faure system of storing electricity. Six crates of twenty-three candle battery, each sixteen inches square, and containing a layer of twelve negative and eleven positive plates, are filled with acid, and four hours is occupied in charging them with a dynamo. Cars 375 and 379 are being lighted in this way and run through to Buffalo and return on the night express, sufficient power being furnished by the crates to give light during the eighteen hours it takes to make the round trip.

<article title=" THICKNESS OF SEWER PIPE " author="">

THICKNESS OF SEWER PIPE.

I

N the opinion of Mr. Chas. Rust. C. E., of the Toronto City Engineer's department. the-thickness required for 12, 15 and 18 inch sewer pipe, should be one-twelfth of the diameter. The American pipe at present in use in Toronto is hardly up to this standard. Scotch and English pipe is of the thickness mentioned. The thickness of 6 and inch pipe. Mr. Rust thinks, should be 1/4 and respectively.



The Vancouver. (B. C.) Lime Co., have just put in operation the largest lime kilns on 'the Pacific Coast, with a daily capacity of

	150 barrels.	- 

Mr. T J. Heard, of London, Ont. has purchased the necessary machinery and intends cutting the stone instead of importing it. The breaking of the marble combine has tended to make this pos.

-	possible.

J.	H. Eveleth, of Greenville, Me.. is reported to be plastering



sand. It adheres well to the lath, and. promises to be a success in the way of utilizing material which has hitherto been wasted.



See list of contents of "Canadian Contractor's

Hand-Book" in advertising columns. -

<article title="Correspondence - SEWER PIPE MANUFACTURING IN CANADA " author="">SEWER PIPE MANUFACTURING IN CANADA.

EDITOR CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



SIR, On reading the October number of your valuable paper, I noticed your paragraph anent a letter received by you from an American gentleman who h-as in contemplation the establishment in Canada of sewer tile manufactory, and before doing .so,  wants to get certain information respecting the market for those articles, production and demand, etc., etc.. and says further that he understands that the largest size at present manufactured in Canada is six inch. You made enquiries in order to give your correspondent the required information, and I now beg a small space in your paper to supplement the same. -

The only sewer pipe manufactory in the Province of Quebec, is in St. Johns P.Q Q. It is known and operated as the Standard Drain Pipe-Co.- The capital is presently $50,000 and application

is to be made at the coming	increase

it to $150,000. The-demand is far ahead of the production, and it is the intention of the present company to, extend their buildings and kilns so as to cope with the large demand for goods in their line. They manufacture-sewer tiles of 4, 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 inch diameter, also syphon bends. cesspools, traps, culvert pipes. chimney pipes, etc., etc., and, their goods can sustain the comparison with any foreign ones, as the following certificate will show:

"MONTREAL SANITARY ASSOCIATION.

 - — -		10th May, 1888, 

"To	the Manager of the Standard Drain Pipe Co., St. Johns, P.Q DEAR -SIR: I have pleasure in testifying that I have tested

specimens of your vitrified drain, both as regards crushing strength and freedom from kiln cracks and other defects, and found. them

- highly satisfactory in these respects,		-

"A drain consisting of eight lengths of straight pipe and three

-junction pieces, was submitted to the crucial smoke' test, which the pipes withstood in a most satisfactory manner; while a second drain of inferior pipes from a Scotch factory, when submitted to the same test, showed numerous defects in the pipes, through which the smoke-escaped in large quantities;

-	I am sir, yours very truly. -(Signed) RICHARD Q. FLEMING.

M.	Can. Soc. C. Engineers.

This is conclusive evidence, Mr. Editor, of the quality of the goods made here, and the comparison they can bear with imported ones, if the city of Toronto refused the right of using the native article and a dealer had to import over 200 car loads of foreign goods last year. I must say that it is a peculiar whim, considering that the city of Montreal takes for municipal requirements all the tiles, etc. from here, and every contractor of any importance from Montreal orders here, besides all the orders coming from all parts of Canada, the result being as I said before, the increase in capital and capacity being sought for by the Standard Drain Pipe Co.

My aim, Mr. Editor. is in unison with yours, viz., "A duty to encourage the establishment in Canada of manufactures whenever there appears to be a profitable opening for the same," but my duty is more particularly limited to my town known as the 'pottery town" of Canada, where two large chinaware factories are now in full blast, and four more could be started on short notice. And now that this sewer pipe industry is an assured success, why not concentrate this business in St. Johns? where the soil in a certain part of its limits is most propitious, the clay found being utilized to a large extent, a small proportion only of imported clay being required; where the facilities of transportation are unequalled, being intersected by the two largest railway corporations in Canada, viz.. the Grand Trunk and Canadian Pacific railways; where the water communications are unsurpassed, thereby, during the season of navigation, reducing the cost in freight rates; where labor is plenty and cheap, land also; and finally, where the municipal council exempts from taxes for 10 years all industries coming within the limits of the town.

1 am, sir,

	Yours very truly,

	CHAS. ARPIN,



Pro Mayor. St. Johns.



<article title="Correspondence - CANADIAN VS. IMPORTED SEWER PIPE " author="Trotter, W.C.">

CANADIAN VS. IMPORTED SEWER PIPE.

	-	ST. JOHNS. P. Q.. Nov. 23rd, 1888.

Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.

DEAR sir,—I have read the correspondence in your November issue respecting Canadian versus Imported Sewer Pipes. There are three opinions expressed, (by engineers of Ottawa. Kingston, and Montreal,) which only could have reference to St. Johns pipes, as they are within competing radius of our works. 

As regards Montreal, our pipes are accepted on their merits, but in Ottawa the city engineer states that the corporation "does not permit any other brand than scotch," I.e. boycotts home manufactures without reference to quality. In this decision there

 - -"--- -

is, no doubt, included local influence and prejudice, as with a fair opportunity and prejudice aside, we could prove that we can supply a better and stronger pipe than the pipe now being used there,

which is under the standard of thickness and is not salt glazed throughout. - -

As regards Kingston, I am informed that the tender was not open to public competition and we were not allowed the privilege of tendering. If we had been we should have been able to satisfy the corporation as to quality 

· It is a regrettable fact that, as a rule, Canadians are too apt to ignore home manufactured goods..-----ThiS-- feeling-- we- have—had-to combat, and it has been an obstacle in our way. So long as.~ a





