	6-—.	___	THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER        .   —	December, 1888



<doctype type="text">



<article title=" OUR ILLUSTRATIONS " author="">OUR ILLUSTRATIONS. . 

RESIDENCE FOR Geo. G. BOOTH, ESQ., DETROIT, MICH.—



MASON & RICE, ARCHITECTS.



This house is situated on Trumbull Ave.. and is constructed of stone and red brick. The front and side bay windows are entirely of bronze, with richly wrought frames of the same metal. The ne roof is of red  slate, with ridge of_copper. The entrance is of red stone, beautifully carved. The owner is Mr. Geo. G.

—	Booth, manager of the Detroit Evening News, formerly President of the Barnum Wire and Iron Works, Wind





-	architects.

RESIDENCE FOR DR. J. E. GRAHAM, TORONTO.-E. J. LENNOX, ARCHITECT.



The frontage of this residence is 25 feet, and the depth 6; feet.. The plinth and sills are of Credit Valley stone. The pillars, frieze and dormer, are of terra cotta. The roof is covered with red tiles and red slate. The cornice and conductors are of copper. The -entrance steps are built of Credit Valley stone and brick. The cost of this residence was about $8,000.

CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION

-	FOR A $2,560 TOWN HOUSE—DESIGN BY "DEUX MILLE CINQ CENT."



This design is not an easy one to criticize. It is in some respects a good plan, and yet very deficient. The ining room cannot be gained except through the back hail, and even then, one must pass under the main staircase.. There is no serving pantry to the dining room. The kitchen is of good size, but there is an- overabun. dance of doors and windows, thus reducing the available space. The kitchen entrance is well arranged, and the passage to the main hall is very good, but not worth the  of room. it may he good planning to place the fire places in the angles of the rooms, but there is such a thing as having too many of them. The dining room fire-place should have been in the centre of the north wall space.— The dining room-- is well placed, but requires space devoted to passage to make it the proper size.   The library we do not like,  as it is on the west side, and the bay     would make it    cold in winter. ·A library or sitting room should have southor east exposure. The hail is unnecessarily narrow and



east of its present position, without— increasing the cost



of the house, except for floors and root. The vestibule —is not satisfactory, aud has three exposed sides. The

verandah is Well placed, and would be serviceable. The bedroom floor plan is very good. The bath-room fixtures should be arranged to allow of a window to the east, and not to the north. The attic plan is weak, in that all the bedrooms are made to open out of a storeroom. The elevatlons are_fairly good, with the exceptionof the 'awkward roofing of the main hall projection.

<article title="

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER PRIZE COMPETITION. 

" author="">



"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" _______ PRIZE COMPETITION. 

 A

 Number of very creditable designs for a new ading for this journal have been received in response to the competition announced in our October issue. As none of the designs are entirely satisfactory in every particular it has been decided to divide the prize of $ 15.00 between the authors of the two which come the nearest to fulfilling the requirements. The selected designs, in the order of merit, are by "JOHN" (L. Fleming Taylor, Ottawa, Ont.), and "Manipulator," (Ernest Wilby, Toronto).. To the first named author $10 awarded, and to the second, $5. 

<article title="Correspondence - INFORMATION WANTED " author="Baillarge, C.">INFORMATION WANTED.

CITY HALL QUEBEC, Nov. 26th, 1888.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.	— SiR,—Can any of your readers inform me how a four feet square

drawing, or other board, can be made-say from to 1 inch thick, which will not warp? It must be of some kind of soft wood, as pine. basswood, butternut, in. which brass tacks may be driven representative of the relative position of the city electric lights, whereon. by not quite homing the little nails, all the electric circuits wires, single or double, may he represented by delicate wires or twine of different colours, by threading along and around the projecting  cities may avail themselves of the idea of so representing- their streets, lights, and circuits on printed or lithographed copy of their respective city maps, mounted on blocks as aforesaid. ______—— The' question is, how can the board be made so as not to wa

and thus throw the plan into kinks and wrinkles? Will two 1/4 or 3/8 inch thicknesses laid crossways of each other-and glued together, answer the purpose? Would it suit to lay the boards alternately with the grain in opposite- directions? or what other mode can be adopted to prevent warping, or get the board out of winding, than that of screwing or fixing it to a wall or partition, which prevents it from

being easily removed therefrom and put on a table when

required for alterations, additions or extensions. A solution will

oblige.	.	-

	                          C. Baillarge, 





A Architects, Engineers Builders, Contractors and others are invited to contribute to this department of their experience regarding methods of

construction. A/so particulars such as location, character, cost and name of owner, etc.-of any works of construction in progress. 





<article title="Correspondence - OWEN SOUND " author="">

OWEN SOUND. 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER)



Dr. G. S. PATERSON, building a four story brick hotel on'  the site or the old frame "City Hotel." Poulett street. The new building will have a frontage of 104 ft. by a depth of 54 ft. and two wings at the-rear,each 25 ft. X 73 ft. ,two stories high. A passenger elevator will run to the top story from the office hall on ground floor.. The building will be heated by steam, will have electric' bells to all rooms, and will he otherwise fitted out with all modem conveniences. The building when completed will cost about #16,000. Contracts let as follows — R. Mallow, masonry., brick and cut stone, $4,600: Chas. Gordon, carpenter work, $4,-950; R. P. Butchart & Bro. plumbing and galvanized iron work, roofing, gas piping and steam heating, $2,875; W. McClelland,

athing and plastering, $1,775; Alex. Hill, painting and glazing $600.

The widening of the harbor is to be proceeded with at once. The west bank of the river will be dredged-away for a distance of 2,500 ft., and averaging about 200 ft. from present water line back, taking away several buildings, including Lemon's pottery and Griffith's tannery. Total cost of the work will be in the neighbor.

hood of $60,000.	'	-

The new steel steamer being built for the C. P. R. at the PoIson ship-yard, is fast being brought to completion, as far' as the hull is concerned. The Poison works have also got the contract for thecabin work.       - — <article title="Correspondence - QUEBEC " author=""> QUEBEC 

-	

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



in last month's report: The cost 

house should read. $6,000, instead- of $600; the weight of S. Matthew's Church bells should be6,ooo lbs, instead of

-6oo lbs, and that of-the Cathedral bells 8,000, instead of 8oo; the words "unfrequent erection" should read "unfrequent event,"

· (used in connection with the hanging of S Matthew's bells).   -The site of the present skating rink -being required by the Government to complete the open area in front —

	--	of- the new, parliament

buildings, arrangements have been concluded whereby the skating club undertake to demolish and remove the present rink next April.  It is to be rebuilt -on the opposite side of Grande Allee, on a modified plan, using the present timber arches to span the







































WEST ELEVATION EAST ELEVATION SOUTH ELEVATION GROUND FLOOR

ATTIC

-[Referred to-our readers.] City engineer, Quebec

