<doctype type="colophon;text">The Canadian Architect and Builder

A Journal of Modern Construction Methods

Published Monthly in the interests of

Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers in Building Materials and Appliances.

Vol. 1. - No. 1. Toronto, Canada, January, 1888. Price 20 Cents $2.00 Per Year

The Canadian Architect and Builder

A Journal of Modern Construction Methods

Published Monthly in the Interest of



Architects, civil and sanitary engineers, plumbers, decorators, builders, contractors, and manufacturers of and dealers in building materials and appliances.



C. H. Mortimer, Publisher, 31 King Street West, - Toronto, Can.



Subscriptions

The Canadian Architect and Builder will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.

In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



Advertisements.



Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of  publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of aadvertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



Editor's Announcements



Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward Newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



Salutatory



The rapid improvement in methods and materials of construction, in decorative art, and in sanitary appliances, which has marked the history of the last ten years in Canada, and the field of usefulness which seems to lie open to a printed medium of information and communication between the thousands of persons interested in such subjects, has led to the publication of this, the first number of The Canadian Architect and Builder.

While great improvement has taken place, the development along this line may be said to have only fairly commenced. The advance in civilization and wealth is creating the demand for a better class of public and private buildings than those adapted to more primitive times. It is a pleasing fact that the skill of  our architects, sanitary engineers and artificers is responding to this demand, and the pleasing results are beginning to be observable on every hand.

In other parts of the construction field - in the building of pavements, sewers, bridges, canals, etc., improvements in materials and the methods of using them are not less easily discernible. Had there existed a journal devoted to this important field of knowledge, the extent of these improvements, the causes which have led up them, and the means employed to carry them out, doubtless be more generally understood. The publisher of The Canadian Architect and Builder believes the time has arrived when a journal aiming to fulfil such a purpose, will prove a useful addition to the technical literature of the country, and assist in bringing about many needed reforms. The encouragement bestowed upon this enterprise thus far, seems to justify that opinion.

The scope of this journal is to a large extent indicated by the present number. In the matter of its contents, the reader will allow for the fact that perfection in any line of endeavor is not attained as the result of first efforts, but is the reward of a determination to succeed, coupled with persevering industry. With the assistance of a corps of regular contributors, embracing men of well known ability in the fields of architecture, engineering, construction, decoration, sanitation, etc., every effort will be made to render the contents of each number of this journal increasingly valuable. From all the principal cities correspondents will supply contractors and others interested with reliable information concerning what is being done and what is intended to be done in construction work in their respective localities.

The Canadian Architect and Builder is designed also to be a journal of Public Works, and a medium of communication between architects or municipal or other corporations who may desire to receive tenders for construction works of any kind, and contractors and builders prepared to undertake such works.

Realizing how largely the public health depends upon proper conformity on the part of householders and house-builders to the requirements of sanitary laws, we shall do what we can to eradicate wrong notions and inculcate right ideas and practices in regard to that subject.

The value of illustrations in a paper of this class is fully understood, and to this department careful attention will be paid. We shall feel obliged to any one who will send us for publication drawings of a character likely to prove interesting and instructive to our readers. Friends who may desire to thus assist us, will please note that drawings should be made with pen and black ink on white paper or cardboard. In the case of architects, we shall be pleased if they will loan us original drawings which can be photographed down to the required size for engraving.

To the many persons who have encouraged us in our venture by the bestowal of advertising favors, by giving us their names as subscribers, by promises of future support, and by contributing of their experience to the columns of this initial number, we extend our sincere thanks.

I conclusion we tender to every reader the wish for a happy and prosperous new year, with the hope that before its close a permanent and mutually beneficial acquaintanceship shall have been established between this journal and that particular portion of the public whose interests it seeks to promote.

A proposition has been made to add an architectural department to the curriculum of the School of Practical Science in this city. The government should deal more liberally by this institution, so that lack of necessary funds may not stand in the way of carrying out such a desirable suggestion.

In cases where contractors' deposits, accompanying their tenders for public works, are held by the city for any considerable length of time, as is frequently the case, the Toronto City Council has decided to allow interest on such deposits. This seems to be only just to the contractors, some of whom have had money locked up in this way for a year.



One of the most difficult problems which any young man is called upon to decide is the choice of the business or profession to which he will devote the energies of his life, and in which he hopes to attain eminence. Looking out over the fields of activity, he sees nearly all of them filled to overflowing with workers, and in some of them men are seeking employment without being able to find an opening for their labor. Under circumstances like these, it is gratifying to learn that there is still plenty of room in the architectural and engineering professions for young men of ability and ambition.

The Canadian Architect and Builder would suggest to the Builders' Association of Toronto, the advisability of erecting a building designed for the use of the Association and for architects' offices. In Boston,, Philadelphia, and other American cities, where such buildings have been erected, their utility and success as a business speculation are universally acknowledged. The intimate business relations between architects and builders makes apparent the advantage of having them located in one building as compared with the present state of things, under which a vast amount of valuable time is wasted in running to and from between a large number of offices situated in various parts of the city.

A Toronto architect recently remarked that the Canadian Architect and Builder would prove very useful to the members of the profession by supplying them with the names and addresses of manufacturers and dealers in builders' materials. Hitherto, he said, the want of this information had been very much felt. "We know all about English and American supply men through the Architectural journals of those countries," said he, "but while we know also that there are plenty of such dealers in Canada, and even here in Toronto, we have had no way of finding them out expect to go out and search for them, and that takes too much time. On the other hand, a great deal of inconvenience and delay is experienced in dealing with English or American firms." Thus it appears that our advertising columns, as well as the contents of our reading pages, are likely to serve a useful purpose, and add interest to this new venture.



The annual report of the Medical Health Officer for the city of Toronto, presented a few days ago to the Local Board of Health, should lead to immediate steps being taken to improve the sanitary condition of the city. The increasing prevalence of infectious diseases, due no doubt to increase of population and inadequate sanitary provisions, is truly alarming. For