<doctype type="text;colophon">

PUBLISHED MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF



ARCHITECTS CIVIL ant Sanitary Engineers. Plumbers. Decorators. BUILDERS Contractors, and Manufacturers of and DEALERS IN BUILDING Materials and APPLIANCES

VOL.1 NO.XI 



CANADIAN A ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

A JOURNAL OF MODERN CONSTRUCTION METHODS,

 PUBLISHED MONTHLY in THE INTEREST OF



ARCHITECTS, CIVIL AND Sanitary ENGINEERS PLUM.



MANUFACTURERS OF AND DEALERS IN BUILD

ING MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.



C. H. MORTIMER, PUBLISHER

31 King Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA

SUBSCRIPTIONS

The CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER will be mailed to any address in and a or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration or term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists. it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.

In ordering change or address give the old as well as the Dew address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day or the month.

EDITOR'S Announcements.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.







TO OUR READERS.

The publisher of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER has now In course of preparation "The Canadian Contractor's Hand-Book." This book will contain reference material of the greatest value to persons engaged in the erection and equipment of buildings or other structures. A copy of this valuable book will be presented to every new subscriber to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. As the book itself will be well worth the price of subscription to this journal, every contractor should take advantage of this offer. ___________________





American architectural journals have recently commented on the small incomes usually derived from the practice of architecture, and to that fact have attributed the readiness with which some architects have abandoned their practice to accept positions in the civil service to which very moderate salaries were attached. The same state of things appears to exist in Toronto, if it be true, as stated, that among the applicants or the position of Street Commissioner (salary $1500 per annum), were a number of city architects.



T

HE Building Inspector for the city of Pittsburgh, Pa., appears to be the right man in the right

place.— He has determined that those who erect buildings shall first' obtain permits, and is manifesting his determination in—the right way, by instituting legal 'proceedings against persons who refuse or neglect to comply with the law. We are much in need of such a thorough.

official in Canadian cities. As" we have more

than once stated, the law which requires permits to be obtained before new buildings are commenced, is, as a general rule, disregarded. New buildings are frequently nearing completion before the permit for their erection

is applied for. Our City Commissioners and Building

Inspectors are not fulfilling their duty when they allow the city by-laws thus evaded. We hope that the

Advent of the new year will witness an improvement in this particular.

W

E had something to say last month regarding the apathy of the public in observing precautions for the safety of the public health. It would seem as though nothing short of a small-pox epidemic would induce anything like general compliance with sanitary laws. The Toronto Medical Health Officer, apparently realizing this fact, asks that authority be given the Health Department, in cases where owners or occupants neglect to keep their premises in proper sanitary condition, to have the work done, and tax the property for costs. The suggestion is worthy of adoption. There is a city by-law which provides that citizens shall clean the snow from their sidewalks before nine o'clock In the morning, or submit to be fined and have the work done by the corporation at their expense. How much more necessary is it that citizens should be compelled to remove causes of danger to their own health and that of the community at large



I

T would be difficult to estimate the benefits which have already and will yet accrue to mankind from the utilization of the electric light. As an aid to rapid construction, it will prove of great value. The advantages it offers in this direction are beginning to be made use of in this as in other countries, In the city of Montreal at present, building operations are carried on throughout the night as well as the day by means of the electric light. By its instrumentality also, the break in the Cornwall Canal, which stopped navigation at a most critical time, when vessels were carrying grain to market, was repaired in a much shorter time than would have been necessary if the work could not have been prosecuted night and day.  Railroad construction has already been carried on by electric light, and the future will no doubt witness its employment in building operations in a much more extended degree.





WHILE the Toronto plumbing by-law is under consideration, with a view to its amendment, the system of plumbing inspection should be extended to cover old as well as new work. It is without doubt of the greatest importance that new plumbing should be subject to careful inspection ; but it is not less important that the plumbing done prior to the existence of the plumbing by-law, should be regularly inspected also, and if found to be improperly done, or in any way defective and injurious to health, the owners should be compelled to make the necessary improvements. There'

· is need for the employment of more inspectors, in order that the work covered by the by-law as it stands at present may be thoroughly done. While the .work of the plumbing inspector necessarily occupies more time than that of the drain inspector, we understan4 the city employs four drain inspectors, but only two inspectors of plumbing.





HAT a change may be wrought in a place in a

VV	very short time by a little industry and outlay ! We were surprised at the improvement which has taken place at the Toronto Island during the past year or two-.' The work which is being done there shows that at last our city fathers have become aware of the great opportunities which the Island affords for park purposes. The city has been highly favored indeed in possessing such, a

valuable piece of land situated on the edge of a great lake, and but a mile bay from the principal thoroughfares of the city. A steady and judicious expenditure of money on the Island Park will within a

few years, work wonders with what is even now a rather

barren spot. All the Street sweepings or other matter of a like nature should be taken to the park, and .used to make the place fertile and capable of growing a greater Every advantage should be taken of the lagoons to form small lakes, with water-ways connecting them with one



lake. What is proposed to be done should be thoroughly worked out, and the scheme carried forward to completion some on the tax-payers.



W

E have been informed that although the Parliament Buildings were designed by one of the most renowned architects of the present era (in the opinion of the Hon. the Provincial Secretary of Ontario), it has been found necessary to re-design the centre pavilion. Whether this has been done because of the unfavorable criticism to. which the first design has been subjected, or because the architect thinks he may be able to improve upon it we, do not know. We believe that he can improve upon it ; he certainly should be able, for the task is not by any means a difficult one. However, we do know that a change has been made in the design, and that a considerable one. It seems very strange that such material changes should be found necessary at such an early date, especially- when it is remembered that all changes mean additional expense. It is not quite two years since the firs) design was placed on paper, and then it was not done in haste; and yet it has been found necessary to modify it. The Canadian design which was rejected by the great American genius, had been on paper some five years when he was called upon to give his unbiassed (?) opinion to his own profit. Since he has found it necessary to alter his first design to meet with his own approval and those over him, after it had been on paper two years, would it not have been but fair and reasonable on the part of the same individual and individuals to have allowed the Canadian architects a like opportunity to have improved their design after it had been on paper five years? Not that it required improvement to surpass in artistic merit or in other' respects the design according to which the present buildings are- being erected. But Canadians are such

-broad-minded, honorable and unbiassed individuals, that they see good in foreigners when they can see no good in themselves. Of course, we are prepared to admit the superior intellectual and other qualities of our native politicians, and allow that Canadians have not the same ability to gain a like eminence in other walks of life What we are not prepared to admit is, that they are inferior to them in like pursuits in other lands. Instead of' worshipping the citizens of the United States and other lands, a little worship of ourselves; and little patriotism for-our country, might do both ourselves and our country good.





W

E read the letter addressed to the Ministerial Association by the President and Secretary of the

- Anti' Poverty- Association,- with.- considerable- surprise. 'These men apparently'-honestly think that they. have

grievances because a few men have been fortunate enough ,to make money without toil. They are, not able to under-. stand that what they would have us believe is the rule, is

but the    exception. The vast majority who possess land only receive from it a fair interest on the accumulated money of —their industry1 thrift and- intelligence. No

man is denied the privilege to acquire land by  purchase. All that necessary, is that he should have the





