

<doctype type="text"><article title="COLORINGS" author="">

COLORINGS

T might reasonably be supposed that colors used in outside painting would be selected with due regard to their durability, but the faded colors so frequently seen proves very conclusively that some painters either do not know what to use.

Among the durable colors may be named the following: In black, lampblack and vegetable black ; in yellow, yellow ochre and Naples yellow ; chrome yellow turns dark in bad air; in reds, Venetian red, Indian red, madder lake ; carmine take, vermilion and chrome red are Rot good for outside work; in blue; ultramarine is the only permanent one. Among the most durable and

- reliable colors may be found the ochre's, raw -and burnished



brown and their mixtures. Raw umber is very durable either in water or oil, and mixes with other pigments without injury. Yellow ochre can be mixed ,with lime without injury, and is thus well adapted distemper painting.

Among the non-durable colors are all manufactured chemical colors; chrome yellow, chrome-green, prussian -

-blue, cobalt, Antwerp blue, indigo., will all fade, either singly or in combination. Zinc white, though of less body than white lead, is more delicate and durable and should be used at the seaside especially, as sea air is particularly injurious to lead.

Greens direct from copper, arsenic, etc., are much more durable than mixed ones, although, of course, all productions of arsenic are more or less injurious to

- health.



Rinse your hair pencils out thoroughly in turpentine and work the brush about in dry dust.

Varnish, japan and all sorts of liquid dryers are based on oil) and while they compel a coat of paint, to dry quickly, they do not neglect to supply some building strength. 

HEATING BUILDINGS BY HOT WATER_CIRCULATION.<article title=" HEATING BUILDINGS BY HOT WATER CIRCULATION " author="Armstrong, John P.">

	BY JOHN P.- ARMSTRONG.	—	-



UCH has been written on the merits of the different methods of heating buildings, and it is admitted by all disinterested, intelligent persons, who have given the matter any consideration, that hot water circulation is far in advance in every way of either stoves, furnaces, or steam.

There are, however, a few apparently intelligent people who still hold on with tenacious grip to the almost exploded idea that steam is the best, and these advocates are found amongst three classes. First) those who have a financial interest in sustaining that theory ; second, Those who imagine that the earth will surely crumble away if anything out of the old order of things is adopted; and third, those who, from a want of knowledge, honestly believe that steam heating is the best. The first two I will not try to disturb, but let them sleep on. They will awake up some day, and wonder what is the matter when someone laughs at them for dating a letter 1600 A.D. But to the third class of persons, I would like to present a few reasons why hot water circulation is far in advance of steam.

Steam beating is bad physically, because its effect upon the radiators or coils through which it passes is, that they are heated to such a high temperature that the atmosphere upon which they act. is robbed of at least one-half the humidity considered desirable from a health standpoint. This has reference not alone to animal life, but to vegetable life also, as I have seen frequently  proved in greenhouse work. Some persons imagine that this injurious effect- is overcome by keeping one or two open wells in the house. This is a mistake, because it is only the plants immediately surrounding these wells that will be benefitted thereby, while those at a distance will suffer almost as much as though there were no open

wells in the house.

Steam heating is dangerous, because no. matter what

automatic appliances may he employed there is danger

is directly opposite to steam. Physically, it is the most perfect system of heating known. It gives a mild steady heat, and its effect upon the humidity of the atmosphere is so slight as to be imperceptible. On this account it is invaluable for heating greenhouses, in addition to the more important item of adding to the health of dwellings. With hot water, there is- not the slightest danger of explosion, because the stem is open to the atmosphere through the expansion tank, and the only pressure that

be on the boiler or pipes is the weight of the water in the system, and this, in a three story dwelling, would not be more than from' 15 to i8 pounds to the square inch, or about atmospheric pressure, which is less dangerous than the ordinary cold water pressure in some city mains.

The freedom of hot water heating from the possibility of causing fire, is amongst the strongest facts which recommend it as the ideal method. I have never known, nor has any report ever reached me, of a case where the

· contact of any substance (with the exception of phosphorus matches or some such matter) with hot water

was the cause of fire, because no part of the out

—side surface of the system is     heated to a degree than about 190 so that these surfaces might be exposed against wood, paper, &c., with perfect safety.

-The simplicity of the apparatus required for, this



able to lift a shovel-full of coal can, give it all the attention required, all that is necessary, being to see that the fire is kept going and that the-water is-kept-- up to the required level in the expansion tank, which only needs attention about once in two weeks, and sometimes even  a longer interval.

A slight consideration of the principles which govern hot water circulation will plainly show that it is by far the most economical method of heating. As before noticed, steam is not generated until water has reached 212, and until this temperature is attained, there is no benefit to the house. With hot water, the moment the fire is lit circulation begins, even the' burning f a newspaper in the fire-box being sufficient to start circulation, and that means an immediate rise in the temperature of the surfaces of the pipes, which in their turn affect the surrounding atmosphere, and will go on steadily in-creasing as long as the fire is kept up, until it reaches the maximum point, about 190. Should the fire be allowed to burn out through forgetfulness or careless



++++++++++++++++++



If it is the intention? to calcimine on one-coat work, a very good finish may be made by using some hard finish on the hawk and hand float the surface with water in the brush.

Less cattle hair is required in the' plaster on brick walls than on lath; and usually stone and, brick walls have but one strong wall coat, and on this it is finished with lime and plaster-of-paris.

When the ceiling is simply tinted the first should be one that softens into the wall paper or wall color, not one that contrasts. Thus if the tone of the room is a soft grey blue, the ceiling should be of a clear fresh pink or should a grey-green be picked out with black, a lemon color will be appropriate for the ceiling.

A solution of chloride of copper will show the difference between gilding for which gold has been used, and gilding with alloys of inferior metals. If the gilding he imitation gold, a touch of the solution will give a black mark, copper separating out through the zinc in the yellow metal ; with pure metal no discoloration will occur. Common gold, goods, of fourteen carat gold, 'will not change their color with nitrate of silver. Leaf gold is tested by being shaken up in a closed bottle with sulphur chloride.



<article title=" PERSONAL " author="">. PERSONAL

Mr. William McLea Walbank, C. E., of Montreal, was married on' Oct. 10th to Miss Isabel Richards, of Bideford, P. E. I. The happy couple have just returned from a tour of the Southern States.



Mr. James Adams, architect of the penitentiary, Kingston. Ont., recently had an encounter with a burglar, who knocked him down with a club, and escaped, followed by a shot front Mr. Adams' revolver.



The many friends of Mr. Fuller, chief architect of the Department of Public Works, Ottawa, will regret to learn that-he has for some time been

 prostrated by an attack of typhoid fever. At one time grave apprehensions were entertained that he could not recover, but we are pleased to know that a change for the better has set in, and he is now on the road to' recovery.





Messrs. R. McDougall & Co., Gait, Ont., manufacturers of the Plaxton Hot Water boiler, were recently burned out. They an.

--	announce their intention of rebuilding on an enlarged scale. Meanwhile they have resumed manufacturing,' and are filling orders as usual. 

-	It is noticed that Oregon cedar shingles are beginning to be  handled in-New York, - As this is the case, why would it not be

just as feasible to open up a trade in Eastern Canada for British Columbia shingles? They are readily sold now all over Manitoba and the Territories,      and profitable market should be found for them further east.

of explosions, and the temperature of the pipes is so high that there is a vary great possibility of fire, either from contact with wood, the accumulation of dust on them, and the facility which rats find for making warm comfortable nests in the coils, in which have frequently been found bits of waste, and other inflammable matter.

Steam heating' requires skilful attendance. The possibilities of accidents are so numerous, that it requires a man with a thorough knowledge of the apparatus to be in- constant attendance upon it, and even then, it is impossible to guard against the many little accidents which often lead to sad, disastrous consequences. In the report of the fire marshal of the city of Boston for the year ending May, 1888, there were five fires which were known to have originated from the contact of wood dust, waste or some other such substance with the steam pipes, and many other fires the origin of which were not and never will be known, but some of which, if the inanimate could speak, could without doubt be traced to the system of steam heating. In this respect Boston is not the exception, but rather the rule, as shown by the reports of other cities. Lastly, though by no means' least, steam heating is not

economical. From the moment the fire is lighted until steam is generated, which is at least one hour, there is not the slightest change of temperature throughout the house; and once it- is generated, the water must always be kept up to 2120, because if it drops below that, it ceases to give off steam, and that already in the pipes condenses and they become cold, although the water may be at 2000, which would be high for hot water circulation. So 'that to get any heat in coils or radiators heated by steam, necessitates a constant consumption of fire sufficient to keep the water at not less than 212; and this irrespective of the weather. 'It requires just as 'much fuel to keep the water boiling when the thermometer is at 400, as when it is 10 below zero (at least the fractional difference is so slight, it is hardly noticeable). The fact

- of the entire absence of heat through the building, when the water drops below 212 is especially fatal to plants in a greenhouse d during the night, because the heat given off by the condensation of the steam remaining after the

	water	quickly absorbed

by the large body—of glass surrounding it,- that the tem

	delicate plants which may he in' it.	—_____

	                                   

ness, the water in the coils or radiators will continue to give out heat for about four hours afterwards. This is a characteristic of the greatest value for greenhouses:

Another very' important feature is the fact that the consumption of fuel is regulated by the weather. To keep up  steam it is necessary to bum as--much fuel-in moderately cold weather, as when the cold is extreme; but in hot water heating the fire is regulated according to the temperature of the atmosphere. This difference in working,' causes a saving of an average of 30 per cent. in fuel. This, of course, depends, to a very great extent, 'upon the construction and capacity of the boiler.



A retired plumber thus gives a point for the gratuitous 'relief of householders: Just before retiring at night pour into the clogged pipe enough liquid soda lye to fill the 'trap or bent part of the pipe. Be sure that no-water runs in it until the next morning. During the night the lye 'will convert all the offal into soft soap, and the first current of water in the morning will wash it away and clear the pipe clean as new.

The Orillia, Packet comments as follows upon- the article which appeared in- the CANADIAN ARCHITECT— AND BUILDER recently, concerning the surprisingly small amount of space given by the daily press to the important subject of the preservation of the public health "The Packet's experience in this regard is not encouraging to the press. Its persistence for years past in pressing for sanitary reforms has undoubtedly been productive of some good, but the advance made is so slow as to be almost disheartening. Even members of the Board of Health, and the officials under them, are content to do almost anything, or rather to - neglect

everything, for a quiet life, so little do many realize the importance of cleanliness and wholesome sanitary surroundings; and the paper which keeps dinning away at the subject is voted a 'crank' and a 'bore."' Our contemporary should not get discouraged. a great advance has taken place- in the direction of sanitary reform within the last decade, and if he is given proper

	subject	its

position in our public schools the next generation will not be so apathetic as' the present one.- As to the advocates of this reform being called cranks and bores, that is a-matter of little-consequence, in view of the fact that some of the greatest and wisest reformers of history were similarly regarded. - -



