<doctype type="text">should be a board of arbitrators, or some court of the kind, where all questions in dispute could be argued, and a reasonable and just settlement obtained.





WE notice in Building an illustration of a house  proposed to be erected in this city by one of its residents. The de sign was prepared by a New York

architect, and is certainly a very good one. We would like to welcome erection in this city of many houses

of equal artistic merit. But notwithstanding that it is -a good design, we certainly could name several Can

·	Canadian architects who could and- would prepare. designs of equal, if not greater excellence. That Canadian architects do not design houses equal to many of the' expensive houses in the States, is because their clients' have not the wherewithal to pay for their construction. Architects in the States are not better able than our own to make bricks without straw. In Canada they are even asked to make them with a short allowance of clay, and if the article is not equal to that  made with the full complement of materials, the unfortunate architect is made the subject of blame. Good. work must be paid for, whether it be material or the product of the intellect, and those who cannot pay must be content with what they are able to afford. It is time that persons building should understand that architects must as nearly as possible fulfil the conditions under

 which their clients place them, and that where they. are able to afford what they profess to-admire and Want, they will have no difficulty in getting their wants sup-

- plied without going beyond the bounds of the country where they found it possible to make money, and where,

 if they were patriotic and capable of recognizing native

·	artistic ability, they would take pleasure in spending

	it.	____________









 We should like to see the building interest, which  stands second to but few others in this country, occupy a more prominent place in connection with the

 annual Industrial Exhibition held in this city. While there were quite a number of exhibitors of building materials at the recent Exhibition, many lines of goods were not represented at all. We have been led to think that perhaps this was due to the very unsatisfactory accommodation provided for exhibitors. No attempt seems to have been made to classify goods, but exhibits were crowded in wherever there was a bit of space to spare, regardless of their surroundings. At the Exhibition this

 year, could be 'seed side by side. Dressed brick and

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER PRIZE COMPETITION.

<article title=" CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER PRIZE COMPETITION " author="">

THE publisher of the Canadian ARCHITECT AND  BUILDER has decided to make a number of improvements in the journal, beginning with the second volume, in January. One of these will be a new heading, artistic in design and expressing the character of the publication. Architects- and designers are invited to send us. designs for this purpose, drawn with pen and black ink on white bristol board. Size of drawing to be 7 3/4 inches wide by 2 1/2 inches in depth. Lettering to be the following:

"CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER"

 AND INDUSTRIAL ARTS DECORATION FURNISHING CONSTRUCTION SANITATION ENGINEERING. <article title=" INDUSTRIAL ARTS DECORATION FURNISHING CONSTRUCTION SANITATION ENGINEERING " author="">

If any design sent in should be considered suitable for use, the sum of $15 00 will be paid to the author. All designs must reach us not later than the first day of December next.. Each design must be marked with the nom de plume of the author, and the author's name, nom de plume and full address, must accompany each drawing. In order to obtain a purely Canadian design, this competition is restricted to Canadian designers, who will, we trust, manifest their interest in Canadian enterprise by sending us samples of their best efforts.



INTERESTING AND PROFITABLE.____



TORONTO, Oct, 2nd, 1888

Editor Canadian Architect and Builder



SIR,—From the fact that the last two numbers of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER contained no mention of the recent competition for a $2,000 house, it seems to me that you must have forgotten your promise in the May number to publish criticisms on all the eight designs submitted, but up to the present only three have been made. It would be interesting as well as very profitable to students to see the rest, of them criticized.

	-	'	Yours truly, 

	-	.	STUDENT.

	OUR	ILLUSTRATIONS 

experience. The elevations are very poor	and,

 in design,

badly drawn.	_________________





PROPOSED NEW COURT HOUSE- AND CITY HALL FOR THE CITY OF TORONTO— E. 3. LENNOX, ARCHITECT.

<article title=" PROPOSED NEW COURT HOUSE- AND CITY HALL FOR THE CITY OF TORONTO " author="">

TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL GUILD.

 The

 monthly dinner of the Toronto Architectural  — Guild took place at the "Hub" restaurant on Thursday evening the 11th of Oct. There was a very large attendance of members. Many questions of interest were brought up and discussed in an animated and encouraging manner. Several committees were appointed to report on important matters. A resolution. was also passed expressing the interest of the Guild in the success of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, --and the intention of the members to give it such support arid assistance as may be in their power.



MONOTONY IN HOUSE BUILDING.

MR. JOHN J. DEERY, writing in Home, deplores



 the monotony which characterizes the-houses in some American cities. As an illustration, he says



"In Philadelphia, during the past fifteen years, many thousands of houses have been built from a common; -stereotyped plan, and model, which according to the  location and size of lots, have produced houses which, large or small, are all alike on general principles." This lack of arch architectural variety has left its offensive. work upon the City of Toronto, and must prove to be standing cause of regret to this and future generations' of educated Canadians. Within the last five years, we are glad to say, a change for the better has been noticeable, arid in those sections o the city which are now being built up, there is much in the outward as well as the interior appearance of the houses to please the eye

- and accord with correct ideas of the "eternal fitness of things."

<article title=" ARCHITECTURE IN THE REIGN OF QUEEN VICTORIA " author="">

ARCHITECTURE IN THE REIGN OF QUEEN VICTORIA.	-

I

N two subjects not precisely architectural, in the common meaning of the word, but of the highest

practical importance, there has been an. extraordinary progress during the last fifty years. One, of these is the science of. -sanitation, which - may be said to belong to this reign. 'Fifty years ago the current ideas upon the subject of drainage and ventilation were comparatively of the crudest kind and it was hardly recognized that, the –



materials at the recent Exhibition, many lines of goods were not represented at all. We have been led to think that perhaps this was due to the very unsatisfactory accommodation provided for exhibitors. No attempt seems to have been made to classify goods, but exhibits were crowded in wherever there was a bit of space to spare,

  regardless of their surroundings. At the Exhibition this year, could be seen side by side, pressed brick and pianos, organs and jewelry, brick machines and agricultural implements; improved water closets and specimens of cookery. Perhaps with the present number or buildings it- may- be impossible to- make- a- better- classification of exhibits. It that be the case, then we hope to see some new buildings erected during the coming year.

We would suggest to the Exhibition Association that a 9 building should be set apart exclusively for the accommodation of exhibitors of materials entering into the construction and decoration of buildings, in- the same manner that Machinery Hall is reserved for machinery manufacturers. If such a step were taken, we have no doubt that the building would not only be fully occupied, but, would present one of the most valuable, interesting

- and attractive features of the: Exhibition. In such a building the wonderful improvement which is taking place in materials of construction, as well as in sanitary and decorative appliances, could be shown in properly classified departments, and visitors interested in such goods would know where to find' them, and be able to

examine them without	every building on the grounds.--- They would also be given the opportunity of comparing side by side different appliances designed to accomplish the same object, and of judging of their re

 perspective merits. We should be pleased to

have the opinions of manufacturers and dealers in building materials and appliances on this subject.





·A contemporary remarks that among the rules suggested or adopted in various localities for the regulation of electric light circuits; the proposition of Mr. S. S.  Wheeler that "an arc lamp within. the reach of any man's umbrella is hung too low," is such an obvious

—	common-- sense suggestion as to commend itself everywhere. 

--A rich inhabitant of Berlin is erecting a building where patients suffering from tuberculosis may be subjected to-. a special treatment The ground floor of the building. which



 - stones, which will be connected with the ground floor, so that they inhale constantly the odor- of the

may



stables, which will be conveyed to them by especial air tubes,—Le Progress 

seems to me that you must have forgiven your 



in the May number to publish criticisms on all the eight designs submitted, but up to the present only- three have--been made. It would be interesting as well as very profitable to students to see the rest. of them criticized.

 Yours truly, - - -

	-	.	STUDENT.

 OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.		___

"CANDIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER" COMPETITION FOR A $2,500 TOWN HOUSE.—DESIGN BY

 -		TAMAR.	-



THIS author has evidently planned a house for a



 northeast corner, and. with the intention of placing the house in the extreme east side of the lot. We do not understand why anyone when asked to prepare a design for a-northwest corner should design one which can only with advantage be placed on a northeast one. If we were to place this house on the lot we specified, we would either have to place the windowless side of the house to the street and east, - or else the south front to the east, which would bring the plan about right, except that the bathroom would have a north exposure. We notice that the author,8 in designating the points of the compass, has made the west the east and the east the  west, which is somewhat confusing when one wishes to determine how he intended to place his house. We will again state that the indiscriminate arrangement of rooms  without thought of the-purposes--for which they are intended, and their climatic exposure, is not planning, but an ignorant- way of providing - a Certain amount of required space for strictly utilitarian purposes, without one thought for health or comfort. In this plan we have not one good point, so far as we are able to judge. The



dining room, is small and inadequate, while the drawing room is unnecessarily large The entrance to the dining room is bad, and we should rather do without a closet than have one—placed like this one. The pantry to the kitchen is useless—of fact the closet and pantry -arrangements are bad The kitchen is too much cut up by doors and windows to be convenient, or even large enough The outside door- to kitchen is very narrow,

- and the window is- correspondingly very wide, and the door should have a porch or some - kind of protection from the north winds. The front entrance door opens directly into the hall with the stairs starting much too closet to the door. Many of the doors opening into the

- room are hung on the wrong side- for instance, the bath room door is hung to expose all the fixtures- when slightly open. The stairs are much too steep; the - cellar

-stairs being	easier than the principal stairs The main 

panels, which would never do, and shows, lack of ex-:

 two

 subjects nor precisely architectural in the common meaning of the word, but of the highest practical importance, there has been an - extraordinary progress during the last fifty years. One of these is the science of- sanitation, which may be said to belong to this reign. Fifty years ago the current ideas upon the subject of drainage and ventilation were comparatively of -the crudest kind and it was hardly recognized that the subject was one specially demanding an architect's attention, except so far as some general perfunctory attention to fall and brick traps was concerned. A good many of - -the artistic architects are, much in default in this respect now, but the knowledge that they are so, and that sanitation is a subject which some one, at all events, must attend to, is forced upon them; and in general there is now a degree of study given to the sanitary requirements - -of buildings which was not dreamed of fifty years ago; a study which; it may be added, has resulted in condemnation or absolute reversal of some —of the sanitary beliefs and expedients of that period. The other subject -we refer to is the progress in regard to the Improvement in the habitations of the poorer classes, and the recognition, to some extent at least, of the responsibility resting with landlords and with the - Government in  regard to this subject, the part taken many years ago by this journal in urging attention to this subject is known to all who are acquainted with the history of the amelioration of artisans' dwellings; and though much remains to be done in this respect, what has been already—-accomplished may count- among the— architectural achievements of the present reign ; and while we have witnessed the foundation-of a new- cathedral (unfortunately only a good mediaeval copy and with no Victoria cachet about it), we may, perhaps, be justified in thinking that the many blocks of healthy dwellings which have been built during, late years, not indeed beautiful architecturally, but representing the, possibility of decent, comfortable, and healthy housing for the poor, are as -important architectural, works in their way as cathedrals -and churches. In regard -to - sanitary progress, by the -way, it is worth, remarking that one of the most recent pieces of work 'for which public money was voted was - - -the rectification and putting on a proper and efficient - —footing the drainage of that same great House of Legislation the - commencement of the - present reign; architecture was done fifty: years ago, and adequate drainage supplied now a significant. indication-of the progress in practical matters, which has been made during the period we are considering. 

Though there has' been a good deal said of late as to

- the desirability of drawing architecture and engineering closer together, as a matter of fact the two professions - are farther dissociated in the manner and aspect of their

