<doctype type="text">4 THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER January, 1888



architect and practice the profession just as long as the architects are so regardless of their own interests as to allow him to do so.

Can an individual, however skillful he may think himself to be, put up his sign and practice as a surgeon, barrister-at-law, or even as a land surveyor? Certainly not; although these professions are surrounded by a large area of amateur practice and quackery. Then surely the profession of an architect is as deserving of legal right and protection as that of the surgeon, lawyer or land surveyor. But the architects of to-day have no such protection – the name is merely a suggestive one. No doubt we have noble institutions in some cities, for instance the "Royal Institute of British Architects," the "Institute of American Architects," and others, and members thereof have no doubt proved their qualifications – because they thought fit to do so – not that they were required to do so, or that it was necessary as a qualification to practice.

And now to remedy all this, and to place the architect on the same footing as members of the other professions, let architects get themselves incorporated as a body, in the same manner and way that the land surveyors have done. This is a duty they owe to themselves and also to their students, who pay them large fees and devote years of time in learning the profession; for why should these students, at the expiration of their term of  servitude, not be required to pass the examination and secure the degree that would distinguish their profession and protect their practice of it from the inroads of any who for want of ability, means or opportunity, have not graduated and obtained the license to practice?

The profession of architect has a right to be so protected. Its aspirations are noble. Its object is to benefit and improve society and mankind in general; and certainly no more selfish object can be imputed to it in desiring incorporation than to that of the provincial land surveyor. Why not architects have, then, a regulated scale of tarriff of legalized fees which they can demand for service done? At present their commission or fee may be established by usage, but is not by law. In a recent case in one of the Canadian law courts, an architect who had attended for three days to give expert evidence in a building suit, was informed by the judge that he could only claim for his time the same rate as laborers' wages. At the same time a young P. L. S., who was also a witness, received $4.00 per day for his time, the learned judge remarking that he often felt surprised at the apathy of architects in not getting themselves incorporated, which would entitle them to professional pay.

No doubt the suggestions herein made have long since engaged abler minds than mine, but why has action not been taken in the premises? Will the rising generation of young architects not rise in their might and right, and have established for themselves an Act that will forever raise the standard and dignity of their profession and secure them against imposition and empiricism?

In conclusion, I hope to see in future issues of the Canadian Architect and Builder, comments on this subject from architects, and especially from the junior members of the profession.

<article title="Position, Standing and Duties of an Architect " author="Fides, Constans">

Position, Standing and Duties of an Architect.

By "Constans Fides."

The position, standing and duties of an architect are so misunderstood by the general public, that perhaps it would be well through your new journal that the employer and the public should be better informed thereon.

An architect is supposed to have had a good education, and to be capable of designing any class of private or public building. He should be good mathematical scholar, a good draughtsman, a free-hand draughtsman, an artist, capable of putting all his designs in perspective, as also all details for the purpose of illustrating details that are difficult for the workman and contractors to understand. He should know harmony of colors, and be capable of showing the public at a glance what his building is intended for when executed. He should be a sober, honest and truthful man, free from bias, showing no favour, polite and genial to all – in fact his standing, if he knows his profession, should be justly conceded to him by his employer and the contractor and the many artisans that he must of necessity be thrown into contact with; whose suggestions he should be ready to hear, and, if found practical, to adopt, provided they do not interfere with execution and design. We can all learn a little from the most humble, however poor and uneducated he may appear. The writer has derived much valuable information from such a one, and would therefore advise architects to listen quietly to the sober practical talk of a good artisan.

An architect should act as an impartial judge between the employer and contractor. He should never allow the contractor, his foreman or men, to have any suggestions made to the employer unless he be present. I would not say that the contractors or men would do or say anything tending to dishonesty, but it is better that all such conservations should be heard by both parties. It will save many disputes, and perhaps a law suit, which it is better for both parties to avoid.

An architect's duties are to make and submit small scale drawings or perspectives to his employer, and afterward, large scaled drawings and details of what is decided upon. In my younger days details were always submitted to the contractor. This procedure is far more honest to both the employer and the contractor, not perhaps necessary for the employer, but most decidedly of advantage to the contractor who is thereby better able to give an honest and fair tender. If large free-hand perspectives be given the more laborious geometrical details may be dispensed with until the contract is let. The specifications should be precise and full, describing everything so far as possible in the vernacular of the different trades. There is no necessity for describing why such and such materials are called for. I have seen whole pages written that were quite ridiculous, and of no earthly use but to make the party tendering smile. The architect must, in conjunction with the contractor, lay the building out, having proper lines strained beyond the outer intended walls if possible, and permanent stakes driven, which should never be removed until the building is up to the ground floor. All angles should be properly and truly squared off, and proper bench marks left or fixed upon. In large buildings this will be found absolutely necessary. In my own practice I adopt it in the most simple building. I am aware it cannot always be done. If you have a clerk of works you will have to depend upon him, and if he should be employed by the proprietor, you had better have nothing to do with the work at all – far better to give up the entire work to the proprietor and his factotum, for you will never have a moment's rest.

The architect's duty is to measure and appraise the work as it proceeds – always in the presence of the contractor – to give certificates and, finally, to make out all accounts in a business-like manner for the different trades. It is absolutely necessary that all accounts should be detailed in full – every item priced and carried out to a separate column – and not, as I have seen it done, without detailed prices. No honest purpose can be served by attempting to hide details. The proprietor is entitled to know what he is paying for. I have found it best to have a schedule of prices for the separate trades made out as soon as the contract is signed, based on the tender, witnessed, signed and filed away. No honest contractor can object to this. If the architect is honest the contractor need not fear that his competitors will obtain his prices.

Architects' charges are moderate, considering that they require to spend half a life-time in study in order to obtain a knowledge theoretical and practical of their profession and of the different trades connected therewith. The tariff of charges laid down by the Royal Institute of British Architects, the Royal Hibernian Society of Architects, Dublin; the American Institute of Architects, U. S.; the Paris Architects, the Berlin pillars 20 feet high, capped with ornamental work and enclosed with amber glass. The dome will be coneshaped and will be entirely supported by nineteen oak pillars 21 feet high, buried a depth of six feet in the ground, and surrounded by masonry up to the ground's surface. The dome is designed to shelter 8,000 persons.

A new system of building houses of steel plates is being introduced by M. Danly, manger of the Societe des Forges de Chateleneau. It has been found that corrugated sheets, only a millimeter (0394") in thickness, are sufficiently strong for building houses several stories high, and the material used are of the finest quality, and as they are galvanized after they have been cut to the sizes and shapes required, no portion is left exposed to the action of the atmosphere. Houses so constructed are very sanitary, and the necessary ventilating and heating arrangements can readily be carried out.

The Architectural Draughtsmen's Association of Toronto, which forms the Architectural Section of the Canadian Institute, has been devoting its energies for the past few months principally to sketching from architectural models, competition designing and readings. During the remainder of the winter a number of instructive papers are to be read by members. The different branches of the building trade will be taken up and practical talks given by some of the most able builders of the city. It is hoped that those draughtsmen and students who are not already members, will become so, and make this Association the great success which its objects merit. Reports of meetings will be given in future numbers of this paper.

Designs for Cheap Cottages.

We show this month four designs, with accompanying floor plans, of cheap cottages.

These designs will be found to meet the wants of that large class of persons who desire a house of their own, yet whose income will admit of no more than a modest outlay. That there is a large and increasing demand for such houses is plainly evidenced by the correspondence received at our office.

The houses are exceedingly picturesque, and if carried out according to the drawings, which any builder can execute, will be found to make exceedingly attractive homes. The floors are well arranged, as will be seen by reference to the plans, all the rooms being of good size and convenient of access to each other.



The prices given are inclusive of everything. Without foundation, each house can be built for about $200 less. The estimates are based on the figures of a reliable builder. In some localities, where the conditions are more favorable than here, they can, of course, be built for less, while in other places the cost may exceed the figures given.

Personal

Architect Gordon, of the firm of Gordon & Helliwell, Toronto, is at present in Europe.

Architect Symons, of this city, has recently recovered from a severe attack of diphtheria.

Messrs. Gerrie & Sterling, contractors, of Rat Portage, Ont., have dissolved partnership.

Mr. John Atkinson, a well-know builder, who resided in this city for more than forty years, died on the 8th. Inst.

We regret to record the failure of Mr. W. H. Boulter, Builder, of this city. His liabilities are estimated at about $25,000.

Mr. Edward Martin, builder, of this city, was recently presented with a handsome gold watch by his employees as a mark of their esteem.

The sad intelligence comes from Ottawa that Mr. John Baptiste Gouvreau, Inspector of Government Buildings, dropped dead on the street in that city, on the 4th. Inst. His death is attributed to heart disease.

A pleasant evening was spent by the members of the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners, at their annual dinner at the Albion hotel, in this city, last month. President James Rose presided over the festivities.

D.L. Symons, of the firm of Strickland & Symons, Toronto, has been appointed teacher of architectural designs and construction in the Toronto School of Art.

Mrs. Geo. Watson, of Norfolk County, is the first female contractor we have heard of in Canada. She is said to have built the Universalist Church at Nixon, Ont.

Mr. E. M. Ross, foreman for the J. T. Pease Furnace Co., this city, was recently presented with a complimentary address and a gold headed cane by his fellow-employees.

Mr. Andrew Onderdonk, well-known as the contractor of some of the largest public works in Canada, is building the six mile tunnel through which the city of Chicago will be supplied with water. The undertaking will take four years to complete.

Thomas V. Walter, widely known as the architect of the Capitol at Washington, died at Philadelphia recently. Dr. Walter was one of the most gifted architects produced by the United States, and has left many monuments of his genius, the most magnificent being the capitol.

