<doctype type="text">	-	THE	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	_

 MANUFACTURING

MATERIALS 



 

<article title="A Dead Black Paint" author="">

A DEAD BLACK PAINT.



PROBABLY many of our readers, especially those who are the possessors of optical instruments, have, at some time or otber, been in need of a "dead black" paint or varnish for brass work, such as tubes diaphragms, etc. We have often been in the same boat, and all the formulae and recipes given in the books were unsatisfactory because of their vagueness. The following can be relied upon to give a first-rate dead black, and it is easily made: Take two grains of lamp-black, put it into any smooth, shallow dish, such as a saucer or small butter plate, add a little gold size, and thoroughly mix the two together. Just enough gold size should be used to hold the lampblack together—about three drops of such size as may be had by dipping the point of a lead pencil about half an inch into the gold size will be found right for the above quantity of lampblack it should be added a drop ala time, however. After the lampblack and size are thoroughly mixed and worked, add 24 drops of turpentine, arid again mix and work.



<article title=" WARPING OF WOOD " author="">

WARPING OF WOOD.

that the wood on the north side of a tree It is said

not warp as much as that from the south side

and that it trees are sawn in planes that run .east and west, as the trees stood, it will warp less than if cut in the opposite direction. However this may be, it is certain that tbe tendency to warp when sawed into boards is much greater in green than in dry wood, and that the convex side of the curve is always toward the heart. This warping, due to unequal shrinkage, and to the. more open texture of the external portion of the tree, is not found to occur in the middle plank or board ot the log, excepting as it may breadth. -This quality of not warping, which is in many cases absolutely indispensable for certain uses, as, for example, in the sounding boards of pianos, is secured in the case of spruce timber by first quartering the logs.

and then sawing them with the angle downward. It is then sawed into boards very nearly at right angles with the line of annual growth, and a small triangular strip must be taken off to make the board square edged, but qualities of stability and strength are secured that could not otherwise be had.



<article title=" HOW MIRRORS ARE MADE " author="">

HOW MIRRORS ARE MADE.

O

NE of the factories in Chicago employs 150 men and boys, and its spacious four floors present an interesting series of sights to visitors whose nerves ·are steel and tympani proof against splitting. On the first floor he will see huge stacks and piles of glass in assorted sizes ranging from sixteen feet by seven feet square down to the smallest ovals for mirrors. These are all polished, some being run over by huge felt covered wheels kept powdered with rouge, and the larger sheets scrubbed by sweating toilers with hand blocks covered with felt like the printer's proof planer in rouge. After the glass is thoroughly polished it is taken up to. the next floor, where it is laid on tables and cut into the sizes ordered. It then passes into the hands of the bevellers, who, with sand and water and large grindstones, artistically finish the edges of the glass. It takes a trip upward again, to another floor, and is once more put through a polishing process, to remove any scratches or blemishes that may be on the glass. After every spot or scratch, no matter how minute, has been removed; careful hands convey the now beautiful and sparkling glass to the room where it goes through the final process, the silvering. - Huge tables of cast iron or stone- made like billiard tables, with raised edges, are used in the silvering room. These tables are of great strength and solidity, and all round the edge is a drain, for the superfi ous mercury is poured over the tables in quantities sufficient to float the glass, which, after being tinfoiled, is gently and carefully pushed across the table containing the mercury. Great care must be used to prevent blemishes, the least speck of dust being ruinous to the mirror. Mercury. like molten lead, is always covered with a dirty-looking scum which cannot be removed by



mirror, sothe difficulty is obviated by shoving the scum along the edge of the glass. After successfully floating the glass on the mercury, a_woolen cloth is spread over the whole surface and square iron weights are applied

until the whole presents a compact mass of iron, two or three pounds to the square inch. After this pressure has been confined ten or twelve hours the weights

removed and the glass placed upon another table with slightly inclined top. The inclination is gradually increased until the unamalgamated quicksilver is drained away and only the peffectly amalgamated remains, coating the glass and perfectly adherent This ends the process, and the erstwhile rough piece of glass emerges from the silvering room-a gorgeous mirror.



<article title=" TERRA COTTA AS A BUILDING MATERIAL " author="">

TERRA COTTA AS A BUILDING MATERIAL.



T HE recent introduction into Canada of terracotta for building purposes, suggests a few remarks on the manner of its use. and

its value for the purposes it is designed to serve. As a building material terra cotta Is chiefly intended for decorative and protective purposes. It takes the place of expensive stone carving for exterio.

- and interior decoration. As a fire-proof material, it ranks among the very best. Blocks or tiles of terra cotta may be used to advantage for roofs and walls of buildings inclosing a constructive frame-work of columns, posts lintels, beams, girders, rafters, etc., on which the support of the building depends. Mr. S. E. Lording writing on this subject in building, says. "All the iron-work is incased in porous terra-cotta, tile, or brick-work. Slate, tile, and furring strips are nailed or screwed to this porous tile sheathing.

"The hollow or porous tiles or bricks forming roof and wall are faced with vitreous tile, slate; or other water and weather proof coatings, or with asingh thickness of brick or tile. The interior faces of these porous terra-cotta tiles may be plain or paneled. and glazed, or finished with plaster, paint, etc. Any desired wall finish can be applied to this ground. The porous tiles forming the sheathing in roof and floor or wall arc made spongeous, or like a pumice-stone body, by thoroughly and evenly mixing equal or various proportions of sawdust or other combustible or vegetable  matter with pure clay. When carefully burned, to avoid sudden shrinkage or melting together of the particles of clay, the spaces left by the burning of the combustible materials form an open, spongeous body that increases the value of the burned clay-work as a non-conductor, decreases its weight and its liability to crack when heated and cooled suddenly, and will allow screws or nails LO be driven into this porous clay-work and securely fasten to this sheathing or groundwork the tiles, slates, interior furrings. flooring, etc., required in finishing and decorating the exterior and interior walls and floors. The use of iron or steel secures a light, strong construction, and when incased in porous terra- cotta or concrete, the combination forms a complete wall protection against any fire that would destroy this supporting frame-work.

"Above this fire-proof-web or veil or wall, the furring strips or scantling of any required size may be placed, leaving the required spaces for water, gas, and heating pipes, etc., and supporting the wood or tile flooring or wall finish. This principle of construction

applies to all stories. We started with the roof merely to show its special value there, the other floors that may be added only requiring the additional strengthening of the supporting columns as each story is added.

"Blocks or tiles, if of porous terra-cotta, also form the interior groundwork to receive both exterior and interior finish, making altogether a light, strong, fire-proof building. These walls. if supported in each story by this constructive frame, can be made much lighter. The whole structure will be as safe as a fire-proof construction; as. if heavier walls were built from the foundation extending through several stories, and heavy enough to support themselves, while thcy protect the constructive steel or iron framework which supports the floors and roofs of thc building. With such a construction brick or stone work should not be used above the ground or foundations to support floors and roofs.

The highest uscs of clay and stone are to protect and to decorate. and when applied to these purposes, then massive or heavy walls of stone or brick will not or need not be built. Light walls of porous or hollow material. incasing and protecting a metallic or wood frame-work, will he used. These light walls, as stated above, may be as useful and still lighter, if they also rest upon and are supported by this iron or steel frame-work.

In the construction of ordinary dwelling houscs for outside walls and inside finish it costs no morc than for lumber but giving the additional advantages of a warm dry vermin proof building, impervious to sound. cool in summer,. and at but small additional expense can be made absolutely safe from fire. '1 he porous terracotta costs less for fire-proofing purposes than common brick. and architects' plans need but little if any changing either in details ot construction or cost for application of this ware. Its cheapness

-	and cost of application should warrant its use in hotels, places of amusement, public buildings warehouses and first-class dwellings. Its manufacture was first commenced in Canada by thc Rathbun Company at Deseronto, Ont. Other companies have also been formed for manufacturing this line ot material, and no doubt we shall see it coming into general use resulting in lowcr insurance rates and greater comfort and security to our people in construccion methods in thc direction indicated above,





·	It is estimated that over $100,00 worth of granite was shipped

from New Brunswick to Ontario purchasers last year.

An incendiary attempted to set fire to Esplin s sash and door factory. in Montreal. recently, but fortunately his plans miscarried.



There is reason tor the belief that in the near future, glass and paper will take the place of many building materials of the present day.

Messrs. Snider & Steckle, of Plattsville, Ont., have placed a new engine in their brick and tile yard in anticipation of a large trade ncxt season.

From the village of Rockwood, Ont., large quantities	of building stone are shipped to Toronto, Brantford, Stratford, Berlin and other places.

A granite tile 8oo years old, taken frora the tomb or William the Conqueror at Caen; Normandy, was recently on exhibition in a show window at Detroit.

It is reported that there has beer1 discovered near Tilsonburg an immense bed of marble, side by side with the finest sandstone for building or paving purposes.

Mr. E. Buchanan, of the East Selkirk, Man., stone quarries, reports a poor demand during last season. he burned 25,000 bushels of lime which sold at 15 to 20 cents per bushel.

The Canadian Granite Company, or Ottawa, are preparing a tablet designed by Mr. Louis Fearer, and executed in gray granite, which is to be erected over the graves of Osgoode and Rogers, two sharpshooters who fell in. the Northwest rebellion.

There is a large supply of building stone, pronounced by architects to be of good quality, in the vicinity of Selkirk, Man. Specimens of it may be seen in the monument on the market square. in the past office, Winnipeg, and other important buildings.



Mr. B. V. Stafford, of Arnprior, lately finished a handsome altar and credence table for the Anglican church in Torbolton. They are built of walnut and red oak. He has also manufactured a sec of three chairs in walnut and fine hair plush for the pulpit of Sc.  Andrew's church. Arnprior.

Tbe manufactory of the Asphalt Paving Co., at Ottawa, was totally destroyed by fire on the morning of the 1st. of December last. The contents of the building were also burned. The company gave employment to fifty hands. The loss amounts to about $10,000; with insurance of only $4.500.

Persons who may not know the nature and color of black birch after dressing and polishing may be interested in knowing that the grain of the wood is very color mottled and slightly darker than satin wood. Black birch makes beautiful furniture. and the on!y complaint made against it ror house trimmings is the care and extra time required in nailing the boards to prevent splitting.

A NEW BUILDING MATERIAL.—A new building material called stone brick, harder than the hardest clay brick, is made from simple mortar, but a scientifically made and perfect mortar; in fact, a hydraulic cement and the grinding together of lime and sand in a dry state—including also some alumnia, which is usually present in sand—and the subsequent heating by steam, give the mixture the properties of the burned hydraulic cements at present in use.

The Montreal branch of the Incernational Terra Cotta Company. is now in active operation. The company manufactures porous earthenware, terra cotta lumber, brickwood, cellula pottery, etc., and their goods bid fair to enter largely into the buildings of the future. - They show samples of Hocks for exterior walls, covered with a perfect water proofing which closes the pores of the material, and prepares it for receiving coatings of paint in any ornamental style to suit. These blocks are as smooth as the pressed brick that go into the construction of buildings, and when laid in walls have the appearance of dimension stone.