<doctype type="text;ad">sewer pipe equal to this special sample he ventured to say no imported pipe would be sold in this country, The Canadian manufacturers were quite competent to turn out such a grade of pipe. if they would use 'the proper materials and exercise greater care in manufacturing.



-	Mr. John Maloney another large dealer, said: I quite agree with the statements contained in. the article in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER. We either want a- new sewer pipe factory that u-ill make pipe equal to that imported. or the present factories to bring the quality of their output up to the American standard. The architects refuse to specify Canadian pipe. Although I sell from 75 to So per cent. of Hamilton pipe, I must say! think your article fair              



Opinions similar to the above have been given by other dealers, which simply goes to prove that, aside from the correctness of the opinions expressed. Mr. Carroll. in making the statements he did,— was expressing his honest convictions. which it is now evident he would not have done if he had known his statements would be given to the public As Mr. Carroll is attempting to shirk the responsibility for has statements and furthermore charged the editor of this journal in the presence Mr. Trotter, with tittering untruth with intent we have taken the trouble in the annexed affi davit, to affirm under oath that the statements contained in our article are substantially in accord with the information supplied to us by Mr. Robert Carroll



Charles Herbert Mortimer, of the City of Toronto, in the of York Editor and Publisher do solemnly declare that

the article in the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER for October, headed Proposed New Sewer Pipe Manufactory in

Canada," was written from information supplied to me by Mr. Robert Carroll. of the City of Toronto, and the matter contained in said article is substantially in accord with the information given

by the said Robert Carroll.

And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing

the same to be true and by virtue of. the.  Act respecting extra-judicial oaths."

Declared before me at the City of

Toronto, in the County of York,	C. H. Mortimer this sixteenth day of November, A.D., 1888

—-	William DAVID MCPHERSON,  A Notary Public for Ontario.

This is our case. We leave the public to judge ot its merits.

<article title=" PLASTER " author="">



PLASTER

 FEW people have an		, says the California Architect what

- a valuable material plaster of paris is, and how it enters into the things of every day life about us, from the hard finish on the

wall to the lamp collar which is fastened with it. - - 

It is found in raw state in almost every land; and is made of gypsum rock, (a sulphate of lime.) it is quarried, calcined, ground 10 various degrees of fineness and then encalcined or boiled in huge cauldrons, and is then fit for use. The best is made mostly in New York from rock quarried in Nova Scotia and is the kind used by dentists for all sorts of fine castings. We get another on

·account of a blue cast in it. This kind is used mostly for hard finishing on walls. Another grade, coarser plaster, comes from Iowa which bat been used extensively for what it called '·stucco plastering," in which a mortar is made of one part of plaster to two of-sand and enough glue size to keep it from settling tooq quick It makes one of the hardest kind of walls, but can be attempted only by the most skilled mechanic

Plaster in setting can be retarded or accelerated hy the use of various ingredients Glue size is best for retarding as it makes it materially harder after it is dry, Sugar, molasses and cream of tartar can be used for the same purpose. Cream of tartar is dangerous to use, as a little too much will kill the plaster from

settling entirely. Two of the best things to use in making plaster set quick are common salt or alum. Plaster that has been kept a long time and has gathered moisture, or that has been set in a damp place, will also set quick. This can be remedied by removing all lumps that may have formed, and heating it on a stove in some metal vessel. When heated it will appear to boil like a liquid. Ground uncalcined plaster is used extensively to improve what are called sour lands, Plaster in setting heats slightly which causes it to expand. An eminent authority claims that

-this expansion will cause it to fill the crevices-of, mold.— But this is a mistake as the expansion does not take place until it is

quite hard.





A good quality of slate blue-black in color, smooth surface and good grain suitable for roofing slate, mantels, etc. is reported to have been discovered near the C. P. R. - track, east of Golden, in the Northwest. 

The Kingston News says the new terra cotta works -being built at Deseronto by Rathbun Company will be the largest in Canada. The main building is 2 feet in length and 77 feet wide. The south-east extension is 180 x 20 feet, with three stories, and is chiefly used for drying purposes. The south wing is 170 x 69 feet, three stories high Part of its ground floor is fitted up with hot-air tunnels for drying red brick' the other floors are used for drying terra cotta ware, In the south wing the different floors give an area- of 38, 760 feet -for- drying' purposes; and this, added to the 21,600 feet in the maid building, gives a total area for drying purposes of 60060 feet. A large trestle -runs through the "entire length of the main building, on which run the railway cars carrying the clay and fuel for the works. The new burning kiln has been finished and will contain about 80,000 bricks: A track runs

south-of the large burning kiln-for-convenience in loading cars shipment of material.



Sanitas Manufacturing Company

Ottawa, Ontario



George H. Mills

Coal and Iron Scotch drain pipes

Ottaw, Ontario



The Bell Art Stained Glass works

Toronto, Ontario



A.	J. Pigeon

Fire and water-proofing elastic for plastering houses

Montreal



Peter Lyall, builder

Montreal



Aikenhead and Crombie Builders' hardware

Toronto, Ontario



Toronto Engraving Company, limited

Photo-engraving

Toronto