<doctype type="text">



space and platforms as at present. In other respects the building will differ materially from the present one; one new feature being the erection of a bowling alley in connection with the rink. The Same ice space will be maintained, that is, 176x72 feet. Provision has been made for dressing rooms, secretary's office, caretaker's apartments, accommodation being also secured for the various snow shoe clubs, including a large supper room, with windows overlooking the ice. The contract has been let to Mr. George Boiteau for about $11,000. The work is in charge of Mr. H. Staveley; architect.

Mr.— VaIliere, furniture- manufacturer is having a handsome stone dwelling erected on St. Augustin street, for occupation next May. Mr. Edward Cote is the contractor; Mr. J. F. Peachy,

architect

The St. Patrick's Literary Institute, whose hall on St. Anne

—street-was almost entirely destroyed by fire last February, have entered into a con tract with Charles A. O'Leary to rebuild it at a cost of about $6,000. The hall will have a seating capacity of about Boo. It will be furnished in an inexpensive manner, but will form a neat, cosy room for lectures, society meetings, etc. Mr. H. Staveley, architect.

<article title="Correspondence - OTTAWA " author="">

OTTAWA 



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



A clear open winter up to the present time has been a blessing

—to the builders of this city. As there has been no snow yet, contractors have been enabled to continue outside operations. and a few weeks more of the present weather will see buildings now under way properly enclosed for the winter._ ___

-	The building by-law referred to in my last, has been before the city council, and as only ten clauses have been disposed of, it will take several meetings to complete it. The general impression is, that if not knocked in the head altogether, it will be considerably modified, as the majority of the aldermen consider the by-law in its present form too stringent for the city at the present time,

and that it would materially interfere with building operations. Until the by-law is adopted and an inspector appointed, it will be impossible to keep a correct record of building operations.

A -preliminary meeting was held on Saturday,. the 1st inst., at. the office of Mr. G. F. Stalker, of those interested in the formation of an Architectural Association for Ottawa. The matter bad .been talked of for some time, and the necessity for the existence of such a society was generally recognized. At the meeting on Saturday, a general discussion took place on the situation, which had the effect of clearing the ground, and a few resolutions were adopted upon which it was hoped. an Architectural Institute for Ottawa would be established. An adjourned meeting was-called for Wednesday afternoon, the 5th inst., at W. Arnoldi's office. which was well attended.' The resolutions adopted at the preliminary meeting were sustained and' signed by all present. An Architectural Institute for Ottawa was formed, and a committee appointed to draw up by-laws, and submit' the same at a future

—-meeting--of the Institute. The officers of the Institute will then he appointed, and the by-laws finally considered and adopted, with such changes as may be In "such changes as may be found necessary. in tne meantime, Mr. G. F. Stalker has been appointed Secretary pro tern. It is to be hoped that the architects of other cities will follow this example, and before many months a convention of Ontario architects will be called with the object of forming an Ontario Association. Judging from the great benefits derived by the members of the American Association. I would imagine that the Ontario architects would be unanimous on this point. 

The many friends of Chief Government Architect Fuller will be pleased to bear that he is improving rapidly, but will not be able to assume his duties for several weeks. 

——-Very little building operations are spoken of for next- year. It is supposed they will fall far short of this year, as this has been an exceptional season.



for 1888. —Architect F. J. Alexander reports: Union Bank building, cost $20000 6 residences, total cost $27,800; school house in Stewarttown, cost $1,000; school house in Hintonburgh,

	cost	  Architect G. F. Stalker reports: 3 brick stores, cost

	$14,000;	residences, total cost $11,500: organ gallery, Dominion

Methodist Church, $1,000. Architect James R. Bowes reports:

4 separate schools, total cost. $24,100; central police station, cost

$14,000; Congregational Church, cost $10,500; tenements, total cost, $13,500 ; 2 brick residences, total cost, $7,700; addition to Harns & Cambell's factory, cost $5,000 9 brick cottages, cost $26,000; interior improvements to St. Patrick's Church cost

$3,500; Rideau skating and curling rink, cost $10,600; St. Bridget's Church, $75,000; R. C. Church, Jateville, cost $3,000; Church at Vinton, $14,000. Architect James Mather reports: Y.

M.	C. A. building, cost $18,000; British American Bank Note building, cost $30,000; Presbyterian Church, cost $6,000; 2 brick residences, total cost, $15,000; 5 stores, Cost $8,000. General—

- 9 private residences, total cost, $45,600; stores, total cost $29,000: Orange Hall, cost $7,000; Government Printing Bureau, cost $100,000: tenements, $14,600; German Lutheran Church, cost $12,000.



It would be safe to estimate the value of other buildings not included in the above at $50,000. Not a bad showing for Ottawa for 1888.

The Government has expended a large amount of money paving Wellington St. in front of the Parliament Buildings, and a great  deal of work bas been done on the new Departmental Building. The building has been roofed the past season, and the interior work is now being done. When completed it will cost $750,000, and s considered to be the most prepossessing and substantial

- building in the Dominion, and a lasting monument to Chief Architect Fuller.	______	     ___

			a copy of The

contractor should have

Canadian contractor's Hand-Book," to be published shortly. Send $2 for the book and the "

Canadian Architect and Builder" for a year. 

   <article title="Correspondence - BROCKVILLE " author="Allan, George G.">  

BROCKVILLE 



BROCKVILLE, NOV. 21st, 1888.

EDITOR CANADIAN A ARCHITECT AND BUILDER	 DEAR SIR,—I have been in receipt of the last five numbers of

your publication, and must say that I am well pleased with same. and trust that you will receive the hearty support of every architect and person interested in building in Canada. so that you may be enabled to steadily improve the standing of your journal, that it may stand at the head of all such publications in the near future. I see in the-columns of your last issue, several references made by your contributors to the importance of forming an Architectural Association in Canada, and regret should take the lead in all such matters, do not make some decisive move in that direction and form an Association at once, so that they may be able to hold several meetings during the winter months, and have the Association placed-on a firm footing. Building operations have not been very brisk this season, though several important buildings are now in the course of erection, from which I select the following as being she most important: Addition to the sand Grenville County Court House, Crain & Mix, contractors, probable cost $22,000, Geo-. A. Allan, architect. Fulford building, a large four story building divided into stores and offices and containing the store and work rooms of Messrs. Fulford & Co., constructed of lime-stone with brown Credit, Valley free-stone dressings. This building is being erected by day work under the able supervision of John Mix ;probable cost $18,500: Geo. A. Allan, architect. - Brockville High School, a two story building constructed of lime stone with Scotch sand stone dressing, heated and ventilated by Messrs. Smead & Dowd's system, Messrs. Logan, Price & Hagerty contractors, probable cost $16,000 :John McMullen, building superintendent. Galena building, a three story brickbuilding containing stores, billiard saloon and dwellings. probable cost $6,500; 0. ,E. Liston, architect. Masonic Hall, owned by Thomas Tompkins, a large three story building containing stores, offices and Masonic lodge rooms, constructed of brown Credit Valley free stone and-Scotch sand stone, is being- built b-y the day under Win. Tompkins, foreman, probable cost $18,000; Geo. A. Allan, architect. General Hospital, a two story brick building, heated and ventilated by tbe Smead & Dowd system; John D. Warwick. contractor, probable cost $8,200: Geo. A. Allan, architect. We are also having constructed-a complete separate sewer system under the able supervision of Willis Chipman, C; E. which, when completed, will be one of the best, if not the best, of its kind in Canada. Mr. Chipman attends to and strictly enforces the rules and regulations which govern plumbing in Brockville, and which places all plumbing done in this town at

the head, as regards safety and durability. I enclose $2, my subscription to the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 1889. Trusting that you may have every success in your undertaking, I remain,

—	Yours truly:

GEO. A. ALLAN.



<article title=" CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS

BALLOT LIST.

" author="">

CANADIAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS

BALLOT LIST.

T

HE Nominating Committee having recommended the following list of officers and members of Council for the year 1889,

the Council now submits the same to ballot :—For President, C.

S.	Gzowski, Toronto. For Vice- Presidents, E. P. Hannaford,

Montreal; H. F. Perley, Ottawa; P. S. Peterson, Montreal.

For Treasurer, H. Wallis, Montreal. For Secretary, H. T.

Bovey, Montreal. For Librarian; F. Chadwick, Montreal. For'

Members of Council, G. F. Baillarge, Ottawa, O. T. D. Barnett,

Stratford, O. St. G. Boswell, Quebec, Q. T. R. F. Brown,

Montreal, Q.;	Cunningham, Sherbrooke, Q. E. Gilpin,

Jr., Bedford, U.S.; F. U. Gisborne, Ottawa, 0.: W. J. Jennings,

Toronto, 0.; G. A. Keefer, Vancouver, B.C.; J. Kennedy, Montreal, Q.; B.D. McConnell, Montreal, Q; M. Murphy, Halifax, N. S. J. E. Vanier, Montreal, Q. E. Wragge, Toronto, 0.

We regret to learn that certain of the members have issued, in opposition to the "house list," an anonymous list, and seemingly in misunderstanding of the first mentioned list, which provides for the insertion of other names where the voter desires. Mr. Allan Macdougall, who is nominated on the anonymous list, has declared his intention of supporting the house-list, and has made the request to the members that they neither vote for him nor do anything to destroy the existing harmony the Society enjoys.

<article title="Correspondence" author="C.N. Vroom & Co.">

St. STEPHEN N. B., Nov. 23. 1888.

1ditor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER

DEAR SIR,-We have been interested in the articles in your last two issues regarding Canadian and imported sewer pipe. We have no quarrel with the statement -made by you in the October number of you paper, as it evidently referred 'only to vitrified pipe, but would like to call your attention to the fact that we manufacture here a sewer' pipe which is second to no pipe either Canadian or imported in point of durability, and in some other respects is much superior. Our pipe is not an ordinary cement pipe, but goes through a process of carbonizing which greatly increases its strength and hardness, and makes it nearly like a piece of natural stone. Ours is the only factory of the kind in Canada, and only the second season for u

	this is o	us; but our pipe

is getting now well into the market and making away for itself. In this town and some nighboring towns, it is exclusively used for both public and private sewers, and it is no mere experiment, as the same article has been used in some parts of the United States for many years, and in some of the large Western cities has

	entirely supplanted	"1~Respectfully yours,



C.	N. VROOM & CO.



A French exchange gives us a new plan for deadening floors without loading the planks. Fill the empty parts between the joiner works with liquid time thickened with chloride of zinc. This will prevent noise, fire vermin, and the house will be rendered healthy. Workmen using this preparation wear



completed. 



	A Architects, Engineers, Builders, Owners and others are invited	to send

particulars of all kinds of construction work in contemplation for publica- cation in this department. P/case state location, c character and cost.

	names of person or persons controlling the	work.



LONDON, ONT.—A $1,000 extension the hospital will be built this fall.

STRATHROY, ONT.—The e for a new post office has been selected. -

BRANTFORD, ,— e Public coo oar has decided 0-

erect two new school buildings.	-



WINNIPEG, MAN.-A handsome market will probably be erected

here, costing between $30,000 and $40,000.	-



NORWOOD, ONT.—A new church to cost between $15,000 and $20,000 is to be erected here by the Methodists.

BELLEVILLE, ONT.—The Bay Bridge Company is being organized and tenders will soon be asked for the construction of the

bridge.	--	—-



 GUELPH, ONT.-A vote will be taken on the 7th of Ian. on a

by-law to grant $15,000, for the extension of the_ water-works system.

OTTAWA, Ont.—The Marine Department asks tenders for the erection of a lighthouse and buildings at Gargantua harbor, north shore of Lake Superior,

CALGARY. N. W. T.—Mr. T. C. Keefer, C. E., Ottawa, is preparing plans for a water works system for this place. It is proposed to adopt the Holly direct pressure system. Work will begin early in the spring. 

VANCOUVER, B. C.—It is understood that the sum of $50,000 has been Set aside by the directors of the Bank of Montreal for the erection of a handsome building in this city. A site for a new Anglican Church has been selected.

TORONTO, ONT. -It has been decided to expend $90,000 in extending the city water-works system. —Tenders are asked until the 21st inst.. for the construction of two bridges to cross Dundas street. Particulars from AId. Carlyle Chairman Works Committee.—The Ontario Government are said to have rejected all tenders for the Upper Canada College new buildings, the lowest being. about $80,000 above the appropriation, and that new tenders will shortly be called, 

<article title=" BUILDING REVIEW, 1888." author="">



BUILDING REVIEW, 1888.

GALT, ONT. —$172,866 worth of new buildings have been put up this year.

COMBER, ONT.—Building improvements to the amount of.

$25,000 is claimed.'

·	BLENHEIM, ONT.—Nearly $40,000 were expended in new buildings during last season.

PERTH, ONT.—Building operations during the season just closing amounted to $90,000.

BRANDON, MAN. -$150,000 have been expended in building operations during the past year.

BERLIN, ONT,—$272,825 have been spent during the past season upon 157 new buildings and additions. _____ ELMIRA, ONT. - This village has enjoyed quite boom during the past season. $21,850 have been spent in building improvements.





SMITH'S FALLS, ONT.—There has been quite a building boom this year. $165,000 have been spent in building and improvements.

WOODSTOCK, ONT.—During the past year 128 houses were erected and a quarter of million of dollars spent in building operations. Two-thirds of a mile of flagstone pavement has also been laid.

CARLETON PLACE, ONT.— Building operations during the past season were very brisk. Over $175,000 were spent in the erection of new buildings and improvements to old ones. In all, eighty buildings were put up. 

-	WINDSOR, Ont.—During the past twelve months, buildings have been erected or are in course of erection to the cost of $280,275. The town Council has expended in sewer and other public works 476,500, making a total of $350,075.

MONCTON, N. B.—Over 75 new buildings have been 'erected here during the past season, at a cost of $87,000. There were also some 20 or 25 erections in additions to buildings costing about $15,000, making a total amount of $100,000..

WHITBY, ONT.—This has been the liveliest season for some years in the building trade here. Building and rebuilding to the amount of $75,000 is either finished or under way, and the prospects are fair for a continuance next year of the present activity.

PETERBORO', ONT.—Building operations this year amount to over $270,000, and in the village of Ashburnham, about making a total for both places of over $315,000, an increase of $100,000 over 1887. The list includes blocks of stores, the Salvation Army temple two hotels, a woollen factory, and a large number of residences.  In addition to these, there is the Nicholls Hospital, in course of erection, the cost of which will be $25,000. TORONTO, ONT.- The cost o( new buildings erected in Toronto  in round numbers about $2,000. coo, nearly half ($928,000) this sum was spent in the erection of dwellings; stores, $330,000; churches, $220,000; warehouses, $104,000; Gas Company's buildings, $60,090: 'hotels and clubs, $68,000; city buildings, $161,000; schools, S20,000  elevators,

	000  stables, etc.	000  charitable institutions $36,000;



rinks, $38,000; factories and shops, $42,000.





