<doctype type="text">November, 1888                 7

of Ontario to form an architects association. I trust the architects

of the Western cities will express their views through your columns, and- that an effort will be made the coming winter to form an association. I would suggest that the architects of Toronto make the first move in the matter, and call a meeting for that purpose. The architects here are very much in favor of it.

I was much pleased with the illustration in your last issue of the Toronto City Hall and Court House. Such illustrations cannot but make your paper very interesting.

I am sure the architects throughout the Dominion will learn  with pleasure that chief government architect Fuller, who was stricken with typhoid fever some weeks ago,. and whose life was despaired of,- is in a fair way to recovery, and will be again attending to his duties by the new year. ___

It is impossible yet to say what the building outlook for next year will be. but it is thought it will not reach this year.

The contract has just been let for a new Roman Catholic church to cost $6,000 An architect from the Province of Quebec prepared the plans.

The contract for a skating and curling rink has just been awarded, the price being $12,000.

ments at that time._ After they had been prepared, however, the Council made no use of them, and until the present year, nothing

-further appears to have been done in the matter. At the present time, the Council has under consideration the draft of a proposed plumbing by law and those who are interested in seeing the sanitary condition of the city improved, hope that soon a law will be placed on the municipal statute book that shall decide the competency of persons who desire to do plumbing work, the method of doing it, and the 

The contracts for the new addition to the Windsor Hotel have  been awarded as follows ; Stonework, St. Louis Bros. ; carpenter



glazing Cassels & Son plastering. Win. Cook; roofing, G. W Reed

 plumbing Garth & Co.  The building which to be constructed of lime stone with Ohio sand stone dressings, will have a frontage of 8o ft. 6 inches on Peel street, by 248 feet on Cyprus street Messrs. J. W. & E. C. Hopkins, of this city, are the architects.

Construction has been suspended on the new Protestant Insane Asylum, owing to an injunction, granted to Mr. John Crawford, who claims that the institution would depreciate the value of property in the locality.

into an association, which should embrace only men who are known to have a proper knowledge of their profession obtained in the proper way. By this means those who with scarcely any knowledge of architecture have set themselves up to be architects, and are defacing the appearance of our streets with masses of ugliness, would occupy their true position outside the ranks of a profession which, under present circumstances, they bring into ill-repute.



 It has been decided to substitute copper for Muntz metal, for

- roofing the new city hall at Hamilton, Ont.

Messrs. Tambling & Jones, of London, have been awarded the contract for the new post office at Goderich the figure being

$13,000.



The contract for the new $17,000 post office at Brampton Ont., has been awarded to Mr. J. Perry, and Messrs. Mason & McCulloch  of that place.

Mr. J. W. Hughes, of Montreal, writes as follows to the editor of the Engineering and Building Record :-- " A friend of mine having trouble with a hot-air furnace, that was right according to all rules of trade and practice, and fully large enough for its work, tried the experiment of raising the inlet-pipe for the cold air some



++++++++++++++



Hall Interior

House of Frank Shepard Esq. Chicago Knox & Elliot, Architects, Toronto

<article title="Montreal (Correspondence of the Canadian Architect and Builder)" author="">MONTREAL.

(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.)



 It is little wonder that Montreal is the scene of so much infectious  disease, when the character of the plumbing done in a

majority of the houses is considered. When I state that the number of competent plumbers in This city might almost be counted on one's fingers, and that there is no city ordinance for the regulation of plumbing, your readers will perhaps be able to picture to them selves what the sanitary condition of the city is like. The situation is briefly this: Any man who calls himself a plumber is allowed to do plumbing work, and may use such materials as he pleases:

The result is, that a large proportion of the so-called plumbers are graduates of the tin shops, and what little knowledge of plumbing they may have; has been "picked They put earthen pipe under the floors of the houses, and do a hundred other things that would not be tolerated for a single day in a city where regard is had for human life. The Plumbers' Association, which is composed of bona fide plumbers, appears to be fully alive to the sanitary requirements of the city, and is doing what it can to bring about a better state of things. Your correspondent was shown documents prepared ten years ago, containing provisions which it was thought the City Council should embody in a by-law for the regulation of plumbers.  These documents were prepared by leading plumbers at the request of the City Council. Many days were spent in considering their adaptability for the purpose, and there is every reason to believe that they would have been suited to the city's require.

The new St. James St. Methodist Church building is expected to be completed by Christmas. The wings and basement are already in use.

A handsome classic front is being erected for the Imperial Life Insurance building on St. James Street.

The Royal Insurance Co. are expending sixty or seventy thousand dollars in improvements to their building. Four new stories of stone are being added, and fitted with elevators, etc., for use as suites of offices. The District— Savings Bank building is being similarly treated, under the supervision of Mr. Raza, architect. -

I regret to hear it stated that the directors of the Young Mens Christian Association have decided to give the work of designing and erecting their new building into the hands of an American architect. I trust that the example of the Ontario Government and some of the business institutions of Toronto in handing over important buildings to outside architects , will not be followed here.

are standing in this city buildings which proclaim the ability of some of our local architects. Further than this, the money for the erection of this proposed new  Y.M.C.A.     building , was subscribed by the citizens of Montreal, local architects con-

- tributing their proportion. This being the case, it appears to me that the citizens have a right to expect that the money thus subscribed should find its way into the pockets of Montreal architects contractors and supply men,. 

One method of securing for themselves fair treatment, is for the architects of this city, like those of Toronto. to form themselves

two feet up from the bottom of the ash-pit, where the usual inlet

is. The result was a magical one; everything changed from almost a perfect failure to a-perfect success. The same experiment was tried a second time on another furnace with similar results, and naturally the conclusion was come to that the cold air should not enter quite at the bottom. I have a theory that to me seems quite satisfactory,, for accounting for the advantage claimed in changing the position of cold air inlet, but would like some of your correspondents to write something on the question. It may of course be common practice somewhere to bring the cold air in high up. In Canada the lower the better is the Rule." 



The new C. P. R. (C.P.R. Canadian Pacific Railway) passenger depot at Montreal will cost about

$2,000,000 and will be completed for trains to enter about 1st

December.- It will probably be the finest passenger station in

	America.	-

Messrs. Eby Bros., have purchased the foundry of Mr. C.E. Moyer , at Berlin, Ont. and- have commenced the manufacture of the- Boynton wood furnace, an illustration of which appears in -their advertisement in this journal. - -

The Montreal Bridge Co. , have received a contract from the-Public Works Department, Ottawa, to construct a stationary bridge-to replace the present suspension over the Chaudiere Falls . The bridge will be of but one span, 236 feet in length, 45 feet wide and

guaranteed to withstand a weight of over 200 tons. The price' of the contract will reach $30,000.

