<doctype type="text">necessary qualities to make more money than he requires for his subsistence. Ignorance, indifference, laziness, Thriftlessness and want of ordinary foresight, keep many poor, and always will do so. The time will never come when men will be made rich by legislative enactment, or any power outside of themselves. Personal effort and determination win success, not looking to others for assistance. The State has made, and is making, tremendous efforts to educate the masses, and if they do not receive the education which they profess to want so badly, they have no one to blame except themselves.less time to envying their more deserving and consequently more successful fellows, and give more attention to economic laws, they would, be in much better position to benefit themselves. At present they are ever prepared to cut their own throats by supporting wiley politicians, who flatter their vanities and call their ignorance wisdom, in preference to men who have their interest at heart, but will—not stoop to gain their favor by upholding them in their shortsighted  and fallacious vision. The poor suffer with the better off through bad legislation, obtained by all -the contemptible and cowardly means known to certain classes of our politicians.   The members of Anti-Poverty Societies, like others, will do all in their power to elect dishonest and corrupt men in preference to honest and noble men. Until the people understand the value and sacredness of a vote, very little can be expected of our legislators, except what will be for their own gain and that of their friends. The man who tells us of our faults is more our friend than he. who encourages us in them. If the voter would but vote for principle and honorable conduct, and not for the man who pats him on the back, and thinks him a fool, or for a party or society, things in this is world which are now all wrong would soon be' righted. All men, though born free and equal before the law, are not equal one to the other. Some have more brains, or strength, or industry, or energy, or perseverence, or ambition, or other qualities than others; and these men will and must move ahead of their less gifted- competitors. Each. must strive for the best position he can obtain, and not fall to envying his better educated competitor. . .SOME of the daily papers have been taking up the question of safe building. It has not been handled very thoroughly, but yet sufficient matter has been giventhe public for serious consideration. We have never been able to understand the apathy of the public to this question. Any man, no matter how ignorant, is allowed to construct on the very edge of our streets dangerous constructions, which may tumble at any moment and cause serious loss to life. That, more accidents have not occurred, is due to the tact that we have not yet been able to entirely free ourselves from the bond age of good example set us by our fathers. But this time of bondage is nearly over. Ignorance is running a race with conceit to see which can approach most nearly to the point of collapse. If they were capable of judging when they had nearly approached the limit, it would be well, but that is not to he expected, and some day the innocent will be made aware of the fact that some one has blundered. That we have not had many accidents from buildings falling does not prove, as some people would have us believe, that our buildings are strongly constructed. There is a factor of safety which varies for different materials and under different circumstances, which has been adopted by all intelligent and competent constructors. This factor of safety is seldom less than three, and sometimes it runs as high as ten. Under the above rule of factors of safety, if a building or other construction fails under normal conditions, it must be held to have been only one-third as strong as it should have been. It is not that the constructor has built nearly as strong as he should have built, but that he did not build quite one-third as strong. In columns, the factor of s safety is placed at ten when the column is thirty times its diameter in height. Therefore, a column 6 in. diameter and 15 feet high, should only be loaded with one ton though its breaking weight is ten tons. That such a column may carry six, eight, or even nine tons, without breaking, does not prove that it should be loaded withmore than one ton. Experience has shown the necessity of a high factor of safety to counterbalance any defects of casting in columns. There are many columns in this city of more than thirty diameters, carrying heavy fronts. That many have not broken under their loads, is something for which we should be thankful; but toon being thankful, and we not take any 'steps to 'prevent this trifling with human life, would deserve the mostThe most effectual method to stop this inferior construction, is to insist on those who have to do with. such matters receiving a thorough training and passing anexamination which will show whether they	are competent and deserving of public confidence. They should also be held fully accountable for all accidents' which may result from their carelessness or ignorance. Let it be distinctly understood that loss of life will bring punishment on those who are the indirect cause, be it through carelessness or ignorance, and fewer will be found to undertake work beyond their abilities.The proposal of the Minister of Education to establish a Chair of Architecture in the School of Practical Science. comes at the right time and we sincerely hope that it will at an early date become an accomplished fact.When the Government places the means of instruction within the reach of those requiring it, they should be forced to take advantage of the same by being denied the privilege of undertaking work for which they are not sufficiently trained. Want of knowledge of construction a sanitary engineering on the part of those who profess to have such knowledge, results most injuriously to the public. Accidents resulting in loss of life may occur through ignorance of the one, and sickness and death through want. of proper and sufficient  With an Architectural School to teach these and kindred branches, ignorance should not prevail. To give effect to the above, we would advocate that all who profess to have a knowledge of these branches and desire to practice them, should be trained in a somewhat similar manner to members of the medical profession. We do not know how this can best be accomplished, but we suppose that the first step should be made by incorporating an Architectural Association, with power to examine candidates who desire to practice as architects. We, be much pleased to receive the opinion of our readers on this most important	question.	____ ___<article title=" GAS MANAGERS' CONVENTION " author="">GAS MANAGERS' CONVENTIONThe editor of the Progressive Age, New York, who attended the Convention of managers of American and Canadian Gas Companies held' in this city last month, writes as follows: "The -city of Toronto is one of the most sightless we know of, but, on the. other hand, 'is one of the poorest lighted. Both electricity and gas are used, but of the former the lights are far apart on such few streets as they are employed, and very few are employed for indoor purposes. The gas service is so poor as to only make darkness more visible,' and this in face of the fact that the works are on a very large scale. The daily consumption is about 1,500,000 feet, but the demand is in excess of that. * * * The fact that the inspection of gas and meters is under government control in Canada was incidentally brought out during one of the sessions of the convention in Toronto. The' knowledge was apparently new to most of those present, but the general sentiment was that the idea was a good one. The country is divided into inspection districts, and an inspector, paid by the' general government, is located in the principal town in each district. He is provided with an elaborate apparatus for making accurate tests of the gas, and visits every gas works in his district at such times as he sees fit to make an inspection, and his coming is not announced before hand. In fact, he may visit a town, sample the gas on the quiet and depart, all unknown to the gas company. The law exacts that meters must be taken out every five years and' inspected, and, if found defective, new ones substituted. The act requires that the gas must not be less than 16 candle power, and imposes a fine for the existence of sulphuretted hydrogen.MONTREAL GARBAGE CREMATORIES.<article title=" MONTREAL GARBAGE CREMATORIES " author="">T H ESE crematories are worked under a patent owned by William Mann, of Montreal, and consist of two different plants. The one for garbage is situated in a thinly-settled part of the city and consists of a brick furnace, into which the garbage is received from an upper floor to grates within the furnace and the fire is allowed to pass over, evaporating the moisture which allows of the garbage itself igniting as soon as it becomes perfectly dry and the ashes resulting fall through the grate bars where they are removed to be used as filling. The chimney at the opposite end of the fire-box is about eighty feet high. no perceptible smell was present, and no complaint from the neighborhood had been received that he smoke caused any nuisance: The crematory for.. night soil 'consisted of two furnaces upon a single chimney, and was in the main similar to the one for garbage, except that no grate bars were placed within araised floor over which' the fire passed in the same manner as already described. 'The fuel used is the cheapest kind of soft coal and coal screenings and the amount needed about two tons per day. NOTES OF A TRIP TO THE WEST.<article title=" NOTES OF A TRIP TO THE WEST " author=""ABACUS"">BY "ABACUS"T	HEARD the praises of Chicago sung by my acquaintances until I gradually became impressed with the belief that it was not only a great commercial centre but also a centre for allthe arts. I was asked repeatedly if I had ever been in Chicago. and was obliged to confess that I had not, and that my travelling had almost all been done in the East and Southeast. . I would then be informed that I had much to see and learn, and that a portion of what I should see was the buildings of Chicago. They were all that the mind could conceive—they were large, high, grand, and in fact, magnificently complete in all things. I would ask if they were artistic, if the facades were well designed? And without a blush my informant would answer Yes! That the buildings of Chicago should fulfil practical requirements, I was fully convinced A commercial people invariably build what will suit their purposes, but nearly always without regard to the beautiful. ' But, so long as they give no attention to art in their building, there can be little 'of interest in their edifices to, an art-loving stranger. My impression had been that there was little or no love far art in Chicago. and I must admit that I was not very much shaken in that opinion at the time I decided to make a visit to the great distributing centre of the West. However, I expected to see much that would be of interest, understanding that the West had made great strides towards a proper appreciation of Art during the past few years.My companion and I arrived in the great city in the early morning some months ago, and after making provision for our physical wants, sallied forth to see the architecture of Chicago. We saw large buildings on all sides, but none to interest us until we came to the- Court House and City Buildings. These derived their interest not from their artistic merit, but as an example of what the masses even now consider magnificent architecture, and of what the architects of a few years ago were able to accomplish. We wandered about all morning through portions of the business centre, and in the afternoon we explored the South Side, without seeing anything meritorious until we came to the pavilion in Jefferson Park. This building is well arranged for its purposes, and its outlines are very satisfactory and pleasing from all points of view. It has a large amount of artistic feeling in its composition. and should be a very instructive art object lesson to the many visitors of the park. While we did not see much to admire, we saw much which was immensely amusing. Some attempts in the way of construction were simply wonderful, but by 'no means examples to be followed. A designer should not give himself a feat no matter how well it may he met: resultsin construction which, no matter how well it may be met, results in an absurdity, and a caricature of true constructive methods. Many of the attempts at construction in Chicago prove conclusively that there are many men, not altogether unknown, entrusted with work which they do not understand. There are few cities where so much clever and sound construction may be seen, but at the same time there have been many attempts at construction of a very unnecessary nature.We were in the city two or three days before we were successful in discovering any work which was artistically satisfactory. Much of it is well planned and fairly well designed, but there is very little which is interesting outside of the fact that all requirements have been met, with the exception of the aesthetic. A very large number of the most admired buildings of Chicago are planned badly, and enclosed by the most worthless and inartistic facades that it is possible-to- imagine.— it is not- the-ugliness of poverty, but an ugliness which results from Lack of artistic feeling and superfluity of wealth. If Less money had been expended, the ugliness would not have been nearly so vulgarly offensive. An article which I have read; on the business architecture of Chicago, characterized it as the best in the world, for it was so ugly and uninteresting that no one would look at it, and would thus be obliged to notice the goods displayed in the plate glass windows. This forcing of people to look at goods which very probably they do not want, may be business and while we admire the push and enterprise thus shown in the race after wealth, we' cannot help pitying a people whose only object in this world seems to be to live like the beasts of the field—only in the highest condition pertaining to beasts - not one thought of another existence, not one, desire for refinement in this life, living without culture, without happiness; for all the world as if they were but atoms in the world's existence, and that all is over when their places are taken by the next generation- It is right to admire' energy and push. but not where the higher objects of life are sacrificed to the lower.This everlasting worry and work has provided a few with means more than sufficient to gratify their wants, but left them deficient in culture and refinement. Having money. they proceed to build for themselves houses in which to live and entertain their friends, and, being in a hurry. the house must be built in less time than is necessary to its thorough and studied designing and complete construction. The architect is hurried, but no limit is placed on the expenditure. The result is a most inartistic and unstudied build trig, constructed of costly materials. Very often 'there is something about the general composition attractive and imposing, but the de tail is so crude and so lacking in refinement, that one turns away in disgust, and is inclined to execrate the proprietor for his unreasoning haste, and the designer for preparing the design without proper and sufficient study? Many' of the designers of these costly. houses could do better work than they have done, if they wouldand dollars will be required to give form to a design, one would think it was worth a little additional time to have the form artistic, If I were sufficiently wealthy to build one of Chicago s costly houses, I should much rather wait a year or two for my house, and have it one to be admired by the cultured and refined rather than