<doctype type="text">	November 1888	ARCHITECT AND BUILDER ___



by the masses, even though I should not be able to discern wherein the difference lay. Many times we were disappointed on seeing 5 building in the distance which composed well; but when examined closely  was lifeless and very often excessively vulgar. It would probably have some points which suggested a possibility of Art, but the detail would be bad—ostentation. vulgarity and crudeness being predominant.

There was but one house of all those on Michigan Avenue which satisfied our ideas of what a house should be. ft is situated on the east side of the Avenue. and is built_ of brown stone. We cannot speak of the house in detail, not having taken any notes, but we know that we were impressed with the refinement, the repose and the completeness of  plainly he designer was an artist. That there is on Michigan Avenue only one house which calls for high praise, does not speak well for the residents of the street, nor for the architects of their houses. There has been more than sufficient money expended to have built good artistic homes, out it was thrown away in supplying costly materials; to be worked into crude and unstudied designs. Here and there we discovered a good piece of detail, showing what might have been done if a reasonable amount of study had been devoted to the whole work

-or possibly it showed good cribbing powers. Strength, solidity, heaviness and barbarity, may impress the masses, but the cultured must have with the first two, refinement, dignity and repose. There are some houses on this Avenue which we should judge

were the productions  of disordered imaginations. They may please some in the present age, but we hope, few, and that as the  years pass by, the number will be considerably lessened.

On the corner of Prairie Avenue and 17th Street, 'has been erected the most artistic house which we have yet had the pleasure of seeing. This house was designed by Richard  son, and is all that the most fastidious could desire. It is dignified. quiet, unobtrusive, yet refined and homelike. While one looks at the house he feels that the occupants are cultivated and refined, and that he would like to know them. Unless the plan of this house was known to the beholder, he would be inclined to look upon it as retiring and gloomy in the extreme. The windows towards the street are few and small, which gives it somewhat the appear However, there is a large open sunlit court, into which all the

principal rooms open, and, as  there is no lack of glass surface, the house is exceedingly light, and cheerful while a the same time it affords a retired and cosy retreat from the hurry an confusion of the neighboring streets.

There is another house by Richardson , situated on t Lake Shore Drive, which we admired, but did not consider near so satisfactory as the house on Prairie Avenue. There may be other artistic houses in Chicago which we not see, but the number must he few indeed. We are not admirers of such mansions as Pullman's, and if their interiors are no more attractive than their exteriors, we do not envy their occupants.

The warehouse of Marshall, Field & Co., by Richardson, is a magnificent building; artistically expressing its purposes. It is simple to a degree, vet low, solid and artistic] There is not one feature about the whole building which does not speak of life and a purpose to fulfil. That one commercial building is artistically worth more to Chicago. than all its other buildings. It speaks of higher things than dollars and cents, and the sordid interest of a money hunting people.

We were all through the Rookery building, and were very much struck with its completeness and adaption to its purpose. It is well planned and thoroughly constructed. While the facades are striking and imposing, they cannot be said to be artistic. The ornament is rather indifferent, and much of it unmeaning. T

building is, however, a credit to the architect, and to the enterprise of the city. The Board of Trade building is one of the most inartistic of Chicago, which is saying much, when one

the pile of meaningless ugliness called the Pullman Building. The Art Building is very satisfactory except in some of the detail, and in the carving, which is in our opinion, devoid of artistic quality and character. We did not see anywhere in Chicago; carving that would call for special mention. It was invariably lifeless, and consequently lacking in interest.

The church architecture of Chicago is extremely bad. We did not see a single building that was worthy of the least attention. Some of the churches have redeeming points, hut there is so much that is bad even about the best of them, that one cannot speak even a single word in praise. The United States certainly holds the unenviable position of being almost entirely devoid of interesting ecclesiastical architecture. There are a few churches here and there, but not more than could be counted on the fingers of both hands, which are worthy of consideration Taken as a whole, there cannot be found on the face of the earth a more uninteresting and meaningless lot of buildings than the churches of the United States. The writer remembers being in Baltimore some years ago, where they had a church which cost

about quarter of a million dollars Of course this building was pointed out as something wonderful and worthy of inspection. The cost of the building was also mentioned. We notice that the cost of everything is given in the States as if the mere cost would give

-it intrinsic value. Much as we regret that so much money was expended in the erection of that building, we would like to see an equal amount, if required, spent in the removal of every trace of the first expenditure. One must regret that there is so much money  forthcoming for-the erection of such ungainly masses. There is no reason in the world why- a church should not be an artistic building, suggesting and teaching Peace on earth, good will to men. The form and every part of a church should speak to mortal man of God and immortality. Where is the man who can

be impressed or led to give one single- thought-tar--eternity; when everything about him, even to the decoration, speaks in the coarse and vulgar tongue of his weekly surroundings? A man who enters  church decorated after the manner of a theatre or a saloon, will be more likely to have his thoughts go back to ·the

· last play he saw,- or of the-companions with whom he—had—very probably his last drink, than to a retrospection of his actions and of the obedience and reverence - which he owes his Maker

a ma be excellent in. one place may be- extremely bad 



another  Of one thing we may be certain and that. is that nothing is too good for the house of God, and when we give let us not only give our money, but also the best talent and ability of which we may be possessed. A church should speak through every stone in its walls of refinement and culture, meekness and courage, and obedience and reverence to (he Almighty.

Chicago in a few years will have a magnificent system of parks and drives. The parks are yet too flew to call for admiration, but when the trees have grown and other improvements have been made, no citizen of Chicago will need to be ashamed of the parks of his native city. We cannot speak favorably of the effects wrought by the fantastic arrangement of foliage plants which we saw at the entrance to South Park, The whole thing is ridiculously childish, and hardly worth mentioning. No good is obtained, except in the satisfying of vulgar curiosity, and causing thoughtless people to go away with an expression of wonder on their inane countenances. The same amount of money and time devoted to legitimate floriculture would give ten times the result, and would be one hundred times more refining to the beholder. What can any-



one admire in the representation of the two candidates for the presidency running around a conical mound. The figures are far from shapely, and totally devoid of beautiful lines. All that is left is the mass of color, which would be much more pleasing if it had not been made to give form to a meaningless conception, Nature cannot be improved upon, but it may be assisted to a full development. Nature is certainly out of place playing pranks at the dictation of men who are unable to appreciate its beauty in all its varying richness of colors and changing moods.

a visit to a place like Chicago, of which one hears so much, and of which there should be so little heard except of a commercial nature satisfies one that in living in Toronto. he lives in no mean city. We have not so large city by any means, nor is it the commercial centre that Chicago is, but we have much which Chicago has not, and that of very great value.

In architecture., we surpass Chicago. We may not—in fact we have not - the same money value in buildings, but we have what is of more value than that which can be rated in dollars and cents. Where in all Chicago, or for that matter in the United States, can one find a building so full of aesthetic interest as our University Buildings ? Does not Osgoode Hall compare in refinement and dignity with any building on the continent? And is not St. James Cathedral equal to, if it does not surpass, any ecclesiastical building north of Mexico? Then we have several exceedingly good pieces of church work in St. Paul's Church, Bloor street, St. James Cemetery Chapel, St. Stephen's Church, Holy Trinity and Trinity Churches. There is also St. Michael's Cathedral, the exterior of which is good as the interior is lacking in merit, the tower and spire being especially fine We must not forget the interior of Trinity College Chapel which is modern in execution, and of great beauty and excellence. Our modern churches, while not so correct in style, full of merit. Instead of- one or two examples of good church architecture, we have many, and 'yet there are among us those who will worship bad work, if distant, and speak slightingly of good work, if at home. We have .not all the good church work of the country in Toronto. There are churches throughout the Province which equal in merit the best buildings in Toronto.

Among our semi-public buildings may be mentioned the Molson's Bank, which is a refined and dignified piece of sic

work, as is also the office-of the Gas Company. The Trust and Loan Building, Masonic Hall, St. Lawrence Hall, Romain Buildings, and. numbers of others of more or less merit. Of those buildings recently erected, we have the Montreal Bank, the Manning Arcade, and the. London Loan Company building, all by Canadian architects. There are at the present time in course of erection three large- buildings by an architect of Buffalo, one the Parliament Buildings, of which little can he said in praise, the Bank of Commerce, which is a very indifferent piece of work in composition and detail, and a building for the Canada Life Assurance Co., which is not yet far enough advanced to he judged> The only building so far erected by outside talent which is worthy of mention in the former list is the building of the Western Assurance Company which cost twice if not three times as much as any Canadian architect would have been allowed to devote to its erection. However, its designer has not been able to equal it in any of his later attempts, except that he has spent much more money with much less satisfactory results.

in house work, we have many good examples of plain, cosy houses of limited expense. We have not many which can be called expensive, and we regret that in one or two instances, the most costly houses are not equal in merit to be less expensive. We are not sufficiently wealthy to spend large amounts in the erection of private houses, but our architects have done very good work with the money at their disposal, and have shown conclusively that they are equal to the erection-of costly residences when our merchants and others have acquired the necessary means. If there is one  thing more than another of which Toronto may well be proud, it is the work done by her architects of the past and also of the pre. sent. May they be given the opportunity to which they are richly entitled to yet more worthily work iii the interests of architecture in this city. Of late they have not received the encouragement they deserved, partly on account of the scandalous treatment the Ontario Government. meted out to those who had sufficient confidence in its honor to devote their time and money to the preparation of plans for the pr Parliament Buildings, in the hope— that they would be entrusted with the carrying out of the work, and at the same time prove that Canadian were competent to meet worthily the architectural requirements of their native land. The example of the Provincial Government in entrusting the erection of these buildings to a citizen of the United States, has  forming an opinion for themselves, followed the precedent set them, and are even inclined to claim that in employing an outside architect they are showing their superior knowledge of architecture, and freedom

 from local prejudices and influences. These men- seem to forget that- others may think just as lightly of their ability, because they are not in business in New York or Chicago as they do of



enough h to practice architecture in a country which  apparently



does not desire to foster home talent and yet who ate not so lost to all sense of patriotism, as to leave the land of their birth for a foreign one, where, very possibly, their remuneration would be more commensurate with their abilities.





TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL DRAUGHTSMEN'S ASSOCIATION.<article title=" TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL DRAUGHTSMEN'S ASSOCIATION " author="">

T

HE members of' the above Association paid a visit to the Toronto Public Library on the evening of Tuesday, the 6th inst. Mr. Bain, the chief librarian, arranged the fine colored plates of St. Mark's Cathedral

at Venice in such a manner that they could be readily examined, and otherwise exerted himself most success-. fully to make the evening one of pleasure- and profit' to the visitors.



AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS.<article title=" AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS " author="">

T

HE twenty-second annual convention of the above institute, which took place at Buffalo last month, adopted the following resolutions

Resolved,-That this Convention deems the unification or federation of all the Architectural Associations of the United States of the utmost value and importance to the profession. -

Resolved, - The American Institute of Architects recommends 'as proper and desirable, the, employment of a Clerk of Works in the erection of all buildings of importance, as a means of obtaining the best results. He should be paid by the owner, but should be AP- pointed by. and under the direct control 'of the architect. The architect's supervision of and responsibility for the work should be in all cases insisted upon as vital to the vast interests of the owner, but such constant oversight as can be exercised by a competent clerk of works is an invaluable adjunct to the labors of the architect in securing uniformly good and honest work.

		      MONTREAL, Oct. 13th, 1888.

 Blue		CHEAP HOUSES.<article title="Correspondence - CHEAP HOUSES " author="Radford, J.A.">

prints, one quarter inch to foot, of "Witness"

House Plans Competition prize city home,, with two

--	copies of the specifications for $2.50. 

JOHN DOUGALL & SON.



Editor CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



DEAR SIR,—The above is from' last night's Witness and this is the scheme: John Dougall & Son advertised for competitive designs for a city house of minimum cost, and to get their money back, issued the enclosed advertisement offering one set inch drawings and two sets of specifications for $2.50. It seems rather strange that a paper like the Witness should stoop so low as to steal from those who in the past have given them every aid by furnishing them with perspectives, drawings, and descriptions of prominent buildings. It is' still more strange that some of our prominent architects should lend a hand to a scheme so mean and petty. Such a scheme is only   worthy   of pettifogging publishers, and throws discredit on a house like that of J. Dougall & Son. This should be a warning to professional men in future against associating themselves with affairs of this kind. -

Yours truly,

3.	A. RADFORD.





TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL GUILD.<article title=" TORONTO ARCHITECTURAL GUILD " author="">

T

HE attendance at the last monthly meeting of the-Architectural Guild of Toronto was very large; the number present being greater than at any other previous meeting. The meetings seem to develop strength as the members become better acquainted. -There was a large amount of very important business transacted, and at times, the discussions were exceedingly animated,-- - -

The fire by-laws of this city were criticized and it was unanimously decided that they could be materially improved. The Secretary was instructed to write His Worship the Mayor, and draw his attention to its defectiveness. - 

The- proposed changes in the plumbing by-law also received much  attention. -

After a long, earnest discussion, a committee was appointed to consider advisability of attempting to form an Architectural Association for the Province of

— . — —



Ontario.   



THE PROPOSED SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE._<article title=" THE PROPOSED SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE " author="">

We are much pleased with the information that the  Minister of Education proposes to appoint a Professor of Architecture in the School of Practical Science. Such a step should be a very great benefit to Architecture in this country, and wilt be most heartily welcomed by all

architects. Those architects who are at the head -of the profession in this Province will look upon the school as a means to educate the  people to proper knowledge





