<doctype type="text">Architecture



The Architectural guild of toronto



Anumber of the architects of this city have formed themselves into an Association called the Architectural Guild of Toronto. The Guild has been formed through a feeling among the architects that there should be some means of bringning the members of the prfession together in a friendly way to discuss matters of interest to themselves and their clients. The Guild has been very successful, all the members taking a deep interest in the proceedings. It meets once a month when a dinner is partaken of before any business is transacted. After the good things provided by the host have been disposed of to the members and the producing of goodfellowship, general business matters are discussed in an informal manner. All sorts of questions are considered—matters in which the architects are directly interested and their clients indirectly, and also matters in which the respective postions are reversed. Five meetings have been held. At which the attendance has been good and the benefits unmistakable. The membership is now twenty-four. Mr. S.G. Curry, of Mssrs. Darling & Curry, is Secretary-Treasurer. It is hoped that the Architectural Guild of Toronto will prosper until it has developed into an incorporated Association of Architects for the whole of Canada, similar to the Institute of British Architects.

<article title=" The Architectural Draughtsmen's Association " author="">

The Architectural Draughtsmen's Association



THE addresses which are being deilvered before this Association at present by some of the master mechanics of the city are proving, as was expected, very instructive. The knowledge gained from the experiences of skilled mechanics in the building trades, must be of great value to the young architect, and the opportunity afforded by these addresses of acquiring valuable parctical information in the different branches of building should be embraced by every student of architecture. Since our last issue the regular weekly meetings at the Canadian Institute have been spent as follows : On Jan. 17th Mr. M.J.Hynes gave an interesting and thoughtful talk on the subject of Terra Cotta. He began by giving a short history of this material, showing how it had been employed from earliest times and by almost all nations with the most lasting results, thus proving its durability. He then gave a description of the methods of construction of the terra cotta kilns, and also described the peculiarities and uses of the various kinds of fire clays, and the different varieties of pressed bricks, encaustic tiles, etc.

On Jan. 24th a paper on « Renaissance Architecture » was read by Mr. Frank Douglas. The history and distinctive feature of this style were clearly set forth, and ably criticised in the discussion by the members which followed. Mr. Douglas expects to leave shortly for Scotland,a nd the Association will lose a valuable member by his removal, as he has always shown a deep interest in its welfare.

January 31st formed the second of the trade nights. Mr. J.B. Vick was present and gave a very practical talk on the subject of stone dressing and setting. He described the tools employed and their uses, the different kinds of stone and their uses, the various ways of finishing and the proper method of setting work.

On February 7th there was no programme, but instead an open discussion. The most useful books for an architect's library were discussed, the different members present giving their views.

The meeting of the Association are held of Tuesday evening in the Canadian Institute, corner of Richmond and Clare streets,a nd a cordial invitation is extended to every one interested in the subject of architecture.

<article title=" An Appeal for Organization " author="Fides, Constans">

An Appeal for Organization

« BY Constans Fides »

NOW that your journal has been started, it will be in order to urge upon the members of the profession to at once push into existence again the apparently defunct « Canadian Institute of Architects. » Permit me to give a slight history of the past. Somewhere about 1856, I forget the eact date having lost the papers, an effort was made by a few gentlemen, amongst whom were Mr. Brown, of  Kingston, Mr. Wm. Thomas, of Toronto, and some others, to start a Society of Architects for the Province of Ontario. I was invited to join, which I did after its formation. Mr. Brown was elected President, and Mr. Thomas Vice-President. By-laws were made, and a schedule of professional fees were published. After its establishment, certain parties who called themselves surveyors crept in and so ruled affairs that they caused the Society to collapse. Perhaps there are some now alive who can give the cause and reason of its short lived existence. In 1876 an advertisement  was inserted in two Toronto papers calling for  calling for a gathering of the profession to discuss the inadvisibility of forming an Institute. About nine or ten met in the Society of Arts rooms on King street, Toronto. It was  decided to form a scoeity. A secretary was named; a few meetings subsequently took place; committees were appointed, By-laws, &c., drawn out, and a tarriff of fees adopted. Illness prevented the writer from attending regularly and finally illness prevented him from taking any active interest in its affairs. Since recovering his helath he has several times tried to find out what has



ENTRANCE TO MEDICAL COUNCIL BUILDING, TORONTO



Become of the Institute. A note was addressed to the secretary asking to be informed what had become of the property, for property there was, several volumes having been given to the Institute. No answer has been returned to the enquiry. This is a matter of surprise and regret, as common courtesy at least should mark the conduct of members of our profession. No one of the many hundreds of my fellow students of former days in London, Paris, Rome and Berlin, had I written to them on the slightest matter in connection with the profession, but would have replied instantly and courteously. Indeed I have some pleasant contrasts to the discourtesy of which I complain in letters from old fellow students from Chicago, New York,a nd Baltimore.

I am aware that our profession is not held in the highest esteem by the outside public, but this is the fault of the members themselves who exhibit such a jealously of one another that it causes all this indifference to them. I am quite sure that if we could establish a « Canadian Institute of Architects, » there would soon spring up a spirit of kindness and goodfellowship, that a strong and permanent good  would be the result. I well remember what pleasant meetings we had in the days of my studentship, when we used to gather together in the evenings each bringing his sketches and memoranda of his day or weeks's work. These gatherings were frequently attended by professors and elders,w ho would offer us friendly criticism and advice. How pleasant and profitable would such mettings be, if we had an Institute of Architects where such gatherings could take place.

Let some energetic members of the profession inToronto start the formation at once. The young students, I have no doubt, would soon join, and would finf it to their mutual advantage. There would soon spring up a united body who would palce the members of our noble profession on a sound foundation.. Remember that architecture is the roor from which all the art orpfessions have sprung, and it is our duty to resuscitate it here in Canada to its proper and legitimate position. Such organization is necessary, not only in order that the dignity of the profession may be maintained, but also that by means of the united action which could thereby be secured, Canadian architects might protect their rights.

I see the first number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER a letter in which it is pointed our that a Judge of one of the Courts stated that he could only allow an expert witness of the profession the fee of a mechanic (I believe it is 75 cents(, for his day's attendance at the Court. I myself fought against this monstrous injustice years ago. I had been employed on an inspection of a quarry, taking levels of the waste stone used, amade plans and a report. When I had done, I put in my account, including my assistant's time, chainman and other expenses. On being informed that I could not claim more than laborer's or nechanic's pay, I refused to go into Court at all. This matter culminated in my going to Toronto and appearing before the then presiding judges, Chief Justice Draper, Judge Robinson and Judge Burns,a nd asking leave ti assress the Court, which was granted. I stated the whole case and was listened to, much to the astonishment of the barristers. The judges admitted that the tariff was unjust, and said it would be altered. I was told to bring the matter before the judge at the next assizes in Hamilton, which I did. Judge Burns presided, and recollected my having appeared before him and the other judges, and on  handing up my account he at once endorsed it and I was paid. I am surprised to find that this unjust tariff at Osgoode Hall still exists.  Why should lawyers or any other body make our tariff? We must take the matter in hand and help ourselves. We are now quite a numerous body, and there are clever educated young men enough in our ranks to sercure for the profession the necessary Act of Parliament authorizing the prefession to charge regular fees and pass such laws in our organization as will regulate all the matters complained of. If we are united as one man there is no doubt of success. I have written this more as an appeal to my fellow prfessionals to put aside any spirit of jealousy that may exist, unite for the common good, and out Canadian Institute of Architects » will soon be a fact.



WHAT ARCHITECTURE IS, WHAT IT IS NOT.



THE President of the Western Association of Architects in his address at the annual convention held at Cincinnati, in November, thus defined architecture :

« Architecture is not a system of incoherently uttered and illogically occurring fashions. Architecture is not a « fad » which is respectable to day because it apes the work of some great man to whose creations it is comparable only as a jackdaw is to an orator. It is not architecture in whose name we dare erect to-day rough and brutal ppiles of stone, whose only merit is the roughness, and which tomorrow we will spurn from us as unkempt tramps of things. Architecture is the material expression in stone and iron and brick, of an idea, dominating, consistent, coherent; source and inspiration of ten or a thousand thoughts, but giving character to all. As such it can afford ro lose sight at no instant of one thought by its great apostles and prophets.

These traditions, which have lived for centuries, are not to be venerated for age alone, but for their truth; they are notr sacred because of their age, but are old because of their truth. All architecture based upon mere caprice is less enduring in the history of art than a breath. »



At the next regular meeting of the « Architectural Draughtsmen's Association of Toronto, to be held on the 21st inst., a paper will be read on « Drawing, » by the President, Mr. Robbt. Dawson; and at the meeting on the 28th inst. Mr. Wm. Simpson will present a paper on « Joinery. »





