<doctype type="colophon;text">Canadian Architect and Builder A Journal of Modern Construction Methods



Published Monthly in the interests of  Architect, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors and Manufacturers of and dealers in Building Materials and Appliances



VOL. I.—NO. II                                TORONTO CANADA, FEBRUARY 1888                               PRICE 20 CENTS $2.00 Per Year



The Canadian Architect and Builder

A Journal of Modern Construction Methods



Published Monthly in the interests of Architects, civil and sanitary engineers, plumbers, decorators, builders, contractors and manufacturers of and dealers in Building materials and appliances



C.H. Mortimer, Publisher,

31 King Street West,-- Toronto, Canada



Subscriptions

The Canadian Architect and Builder will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. The price to subscibersin foreign countries is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expirations of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arreages are paid.

In ordersing change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.

Advertisements

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th say of the month and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



Editor's Announcements



Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is publishsed are cordially invited, and if found to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.



IN reply to numerous enquiries received at this office the publisher will send the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER to clubs of six to ten subscribers at $1.75 per year for each copy.



IT would be a matter of great satisfaction, if some manufacturer would undertake to supply the Toronto building trade with a first-class brick. The bricks which we are now obliged to use are very inferior in material, hardness and shape.  A good, hard, deep-colored square brick, with sharp and well defined arrises, would command a good price for first-class work.



THE Trent Valley Canal Commission has been organized, and is about to enter upon its duties. The principal factor in leading the Commission to decide for or against the completion of the canal, must naturally be the question, will it pay? Apart from this main consideration, there should be taken into account the large sums of money already expended on the work, and the advantage to the country of having canals as competitors  of the railways for the carrying trade of the Dominion.



IT speaks well for the Hamilton plumbers that they have decided to petition the Council to appoint an Inspector of Plumbing. At present, it is  said, many people are willing to run all the risks incident to bad plumbing, if only they can get work done at a cheap figure. Under such circumstances, the Council should not hesitate to make the appointment, which would ensure good work being done at fair prices, and prevent the spread of disease, which must inevitably follow a continuance of the present condition of things. Every city should have its Plumbing Inspector.



PERSONS engaged in any of the various brnaches of construction work are invited to make free use of the columns of this journal for the purpose of expressing their opinions on any matters affecting their profession or calling. There are many wrongs that need to be righted, and that might be righted if the nature of them was publicly explained. An instance of this came to the notice of the writer the other day. A plumber was complaining that the ideas of a certain architect on the subject of plumbing, and especially in regard to the weight of pipe which the plumber should use, were absurd, and if carried out would not serve any useful purpose.  Without taking sides with either the architect or the plumber on the question in dispute, we simply desire to say, that if a wrong exists the plumber can have it righted far more speedily by publicly exposing it, than by grumbling about it privately. Let us have your opinions, gentlemen.



IN presenting to the public the second number of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER, the publisher desires to state that the reception accorded to this new journal has been of the most cordial character. Much that was srude in its contents and arrangement has been generously overlooked, and words of praise and encouragement have been bestowed unstintingly. Subscriptions and requests for sample copies have come in by almost every mail. In fact the stock of papers reserved for these requirements—and which it was thought would be ample for the purpose—ran out nine or ten days ago. Persons applying since that time have been asked to wait for the present number. This is a most gratifying state of affairs, and augurs well for the future success of the enterprise. To our confreres of the the daily and weekly press we are deeply indebted for many kind references to this paper. In returning sincere thanks  for the kindly greeting and support accorded to out initial number, we simply desire to add that for the future our best efforts shall be put forth to make this journal of the highest value to its readers. To attain this object, we shall require, and shall hope to receive, the active assistance of persons engaged in the various branches of construction work.



A DAILY paper, in calling for a Dominion Employers' Liability Act, says : « In outside occupations the neglect in regard to the limbs abd lives of employees is not less marked. Scaffolding in Canada is as a rule flimsily constructed,a nd the workman has the choice of risking his life uopn it or leaving the job. » This statement is only partially correct. It is true that scaffolding is often put up in a flimsy manner. But who puts up the scaffolding? As a rule the workmen who are to use it, and to whose carelessness may frequently be attributed the accidents which all deplore. It is safe to say that the number of master builders who would knowingly risk the risk the lives of their employees by compelling them to work on insecure scaffolding, is extremely small compared with the number of careless workmen who,  to save themselves a little trouble, perhaps, voluntarily assume such risks. Instances have come under our personal observation where master builders in this city repeatedly warn workmen in their emply against exposing themselves to danger unnecessarily, and not unfrequently accidents are the result of a careless disregard of such warnings. In such cases, no attempt should be made to saddle the responsibility upon the employer.

IT is seldom a movement is inaugurated and brought to such a successful issue in the short period of one year, as that of the Canadian Soceity of Civil Engineers. Formerly the science of engieneering in this country had been looked upon as one in ehich anybody could engage. Of late years a great change has taken place—Schools of Engineering have been inaugurated in several provinces, in which education of the highest order has been imparted to their students and graduates. The  fruits of this are apparent already in the magnificent works to be found in all parts of the Dominion. It is only a natural sequence that men of such hugh intellectual calibre, should desire to band together for mutual improvement and interchange of ideas. The gentlemen who were most deeply interested in the welfare of their calling, who occupy the highest places in the profession, have come forward freely and placed their time and talents at the  disposal of the Society. The Society has been particularly fortunate in enlisting the sympathies of such eminent men as Messrs. F.C. and S. keefer, Gzowski, Kennedy, Hannaford, Wallis, Page, Perley, Schreiber and others, and in having for their first secretary such an organizer as Prof. Bovey, of Montreal. Under the constitution, branches can be formed at different points. We know of no place better suited for one than Toronto. We have not yet heard of any steps being taken to form one, and will be much disappointed if resident members do not at once avail themselves of their rights, and found a branch in this city. With a School of Engineering in our midst, it would seem a foregone conclusion that a vigorous brnach should flourish here.



WE must protect against the daily newspaper giving the opinion s of a man on architectural questions who is unwiling to have his name mentioned. The Globe the other day gave what it stated was the opinion of a « prominent architect » on the « Court House Muddle. » As it did not give his name, how do we know he is as represented? Are we to take the opinion of a reporter on the standing of an architect, when the public seem to be generally unable to judge of an architect's qualifications? At any rate, if this person is so prominent an architect,a nd was so willing to give his opinion, he should also have been equally willing to give his name, so that we might be able to give due weight to his statement by a knowledge of the man. We think that we can speak for nearly all the prominent architects, and we have no hesitation in stating that not one of those with whom we have the honor of being acquainted would make the statements attributed to this « prominent architect. » The giving by a newspaper of the opinions of Tom, Dick and Harry, on the subjects of which they know nothing whatever, or of the opinion of a man who may have some general knowledge of the kinds of work involved, but who has no information of the particular work or the proposed mode of carrying it iut, is unfair and unjust to the parties interested, and may be the means of doing them much injury. But when these opinins are given without the names of the parties, the action on the part of the newspaper is entitled to the strongest condemnation of all fair minded men. The opinion of no man, no matter who he may be nor now much he knows of the subject under discussion, should be given without his name. We would not prevent a writer giving information when possible, but would prevent him quoting some not to be disputed authority.



WE should like to see printed copies of a fire by-law distributed among those interested in the building trades. From what we can make out, we would not advise that the present by-law be printed before it is revised. It seems to have been drawn up







 