<doctype type="text">The Canadian Architect and Builder



OUR ILLUSTRATIONS

THE NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY'S NEW BUILDING

<article title=" THE NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY'S NEW BUILDING " author="">

THE handsome new building about to be erected on the corner of St. James Street and Place d'Armes, Motnreal, for the head office of the N.Y. Life Insurance Co., forms one of our principal illustrations this month. The building will have a basemenr, sub-basement and eight storeys. The two fronts will be of Scotch Gatelaw Bridge sansstone, and all the piers in basement and basemenr front are to be of Thousand Isalnd red granite. All the brick and stone work will be set in cement. The inside finish of wood work is to be of polished cherry, and the floors will be laid with Georgia pine, and polished.

The building will be perfectly fire-proof, the stair-case to be of iron, with marble steps, and all corridors to be laid in tile. Size of building, 71 x 112 feet; architects, Messrs. Babb, Cook and Willard, of New York : contractors, Simpson & Peel of Montreal; and the following sub-contractors : Mason work, Peter Lyall; brick work, T. W. Peel iron work, E. Chanteloup; plastering and fire-proofing, J. mcLean; painting and glazing, W.P. Scott.



DESIGN FOR COTTAGE COSTING $3,000.

<article title=" DESIGN FOR COTTAGE COSTING $3,000." author="">

We give in this number, in geometrical elevation, interesting views and plans of new designs for cottages. The cottages are built of timber, framed and sheathed with 1-inch boards, and weather boarded over a lining of heavy weather-proof paper. The roofs are covered with I.X. charcoal tin, with standing seams.

Modern improvements, understood to be a bath-room, and kitchen with the usual fittings for hot and cold water supply, wash bowls, water-closet, tubs and boilers, with tank and cistern supplu, are among the conveniences secured to these elegant cottages, at a moderate cost.

The wood work is chiefly of pine, stained and varnished to preserve the effect of the natural grain. The foundations are stone and brick, the cellars cemented, brick cisterns, and soil drains.

The cost of the two cottages, built together, is estimated at about $5,800. To erect a single house would cost probably $3,000.



MEDICAL COUNCIL BUILDING

<article title=" MEDICAL COUNCIL BUILDING " author="">

The new Medical Council building which forms one of the leading illustrations in this number is situated on the corner of Bay and Richmond streets in this city, and is being erected for the Medical Council of Ontario from plans and under the supervision of Mr. E. J. Lennox, architect, Toronto. It is five stories in height,a nd has a frontage on Bay street of 88 feet by a depth on Richmond street of 95 feet. First two stories are built in heavy Credit Valley coursing stone. Top three stories are built of Carlton face brick, Credit Valley stone dressing,a nd releived with ornamental cut brick and cut stone panels executed in Scotch sand stone. The roof is covered with terra cotta tiles. The entire structure is very substantially built. The interior is partially finished in hardwood. The building has all the latest improvements—first class elevators, large hall and stairways, thoroughly ventialted and heated by direct low-pressure steam. The cost of the structure will be about $75,000.

<article title=" RECESS AND FIRE PLACE FOR HALLWAY " author="Booth, G. G.">

RECESS AND FIRE PLACE FOR HALLWAY

BY GEO. G. BOOTH.



SOME of the finest veneers are still made, by preference, with the saw, notwithstanding the results obtained by knife machines. Woods like ebony and lignum-vitae cannot be cut with a knife, while finely-figured and consequently close-grained mahogany is also difficult to cut by other means than the saw, the latter having to be, necessarily, very thin, and so finely adjusted that hardly the slightest variation shall be possible in the thickness of the veneers turned out. While a nicely arranged circular saw will turn out boards varying the twentieth part of an inch, which would be imperceptible, such a lack of uniformity inthin sheets would prove a damaging imperfection. The amount of steaming required by various woods to be made into veneers differs considerably. Thus it is stated, an ordinary wood like black walnut, which has an open grain, will steam sufficiently in six hours, while the close-grained South American woods require 36 hours. Mahogany, tulip and rosewood, being hard to cut, require more and careful steaming and a knife in the best condition.



The capitol building at Albany, N.Y., which is but two-thirds finished, and upon which $19,000,000 has been expended, is said to be in danger of tumbling down owing to the strain from unequal support.



CONSTRUCTION



CIVIC ENGINEERING.



THIS is a wide field of increasing importance embracing hydraulic, mechanical, electrical, gas, railway, and road engineering, that is water supply and sewerage, electric lighting and the electric railway, the elevated and the cable railway and pavements, any one of which is the subject for a separate and extended essay. I can, therefore, only refer to a few qustions in connection with each.

Water supply and drainage or sewerage, on account of their influence on the health, protection and comfort of the citizens, are first in importance. Every epidemic is immediately ascribed to the water supply or the sewers, although typhoid and diptheria are often more prevalent in country districts, where no fault can be found with the water or the drainage. It is an annual plague in the Rocky Mountains as well as in the Panama or Roman marshes. This outcry has given rise to a new name in our profession, the Sanitary Engineer. The jurisdiction of the City Engineer does not extend into the houses. With the best arrangements, eternal vigilance is the price of exemption, and as we cannot tell how everything is working if not always in shight, and when sealed up by ice and snow, I believe the only safety is in providing for the worst. Wherever this gas can get in, make a wat for it ti get out,--ventilate the exposed rooms as well as the sewers. 

Undoubtedly there is much room for improvement in the drainage of our towns—both as to streets and houses—but the best systems for both assures us no guarantee agianst the ravages of an epidemic. The health commissioners have ascribed the receent epidemic at Ottawa, to the water, not because they discovered anything wrong in it—but because they could find no other solution of the question. We cannot even suggest a remedy until we know the cause. Experts are not agreed upon that—the drainage, the water supply, the heat, the drouth,a nd defincient supply of electricity in the atmosphere, have one or more in turn been held responsible. As all, with the same exposure, are not victims, the individual constitution must be an element in the question. If the existing cause can be located upon the terra firma, engineers may be alber to deal with it,--but if it is in the air we must remember that it can get there from the four quarters of the compass as well as from under our feet, from above as well as from below, and this will go on in spite of all our efforts until the last vial is poured out into the air.

Periodical outcires against the water are accompanied by demands for filtration at the works. Filtration has two-sides,--you « hive » all the impurities in a limited space, and compel all the water to run the gauntlet through them. Frequent cleansing of  the filter beds would be necessary, and how is this to be accomplished with the thermometer 20º below zero? We cannot cover acres and heat the enclosure to handle ten mmillions of gallons daily. Of this them millions, two per cent or less may be used for drinking and culinary purposes. Filtration, therefore, like ventilation should be done in the houses by those who demand it. And they must see that, by daily cleansing, they get the water in as good condition as it comes to them.

The Insurance Companies are reminding us that fire protection should be a leading consideration in every system of water supply. In gravitation supplies like Quebec with sufficient elevation, and in pumping supplies where water power is used,as in Ottawa, this result is obtained without additonal cost. But where steam power is required, as in Toronto, the best fore protection—that from direct pressure from hydrants—is secured only by increased consumption of coal. The people there complain of their coal bil, but if it were less their insurance bill would be greater. They compare their consumption of coal with cities which do not lift the water half the height to which it is lifted in Toronto.

Our principal cities, Jalifax, St. John, Quebec, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Hamilton and London, have very efficient systems of water-supply, in respect to quality and pressure. As compared with the older systems in New York, Philadelohia and Boston, our pressure is greater and our use of steamers for fire is less. We pay more for pumping and less for fire insurance. With the exception of Winnipeg, Vancouver and Belleville, all our cities own their water-workd. Quebec, Halifax, St. John, St. Catharines, Victoria and Vancouver have gravitation supplies. Montreal and London have water power supplemented by steam, with distributing reservoirs. Ottawa has water power exclusively; continuous pumping without stand pipe or reservoir since 1874, and without any failure in the supply. Both pumping power and mains are duplicated, because, with a single pump and main, in the absence of a reesrvoir, a break down of either suspends the delivery instanter, and in toto.

Brantford, Guelph and Stratford pump by steam, Peterborough, Port Hop and Lindsay by water power; the two latter for fore purposes only. Brampton has a gravitation supply. In Stratford and Port Hopr the water power is used at nights for the electric light. This is also done in Victoria, where,  with a gravitation system, the high levels are supplied during the day by steam from the electric light boilers. This economical arrangement is only applicable, for constant supply, where there is a reservoir and sufficient pumping capacity to keep it filled by working only during daylight.

Vancouver's gravitation supply is only commenced. The water is brought from a mountain canon—nearly ten miles distant—through steel pipes 22 and 16 in. diameter, and carried across an arm of the sea in 60 feet water by a cast iron flexible jointed pipe. The fountain head is 430 feet above tide, the highest parts of the city being about 250 feet lower than the source of the supply. There are a number of other Canadian towns and villages which

*Extract from annual address of President Thos. C. Keefer, C.M.G., before the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers, Montreal, Jan. 12th, 1888.



Have water works. I trust we will receive a full account of them as well as of those mentioned through local members of this Society. 



An economical and ingenious method of supplying a linited number of houses above the distributing reservoir head, has been in successful operation in Burlington, Vermont, for the last six years. An hydraulic motor is inserted in the pumping main near the reservoir, the water surface of which is 289 feet above Lake champlain, the source supply. Two ten-inch rising mains connect the pumps and reservoir passing through the city. The distributing pipes are fed from these mains, recieveing from pumps, when in motion, and from reservoir when pumps are standing, the pressure on the motor being greater on the pump side when the latter is working and upon the reservoir side at other times. When the reservoir is full the head is between 12 and 13 feet, and the pressure a little over n5 lbs. This motor raises the water 60 feet, and delivers it through a mile of pipe into a tank having an overflow pipe into the main, so that no watser is wated. The speed of the pump worked by this motor varies from 5 or  6 strokes per minute in the nught to 22 strokes per minute in the day time. The cost of this application was under $2,000.

Mild steel is competing successfully with cast iron for mains, rivetted for the larger sizes and lap welded for 12 inch and under. The strength and security is greater, and the cost on the whole less, because of the lighter weights, longer pipes, fewer joints, and lesser cost of tranportation. Cast iron, however, maintains its supremacy for all purposes of distribution on account of the facility and economu with which connections can be made with it. Its greater durability on account of the use of steel.

I can only direct attention to the great works going in for the further supply of New York, Liverpool, Kansas City, San Francisco, etc. and to the rapid extension of water supply to the smaller towns and villages on this continent. This last is the result of the organization of large water companies, having like the bridge companies able engineers. A contract is made securing an efficent fire service for a stipulated annuity from the corporation. This secures the whole or the greater part of the interest in the outlay and the companies trust to other consumers to make-up any deficiency. Many towns prefer to pay an annual subsidy ti undertaking the works, in some cases because they are unwilling to entrust their representatives with their construction. Belleville has agreed to pay an American company 31/2 per cent. On an estimated cost of $200,000, for the construction of water works.

I am not aware of the formation of any company in Canada for this purpose. If our unsupplied towns have not wisdom enough to construct and own the works which should pay them as well as it pays a company, capitalists and engineers may do a good thing for themselves and the country by showing them how it can and ought to be done.



SEWERAGE



The formost question in connection with sewerage is whether the combined or separate system should be adopted foe new towns or for new extensions in older ones having the combined system. For house drainage, sewers require a deeper excavation than is necessary to ger rid of surface water, and are therefore very costly when large enough for both purposes. The combined system is necessarily weaker in form and therefore more exposed to damage from excessive rain fall. Much depends uopn climate and surface inclination of the streets, as well as the realtion between the street grades and basement openings in the buildings. Before towns are sewered all the water is carried off upon the surface, but with level streets and particularly Northern towns when the snow is melting fast there is a necessity for rabpidly relieveing the streets by underground drainage, in order to prevent flooding of basements. In the sewers of the combined system, the gas is diluted by contact with a larger body of air and water, and these sewers are flushed by the rain fall, but at irregular intervals which are too long in the dry season of summer and the cold one of winter. In the separate system, the pipe sewers are flushed automatically, and at frequent intervals at all seasons; but for this purpose water must be provided although comparatively little is required. The separate system being much cheaper than the combined will doubtless be adopted where the question of cost si decisive, and surface water can be disposed of as befire.

Our new city of Vancouver has adopted the separate system for which all the conditions are favorable, amild climate, excessive rain fall for six months,a nd good grades for rapid removal of surface rain fall.

The needs of this city were so urgent that they could not wait for metalled roadways, or for sewer pipes from glasgow by the long voyage around Cape Horn. They therefore have covered their roadways with plank,a nd made their sewer pipes of the same material, with rubber joints, for which when necessary earthenware pipes will be substituted, all man holes, etc., being monoliths in Portland cement.

The proper disposal of sewage, is the great question in other countries, escpecially where the discharge causes river pollution or endangers the source of the water supply. Chicago is extending her tunnels four miles into the lake, instead if the two miles which were considered sufficient to escape the pollution of the lake shore by her « cloaca maxima » the Chicago River.

Toronto is agitated over intercepting sewers, pumping, and sewage farming. The utlization of sewage to diminish the cost of its diversion from the natural outlets is limited by local conditions. Clarfication and irrigation both involve pumping, and the latter is only practicable where large areas of low, level and cheap land are to be obtained.

No system can surpass the discharge into large flowing rivers, or large bodies of water, and wher these are the sources of the water supply, the best and cheapest course is to remove the intake of the latter to a safe distance.

The removal from the streets of garbage and rubbish, which may be washed into sewers,and the creamtion of all combustible trash, is attracting desreved attention in towns where this new departure is needed. This cremation is as old as Jerusalem, where the fires in the Valley of Hinnom were never quenched.



PAVEMENTS



The gradual appraoch to the old  Roman method of roadway is   