<doctype type="text"> March, 1888 CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER Peterboro' brickmakers are preparing for a big season's sale.he Calgary Lumber	will make brick— at Cochrane thisyear r.Mr. A. Biot, Montreal, will build a glass works at Ottawa if a bonus is offered himtoronto it manufacturers will in future make bricks of a uniform·	size. There will be no advance  in price. Mr. Wm. Davidson builder and contractor. Mount Forest, Ont., is about to open a planing mill and sash and door factory. The Buckingham Brick and Tile Co., Montreal, have been incorporated with $30,000 capital stock for the manufacture of brick, drain tile. &c.Mr. A. S. Walker, talks of starting a brick kiln at Neepawa, Mm, Good clay can be procured, and balding next year promises to be brisk. t One of the latest uses to which paper has been put is the building of chimneys. It is made in the form of blocks which are joined with silicious cement.I Dealers in Montreal are holding stocks of cement for higher prices. This anticipation or a rise is based on recent advances in prices in foreign markets.Mr. Walter Beatty Pettibroke, Ont., has refused the offer of a $3000 bonus to assist him in rebuilding his sash and door factory recently destroyed by lire.For cement to make joints for granite monuments use clean sand, twenty parts litharge two parts, quicklime, one part and linseed oil sufficient to form a thin paste.Messrs. Jas. If. Donnel and H. C, Stavley have recently purchased the planing mill business formerly conducted by Messrs. Kincard & McWilliams Peterboro, Ont.The Bell telephone Company in Montreal is establishing telephone communication between different departments in large warehouses, thus doing away with speaking tubes.For veneering for panels, thin stripes of white pine may be stained with bleached and tinted creosote, both wood and creosote being heated. When cold, the surface is to be varnished with shellac, The tones present a translucent appearance.The pavement in front of the Fifth Avenue residence of the late W.H. Vanderbilt, New York, has one large stone forty feet long and twenty-five feet wide, the largest piece of flagging ever quarried and alone cost 000 The Vanderbilt pavement cost Altogether $40,000.It is said that carbonate of Lime found in the vicinity of Shallow Lake Grey Co., Ont. will produce a good quantity of whiting, and that this together with the clay of the district will make excellent Portland cement. A company is being formed tar the  manufacture of these articles.In a paper on the strength of different kinds of wood for building purposes, Professor Johnson calls attention to the fact as now demonstrated, that many cheaper kinds of timber may prove more valuable for structures than more expensive varieties, which have been supposed to be stronger, and, therefore, more desirable. Thus pine supports or pillars have been found stronger than oak ones, when tested in large samples.E.	Van Noorden & Company, of Boston. manufacturers of metallic sky-lights. have contracted with the city of Charleston, S. C., to line the walls of four hospital wards constructed of wood, withglass one-quarter of an inch thick, set in angle iron frames heldace by galvanized sheet iron caps; the ceiling will be of finely corrugated iron, arched to a radius of twenty-four feet. the wards are each 3OXt 12 feet, one story high, with double pitch roofs The idea in using glass is to prevent the absorption ol disease germs and to secure cleanliness. Although glass has been suggested for this purpose this is the first instance of its use of which we have heard, The people of Charleston are watchingthe work with interest.A USE FOR BRICK WASTE.ACCORDING to the statement of Mr. Miles, a well-known engineer it is a fact peculiar to Spanish countries thatordinary brick dust, made from hard-burned finely pulverized bricks, and mixed with common lime and sand, is universally and successfully employed as a substitute for hydraulic cement. Mr. Miles says that during an engineering experience of some six years in Cuba his opportunities were ample for testing its merits. and he found it in all respects superior to the best Rosendale dydraulic cement for culverts drains, tanks and cisterns, and even for roofs, In an experiment to test the strength of this product it was found that a block of it. 1/2 inch in thickness - without sand, and after an immersion in water for four months, bore without crushing or split a pressure of fifteen pounds per square inch. It is thoughtthat, by the addition of pulverizing mills to brick yards. to utilize the waste and broken bricks, a profitable manufacture might be carried on. CASTING PLATE GLASS.T1fF. operation or casting a plate is as follows :	The glass in the pots having attained the proper degree of liquidity, and having received a thorough melting and refining die tire is slackened to render the mass somewhat viscous by cooling. The doors in front of the pots arc lifted or taken away : the work in en, each with a long pair of iron pincers, take hold of the pot in the furnace bring it upon on truck or carriage, and at a dog-trot carriage, it under the crane. lie impurities of glass gall upon the surface of the glass are now scraped off and' the pot carefully wiped on the outside with a wet cloth to prevent dirt from falling upon the, casting table, The pot is now seized by a pair of strong iron tongs or nippers and raised over the table by means of the crane. The casting table is a large cast-iron slab well polished, mounted upon a carriage running over a railway. Upon this table two iron roles of the thickness of the required plate are now laid on each side, The pot suspended above is now tilted over and the glass poured upon the table, A heavy iron roller is now passed over the glass the ends of which rest upon the thickness rules, During the roll if any impurities are detected in the glass while yet plastic, they are removed with suitable instruments. The plate is then annealed, after which it is ground smoothed and polished, each being an operation requiring time and care.QUALITY OF BRICKS.I Three main points with reference to bricks have to be taken into account. 1. he power of resistance under pressure2. the appearance of the fracture which should present an even texture, and a fine and brilliant grain, without cavities in the interior and neither ribbony nor stony 3, the exterior, which should be smooth and regular. the angles and edges sharp and straight. When the size of the bricks is equal throughout the mass  it is a proof that the brick earth has—been- well prepared and the bricks generally well made. A brick, when struck, should give forth a clear, ringing sound Good bricks are generally of a dark reddish-brown color, and sometimes they show vitrified spots on the surface; it is not well however, to depend too much on the last fact. for it is often only an indication of the amount of heat to which the brick has been subjected while the clay of which the brick is made may he impure and ill prepared. Bad bricks are readily recognized by their reddish-yellow color. but still more by the dull sound which they emit when struck: their grain being soft they crumble easily, and absorb water with avidity A good brick should not absorb more than about one-fifteenth of its own weight of water it should appear, and in reality be, dry. \ brick that does net take up any water at all is too much buntt the mortar adheres to it imperfectly, but it is a good conductor of heat. Such bricks may be used in damp soil and for pavements. When a brick left in water either scales or swells it is of bad quality and contains costic lime. A brick which, being made red hot, and then having water poured on it. does not crack, is of extraordinary and rare quality. and those which have borne the effect of moisture and dryness (luring two or three inters without scaling or cracking are excellent In order to try if bricks will bear the effect of frost, let one be boiled for half an hour in a solution of sulphate of soda, saturated cold, and then suspended by a string over the vessel in which it has been boiled. in 24 hours the surface of the brick will be covered with small crystals ; the brick is hen to be immersed again in the solution until the crystals disappear, and again suspended, repeating this operation for five  the crystals reforming after each immersion. If after thistreatment a number of particles of the brick are found at the bottom of the vessel containing the solution, the bricks are incapable it supporting the effects of frost Carpentry and Building THE MARBLE QUARRIES OF CARRARA.The famous marble quarries of Carrara have been worked for centuries, and as yet show no signs of exhaustion. Themarbles of this favored locality are among the very few which possess that exquisite fineness of texture, purity of color, and free from veins and spots which are demanded for the uses of the sculptor's art: and the major. portion of the famous works of ancient and modern art have been chiseled from Carrara stone.the quarries  Carrara are very extensive and give employment to 6,000 men ; in addition to which there are in the town no less than too studios ot sculpture and 65 saw millsThe method of extracting the stone is- peculiar. In some of the quarries time men are hoisted to the 'height of some 900 feet above the level of the quarry antI tip aloft on the mountain side excavate stud looscit colossal blocks of the, precious rock. Each gang (as described by eye-witnesses) or the foreman of the gang, goes down aith, and on, the block as it is sating by derrick ropes otit into the air and swiftly brotught to mother earth. The free, easy primitive style of tlie Carrara flying trapeze work ntakes it appear doubly ilatigeroims. The fact that hundreds of accidents happen every year does not appear to have any influence with the workmen.The condition of these quarrymen and their offspring is described as being pitiable in the extreme. One who writes front personal observations says of them : "Their food is dry bread, a raw onion attd dirty water. It is the only place in Italy where  itue is not drunk. Worn out by incessant toil, these people, in-sufficiently fed, fall into dissipation, violence and crime, dying like dogs and leaving oit the white marble the sweat of their wretched lives. We see none of all this under the hand of art.Fully $800, 000 worth of marble goes out annually from these marble quarries the bulk of it to France. The price of it varies according to its beauty. The first quality is priced at $60 to $80 per square meter at the seaport. This is what we term statuary marble. The second quality is priced at $45 to $62 and the spotted at $30 to $o. Theit comes pure white but not statuary marble the price is per square meter, The second quality is $35. and the third is $30. The veined quality is $25. Violet-hued marble brings $70 to $100 per square meter. These are the ordinary tariffs, and on thent the profits are absurdly high before the nuarble leases- the quarry. In some instances I have known first-class statuary blocks to be rated at $12,000 each, regardless of market rates." ----"I have a little ornamental work I should like to the Carved to the CorinthianTemple. "Thanks" replied the Temple," but the pressure upon our Columns is so great that we shall have to I)ecline your Offer." -Tom—" We've got a bay window in our house." Bessie-" So have we. And a balcony." Tom "Pooh That's nothing. We have two bath-rooms." Bessie— "So have we." Tom—" We've got something you folks _haven't. I heard papa tell mamma about it last night.'7 Bessie— "I'll bet we've get some of 'em too. What is it?" Tom-"A defective flue."Fencing. Iran Crestings Gallery Fronts Alta, Scrol Is, Sash Weights,. stable Castings, Flower Stands, Finials ,Seat Ends, Brackets Statuary, Fountains, Aquariums, Lawn Seats, Cuspadores, Car. riage Steps, Vases, Wire Goods etc., etc.Soho Ornamental Iron WorksT.J.Norman TorontoThorold Hydraulic Cement MillsJohn BattleJohn PageQuebec, montreal, Ottawa & Occidental RailwayP.A.PetersonClare Bros. & Co.,Preston Ont.Hot Air Furnaces,Stoves, RangesR.Cunningham &Co. Designers and EngraversKing St.