<doctype type="text">March. 1888 ___ THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 5

hanging at the south. It came down again when water was admitted, but the bolts and debris prevented a closer fit than 8 in. In this emergency a pneumatic caisson, 29x74 ft. in size was used to secure a bearing on the solid part of the foundation, and as a consequence the masonry was started 22 ft. below high water.

The Union Bridge Co. was thus compelled to sink a coffer-dam, 48x89 1/2 Ft. around the old caisson and masonry. and resting on the old crib at a Nint where its dimensions were 50x100 ft. This coffer-darn was made of two walls of 12x12 in. timbers with verticals of the same sizc between, and the packets thus formed were biled with concrete for 16 ft. in height and finished out with clay. Mr. Okourke says this last was a mistake, as it could not be rammed, and gave them trouble from leakage. The bottom of the dam was filled by thc assistance of the divers, with concrete. made with 2 parts or cement, 3 of sand and 6 of screened gravel. The masonry of the present pier is erected within the limits at the old pneumatic caisson, excepting only two nd sections which carry no weight. and the old 8 in. rupture was boarded up tightly and Portland cement was injected through six 3 in. standpipes left

that purpose.

 At pier 3. all rotten timber in the upper courses was replaced by

sound sticks, and the dredging recommenced until its bottom was

126 ft. below high water. The center or the crib, was round to be

5 ft. east of its proper positions. but as the crib is 6o ft. wide and

the masonry only 25 ft. wide, this tact gave no trouble.

Piers 4 and 5 were entirely new and in mid-channel, and it was lound to be a very difficult feat, at first, to hold them to their  anchorage before grounding. Commencing with pier 4. we have a weight to handle of about 5,000 tons. in an unwieldy form. and presenting an outside vertical the river current of 17,000 sq. ft. with several thousand additional square feet in the inside

walls.' The crih drew 52 ft. or water, and it was at first proposed to hold it by three up and three down stream anchors, but it was Found necessary to entploy 8 up streams 8 down streams and 6  side anchors,

The following extract from a letter of Mr. O'Rourke, engineer in charge, gives the present status of the work:

The two shore arms were first erected on an ordinary falsework. Spans 2 and 3 were next erected on a false work, a part of which is shown in the accompanying figure, by means of a traveler, also shown in same. The false work consists of 26 bents, 22 resting on 24 piles each and 4 resting on the masonry. Of the latter 2, the outer ones rest on the piers. and the remaining two on the concrete in the bottom of the caissons. The two cantilever arms and 212 suspended spans between them, were next put in place. without falsework by means of the two travelers shown in the cut.

The accuracy of all the work done is testified to by the fact that the last peces fitted exactly in their places. 

Meanwhile the falsework under 2 and 3 was removed and the foundation piling pulled up for use next season. 

This closes the river work for the winter. Until spring, work will be confined to the erection of the viaducts for which nearly all

the pony piers have been built" The Chief Engineer, for the Union Bridge Co. and the one in charge of the works is Mr. J. F. O'Rourke, while Mr. P. P. Dickinson still represents the old Poughkeepsie Bridge Co.. and Mr. A. B. Paine is Chief Engineer of the Manhattan Bridge Co.



LONDON <article title="Correspondence - LONDON

" author="">



(Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER



I

 HAVE forwarded you a copy of a new contract agreed upon by architects and builders of this city, and under which contracts for the coming season will he performed. I also send you a copy of the old contract in order that you may institute comparison between them. A careful persual will show great differences between the two. The revised contract calls for nil plans and details to be prepared before tenders are submitted, whereas formerly the details were given as the work progressed. Under the old contract it was customary to pay 73 per cent. as the work advanced, and the balance in 6o days. Under the new contract 8o per cent. is payable as thc work advances and the balance in 30 days The principal change. however, is, that whereas formally the contractor was bound by the decision of the architect on any matter in dispute, except deductions now he has the right to. appeal from any decision. These arc the principal points of difference between the old and new contracts.

We do not anticipate any trouble here, and see no cause for it.

There will not he a great deal of 'work offered this season Owing to the depression in trade, but we expect better things for the fall.



MONTREAL L.<article title="Correspondence - MONTREAL " author="">

(Correspondence of THE CANADIAN A ARCHITECT AND u B BUILDER

The following building permits were issued from the office of

 the Building Inspector, Mr. Lacroix Montreal, during the month of February :—Jos. Vezina, dwelling, Berri street, cost

F.	Mandeville 2 dwellings Cadieu street, cost $2,500 Jos. Belanger 2 dwellings, Papineau road, cost $3,600 L. E. Phillibert dwelling. Charron street, cost $1,300; J. A. Vanboogarnt 1 dwelling, Drolet street, cost $1 500 ; M. Galarneau 1 dwelling , Dufferin street, cost $800 M. Dinning 4 dwellings, frame, cost $3,600; F. X. Monette, 2 dwellings. Fullum street, cost $2,400; M. Gaurreau, dwelling, Sherville street cost $900; J. Lamarche shop, Josaphat street, cost $1,000 F. X. Chartier

dwelling, Maple street, cost $1,500; G. Charbonneau, t dwelling, Maple street, cost $1,800: Jos. Chartier, dwelling. Montcalm street, cost $1,300: Lapierre & Pagnette 1 factory: Notre Dame Street, cost $3,600; G. A. Chevalier, 1 3 storey dwelling. Ontario street cost $1,500; Chas. Laberge 2 dwellings, Ontario street cost $3,500; Patrick Stanford 1 dwelling, Rivard street cost $1,800; J. 11. Durand 4 dwellings, Ray street; cost $6,000:

Zephirin Charest, dwelling, Rachel Street, cost $1,800; A, Dumoulin, t dwelling, Rivard street cost $1,000; Richard Kendall, 1 dwelling, Richmond street, cost $1 300; P. Caulamlie 2 dwellings, Rivard street cost $4,000; C. Roussin, dwelling, St. Lawrence Street, cost $800; F. David, 1 dwelling, St. Denis street, cost $2,500; E. Carpentier

, 2 dwellings, St. Dominique street, cost

Paquette dwelling, St. James street cost $2000; Jos. Sarreault t dwelling, William street, cost $1,000: M. J. Cummings, 2 dwellings; Wolf street cost $3600..



WINNIPEG.<article title="Correspondence - WINNIPEG " author="">

 (Correspondence of the CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER.



T

HE outlook for the-building trades in this city is noi of the most encouraging character. In fact, as far as public intimation has been given, there are few new buildings of any importance as yet projected. Msssrs. Timewell & Son, architects, have just taken tenders ror the erection of an addition to the general hospital which will cost about $9000. and are preparing plans for a new maternity hospital and small theatre and operating roam for the hospitaL These are about the only works actually decided upon, though, it is just possible that if the railroad negotiations at Ottawa result successfully there may be some change in the situation. There -are a number of firms in Winnipeg that occupy business premises that are inadequate in character, and a number of citizens that have in contemplation the erection or residences in which to establish their homes. These two classes, although in many instances having plans prepared have been holding back, awaiting the turn of events and uncertain of the wisdom of making investments.

The Contractor's Association at present is in statu quo from almost the same reason as given above, viz., the almost stagnation of business generally. there will be a great demand daring the summer ror carpenters, as there will be a great number of grain elevators built throughout the province.





11.1 HAMILTON.<article title="Correspondence - HAMILTON " author="">

 (Correspondence of the Canadian Architect r and Builder.)



J did intend forwarding a list of the buildings to be erected in  Hamilton as shown by the building Inspector's book, but I

was sorry to find that this book was no criterion to go by as to the building prospects. On the contrary I ascertained that notwithstanding the by-law passed in Council that no person shall commence the erection of any building within the fire limits of the city of Hamilton until he shall have lodged with the Inspector of



purpose." one half at least of the buildings erected last year were not so entered, and only a few of a large number of buildings that I know are in contemplation for erection on the opening of the season, are recorded up to the 7th instant. This state of things must noL exist. The by- law must be enforced, and a recent complaint laid before the Council will no doubt straighten the matter out effectually.



From all reliable accounts the building prospects for the season are good, but already promise to be ruined by the unwise action of the bricklayers' union; which is already ktting its thunder be heard. As can seen in the daily papers, the union leaders seem strangely insensible of the injury they are doing to their own -members by their off-handed dealing with their prospective patrons. If in this connection the leaders alone were the parties that would suffer, the matter would be of little consequence, but such is not the case. Means must be taken in the interest of the Building Committee and the mechanics themselves to counteract the paid efforts of these creatures of discord.



In the last issue of your journal I notice a very comprehensive article headed" An Appeal for Organization." in which reference is made to a letter in a previous issue: Constans fides" urges the revival of the Canadian Institute of Architects. That Institute was organized with the purest and best of motives, as a means of uniting its members in friendly intercourse for social and professional improvement and. its revival would certainly he productive of. much good. [he Architectural Guild, of Toronto, is a brilliant effort in a local direction, and promises to attain the object sought by developing into an incorporated association of architects, and there is little doubt that with tle urgent pressure and claims of the rising generation of architects, whose eyes are open th the apathy of their predecessors such an institution can and will be incorporated but this incorporation will not certainly he the desired attachment unless the architectural name anti profession is thereby protected against the usurpation of quacks to the same extent, at least, as the other learned professions. This is certainly the main question at issue, and now is the time to push the matter with united efforts to final success. I ant glad to see that the growing interest taken in this journal is being evinced by the useful contributions made to its columns. In this connection all have a duty to perform in upholding a work of such real merit Let the architect and engineer of long practice adorn its pages with useful essays front their fountains of knowledge for the benefit of those less favored, and juvenile brethren and then feel the gratification of having availed themselves of the best possible medium for imparting a share of their knowledge anti experience to those by whom it will be most appreciated The elements of architecture afford a wide field for commentary, and lucid essays on acoustics and other kindred subjects would certainly lie valuable matter for discussion especially for the students, ho would improve on the opportunity of entering the arena themselves and submitting their individual ideas and questions 

There is another matter that has engaged tire attention of architects, and is deserving of comment that is the prevailing practice. among Canadian architects especially, of advertising for tenders. Sortie architects uphold tire practice on the principal of right and justice to their clients, in providing theist with a number of offers to select from.. Others look favorably on the- practice- as a direct means of advertising the amount of work entrusted to them. But apart front any selfish motive whatever, it is a question at issue as to whether it is to the interest of the proprietor to advertise for tenders or not. For public works of course, it must be done, for well understood reasons but any architect in good practice must have a record of a sufficient number of contractors hoist he can recommend for character and ability, and that he can invite to compete for the proposed work, with full assurance of all that is essentially fair and just to both his client and himself. This has always been the general mode of procedure by architects in Great Britain, However, circumstances alter cases, and much  may be said for and against this subject, and as it is a significant one, it is very desirable to have the opinion of those most concerned, and for the mutual benefit of all. Your next issue will be  anxiously looked for in reply to this question.

Concerning the new form of contract which has been adopted by the contractors in this city, a correspondent writes The



" Equitable Contract" passed by the - Builders, Contractors' and





Dealers' Exchange, has been passed in consequence of the great  withdrawing the certificates given them in good faith, and putting the contractors to great loss, and forcing them into suits of law  where the richer man can keep the contractor out of his justly earned money. The architects are perhaps not aware that the law on contracts specifically states that the proprietor and architect or engineer can be subjected to punishment for collision 0 keep the contractor or contractors out of their money. This has been done, so the contractors have stated. -





IMPORTANCE OF CARPENTRY. <article title=" IMPORTANCE OF CARPENTRY " author="">

 THE carpenter has more to no with the construction of a build- 

 ing than any other person employed by the architect. 



Whether a building is to be erected of brick or stone, still it is the 

 carpenter who forms all the patterns and guides for fur the bricklayer or the mason to work from Nay, even . it a cottage is to be

 built of t the first step is to. procure boards adapted by the

carpenter for forming moulds, by which this mud is brought into the required from of even if the mud is heaped up with froks, as



quired to supply what are called wooden bricks to be built into the

 In the i interior of the house everything depends on the carpenter.



and most things are, indeed, done by him. The doors and doors and windows are almost entirely his work, and be forms mouldings

for the corners which are put up by t the plasterer If i therefore, we could I improve the taste of the rising generation of of carpenters, 

 various artizans  employed I in the contruction of houses, and 

 mately, on the general taste IL of I the whole community. . L. C. ·. /









ENGINEERING NOTES.<article title=" ENGINEERING NOTES " author="">



 FROM

 the address of President Thos. C. Keefer, C. M. G., at

the annual meeting or the  Canadian  Society of Civil En

gineers, we make the following extracts:

If as Engineers, our foresight were as good as our backsight. we would plan locks to suit the vessel of the future, instead of having to build vessels to suit the locks. It should be mentioned. however, that thc dimensions of our locks were established by a commission representing the trade of which commission the late

 Sir Hugh Allan was chairman.  -

We are about to start the Sault Ste. Marie canal, which, since Lake Superior has become an important entrepot of Canadian commerce is necessary to complete the Canadian system. It will,

- no doubt, be upon a much larger scale than any other Canadian canal, and. if so. will. I think, soon raise the question of a further enlargement or the Welland Canal, so that vessels which can now

 

over 100 miles front the ocean steamer.





The Pennsylvania Railroad is substituting stone arches for iron bridges where practicable. and the same question is attracting attention in England. The centralizing system by which bridge plans have beets decided at the head office fronts profiles of the crossings has no doubt been responsible for many cases in Canada where iron girders and abutments hate cost as much as an arch, The girder is always a bridge with all its contingencies while the arch, where it can be depended upon, practically abolishes the crossing. an(l substitutes a causeway for a bridge. 



Of future engineering works I can say but little Our railway system penetrates all parts-of the Dominion and a will extend itself wherever and as soon as required The only remaining national railway not yet accomplished is the one projected to reach I Hudson's Bay. I do not believe this will become an exporting route in competition with the St.  Lawrence nor that t 300 or 600 miles of railway without local traffic or through connection can be sustained by a few months ocean navigation in Arctic waters lime crop of the Northwest cannot be exported before navigation closes and the railway will have little traffic to keep open its line during winter because grain ill rarely be sent to cool oil for six months or more in elevators on Hudson's Bay. 'Our eastern trunk lines, with the advantage of a local traffic through our richest territory. cannot hibernate at Montreal and Quebec, but have been obliged to push on to the open sea.

I believe. however that as a nation we should tap Hudson Bay at the bottom in James Bay where it approaches with its a few hundred miles of our railway system in the Ottawa Valley. 1 believe the valuable fisheries, furs and oilier Arctic exports from an enormous coast line would gravitate southward to suds a railway, and that its terminus would be tire depot for fishing fleet. which would compete with the whalers of the United States.

In bridges Canada has tire finest samples of the carious types and the only tubular ones on this continent. While there is tin. doubtedly a surplus of iron in the Victoria Bridge I do not think there is an unnecessary amount of masonry work in the piers. Its location and exposure to- ice shores require more massive piers than bridges where only running ice has to be encountered. More-"over. the liberal dimensions with the stream are sufficient for a second line of rails, - -

But we have a bridge project. which when carried out ill in length of span be second only to the Forth which is 1661 feet. This is the proposed cantilever at Quebec. The car traffic of the

Canada Atlantic has warranted that road in deciding to supersede a costly ferry system by a bridge, and let us hope that s similar case- may soon be made out for Quebec. 

The Railway Bridge over the St. Lawrence at Lachine recently completed by the Canada Pacific Railway is an example of rapid construction of the best masonry in a difficult situation, which has not I believe been equalled anywhere before—the work being done between the leaving anti the taking of the ice in the same year.

The tunnel or sub-way to give railway connection with Prince Edward Island is another of the great engineering works pro

 proposed.	It is difficult at present to say whether the physical or

-	   -



