<doctype type="text">March, 1888	AND BUILDER . .	7

ARCHITECTS and contractors, says the Sanitary News, will

<article title= "Sanitary News " author="">

be interested in the action taken by the National builders'



association at its annual meeting in Cincinnati last week. the association decided that general plans. details and specifications. when offered for final competitive estimates, should be on a scale of not less than one-eighth of an inch to the foot. should be done in ink or some unfading process, and be complete in every part; such parts of the work as require a higher scale to be comprehended should be one-fourth of an inch to the foot; specifications should be definite; estimates should not be made to cover an indefinite

depth of foundation, but where the soil requires going below the depth indicated on the plan, it should-he paid for as extra work at -agreed prices; the specification is to be the guide for estimating.

and all demands made by the specifications unless objection be

--	made thereto in writing when the bids arc submitted, should be covered in the estimate offered improper demands made by plans are not to be considered; grouping of special work must be mentioned and placed under appropriate headings ; specifications must distinctly state when it is necessary to cut or change the work- of one mechanic in placing the work of another and such work should be cut or changed by the mechanic who put it in at the expense of the mechanic for whose accommodation the change is made ; contractors are not to be restricted as to sub-contractors. without notice ; on reserved portions of the work, let by the owner-to a third party, the principal contractor should receive 10 per cent ; the lowest invited bidder, whether a general or sub-contractor, should be given the contract and estimates for changes should be made only by hint. unless the changes involve a complete alteration in the plans, and then the full competition should be again opened; in no case are the lowest two bidders to be called upon to estimate upon changes to see which shall have the contract ; if the price estimated for changes should not be satisfactory to the owner, it should be settled by arbitration. Compensation for the lowest bidders when all estimates are rejected is demanded as follows For estimates amounting to $3,000 or under, $23; $5,000 to $30,000. $30; over $50,000, $100. When security is demanded of the contractor, a like sum should be given by the owner. A good deal of discussion was indulged in on the rights of sub-bidders in the hands of architects and the general contractors—unsolicited bids—and a rule was passed to the effect that any member detected in trading on- any of the sub-bids will be liable to forfeiture of membership, censure or suspension. It was also decided that bids should be opened in the presence of bidders when practicable, and that when a penalty is demanded for delay in completion beyond the day named, a premium of like amount be awarded the contractor for completion before the time. These remedies, some of them are new, but all seem to be just. and we await with interest their practical operation.



Geo. Duthie & Sons, roofers, Toronto. have dissolved



A varnish 



Building will be lively at Georgetown, Ont. next summer.



The citizens of Coldwater, Ont., are calling for more cottages.



The new Baptist church at Woodstock, Ont., will cost $9,300. Wyoming. Ont., expects a boom in the building trade in the spring.

The prospects for the building trade in Alvinston Ont., are very promising.

A new post office, costing $30,000, has just been completed at Peterborough, Ont.

The work on the C. P. R. hotel, at Banff, N. W. T., is being rapidly pushed forward.

A large number of dwelling houses will probably be erected at Cannington, Ont. next summer.

It is expected that not less than $30000 will be expended at Neepawa, Man., in buildings next season.

The new public school building at Seaforth will be built by Mr. John Lyons at the contract price of $3,675.

Contractor Joshua Garrett has commenced operations on the new graded school on Simcoe street, London. Ont.

The Peterboro' Bridge Company has received the contract to build a new iron bridge at the Narrows, Orillia, Ont.

The Salvation Army of Peterboro. Ont., are building a new brick temple, with seating accommodation for 1,000 people.

George Hildebrand has the contract to build the new residence for the pastor of thc Lutheran church New Hamburg, Ont.

Six or seven members of the Builders' Exchange, London, Ont..

	who were expelled last summer, will be reinstated		at an early date.



The congregation of St. Catharines' church. St. Catharines, Ont., has just closed the contract for the enlargement of their

 building.		-



The building of the new city hall at Halifax, N. S., has been taken out of the contractors hands, by the council. A law suit will be the result.

The Canadian Pacific is to build a house on each quarter section in the Belgian colony, near Calgary. on which three hundred families are expected to settle in time to commence spring work



Mr. John Redwood, contractor, has just finished another tall chimney for Bell & Co. s new organ factory, Guelph. ·The chimney 15 90 feet high and contains between 33.000 and 34,000 bricks. 



Mr. Thomas Grayson, contractor and builder, of Moosomin. N.W.T, will shortly commence the erection of a large stone house at Cannington, Moose Mountain, for Mr. Hanson, an English gentleman, who proposes starting a ranch.



Mr. W. J. Burroughes, plumber, gasfitter and founder, of this city, assigned last month. Messrs. S. M. Marchment & Co. manufacturers of inodorous closets, plumbers. etc.. of this city. succeded in effecting a compromise with creditors.

 Messrs. Timewell & Son, Architects, Winnipeg, Man., have a scheme for erecting forty elevators throughout the province, to be situated in municipalities that will give the necessary bonus of

·	$500 towards the construction of each 40,000 bushel elevator.



A architects, Engineers, Builders, Owners' and others are invited to send

	particulars of all kinds of construction	work in contemplation, for publication in this department.	Please state location, character	and cost,

	and names of person or persons controlling the work. 





LEAMINGTON, ONT. —A new public school is soon to be built.

Cambray, ONT.—Mr. R. James is preparing to build a public

	hall.	________





Alma, ONT.—The people have decided to build a new English church.

LONDON South Ont. - the Baptists are going to build a new church.

Gravenhurst. ONT. —A new English church will shortly be built here.

Eastman's Springs, Ont. - there is talk of putting up a big hotel here.

Coldwater, ONT. — Mr. J. C. Arnold will build a new brick store this season.



Yarmouth N.S.—It is proposed to remodel and enlarge the Yarmouth Hotel.



 xbridge, Ont. —The Methodists propose building a new church this s-ear.

Blenheim, ONT. ——Arrangements are being made for building a new English church.

Niagara. ONT. —the Methodists are to have a new brick Sunday school this spring.

George town ONT.—The site occupied Its' Clarke's hotel will be built up next summer.

Brooke, Ont.-S. S. No. 9, intend building a new school house this coming summer.

Oak Lake Man.-alford & Co. will rebuild their hotel recently destroyed by fire.

Lethbridge, N. W. T,—A number of new buildings will be erected here in the spring. -

Millbrook, ONT.—The block of buildings recently destroyed  fire will be rebuilt as soon as possible.

Kincardine, ONT.——$8.000 will be expended by the Government in improving the Kincardine harbor. -

Portage-La-Prairie, MAN.—The Methodists are collecting



RAT PORTAGE, ONT.—J. W. Humble, merchant, will erect a new store, to be built of stone, 20x50 feet.



REGINA, N. W. T.—J. A. McCane intends building a three storey. seventy-five room hotel this season.

Kingston, Ont.-St. James church is to be enlarged in the spring.-Improvements will shortly be commenced to Queen's University buildings.-The congregation of Chalmer's church will build a new church to cost $23,000. - BEAVERTON, ONT.—The Town Council are considering the question of the erection of a new Town Hall.



FOREST ONT. —Over $2,000 has already been subscribed by the members of Christ church for their new building.



OTTAWA. Ont. - The Congregationalists, of this city, have decided to build a new ten thousand dollar church.



SOUTH WINCHESTER.—Arrangements are being made for the erection of a new Anglican church and parsonage here.



New Westminister, B. C.—Local architects are preparing plans for a dozen or more new houses to go up its the spring.



Hillsburg. Ont. —The brick, sand and stone is now on the ground for enlarging, beautifying and remodelling the Baptist church.

Tilbury Centre, Ont., - Mr. Duck, Architect, Ridgetown. is preparing plans and specifications for the proposed new English church.

Westminster, B.C.—Contractors are getting ready to proceed with their contracts. Several houses have already been commenced.



Sault-Ste-Marie. - It is reported that a syndicate with Mr. R. M. Caldwell, of Toronto. at its head, is about to build a

	000 hotel.	· 



 trathroy, Ont. - An official of the Government has been here selecting -a site for new public buildings. Contracts will be let shortly.

Parkdale, ONT.—A large brick block will shortly be built on the south side of Queen street, between Close and Jamieson  Avenues.



STRATFORD, ONT. - The plans for the proposed addition to the Waterloo Street Methodist church are out. The addition will cost about $3,000.

Petrolia, ONT,—Building operations will be brisk here the coining season. Among the proposed new structures will be a 3 storey Oddfellows hall.

BRANTFORD, ONT.—The School Board has requested architect Broughton to report with reference to proposed alterations to the Central school.—A new school house to cost $2,500 is to be built at Pleasant Ridge, - near this city.



FORT WILLIAM, ONT.—The Canadian Pacific Railway Company intend erecting car shops- and a large elevator, besides

- doubling the capacity of the docks.-	-



Belleville, Ont. - about 45,000 will be spent in remodelling John street church. The improvements will consist of a new half horse-shoe gallery, large pipe organ, iron pillars place of wooden ones, and new seats arranged in amphitheatre form, new paint and tinting. —The Grand Trunk workshops are to be enlarged in the spring. 





Lindsay, Ont. - The contract for the new Collegiate Institute' -has not yet been awarded. Only two tenders were put in and

they were both too high. The building committee has decided to

—ask for separate tenders from the different - trades -The Lindsay and Ops Boards of Health have united arid have decided to purchase or erect a suitable building for a hospital for contagious diseases.	-



LONDON, ONT. —A wealthy citizen, has placed $10,000 in the city solicitor's hands to be set apart as an endowment fund for-a

city hospital on condition that the building he erected on a certain

 site located		hospital will probably be



erected here shortly.—Alterations are contemplated in the Mechanics Hall which will afford accommodation for the proposed free library. —Architect Geo, Craddock is calling for tenders for

- building the Medical School here. Tenders are to be by Saturday, March 17th. Probable cost, $10,000 - Gould & Stralford, plasterers. have secured the contract for plastering the Church of Our Lady in Guelph, of which Joseph Connolly, of Toronto, is the architect. -Toronto, ONT—The plans and specifications and also the

probable cost of the proposed new Board of Trade building will -likely be submitted to the Board at an early date. - The special committee appointed by the Council has decided to establish a second Collegiate Institute in the city, and will have a consultation with the High School Board regarding the site and cost of building.—An architect will be appointed by the Council to report on the best method of enlarging the gaol building.—Two or three new schools to be erected and sonic of present buildings to be enlarged. Estimates - are also wanted for improved heating and ventilating apparatus. Address Secretary Public School Board for particulars. —The government will ask tenders for the erection of a cavalry school shortly—The following building permits have been issued at the office of the City Commissioner during last' month: David Walker. five one-storey and two two-storey attached brick stores, north-west corner York and Front streets; R. Heath, 3 stores and alterations. College near Markham street, cost $3.500; Hall & Son, 2 1/2 storey brick addition. 223 Queen street, west, - cost, $1,300; Chas. Bansley, 4 one storey and mansard r. c, dwellings, S. W. Con. Seaton street, and Wilton Avenue, cost $2,300; Rev; Mr. Glover, 2 storey brick house, Lowther Avenue, cost $3,000; Douglas Scott, storey and attic, McCaul street, cost $3.000; Scott & Cross. pair s. d. 2 storey and attic, Gordon-Ave., Rosedale, cost $5,000; J. P. Kersey, 3-storey brick store and 2 storey brick addition. 562 Queen street, cost $4,000; Land Security Co., stables and blacksmith shop, Richmondst, w., cost $10,000; John Wickson, addition and alterations

—	to 744 Yonge street, cost $1,000; Jas. Hewlett, three storey and attic attached brick dwellings, Ontario street, near Wellesley cost

$7,000; H. Reynolds, two one storey and mansard r, c. dwellings, east side Darling Ave., cost $1,050, and three of same kind west side Darling Ave.. cost $1,350; W. H. Sexton, pair s, d, 2 storey r. c. dwellings, Bleeker, near Howard street, cost $2,300; Simon, pair t storey and mansard brick dwellings, 119 and 121 Queen street west, cost $1,600; Jas. Nealon, brick hotel, King street, east, cost $12,000 ; John. Wighton. 2 storey brick dwelling 612 Bathurst street, cost $2,500 ; J. Anderson, pair 2 storey and attic r. c. dwellings, 167 Bleeker street, cost $2.000; A. Herren, storey and attic brick dwelling, D'Arcy street, cost $2,000. - The Senate of University College will recommend the Government to provide funds for erection of a new science building to cost $45. -000. The Eastern Branch of Women's Temperance Union will build a new hall.—The undergraduates of Toronto University propose to erect a union building to answer the purposes of club rooms, gymnasium and society rooms. It is expected to cost about $25. 000.—Architects King & Gouinlock report Block of stores, offices. etc., corner Queen and McCaul sts., cost, $15,000; business block, Queen street east, cost, $18,000; two stores with dwellings over, in Parkdale, cost, $8,000; four residences, costing on an average $7,300 each, also. several fine residences and two --large blocks outside the city.





THE WATER JET IN PILE-SINKING.

Speaking

of the discovery of the v-due of a water jet in sinking piles in sand, a correspondent of the Engineering

supplies some interesting particulars.	It appears that in 1859 or 1860. Capt. W. H. Stevens, afterward a brigadier-general in; the Confederate army, was engaged in constructing an iron lighthouse near Galveston, Tex. The platform carrying the plant for sinking time screw piles intended for the foundation was wrecked by a storm, and the mass of iron-work was soon firmly embedded in the quicksand beneath In the attempt to recover, the lost material. Capt. Stevens donned s suit of submarine armor and went down to study the effect of jet of water in loosening the buried members of the lighthouse. He soon discovered that he himself was firmly anchored in the quicksand and on applying the jet to his feet with the intention of freeing himself was soon buried to his waist However, r signalling to his men to hoist, and at the same time stirring sip the sand is with the jet, he was rescued—

	without difficulty. The experience was not I		upon him, and

shortly afterward he successfully applied the jet action in sinking pile's in sand.

		As a matter of interest, it may be well to state	that during the

American war Col. S. H. Lockett, chief engineer of the Department of the Gulf, in this manner filled the B us of Mobile with —obstructions, sinking trunks of trees 3 feet in diameter, and

sharpened at both ends, in the sand and firmly anchoring them there by the use of a jet from a common fire engine on a steamboat. The piles were planted from t2 to 20 feet deep, and they settled in the sand at the rate of 12 inches per second under a jet from a 1 1/2 inch nozzle on a 3 1/2 inch hose, the nozzle was held by two staples down near the of the pile . and was secured

there by a small rope passed through the staples. Five thousand

piles were thus put in. · -



