<doctype type="text">THE CANADIAN ARCHITECT AND BUILDER 3
bare prairie, miles away from improvements, is becoming a bug-bear, a farce and a nuisance."
ARCHITECT.

OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.
RESIDENCE OF J. A. HENDRY, ESQ., KINGSTON ONT.

We illustrate this month one of the finest residences in the " Limestone City," that of J. A. Hendry, Esq., situated on the, corner of King and West streets, opposite the park. The building is constructed of red pressed bricks pointed in marble dust, and trimmed with sand stone and terra cotta. It is finished throughout in hard wood, and is heated and ventilated with direct and indirect hot water system. Messrs. Power & Son, Kingston, are the architects.
 DESIGN FOR OVERMANTEL

We present this month a sketch of 'a wood mantel in old English oak or mahogany, designed and executed by Messrs. William H. Bell & Co., 56 Pearl street, Toronto. This design is of the modern renaissance style, and produces a very handsome effect. The above sketch is very elaborately carved in the
 
renaissance order, but can be produced in a less expensive manner by using the same lines and moderating the carved details. The mantel, as shown, is 8 ft. 6 in. in height, the shelf being ft. 6 in. in length. There are twenty-five 5x5 in. bevel mirrors in the overmantel, the centre large mirror l)being 42x18 in.
HOUSE ON PEMBROKE STREET, TORONTO, FOR W. J. DAVIS, ESQ. -

The contract price of the above house was $4,800. It is built of brick with slate roof, and front gable tile hung. The entire house is finished internally in stained and varnished pine. The basement extends beneath the whole house, and contains laundry, store and furnace rooms. All drains inside of house are of "extra heavy" cast iron, and the plumbing is of the best. The ground floor contains parlor, dining room, reception hail, pantries and kitchen. The first floor has three bed rooms, a cosy study, bath room and linen closet, and the attic, three bed rooms, children's' play room, and a store
room. Messrs. Langley & Burke, of this city, were the architects.
DESIGN FOR TOWN CHURCH.

  THE POUGHKEEPSIE BRIDGE DETAILS  OF CONSTRUCTION
<article title=" THE POUGHKEEPSIE BRIDGE DETAILS  OF CONSTRUCTION " author="">
 SCHOOL HOUSE DESIGNS.
DESIGN FOR COUNTRY CHURCH.
<article title=" THE ARCHITECTURAL GUILD OF TORONTO " author="">
THE ARCHITECTURAL GUILD OF TORONTO.
THE last monthly meeting of the Architectural Guild
of Toronto took place on Thursday evening, March 8th. There was a good attendance and much interest taken in the proceedings. An animated discussion took place on the proposed reduction in size of brick by the Brickmakers' Association. The general feeling was against a reduction in size, especially in the length and width of the brick. The arguments of the brickmakers for a reduction were stated to the meeting, viz. That the small bricks would dry quicker in the hacks and that fire would strike through much sooner than in the large brick, and that consequently a harder and better article could be furnished. As all the members were desirous of having a hard brick, they determined on recommending a reduction in the thickness to 21/4 inches, which would make a brick which would dry rapidly in the hacks and burn hard with much less fire. The size finally agreed upon was 8 3/4 in. X 41/4 in. x 2 1/4 in. The committee which had met the brickmakers' and the contractors' representatives on Wednesday were reappointed to meet them on Friday at 3 o'clock. At that meeting it was finally agreed that the size of brick should be 8 3/4 x 2 3/8, which is very nearly the size agreed on by the architects.
The members of the Guild agreed to specify not less than 80% of all brick used in their work to be hard brick, with the liberty to specify 100% when they so desired. This will Result in much better building than we have been having, and of more uniform quality. The brickmakers have also agreed to furnish brick hereafter at the rate of 80% hard when no special arrangement is made as to quality. The discussion on this question shows conclusively that there are many matters relating to building in this city which can only be properly handled by the different architects meeting occasionally as they have been doing recently and working intelligently with all the different interests concerned.
The next meeting of the Guild will take place on Thursday evening, April 12th, when the usual dinner will be partaken and-an Public Library, when an inspection of the many  will be made. Bain, the Librarian, with his customary kindness and
desire to do all he can to forward the - interest of our

citizens and make the many advantages of the Public Library-known, has offered to do all in his power to make the evening both a profitable and an agreeable one to the members of the Architectural Guild. That it will be a~ evening to be' long remembered by the members we have no doubt, and that many of them will be astonished at the number and' the variety of the works on architecture and kindred branches, we have no hesitation in affirming. Without doubt there will be a very full attendance of the members at this meeting.
__ The financial condition, of. the Guild is exceedingly good, nearly all the fees having been paid in, and the large balance over and above the necessary amount required for running expenses placed at interest to form a "nest egg" for some future effort which will result to the great benefit of the architects as a body, and to the advancement of this branch of art in this country.
New Y. M. C. A. Building Detroit.


<article title=" COMPETITIONS " author="">
COMPETITIONS.
By "Critic."
T
HE object of an architectural competition is to obtain the best possible design for a proposed building. That all competition is successful in this object will not be affirmed by anyone who has had any experience of competitions. There have been many competitions which have been very successful, but there have been many more which have been failures. Does the success or failure lie with those who arrange the competition, or with those who enter ? We believe that the success or failure of a competition can in nearly all cases be laid to the manner in which the terms of the competition have been prepared. If the terms have been prepared with the idea, that the building committee must protect themselves from the competitors as though they were a lot of most unprincipled men, it is no wonder that competitions fail. But if they are prepared by those who believe that the interests of the building committee and of the competitors are one, they will be almost always a success. The object of the building committee is to secure the best plan, and the object of the competitors is to have the best plan erected. Their interests are identical, arid it will be found that the building committee which recognize this first, secure what they desire, viz., a good design in more. than the majority of cases.
To influence good men to enter a competition the terms must be liberal, the work worth having, and the certainty of fair and honest treatment assured. No man who has an assured position, and plenty of work, is going to throw away a part of his time in a competition, any more than a sound, intelligent business man will buy lottery tickets, or deal in bucket shop speculations.
The decision should always be made by competent experts, and not by the members of a building committee, who are no more able to judge of the merits of a good plan than an architect is capable of judging of the quality of groceries or dry goods from the merchant's standpoint. Many designs have been selected because the members of a committee took a fancy to some feature that may in itself have been good or bad, but which should not have been allowed to decide such an important matter. The first place in-a competition was once given to a design because the competitors showed a semicircular end to the library, the object of which was to allow of all book shelves being arranged on the radial lines, and thus allow the librarian to sit on the central point and be able to keep his eye on all the books. What he wanted to sit on stool for and watch the books, no one could ever find out, but it struck this inexperienced building. committee very favorably, and they

 immediately decided on this plan. That this room could never be extended, and that it was n point of fact. the worst possible arrangement for a library, did not count with them. The arrangement seemed to them "just perfectly lovely," and they fell 'victims to their
( ignorance, and likewise the competitors who had really sent in the best design. Is it any wonder that men who have professional training refuse to have the merits of their work decided by those who very often have but little knowledge of the profession or line of business by
which they themselves gain their subsistence? The terms of no competition can be so bad that there will be
no competitors. There-are-always a number of inferior -men to. enter any competition, and occasionally one or
two who have, or think they have the thing fixed, and that it is a sure thing for them.
It is necessary to a successful competition that the terms be simple and explicit-that there shall not be any attempt to protect one party to the gain of the other. Sufficient time should be allowed for studying out the requirements, and for careful designing. A full and complete statement should be made of the requirements, together with a general explanation of the purpose for' which the building is to be erected. All points definitely  determined on should be stated, out they should be as few as possible, so that the designer may not he unnecessarily hampered in trying to overcome what may turn out to be only a whim on the part of some one who did not fully understand the difficulties of the question.. No information should be furnished any competitor, no' matter how unimportant it may seem, without supplying it to all. It is not wise to limit the cost of the building to a hard and fast amount which will very likely prove to be inadequate. If it is definitely stated that any design which will cost more than the amount named in the terms will be thrown out, 'thrown out it should be, or else the competitors are not fairly or honestly treated. Where terms are made, they should be most strictly adhered to, no matter what the consequences are. Therefore it is advisable to estimate as carefully as -
- possible what the expenditure should be, and also the amount which it is advisable to expend, and state that such amount is what the building committee desire not
-	to exceed. It should be distinctly understood that this amount will not be exceeded if a good and suitable. design 'can be obtained which can be erected for that amount; however, if there is no such design, that the best and most suitable one which least exceeds the amount named will be adopted. This plan will allow of each competitor judging for himself whether it is wise for him to design an inferior building within the money limit, or a good building which will exceed that amount in its construction. No injury is done anyone, for each is allow to judge for himself what to do in the matter. But when an amount is named, and-it is distinctly affirmed that no design which will exceed that amount in its erection will be adopted, and one is adopted which will cost a much greater amount, it is exceedingly unfair to the competitors who have attempted to keep within the amount specified. If a sum is mentioned, and the desire is expressed that the design is to be kept within that amount, but that a good design will be built, even if it should cost more, rather than an interior one at the stated amount, it allows a choice of the best and most suitable design. Of course it must not be supposed that the cost is not to be considered in the decision as to the merits of the respective designs. For instance, it would not be just to adopt a design which is but little better than another, but which will cost much more to erect. There is no doubt but that the hard and fast money limits have been the source of more trouble in competitions than almost anything else. The plan which has been outlined should to a large extent over-come this ground of trouble and complaint.
Another most troublesome point, is the question of deciding as to which design sent in is the best. There is no doubt but that these questions should be decided by the highest professional talent, and not left to the whim or caprice of ignorance and conceit. The expect should be a man of the highest attainments in the profession of architecture, and of unblemished reputation for honesty. It has always been understood that when a man accepts the position. of an expert he forever forfeits the right to carry out the work. This unwritten law has been established that an expert may act squarely to all competitors. Otherwise a man might report against all competitors and secure for himself the much coveted commission. That such has been done it is not necessary to affirm, as
of how competitions have been conducted is fully aware
of the facts.  It may be safely...affirmed that there are _
not many men following the profession of architecture
with a reputation for good work, who would accept a
commission to carry out a work where there had been a -
 


