<doctype type="colophon;text">PUBLISHED	MONTHLY IN THE INTERESTS OF



Architects, Civil and Sanitary Engineers, Plumbers, Decorators, Builders, Contractors, and Manufacturers of and Dealers in Building Materials and Appliances.

VOL. 1.—No III.	TORONTO, CANADA, MARCH, 1888	Price 20 Cents

Canadian Architect and Builder

A JOURNAL OF MODERN construction METHODS,

	Published Monthly in the interest	r of



Architects, Civil, and SANITARY Engineers, Plum

	BERS, Decorators,	Builders, Contractors, AND

MANUFACTURERS of and DEALERS IN Build

ING MATERIALS AND Appliances.



C. 11. Mortimer, Publisher.

31 King Street West, - TORONTO, CANADA.



 Subscriptions.

 Canadian Architect AND Builder will be mailed to any address in Canada or the United States for $2.00 per year. Ihe price to subscribers in foreign countries, is $2.50. Subscriptions are payable in advance. The paper will be discontinued at expiration of term paid for, if so stipulated by the subscriber; but where no such understanding exists, it will be continued until instructions to discontinue are received and all arrearages are paid.

In ordering change of address give the old as well as the new address. Failure to receive the paper promptly should be reported to this office.



Advertisements

Prices for advertising sent promptly on application. Orders for advertising should reach the office of publication not later than the 12th day of the month, and changes of advertisements not later than the 5th day of the month.



EDITOR'S ANNOUNCEMENTS.

Contributions of technical value to the persons in whose interests this journal is published, are cordially invited, and if round to be of sufficient merit, will be paid for. Subscribers are also requested to forward newspaper clippings or written items of interest from their respective localities.







We are indebted to the Department of Education, of Ontario, for the illustrations in this number of school house designs and methods of ventilating schools. They were originally published by the Department for the guidance of school trustees, in a book entitled "School Architecture and Hygiene."





W

E print elsewhere in this paper an article from Building, exposing the operations of some of the Building Plan Associations which profess to supply-builders and persons intending to build with all information necessary to enable them to become their own architect. In view of the fact that some of these associations have already commenced operations in Canada, it was our intention to sound a note of warning to those who might otherwise be led to invest their hard cash in a lot: of skillfully sketched designs, the actual cost of which, perhaps, bears no proportion to the estimates accompanying them. As our New York contemporary in the article referred to has done the work so thoroughly, we shall content ourselves with simply calling the attention of our readers to the remarks cantained therein.





We	notice that there is a movement to have the use of glazed sewer pipe done away with in

the construction of the medium-sized sewers of Toronto, and to substitute brick. We understand that the object of this-movement is to give more work to bricklayers. While this may be a very praiseworthy thing to do, yet, if the cost of these sewers should be greater, it would not be in the interest of the community tomake the change. There is however, a more important side to the question. A brick sewer, no matter how carefully built, can glazed pipe sewer. impossible to build a brick sewer that will not retain more or less deleterious matter upon its

surface. the glazed surface of a sewer pipe does not  retain such matter to extent. It is absolutely necessary we should have the most perfect sewer



that it is possible to build, even though the cost should be considerable over the inferior article, and we hope that the interests of no class or section of the community will be considered, but that the general good will be served without fear or favor.





I

N Europe and the United States, the value of artistic knowledge as applied to industrial and other pursuits of life, is forcing itseIf upon the attention of thoughtful minds, and the demand is being made for a larger amount of instruction in drawing and kindred subjects to the children in the public schools. In Canada the varIous art schools are doing a good work, but there is need that greater attention should be given to the subject of art by those who have in hand the training of the young in our public schools. To this the answer may be made that already the children are burdened with too many subjects for study, and therefore should not be saddled with more. Undoubtedly the number of subjects is too large, and, it might be added, needlessly so. Several of the subjects named might, with very little if any loss to the pupils, be set aside alto. gether, which would allow time for more comprehensive



with too many subjects for study, -and therefore should not be saddled with more. Undoubtedly the number of subjects is too large, and, it might be added, needlessly so. Several of the subjects named might, with very little if any loss to the pupils, be Set aside altogether, which would allow time for more comprehensive and thorough instruction in the principles of art— instruction the fruit of which would be seen in after years in the skill of our artisans and the— appreciation of our people for the beautiful and the true.





O

ur thanks are due Toronto architects, builders, plumbers, decorators, etc., for the assistance they have so kindly given us in our efforts to provide matter of practical interest to our readers. To friends in Montreal, Hamilton, London and Winnipeg, we are under like obligations. It desire that this journal should be a record of construction work through- out the entire Dominion, and not for the city of Toronto or Province of Ontario only. To make it -such, it is necessary that persons inteiested should send to this office from time to time such information as may be obtainable in the locality where they reside. The possession of this information will make this journal cosmopolitan instead of local in its character, and enable the editor to discuss intelligently matters affecting the interest of localities in the more remote provinces, as well as those near at hand While on this subject, we may state that arrangements have been made whereby in future issues we shall supply builders with illustrations of details of construction which must prove of very great interest and value. -





XAT E take pleasure in being able to present to our

VY readers this month a synopsis of an address -on the subject of" Carpentry and Joinery " delivered before

the Architectural Draughtsmen's Association of this -city by Mr. Wm. Simpson, the able Secretary of the  Master Carpenters' Association of Toronto. It is our purpose to present in future issues of this journal a synopsis of the series of practical talks now being delivered to the members of the above Association by gentlemen belonging to the different branches of the building trades. Just here we take the liberty to remark that architectural students and others in any way interested in architecture and building, in this city, should make it a point to attend the meetings of the Association, as by doing so they may gain a large amount of information. which will prove most valuable in helping them to solve the problems connected with their every-day duties.



Those residing outside of Toronto who are unable to avail themselves of the privileges of the Association, will find much to interest and instruct them in the reports published each month in these pages.





HE erection of the Toronto Court [louse proceeds,

if at all, very slowly. Another year will pass without any actual work being done on the building. This in itself would not be a serious matter if anything was being done which would tend toward the erection of a suitable and complete building. The old condition of administrative incapacity of the past year still conlinues. There has been no intelligent attempt to put the matter in a sensible or satisfactory position. It is. possible that the building will eventually be built, but when, or how, or by what means, it would at the present time be very hard to even guess. Of one thing we may be certain, without a great change comes over the Building Committee, that it will not be through any energetic or comprehensive action on its pad that this much to be hoped for object will be secured. It is now about four years since competitive plans were advertised for, and nearly two years since the excavation was commenced, and yet we are not even ready to stake out the building. Still we have some hope that we shall see the walls ready for the first floorjoists, or even for the root, before we die. -





T

HERE should be some municipal control over the erection of fences on the street line. There are many fences in this city which are dangerous to those using the sidewalks. A low iron fence, adorned with spikes every few inches along the top, is exceedingly dangerous when the sidewalk alongside the fence is covered-with ice. Imagine what would be the result to a person who, walking alongside such a fence, should slip and fall upon it. That such a fall would result most seriously no one will deny. Some may say that the possibility of such an accident is not very great as no one has been hurt by falling on a fence. - Such an answer will not do, as it is -'only right that every precaution should be taken to prevent accidents, and not wait until some one is seriously injured by what could have been easily prevented by ordinary foresight. Several persons have narrowly escaped falling upon low fences ornamented with dangerous spikes. If we must have fences on our street line, they should, if furnished with an array of spikes, be high enough not to allow of any one falling on the spikes, and if they are low, the top line of such fences should be such that very little injury would be received by any one falling upon them.

	 Double the number of building permits have been

-	 granted by the City Commissioner thus far this

year than during the same period in 1887. - This fact points to & season of unusual activity in the building line during the approaching season. It is a significant fact, however, that while the architects are busily at work preparing plans for new structures, they have instructions from-their clients in many cases not to call for tenders or place- contracts until such time as the rate of wages for the different trades has been agreed upon. Persons intending to build want to know what their buildings are likely to cost, and they also want the assurance that when the work of construction has been commenced, it will not be stopped or delayed - on account of strikes on the part of workmen- It is a matter of regret that the

