<doctype type="text">	—

<article title=" MECHANICS AND APPRENTICES " author="">	THE	CANADIAN	.	April, 1888

MECHANICS AND APPRENTICES.

The use of machinery for every purpose which it can be made available seems to have resulted in the lowering of the standard of workmanship among mechanics, When nearly all work was done by hand mechanics were most efficient mien, careful to 110 their work properly, and taking a deep interest in its being kept in perfect condition They learned their trades thoroughly and were too proud of their skill to slight their work. There were many incompetent and indifferent men. no doubt, but they found

- their level and if not capable of doing good work, were given what -did not require any high degree of skill. The great majority or the

men were first-class workmen, and it was possible to get a man to finish a piece of work as it should be done without having to closely superintend Its construction These men were the result of an apprenticeship system which made a man a good mechanic if he had the n natural qualifications. He was instructed in all the

elementary'    principles of his trade	and was not allowed to attempt work requiring great skill until he had mastered what was less difficult.- It may have been a hard system, but it was a thorough one, and produced mechanics worthy of the name—mechanics that we would be only too thankful to have at the present time.

There are many good workmen among our mechanics, but it is astonishing how few there are who can do first-class work If there is anything to be made requiring average skill, it can only be

entrusted to certain men and if they are employed on other work must wait until are disengaged We have become a race of

	it	they a

—specialists. so that even mechanics are proficient in but one or two branches of their trade. We have men who work only in hard wood. and those who ho work only in pine. There are those who are shop hands, and those who do the rough work about buildings. -Many bricklayers are always employed on face work, others never lay a brick except in rough or inside walls. Employers of labor have found It necessary to keep certain men at one class of work For if given work they were not accustomed to. they could not earn their salt. It is not possible for every man to be a first-class all round mechanic but there is no reason why he should not be able to do any work in his trade in a reasonably good manner. There are men to-day who claim to be carpenters who cannot saw the end oft a board true Bind square ; bricklayers, who cannot lay a brick level and true to the line, and stonemasons who have no conception-of how stone should be laid in a wall All these men claim to be good mechanics and yet not one of them can do a decent piece of work, and all alike have great contempt for theory. and will affirm over and over that books are worthless. and that what they call practical knowledge is sufficient, in fact, much better, if not adulterated with a theoretical training, They would

-	be nearer right if they Here but fine representatives of what a thorough practical training can do for an intelligent man. What most astonishes an onlooker in the ordinary mechanic. is his entire indifference to becoming a first-class workman. If he receives journeymen's wages 'he is satisfied, arid apparently better pleased working at what requires little skill-and less brain, than to, be employed on that which require both to a large extent. Once he becomes what is now called a journeymen and can earn the wages of an average mechanic all necessity for improvement vanishes. He has gained his goal and is satisfied, although he may often be informed in terms none too kind of his lack of skill and general incompetency, It is exceedingly refreshing to meet a man who is enthusiastic over his work . in him you will find a good mechanic, Why have we so few enthusiastic and consequently first-class workmen?, Is it that the good workman does not meet with the reward that he. de deserves and discovering that he is not. appreciated, determines on being no better than the most indifferent man in his trade? .He certainly has just cause of complaint that many employers of labor would rather. pay low wages to in different men who spoil more work than the difference in

wages amounts to twice over, than pay capable men good wages. The general public are also much too desirous of paying the lowest wages to a man irrespective of his capabilities. They want good' work, but only at the price of bad, and consequently do not get what they profess to want nor even value for their money. But there is another arid possibly a greater influence which checks the ambitions of the young mechanic, and that is the tendency of trade unions to insist on all men, good and bad, being paid the same wages. It is true that they allow the employer to pay higher wages if he so chooses but as he does not so choose' and could not if he would, the capable man suffers, and before long has become as indifferent a mechanic as his natural ambition will allow. That some employers do not make any great difference in the wages paid their men, is the fault of the men themselves. If a workman is working- more rapidly than his fellows he is very soon informed that it will not do. He is cutting out a pace which they cannot follow, and therefore he must work at a slower speed to suit the slowest man. An employer cannot be expected to pay higher wages to a man who can earn more than he is receiving. but who is not allowed to do so by his companions. What thanks does an employer get for increasing the wages of a first-class man beyond those of the average mechanic? The man so favoured, instead of thanking his employer and his good fortune and keeping the fact 'ho himself, immediately informs some of his friends, or boasts of the fact to others. All the men hear of it,. and to a certainty the employer is besieged by almost all his employees for a like increase, and the men who give the most trouble are the most inferior in his employ. His best men will not be one hair so ready to demand an increase of wages as the man whose only first-class qualification is his incompetency Two men may work equally hard for nine hours a day, and yet one may do 30 per cent. more work in the same time. The employer can see the difference, bat the slow man cannot be convinced of the fact.

Every man- should receive remuneration in proportion to his worth, and that can never be under the present system, instead of driving a man down to a lower level he should be assisted to a higher. A uniform rate of wages furnishes no inducement to development and a while a man may for a time struggle to acquire skill and knowledge through love of self-improvement, he will soon tire in the race—and become indifferent. If the trade unions would only turn themselves to the work that lies before them and

strive intelligently to improve the position of the workman by encouraging him' to become a thorough and capable mechanic and refuse to class among their number the careless, ignorant and lazy they would do a work which would benefit not only themselves but the whole community. Instead of preventing young men learning trades, they should afford them every opportunity and take every care to . see that they learned the trade of their choice most thoroughly. The sons of mechanics cannot all become professional men ; must they therefore become laborers, vagrants or thieves? Who is better entitled to the privilege of learning a trade than the. son of the mechanic? And yet, in these days, by the order of irresponsible bodies, this privilege and right is most seriously interfered with. We are glad to see that a movement to solve this question of apprenticeship has been made by the National Association of Builders of the United States. The Legislative Committee on apprenticeship made a report. printed elsewhere in this paper, at the annual convention held at Cincinnati, The Committee advised that young men desirous of learning a trade should attend a trade school, graduate with a certificate of proficiency,. and then serve a term at actual work to obtain manual skill in his trade—the completion of the apprenticeship to be acknowledged by a certificate stating his qualifications, and which is to be received by employers as a voucher of his right to be considered a journeyman.

The above is not by any means a solution of the question. but it is a long step in advance. No great question has been solved at one effort it has taken long and slow stages to arrive at a final solution. When arrived at the result may seem a very simple one and the method of solution very easy, but yet it may have required the thought and effort of many able and conscientious men for a long period to overcome the many obstacles, It is hoped. that now an attempt has been made to solve this most difficult question of apprenticeship. it will receive the thoughtful attention of all interested parties.





PLASTERING.

 - BY JAMES WRIGHT



The following valuable hints formed the substance of an interesting address on the above subject. by—Mr. James

Wright. of this city. before the Architectural Draughtsmen's Association last month:

LATHS. - Laths should be only one inch wide for ceilings and one and a half inches wide for. walls and partitions.. The joints should be broken every 12 laths: a larger joint than this is likely to cause a crack in the plaster through the expansion of joist. The laths should be well nailed uniformly three-eights of an inch apart. Green are better than dry laths in all cases but particularly when no artificial heat is used. as there is no expansion dry laths expand. then contract generally cutting the key. Laths having the bark adhering to them and black supply laths should always be discarded as they will certainly discolor the work, but as this class of laths is supposed to be only in No. 2 quality No: 2 should al ways be used. In exterior work laths should never be employed.

—as they sometimes are , as a substitute for strapping. The strap ping should be at least one inch thick, otherwise the key will be broken through the expansion of the boarding. 

SAND.—Architects' specifications usually call for "clean, sharp sand," Sharp sand may not always make the best mortar. On Carlton street and that vicinity, in this city, there is a sharp sand which has not the quality of. consuming a proper proportion of lime to make good mortar. It is what plasterers call " too fat." One filth more of this sand than .that of Bloor street could be used .with the same quantity of lime. Soft and loom sands will not consume as much lime as the lake sands. Sand that contains small particles of clay should never be used.. A good test of sand is to take a handful and work it well in the clean hand, if it leaves a deposit of color on the skin it contains clay or decomposed sand. A mortar has been made in England from crushed bricks and clay, and used with success in large cotton factories, where the machinery causes a continual Jar. It sets very hard with lime, a hammer having to be used to remove it. Sea sand cannot be used for plastering, as the salt which it contains causes dampness.

HAIR.—Hair should be long and dry, beaten with rods and separated properly, and not, as is usually done, soaked in a barrel and then thrown in the pit. In England the hair is not mixed with the lime until the latter has stood for about three weeks; this is not necessary in this country where the limes slake quickly.

MORTAR—All reliable firms keep a mortar man, who from his experience is skillful in the art of slaking limes, and on him depends the class of mortar used in a building—provided he is given. the best materials. The mode of slaking the lime and mixing the hair and sand is so well known that it need not be repeated.

PLASTERING. _ In two coat plastering it is simply impossible to make the angles straight, plumb and square." as usually called for in the specifications, unless the studding and strapping is plumb and square. Architects should always specify plastering to be done in three coat work to ensure is first-class job--the extra cost is only 3 104 cents per yard. A propel key is obtained for the first, or scratch coat, and all expansion ,or contraction is avoided. as only enough mortar is put on the laths to form a bond for the next coat, or what is called the browning" or "straightening" coat. This- coat should not be carried up to the ceiling. where a cornice is to be run. In the preparation of putty for finishing, great care should be taken in slaking the lime, so that it does not burn or "dry slake." It should be completely covered with water in a box prepared for that purpose. After it is properly slaked it is mixed to a proper consistency. then run through -a

 into a pit. All putty should stand at least two weeks before being used if used before that time it is likely to blister. A blister is caused by the lime not being properly slaked, small particles going through the slaking process after the lime has been used. The scratch coat not being covered to the depth or projection of the cornice. forms a key to retain it; that is if the cornice

- is not very heavy. If very heavy. nails should be driven in where -there are joists. and where there are no' the key should be cleaned 'out at intervals, and the gauged, mortar pressed into it. Mortar is then gauged when plaster of paris is added to it. In



plaster of paris For first-class work, at least one third of the core should be plaster of paris. The mitres have to be worked in by band with mitreing tools, no mould having been devised as yet will run the cornice into the angles. The short returns or breaks are generally planted in. having beers previously run and cut on a board. The running of cornices and mouldings. or pannelled ceiling, arches. &c., requires the judgment and skill of the best plasterers, to whose knowledge of plastering should be, added an  acquaintance with the mouldings of the various styles and classic orders and some knowledge of practical geometry. . In finishing walls which are required. to be done in a first-class manner, it is usual to finish one wall at a time, one wall being worked from top.—— to bottom before with the other. The ordinary way on

--two coat work is to finish—the- ceiling and upper part of the walls first, then. after the scaffolding is removed the lower part is finished. By the hatter method- it is very difficult to trowel down level the joining of the upper and lower parts of the wall, the upper part becoming hard and dry so quickly.

The material used in finishing walls is a mixture of lime, putty and about one-sixth plaster of paris gauged together. Water applied with a brush is freely used in polishing or trowelling up as it is called. After the finish is set and properly trowelled up, it ,s brushed over with water and finally with the dry brush to give it a fine polish.

ORNAMENTAL PLASTER WORK.—All centres should be put up to the lath—that is the mortar should be removed within a few inches of the circumference of the centre and the key of the lath entirely cleaned out; the centre should be properly scored and soaked in water if dry. Very little lime putty nearly all plaster of paris. should be used in this work. If these precautions are taken a centre should remain in position as long as the joists. In put. ting up enrich enrichments a little glue size added to the plaster prevents it from setting too quickly. allows more time for cleaning off the ornaments, and in the end1 sets a great deal harder. When the. use of wire is necessary for fixing bosses or large centres, copper or galvanized wire should always be used in preference to wire that would become rusted, as a collapse of work of this description might be a serious affair. A great deal of harm has been done this branch of the plastering trade through centres falling down An architect or inspector should therefore be particularly watchful regarding the security of these ornaments. .

- PATCHING:- In patching. the loose, broken edge should be re

—	moved. the dry plaster edge thoroughly dampened and secured with all plaster of paris. making the edge firm. When. this is not done, the old work springs from the new patch. and leaves a crack. A patch in plaster work, if properly done, should be. and can be done so as to leave the wall or ceiling as good as it was originally.— This; however is the exception. not the rule.





Meaford, Ont., is - providing additional school accommodation Some of the contracts for the new Orange Hall at Ottawa have

been awarded.



has been let.

Mr. J. McLean, Windsor, Ont.. has prepared plans for a new police station.	-



The contract for the new Episcopal church at New Ham burg. Ont., has been let.

There will be more building done in Whitby, Ont., this season than for some years past.



The Bowmanville, Ont., School Board has decided to build a twelve room building on the old site.



The contract for the erection of the new Temperance Hall at Sarnia, Ont., has been let to R. S. Oliver.



- The school debenture by-law for the issuing of debentures for building a school house at Banff was carried by 25 to nil.



Do not construct solid doors of two kinds of hardwood—the action of the atmosphere on one or the other will cause the door to warp.



The new hotel at Peterboro. Ont., erected by Mr. Harry Winch, is almost ready for opening. When completed it will cost

$15,000 



The Hamilton Board of Education have decided that the $100.

required for building purposes should be raised by debentures at once.

The Canada Southern Railway Company are asking for an Act authorizing the continuation of a tunnel for railway purposes under the River St Clair. - -



- The manse in connection with the First Congregational' Church, Kingston. Ont., will be brick two stories high, and heated with water. The cost will be about $6,000.

The Engineering Society of the School of Practical Science,

Toronto, has elected the following officers for the coming year

President. H. E. T. Haultain (acclamation); Vice-President, T.

K. Rosebrugh (acclamation);' Secretary-Treasurer, John Eamen;

Corresponding Secretary. F. X. Mill; Third Year Representative,

T. Wickett; Second Year, C. E. Peterson.



The Building Committee of the new Methodist church at Kirkton, Ont,. have accepted the tenders of the following contractors

Evans & Heman Exeter, 'for the mason, brick work and plastering; J. Dinnon, of Lumley, for the carpentering and tinsmithing;

G. L Money, of Kirkton, for the painting, glazing and decorating.

As a means of deafening floors General Loyre proposes instead of loading the floors with a sheet of plastering, to fill in the space between the floor-boarding and the plastering of the room below with shavings, which are first to' be rendered incombustible by -dipping them in a tub of rather thick whitewash. It is well-known that soft substances enclosing air-spaces, form the most efficient deafening; and shavings treated in this way are so incombustible as to add considerably to the fire-resisting quality of the building

in which they are used. In cases where it is desirable to disinfect the space between floor 'and "ceiling. the shavings may be saturated with chloride of zinc, or zinc, or zinc chloride may be added to the lime wash. 



